[
  {
    "startTime": "00:00:07",
    "text": "so that's thank you all right akira you can see your slides thank you oh"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:02:14",
    "text": "can you guys see my slides but this is not showing i thought do i have to do something on this one you are sharing it though you're logged in to me and you're connected with you via the ethernet cable but i know you're not no i'm not you're not but which shouldn't make a difference really it's just a big connection right um and you are sharing your slides in me to go yes no i see them in the data tracker but they're not where is my echo see where's your teep yeah okay so you are okay they're all available now so we see things okay okay let me refresh screen oops well yeah that was interesting okay well maybe he got bumped out and i got bumped out go back yeah whoops okay so you know that you obviously yeah i i had everything turned off okay yeah i figured that here we go seeing stuff and then um yeah so i thought i went in here go in there try that and there they are there they are okay if you want to see them yourself you've got to go to that view once you've opened them up because that's the presentation view but you haven't opened them up yet well that's what i did and got it but they weren't there well no that's when it put me on the data tracker see oh i see um interesting okay so let's go"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:04:01",
    "text": "back and then let's see what happens oh because you're going to share maybe from these presentation gallery yeah it used to be that i could click and it would automatically present oh but you know it was virtual i don't know if that means yeah it should be basically the same um just that i mean i could just go to my folder and share i know but let's see if you do somebody's supposed to be coming who knows more than me but obviously i don't know anything but you know we'll figure it out so if you were to go to that that again you're really just in the data center that doesn't make any sense um right you're right yeah okay let's go back to teep and then that's how you share screening what if you if you click share let's see what happens and then it might ask you ah yes do you really want to yes but but what do you want to share and if you go to present oh it's just a task i think that's a you know unfortunately yeah i don't know what it was asking you to share but let's see if you'll share and you can share a tab or window or the whole thing so if you wanted to share a chrome tab or whatever i think oh look and then you can pick yeah but that wasn't the whole point okay there's that but it's not so but it's interesting oh because that's going to be the case i see the cue okay so this may be good enough yeah do you want to change the the view of it so it's like"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:06:00",
    "text": "i don't know yeah how do i turn it into what are presentations can you hover over those and see what they are good to fit the page that's gonna know that's gonna rotate it so you want to close it behind the scenes uh was there something actually wrong i don't know okay um they they up yeah yeah oh they do too what's that over there maybe we collapse that yeah okay so now you can okay right since i'm running late i should go home are you are you okay now i i am in good shape okay and you can you can do it a little bit okay thank you you can do it through medico you can advance it when you go there so go back there i think you can click to am i wrong about that yeah it's interesting when we're on site it that it changes yeah it's changed i'm so sorry i thought maybe okay well no no worries okay i see the queue here but i keep losing the chat okay for those on the call i apologize for those in the room we are still trying to get everything going okay at least you guys can see the slides and i'm presuming those on the virtual can see the slides as well yes we can all right thanks dave okay so let's go ahead and get started and uh we'll kick it off so you're also remote yes i'm removing i'll take the nose okay thanks and i'm also going to thank ned and hannes but dido if you can help me with with them you know meeting minutes that would be great sure okay"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:08:00",
    "text": "so with that welcome everybody to the trusted execution environment provisioning we were lucky enough to get the very first slot of the very first day of the very first hybrid ietf113 so the notewell still applies i believe most of you given that i'm running late i won't read it most of you should be familiar with it meeting tips the only thing that i thought i noted was to ensure that you're launching the meat echo and for the the meat echo i usually launch it straight from the website agenda um and that's how i've gotten it to work for those that are here i think hopefully you all have turned your at least your mech so you we don't get the double echo which i'm not hearing um and then for the remote participants to improve your bandwidth keep your audio and video off until you are ready to get on the queue and one of the chairs either and i could recognize you okay so um code of conduct still applies we went through that last time i think this is a pretty small and chill group we're courteous to each other and be prepared to contribute and discuss the deep work okay so um jabber is now attached to medeco um we've got the chat going i can see the queue on this other screen if you can help me with the queue as well we can go ahead and get going okay so for the agenda bash um i believe i made all of the updates but i want to make sure we got them all straight so dave i've allocated 15"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:10:02",
    "text": "minutes for the architecture 10 minutes for the transport one and then i was going to have akira go next to go over the hackathon report and then give you as much time and um unless you really need more than the 45 minutes what i was trying to do is allocate the last 10 minutes to uh pengling who wanted to present on confidential computing aware network so any any changes to the agenda or are we good to go are we awake both in the room and virtually all right i will i will count that as a as a go so with that dave you want to kick it off and um it'll be easier if you share your slides for me and okay trying again can you hear me okay nancy yes i can and i gave you access yeah i can hear myself laying in the room so so i granted you screen but i'm not seeing your slides so nancy i think only one person can be sharing slides at a time so you would need to stop sharing in order for dave to be able to do so i i did it again so go ahead dave and try it again"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:12:02",
    "text": "okay ah i believe your your deck should be coming up dave there we go you can see screen now yes we can all right switch there all right that should look okay i hope yes all right hopefully the audio holds out throughout this uh session hey everyone good to see people virtually uh so i'm gonna be talking about the draft 16 of the architecture document just as a reminder in our timeline uh we did complete working group last call some time ago we held the document until we were more sure that there were not going to be changes based on the protocol spec uh so then we got to that point in july of 2021 we submitted to iesg uh ben recently posted some feedback there's the link there that we're going to go through and the draft was then updated and so draft 16 the main changes are to address ben's feedback all right so i'm going to walk through uh ben's comments and then talk about what's changed in the spec and so this is literally ben's comments on the slide here in the next two or what we did to address it so i'm going to call out some main points here that ben raised this is the comment that i call the double-edged sword in the first line comment here and so he talks about the [Music] context of the architecture and maybe some security or privacy considerations right so i'll highlight in the second paragraph he talks about um refers to rfc 8890 which is uh entitled the internet is for end users and it talks about in a te type of situation right then the risk is the perception of the conflict where the user doesn't have any rights because you can't see what's going on inside the dee and he says uh it might be good to have"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:14:00",
    "text": "the to acknowledge there's cases of the main value of teeth and this is ben's uh wording right it's the device owners potentially at risk of harm to users and discuss the trade-offs involved and then the last point that's part of this is uh about that the tam is a trusted party and so to document the new privacy exposure where the you know cam has access potentially to things that say the user is sitting in front of the device if there is one if there is a user there that there may be some privacy exposure there right so that's kind of the summary of this old uh of this one here and so we made two changes one is the uh introduction to set the context and then one is in the privacy considerations section so um this is is formatted with bolding and things um but this is the text was added into the introduction section okay so there's already some text there and so this is just the new text in addition to all the other text that was already there that hinted at some of the things that ben is pointing out this is the additional text so the top line is one of the points it says tes are typically used in cases where a software or data asset needs to be protected from unauthorized entities that may include the owner or owner or possessor of a device okay that phrase is roughly taken out of a conference computing consortium white paper where a number of teat participants help to uh review and or author the text in the white paper and so my hope is that the ccc white paper which we'll see uh link to the references from the bottom of the slide there and in the document in the actual references section would be okay with this but a couple of common examples that hopefully people can um understand is things like a gaming console right where whoever is in physical possession of the gaming console right you're trying to protect the game against somebody cheating uh simply because they have access to a gaming console things like you know an atm what the"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:16:00",
    "text": "user standing in front of the atm is not the one that's authorized to decide how much money comes out of that device things like you know cell phones where it's used by mobile payments hosted cloud environments and so on all these are very common use cases for tes in general what you'll see is there's nothing in this text here that's actually specific to t right this is just explaining background information about the security assumptions and usability assumptions what is the trust model around common te cases to begin with right this is before we get into the actual protocol part of the intro and so to combat the particular risk of oh this conflicts with the internet is for end users rfc right the point is that such environments can be thought of as hybrid devices where one user right or administrator controls the rich execution environment where a different a remote user administrator controls the tee in the same physical device right so the pointers are two different types of users right the one in physical possession and the user that's actually authorized do you think but both of them are users right and so to try to put forward this note that says it's actually for young users but just different classes of end users that control different things right and so then the last point is that um there's also cases there is no local user there's only a remote user and this would come up often in many you know iot cases with headless devices where the only user is the remote te administrator per se and then we refer to uh ccc white papers that provide a much longer analysis because again this point that then raised this part is not really about the t protocol this is just about setting the context for tes in general okay so that's why we thought it was useful to reference the ccc white papers about use about uh usability sort of use use cases and scenarios for confidential computing in general and tes in general okay so that was what we did in the introduction text and then the security considerations was the other part of the privacy considerations in particular so again this is the actual snippet of new code this was a new little section"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:18:00",
    "text": "that was added to the privacy considerations primarily for ben's last point that you may be reviewing information to the tam including information about a particular person that's sitting in front of the machine and let me finish this slide i see brennan's and q so as soon as i finish this slide i'll go back to whichever spot you want right now um so uh in the privacy considerations right again it starts with by reminding us of that applicability right this goes back to that intro text devices have a te that protects data encode from the ree administrator right is one of the cases right and then again there's two examples the cloud hoster case and the device manufacturer case and this is where the privacy risk is that uh data in the ree might be susceptible to disclosure to the te administrator and to explicitly choose to have a te that's managed by another party and so just to take those two particular cases the cloud poster example right the choice to say um the re administrator is explicitly aware of the tu administrator it's because in this example the cloud hoster is offering a service right your t administrator can become a customer of the cloud and your ge administrator can then manage things that are host in the cloud so that is the business model right in the device manufacturer case like a you know gaming console or something like that then it's a choice made by the person that purchases the device that you know that you're not going to have complete control over the gaming console right here because you're trying to get you know gaming out of it or whatever so there's two examples right one because a service is offered in one direction and the other one is because you know you make a purchasing choice those are just different examples of how to mitigate those risks what those are just taken as examples all right so with that i see brennan is into you so go ahead brendan hi brendan morin can we go back to privacy considerations one please okay so uh there's this question here about the double-edged sword and uh"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:20:00",
    "text": "proving or and and the the user uh agreeing or accepting that the tam is going to deliver what it says it will deliver that's the whole point of of attestation not remote attestation in this case but local attestation can't we fix this up with attestation um you can fix up part of that testation attestation certainly half of that that's how you know the tam is who you think it is right you don't have nothing no that's not what i mean okay i'm not talking about remote attestation i'm talking about local attestation the te proving to the user that it is uh indeed running the software it said it would run yeah i think if i can jump in as and kdek the author has a comment um now the local attestation can be useful uh in many ways i think there's still sort of a requirement that the user trusts the crypto that provides the attestation which is probably the case but we don't have a great way to require or reinforce uh and i think dave really sort of hit it on the nose this is not specific to the t protocol this is just setting the stage for general concerns in the area of teas in general and we are building a technology that is useful in some cases and it also may be there are some cases where it could be abused as well but because there are positive value use cases that we can clearly describe we're going to go ahead and do it and so we know their potential for abuse but we're not going to have that block the entire work that's the the main goal i appreciate this but i do want to receive one of the comments like your comment brendan go ahead and finish but i do have an answer that's more than just what ben said but go ahead it strikes me that we need to take the big picture of you as well i"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:22:00",
    "text": "mean this is an obvious problem and so we should address it and even if that comes down to a security considerations comment at least pointing the way to a solution seems like a good idea so the comment that i was going to make is that especially since teep has some use cases where you can have confidential code and so when we talk about personalization data we said the personalization did it could even include code and we have some text about that in various places as to how you could enable that what that means is that um the end user meaning like the ree administrator or the human sitting in front of you know the the device whether it's a gaming console or or whatever it is that has a te in it um you may not know what the software is that's running inside there so you can have attestation that attends your point you know local attestation that's your point brendan and so you can get a hash that says here's what's running but you don't have a way to tie that to what you know that that code is doing right because the whole point is to keep that code secret from you so you can't actually vet it yourself right only the tee administrator can vet that code you the end user may not have access to that you don't know what's running inside of your gaming console that's drn protected for example right so you don't have necessarily a way to say how do i get faith if that code is running and doing what i think it's doing because you may not be allowed to know what it's doing right you just have to say i'm choosing to buy the gaming console in the first place and it's going to do some stuff and but that's that's the the business model that i'm opting into there and so to answer your point i think what you're talking about is possible in some cases but in general t-pass cases where that would not apply so i don't want to derail this too much more but i i guess the the point i i want to make is that that strikes me as an exception not a rule i would argue that the more salient point for me personally at least would be that i want to know that my banking app hasn't had its tam compromised and shipped me a trojan instead of the tee or the ta that's supposed to be delivered by my bank so what i'd really like to know is whether i can verify that yes indeed the thing that it has"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:24:02",
    "text": "been shipped to me by the bank's tam is actually the ta that they've got published on their website somewhere so they have a mechanism to verify it locally on my system as well as via the town you know it's a it's a defense in-depth question and if you don't if you have the capability to do that but aren't describing it i'm i'm kind of at a loss so i think you're talking about your suggestion that there could be an additional text written into here because i think there's a i think you're addressing uh something that should be mentioned in the privacy consideration section and so i think your comment would apply i'm interpreting it as saying you're arguing that we should add another sentence to the text that's on the screen yes okay if you would uh if you would like to help us suggest such a tax you know suggestions gratefully accepted i think would be my quick response okay thank you uh the only other comment i would make was on uh privacy considerations too arguing that the the end arguing that the local user is not the end user sounds to me like an attempt to escape from the uh relevant rfc about the internet is for end users frankly the end user is the person holding the device it is not arguing that the person holding it is not an end user it's arguing that there are two end users right one is local one is remote in other words massive end user not to remove the first one so administrators are not end users um there are people who i think particularly people who exert control over end users uh in some cases yes in some cases they are end users i i don't um well you know i i guess that's a question that the group needs to discuss but i'm going to disagree with you on that so that's okay it sounds like in your view in your interpretation there are some devices that have no end user"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:26:04",
    "text": "all right i would if i'm an iot sensor in a place that humans can't reach you're saying there is no end user in that case right the internet would argue that any time that one user exercises control over another user the user being controlled is the end user so i don't like the that the way this is described absolutely the responsibility for protecting those users you will notice that there is no that the word end is not anywhere in this text yep you said end user and this text does not actually disagree with you because it doesn't use the term end user right remote user but never end user i'm arguing that where there is a remote user who is an administrator and there is a local user who is not the local user is the end user that's the point i'm making i get your point i don't think that changes any text on the slide because nu doesn't say make any comments about end users so it's not there's nothing i think that's actually in contradiction to what your what your view is here if i could make a suggestion because uh taking up time yeah we're gonna go out at times yeah if if you can take it to the list or brennan and dave uh brendan if you have suggestions on how to update the text that might help but it seems like there may be some discord there yeah yeah the document is currently in ietf's last call since ben did initiate that and so any comments we can take in as part of ietf last call and if there's wording suggestions that's normal hearing ids last call things are going to come up so all right so i'm going to keep going okay nancy yeah i mean you're kind of out of time on this one but um it is what it is so let's let's keep moving this one is probably the most important document just because it's the context for everything else that's why i'm saying we should just keep going on this one okay so this one was actually uh the"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:28:01",
    "text": "other main comment where uh ben originally posted this and the comments on the transport document but actually it applies to uh all the documents and so really the architecture documents that is the one that it really applies to as being the context one okay and so this one is talking about a denial of service where the ree can conduct a denial of service attack against um against the t protocol and so uh a compromised area can cause a to not receive policy changes and must be out of date with respect to policy uh and so i think this is the text that we did in to respond to this notion of dos attacks right so we point out uh that you can cause a t to not receive policy changes you can cause the t to be out of date with respect to policy mention that the way to address that is by using attestation so you can reject things that are out of compliance from being able to do whatever you shouldn't be able to do when you're out of compliance uh and then the point about t brokers a t broker can make suggestions but it can never decide or enforce what runs there so in other words there's no real elevation of privilege per se that if you can compromise say a broker running the re you can't compromise the t protocol and then the last piece of text is that uh if you can compromise the rich execution environment then one thing you could do for example is to remove a valid dependency from an untrusted application on a ta so in other words you've got some application running the te that depends on a tea if you can compromise the ree you could say hey that untrusted application no longer needs your ta okay to clean it up okay but errol there you're not really harming the perspe per say you're hiring the untrusted application and so the mitigations there is just normal security mechanisms in the rich execution environment and so hopefully this addresses all those things but this was not in the protocol say we put this in the in the architecture document okay unless i see somebody in the queue and a trial to finish up this document here"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:30:00",
    "text": "uh ben also raised the question on the text about uh in the security considerations about validating hbs certs uh and so we asked might ocsp or some other crl mechanism via scope should we mention these other rfcs and so uh currently we went back to the ietf 111 discussion and you can see the quotes in the minutes there from russ and ben that's where we agreed to not reference ocsp in the t protocol although there the context was about end-to-end ocsp and not necessarily about the hbs certificate but about their certificates in the teep itself right but uh extending from that um we said since it's uh it would be nice to not have to put another protocol under there but i'm open to suggestions on this one so what we did do is uh and we still left the reference just 52.80 but we had the phrase but certificate status check protocols may not scale down to constrained devices that use t but this is why we do end-to-end um keying inside peak protocol even if it's inside https right so https just goes to the ree in general and so even if you can compromise that you haven't compromised the t protocol because there's another encrypted session inside the https section so it sounded like ben took this and put it up for atf last call so i'm going to keep going we just want to raise the visibility if people think that is important please let us know during this ietf last call period but right now all we've done is we've kept the reference to 5280 but not required ocsp or anything for hps um just allow it to scale down so um i think this is the yeah this is the the last main slide on this one um there were three different bundling examples between um you have an untrusted app a trusted app and some personalization data and how do you package those three for distribution we have three cases that the document mentioned the first case is all three of them right the brackets say those two are packaged together and distributed via one protocol the other bracketed sections distributed save you a"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:32:01",
    "text": "different protocol or mechanism and so we had three of those and then pointed out well there's other ways to combine those uh why did you not mention those and so that's what four and five are we gonna go for completeness we put in some text about you know why they may be less applicable in some cases and so we updated the list as well as we updated the description of sgx the discussion trust zone so it mentions which of all five of them instead of which all three of them are most applicable to sgx which ones are applicable to trust zone but those are of course not intended to be by way of limitation those are just examples so how will they apply to say you know risk five as uh the japanese folks are doing or for other intel or you know amd or whatever else the intent is not to cover all those just to pick two examples that are sort of different implementations and say how teeth would be applicable or which parts of tape replica so that was i think just editorial um but it was important because there may be cases where people actually want four and five so um but it's maybe difficult in certain implementations of these all right last slide on architecture before we move on um is just a couple of uh bullets here um there was a question about what's the difference between protect process connect versus process t message in the abstract apis why were there two and the answer was it's purely an editorial distinction to help um understand things where process connect is a request to request a new session and process cheat message is a processing message in an existing session so since they're abstract apis you can always implement them as combined or have split processed messages in multiple ones whatever it is this was just a convenient way to describe things that to keep the concepts of new session versus existing session different uh there was a comment about use of the same key for both signing and encryption where ben's point was that uh using the same key for both of those is an academic uh open question as to whether that weakens things or not and so we put that point into text and basically use ben's wording"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:34:01",
    "text": "in two different places um one for the te pair and one for the tam pair the same wording was in there and then ben suggested various other editorial nets that were just accepted as proposed so all right so that's it on the architecture document any other questions before we go on nancy i think transport is up next right yeah um transports next so i i would say if there any other questions to take it to the list just because then i'm going to switch this we're running out of time yeah yeah or short on time i should say transport deck not that one is this one this one is short okay let's call uh and so you can see the timeline there so same thing is now that the protocol spec is stable enough that we don't think that there's major changes to transport we don't think there's any changes transported than editorial ones um so we'll go ahead and submitting that uh the main comment on this one was the dos that was possible by the re as i mentioned that one was addressed in the architecture document the only change in transport was we added the sentence to c section on the architecture document for security considerations specific to the use of t we didn't actually have that in the uh in the uh transport track before we referenced other things um like you know things around https uh security and so on but we didn't reference the deep architecture document so we had that because everything else is addressed in the air dock the main topics on the transport spec were uh comments about the http references and then a couple minor points about the actual logic so for references um we replaced rfc 6125 with an internet draft reference because that draft is already in the rfc editor's queue meaning it's going to beat us anyway so we just update the reference there's two other documents actually 75 75 25 and another version 6125 they have active disk documents in uta"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:36:00",
    "text": "but they are only drafts and so right now it looks like they'll be lagging us and so uh we could pull them in later if they happen to hit if they happen to go into rfc editor queue but right now we are just referencing the the posted internet posted rfc so we don't have down level references and the notable feedback uh there was uh text in there that had been uh obsoleted by later t protocol spec ones which was uh long ago we had more than one media type when we supported both json and cbor now that we only have cbor there is only one media type and so we could remove text that implied that there could be more than one so that removes several sentences there's a logic point that says if you ever receive if the if the tam ever receives their own content type that you should treat that as an error and of course bcp 56 bis the how to use thp as a transport doesn't require this and so ben said let's make sure the working group is okay with us being a should uh and so we left that since we already passed working group last call as it should and the belief is that having the tam treat that is in the error actually prevents bugs and encourages more protocol interoperability but of course it's not a must it's just a should so we left as i should because we didn't want to have to revisit working your best call the unrequest ta this is how you choose which tam to send i'm done with this ta now all of my re applications on my untrusted apps that depend on it are now gone um the tam uri was not one of the parameters to the abstract api in the pro in the transport spec and so we had to update that for consistencies and then all the specs match and then again ben suggested some word smith thing that was uh just accepted because they were just editorialized so that's it for transport all right nancy i think unless there's any questions teammate so back to you i don't remember um"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:38:00",
    "text": "dave i think you said i don't know if i saw the changes on the uh transport spec but ben was good with all the comments yeah he put him up well for best call dan you're welcome to speak up but he said they both look good to me and you put them up for iuts let's go excellent thanks ben yeah i remember seeing last call and the last call got extended a week because it overlaps the itf meeting but uh i was happy with everything yeah we could barely hear you ben if you can repeat sorry uh yeah dave's right i put them out for last call because i was happy with all the changes yeah thanks for that extended a week because it overlaps with the itf meeting okay appreciate it yeah for some reason i missed the uh transport one but i did see your call for uh for the architecture one okay so up next um akira yes can you share your slides or do you want me to ah it's coming yeah just what okay is my mic working yes we can hear you okay i forgot how to flip the oh there it is yes so we we had a um hackathon in japan team so i in this slide i was a little bit hurry so i didn't list up all the people but usual um from second iso and it and and also tragio is uh and"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:40:01",
    "text": "in in in zuzak sign i think it was in me and i think that's all and obviously was um go through the implementation for the um what was added from the last ietf and the first one was suit but the other one added to the draft is eat and courses which is a significant um updates so that's going through uh and finding any point to yeah revise or update on the draft and this is the two to eat model or at the station model i saw it frequently in dave's slide and not 2019. so one is passport model and one is back background check model and in in the in the current t protocol draft it's supporting us um assuming it's honestly it's identical as a background check model and yeah we thought about should we um what should we go only for a background check model and for in our implementation it's it's a handling talking with the verifier from the directly from the device is a bit more overhead for the constraint device so tam doing on their side instead of the device side is uh yes it's um it's nice for the implementation friendly for the device so um in the however it might be okay to make way the discussion was it might be okay to make the draft a little bit more"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:42:02",
    "text": "generic so in the future some of the device which is able to talk with the verifier directly and able to do the passport model um yeah so yeah the in the in the well at this time we really didn't have much uh idea what to do to make it generic so one one of the idea was just having the attestation result or evidence um format in the eat profile is able to display english whether it's receiving attestation result or evidence yes but um yeah and the next is about um c4 format and cbor and json so ee is going to have json and cbor format supporting both and the currently [Music] places to describe so evidence format and one another one is evidence and honestly in the implementation whether evidence format is js is going to say it's a json or c4 evidence in the both json or cbo and b string will work yeah it does work but however the discussion was making evidence to have both b string or t text will have both type and able to displaying is whether it's"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:44:01",
    "text": "evidence going to have a b string or text is from the evidence format it might be more um friendly uh easier to understand so um evidence format having indication of the json or um cyborg or alternatively was uh and the transport layer has a um type saying application jwt or application cwt sorry akira hannes is up on the q he might have a comment yeah okay hi hi akira um that's honest here i wonder whether we should just say uh that the eat is in in uh in sibo format rather than leaving out leaving the options possible for having both encodings like we made at some point in time the decision that the deep protocol is also only encoded in one format and i think that's easier to do i don't think we should support all sorts of different formats just because it's possible i think we should make our life easier dave dave did you have a comment you're in the queue yeah yep just finding my mute button um so the teep protocol itself uh just carries um eats as opaque dated right it doesn't actually care right there's nothing in the teep implementation itself that carries about this because like in the background check model all you do is you take the blob and you forward it on to a a verifier right so there's no hard dependency here so uh that's why i i don't think it's you it's necessary to do any hard restrictions it's because it's just a payload think of this as like a transport for a higher level protocol you need some end to end agreement or whatever sure but the t protocol itself doesn't actually care"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:46:00",
    "text": "when you're doing a constrained implementation i agree with hanus but there's no reason that cheap protocol should be constrained to that that i know of right now i mean i'm open to it but i think what i originally got in the queue to say was that for media types i think that uh application jwt and application cwp are too generic they don't mean that they're eat it just means that that's a jwt or cwt and so often in media types you have more specific media types than just the generic ones and so here i think there's an argument that says the rats working group should have i should define eat specific i don't know remember it already does i just can't remember if it does if i've seen that any place it should have um eat specific media types for jwt and ccop rather than the than the suggestion ones there there should just be more specific ones you know uh you know application slash eat plus jwt something like that um that gives you a more constrained media type is kind of the media type guidance but otherwise that was my god so thanks yeah thanks um okay yeah we will yes well we could um keep keep discussing and update the protocol about it and and the other thing is yes this is was the most of the discussion we had um yes we decided to have used corsair for the um signature and um organism for the seaboard the same way as a slip handling because soothes handling corset and and if if we decided to use different way other than seat or eat for the teep then they are implementing for different uh yeah implementation will be difficult i mean it's not difficult but it's more time consuming and more overhead for"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:48:00",
    "text": "debugging so um so we would like to have uh we would like to use we're going to use cose and also the supported cipher suit which is required which is recommended which is optional is will be um not far away from suit and eat and the easiest one came up as going to be required to implement and for the implement implementation is uh have shot 256. because that's already required in suit and in the on the device side required to implement either of one is es 256 or eddsa and device side implementing either of one is probably okay for the time side it might require it might be better to write it here the good to have a better mandatory to implement both and inc recommended implementation yes this is what uh hannah's have been talked in the past and having hss lms for quantum resistance purpose and other one pretty much typically used rsa aes symmetric ga is and and rsa is still widely used in many places and also other the other one is um even the aes is the aes accm and and some of the industry domain is the shifting from ccm to gcm so i yeah i thought it would be nice to have put it in in the optional list and uh so far i i couldn't find the shot"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:50:02",
    "text": "three in the yana registration but the pro if if that is going in then probably could be good to have in the optional list and yeah this is a i'm this is something i i wasn't nobody in the japan side knew what to do so when we use going to use rsa specifying key length is very important 10 24 is a little too weak and probably mostly it's recommended to have over 20 48 and many of them now i have is using 40 yeah 40 96 so um how yeah we would like to have a how to specify key length of the rsa and i wasn't with i wasn't in the um export in this um iana was experiencing corsair format so um i i really would like to have a help on this okay you've got harness coming up on the cue akira um okay akira you um do we need rsa actually um well it's a well it's still i'm my my point of view is have make it generic as possible so many of the or many of the company or many of the entity will use teeth as much as possible so i'm i'm not saying i'm not i'm not saying we should or it's good to have rsa or not but it it doesn't i thought it won't hurt just having in the optional list okay optionally yeah because i i"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:52:00",
    "text": "i don't see requests for rsa these days uh at least in in my environment anymore and so so i'm curious like he's actually still someone asking for it oh no it's not nobody is asking for it just so the most most important is in the page six six and the size the left side required and recommended list and the right side is all optional so um yeah it's optional so people will freak out if it's aes is not in the list or 512 is not in the list okay and also i think this topic is going to be in the davis slide too so we could continue talking about this [Music] was that your last slide akira i thought you had one more yeah yeah i think yeah that's great and one thing i could i would like to mention as i'm getting a um permission is the implementation for the tip is going to be publicly available as open source before the next idf 114 yes um engineering side technical side is mostly complete not on not you know from a while ago um only thing pending is other ministers and administrating point yes that's great akira so it would be great if you posted the i'm presuming it would be on git and github if you can post it to the mail list that would be awesome yes yeah yes so our plan from few you have been planning was having a both"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:54:00",
    "text": "hosting of the github and also having a docker image so preparing the build environment is easier that's great yeah all right thank you akira thank you dave i think you're back on okay waiting for the screen share request yeah i'm i'm not able to oh that's weird okay there it goes there were there were two of you there and i just had to find the right one to give you the uh yeah okay you've got it now interesting it's it's unlike the previous time this time it's asking me to choose a deck to share rather than sharing my own screen uh maybe i click the wrong button so i'm gonna dismiss this and ask again so yeah well i was afraid to revoke one and the other so i just gave it to you once okay you should have just got another request yeah i see it um it's still okay it's still going to do a remote one so that's okay i'll do it this way but it's not asking not a lot of share screens it gave me the drop down from the uh from the uploaded slides so i'll just do it this way that's just fine this is no changes so i just got to get used to this interface so okay so now we're under the t protocol spec and so um a curious presentation will also affect the protocol uh things too and so one of those points is kara mentioned we'll come back to you so i got this organized in terms of general stuff then the suit related section and then the uh rats related section at the end that order so okay so first um the document has been updated with things that we already agreed at ietf 112 so just to refresh your memory i'm not going to go through"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:56:01",
    "text": "minutes and we just tried to do exactly what we got consensus on and confirmed on the list back at 112. and so you can see uh 40 had to do with an efficiency change of being able to reuse stuff as long as all these constraints are true we went through that at 2012 and then we updated the clarifications when is the token included in the update message so if there's questions feel free but since we discussed that last time just letting you know that those the first changes is stuff that we already agreed there this is the continuation we said that they were going to be suit manifests and cure presented at 112 the different examples there and so we took the details of the presentation at 112 we went through there and put those into uh things in the spec uh that i think if i remember right akira had posted this per request um but it wasn't merged part of the id deadline before and then we presented it at 112 and so you've all seen it and all the stuff that accurate presented has merged so all right so now we're going to go into suit specific stuff that is uh more than just what we talked about at 112 things that have come up in discussion or implementation or that was listed as open issues before because our goal is to be at zero open issues and so we're at least at uh zero that were filed before so all right um so back at ietf 111 meaning two ietf meetings ago brennan had a great presentation about examples not of manifest but of suit reports right and so here's an example in the bottom right of one of brennan's slides from 111 and so there's now an appendix that takes the content of those slides put those in appendix's example suit reports um there is a request for me to brendan to say hey can you please check that because i'm not sure i got the text right that goes with it and i want it to be as close as possible the way that bretton would have presented it and so just a request yeah i see brendan saying we'll do okay great um since these were your slides the point is to be as accurate as possible as to what your recommendation"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:58:01",
    "text": "was there and this is just an appendix just because it's samples right it's not normative so all right everybody else from suit is welcome to review them too but uh i consider brendan the most authoritative because they're his examples so all right uh the next one that we had some discussion about but we didn't have proposed text before but we didn't discuss it last iatf was about removing and we started using the term unlinking a uh a trusted component and so uh here things that we did do is we added the suit manifest example that we walked through at 112 where that manifest example was a case where you were unlinking you know removing a ref count on a trust component uh that and that was done using the directive unlink to decrement the ref count right so we talked about that last time but there was no per request so we put that into the actual document then we left the details of how to do that to suit so in other words we didn't go through lots of things because that's really it's a normal suit manifest thing it's not really a teep specific thing so the details we said we're going to leave the details to suit documents and just cross reference them and we just had a suit manifest examples here's how you would apply that in a teak case but this did result in adding a reference to a newly adopted suit document which was sprit split out of the suit manifest in the suit working group we had in order to get the suit manifest document done as fast as possible then we took some of the things that were still being discussed split those in separate documents and so the suit trust domains is one part of that and so we then had to add a reference to the split out document which is now an official suit document that will be discussed in the suit meeting later this week so take people you know please come soon all right 167 this is the one that akira was referring to about the cypher suite so this is um another view of that same slide that akira said that we'd come back to so if"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:00:01",
    "text": "you have any other comments this is a slide to get up back at the mic line for us so um at 112 we said we were going to get rid of the teach specific stuff in terms of an eye on our registry and just use the cozy algorithms registry right for reasons that akira explains right and so what's here is a table that reflects what the text in the document says uh the table isn't in the document but it matches the logic in there i put it in the table form just for slide viewing here and so in the new teep spec there are signing algorithms encryption algorithms and mac algorithms and there's a list of possibilities in there and in the past we'd agreed that for the mandatory ones uh that both of them were on the look at the signing algorithm top two rows there they were both mandatory at the tam to allow the team agent to pick either one okay so that was the previous working group consensus that says uh there's two of them maybe one is more forward looking one is more practical right now but the point is the tam must do two of them and neither of them individually is mandatory for the teep agent you're just required to pick one or the other and since the tam supports both you'll always get interoperability all the other ones there are listed as maze and that's the stuff you guys were just talking about and honest you're asking do we really need rsa and so on those are all maze right now and so whether we list these or don't list maze because technically you could argue that everything that goes the algorithms registry is in may right um and so how many maze do we need to call out versus just saying everything else is in may i don't know this is what the document has right now because this is the least change from previous um and so if you think that we should remove maze or add maze no big deal we can do either one or leave it as is but the must on here at the top it's what uh we'd previously said just translated into cozy algorithms but since before did not make a distinction in the document before this version between encrypt algorithms and mac algorithms um you can see which ones are currently listed as must right now in the cosi algorithms and feedback"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:02:00",
    "text": "welcome on whether that is the right set of musts so i will pause for a second just to make sure nobody's going to get up at the mic line but otherwise this is what the document says right now yeah i think you can keep moving okay uh all right uh so this uh cara was alluding to this the proposal from the suit 112 meeting okay um and i think russ was part of this discussion was that uh you know to say something like uh in the keep context must implement hss lms which is now rfc 8778 because it's quantum resistant and should implement ecdsa and may implement others right this is from the slide at ietf112 suit okay now what you'll notice is that hms lms is not on the previous slide okay and so the question for the working group is what do we do about that discussion as reflecting the previous slide and so for example you see should we for example add hss lms to the to the table and uh dropped es256 on the previous slide you can see uh es 256 is up here as a must for the tam and the t page you can choose that or ec dsa or edgsa and so do we drop that one do we add hss lms so this is what the editors want to know what should we do and if we change something over here what does it look like on the agent part of that slide so any direction from the working group is what they think the right thing is for hsslvs on this slide you've you've got russ on the queue and then honestly yeah yeah russ go ahead the argument we made was that for a firmware load you could amateurize"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:04:00",
    "text": "the big signature there across a lot of software but here we're talking about a environment that could be quite small where the the update is not necessarily a full firmware load so um the other thing we were saying is this allows us to move to a post-quantum environment once we know what those algorithms are and once we do know what those are we could push that new algorithm here which is most likely going to have a more reasonable signature size anyway that was my thought don't change these for now is what i'm suggesting okay thank you for repeating because your audio wasn't great for your first sentence but the takeaway is uh leave the table as is for now as is i think that's what i heard go ahead honestly um yeah uh dave if you swipe um swap over to the next slide um i wasn't quite sure on could you go oh yeah so um is for the first proposal from idf uh suit meeting was that on the server side or on the client side uh russ is the best person to answer that since it was actually his proposal so okay but uh yeah whatever russ said made sense to me so i'm good with uh the suggestions made you're good with russes made you oh mink did you have a comment i i you were on the queue and then you left yeah i'm okay so i said i was asking whether we should add into maybe between the master and should we don't put a must but we may put in may but i think it's okay to as a group russ we can defer it"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:06:00",
    "text": "when we see nearly okay say that again russ adding it to the mail list is fine with me yeah yeah yeah yeah i think that they will be uh good too no thanks all right so what i'm hearing is that it's a is it okay to enter may i think just so we don't forget the point i think as an editor i would probably open up a request to just add it to the main list so it's it's so it's uh it stays as a reference from the document um rather than uh oh did you even talk about it right so it's at least an intentional day as opposed to a apparent omission so yeah akira you're on thecube um yes um to write it in the cddl in the deep protocol format i was copying the uh description from the suit so um cdo it's uh there's three words used instead of a master may or should so it's required and recommended and it was optional so um yeah probably it's pretty much the same with the muscle going to be required and may is optional and uh um hsa it's just lms i i'm fine with the i'm having as recommended yes i think we have consensus did we lose dave dave you still there i can still hear you can you hear me okay yeah your your video froze there for a little bit yeah i lost you guys but uh uh as long as i'm back as long as i can keep hearing echo for myself in the"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:08:01",
    "text": "faint i'll keep going so all right so i'm gonna keep moving on since i don't think there's anybody else in the cube but tell me to go back if i need to all right we're now going to move into the eat section so now for for uh rat spokes and so all but the last summary slide left is about attestation claims and so on okay so uh issue 171 oh no but we lost dave all together we lost it it's us it yeah it keeps going out now yes but uh you know yeah no we we actually lost everything dave yeah but you can hear me now i can hear it i yep so the question is whether i should share you're welcome to project okay but i'm going to try it again here all right and so we are back on we were somewhere around right you were yeah that's where you were all right so we're saying uh the rats working group defines the notion of an eat profile and this is what the eat document says you must specify when doing an e profile right and we've said we need to have an eat profile for how does cheap use eat right and so that's what issue 171 is so let's listen there's just the bullet items that are the required things and the eat spec that you must do the following okay so that's our checklist so we're gonna walk through that checklist okay so uh the first one um and by the way there could be errors in these but our our intuition was it's"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:10:00",
    "text": "always better to put something even if it's wrong because people tell us that it's wrong right and so uh there's no claim that these are necessarily the correct answers but these are answers right so people can tell us oh no no this is wrong you should do x instead so that's the goal here keep that in mind okay so the first one we needed something that was the profile label and so right now uh and so the profile labels are encouraged to be uris and so right now for that uri since we just need something as a placeholder we're using the draft name so here's the url of the draft with a note that says eventually the uri will be the rfc number right there's nothing in the each spec that says there's a convention to use for the uri so i'm making one up that says the rfc uh uri is the is the uri to use their rats working group might say use something other than that but since uh there may be changes between now and then we at least went on a temporary uri and certainly the draft uri is going to be a temporary one so see honestly you've got hotness on the cube uh dave uh i wonder whether um that profile label should be should also include other options because it looks like a very long uri for each at the station right even if it's only the rfc number attached to that uh uri to that to the data tracker something something um or rfc editor i yeah so maybe maybe we there's there should be maybe some profile labels um sort of registered for standards track uh or something like this you know what i mean i'd say that's would be a topic for the rats working group um that we would follow whatever convention they set and right now my understanding is there is no convention and so i had to please pick something but i think your comment would be a very appropriate comment to make in their ass working group okay i will do that um so then there's a the next section is"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:12:00",
    "text": "just about um not keys per se but just use of seaborne other encodings and so uh we already agree that there's only cbor we've already made changes in the protocol spec before to use definite length arrays and maps and so i've extrapolated from there only definite linked strings are allowed there's note about preferred serialization and you have to say what encoders and decoders have to do and so right now the proposal is encoders must use preferred and decoders need not accept non-preferred so if you want interoperability use the preferred serialization we never used seaboard tags we had an issue about that i think two ietfs ago where we had that agreement there's a whole section on freshness and uh detached eat bundles i am not the expert on so we arbitrarily said dib use is permitted okay hopefully audio just came back yeah so my analogy was that detached bundles as long as we're gonna allow uh severed uh suit manifest then maybe detached eat bundles are similar but open to feedback on that go ahead harness uh harness yeah almost hey hey you're about to start with h hey hank is on the queue hi i'm hans hinken um [Music] so i want to say that your profile for each looks like a cool eat which is a problem i would say in rats again because most of these decisions here i think are very good demarcation line where we want to cut maybe things off and do into other ids and this looks like a good call for each so while you are bringing this up here as a profile for it i'll even go so far and saying this"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:14:00",
    "text": "could be the core eat not not talking about the detached eat bundle because that's new and you know so but the rest actually i'd say that could be eat maybe we should say that at rats also so volunteering or or i'm volunteering saying that pull request 171 i guess it's a pull request right it was an issue i don't know the thing in bit up on cheap that is 171 could be a good bundle that we can publish soon that is the minimum required because this looks really much like the minimum requirements that we need yeah so yeah that's fair but okay well this is really the first example of any profile right so we're kind of pioneering and setting an example right i don't know of any other yeah there are others so so and hanes was saying not so much because i know of a tsa token and and such so uh it's psas or psa token and uh yeah so no this is not the first definitely um but but i think it also overlaps a lot so honest if you can't see anything here that wouldn't align with c and so this could be eat might be the core of eat okay i will bring this up yeah i volunteer so to say i would be the bad guy yeah yeah that would be great hank because uh right now we have text in the document for this and it'd be great to remove text and just reference in each section that has you know a default or a core profile or whatever you want to call it so all right so i'm going to keep uh going out of the next section of the checklist uh so now we get into algorithms and things and so uh for coset algorithms that was the slide that we just walked through that was that table and that's in a different section so that checklist is see previous slide right um well i guess i had detached deep bundle on this slide that's a duplicate never mind uh and then for a verification kit identification i tried to make something up here so happy for somebody to tell me it's wrong or what i"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:16:01",
    "text": "should say instead uh and so verification key identification right now it says the cosec key id is used with the key id is the hash of a public key or the public key may be used as a raw public key or a public key in a certificate but it's the hash the public key hoping that's at least something that's not broken and for endorsement identification right now it says it's optional but the semantics are same as the previous line again this was a put in something and if people have a better suggestion i think it's wrong and they'll tell us but that's the straw man okay seeing nobody at the mic line i'm gonna keep going uh harness yeah uh hi dave um on the on the key id so um what i've seen uh being done which is and in some sense a little bit unfortunate is is actually to use um the claims inside for example the instance id as a as a way to identify the key and that's not necessarily the hash of the public key it's for example a uuid or something similar so maybe that's more recommended one recommended approach but there's all sorts of different schemes for naming um sort of like the the um the specific instance of of the device or the chip that you are testing so so in teep we allow certificates or raw public keys and we were talking about claims i interpret that as something would only apply to certificates how would that apply if using raw public keys like it would even for raw public keys you can you can attach a name to it okay like the raw public key is like conceptually like it's like a a symmetric key right in that in that sense from the lookup point of view"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:18:01",
    "text": "it if you'd like to propose specific text that you think are consistent with say other eat profilers or whatever uh i'd be happy to match again this is the case where i was trying to tease out suggestions so okay cool but you know if you're doing something another document we then there's a good reason to say hey in a constrained implementation you should be able to do two different things and use the same rule and so consistency across heat profiles is great if you want to point me to something else that says hey let's propose pulling this text out of another document or even moving this into the core eat profile or something like that and just reference kind of eat spec i'm off of that so uh yeah just to jump in ben cadeck as the responsible ad to hammer through hannes's point about the key id like there are cases where the key id might just be a single byte zero one depending on and it's not required to be tied to the specific key material at all so if hanas could propose some slight text changes here because the current text on the slide is sort of saying that it's always the hash of the public key and that's not that's misleading okay sounds good thanks honest you have the action on this one okay so claims yeah let's now get into the claims part and we've had lots of discussion including at the uh t suit rats interim meeting about claims okay so right now on the eat profile um all the claims relevant are in the uh optional claims section right there's there's no single case where a particular claim is uh is actually required in all possible deep cases right so the next one next slide actually has all those claims but right now they're all in the optional section there's nothing in the required or are prohibited sections um and so when we get to the next slide keep that in mind in case you think there's something on there that should be listed as required and so uh the next slides cover every all the claims that are relevant for the profile for t"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:20:00",
    "text": "but uh none of them are individually required right you've got to have enough to be able to pass stuff but there's no single one that i could think of that was actually required but i want you to keep that in mind and get up the mic whatever if you see something that you think oh no that should be required in all cases okay the last point is worth that mentioning here for suit folks just in case uh brendan or hank or somebody says that it's wrong please review this so call attention to it uh for manifest and software evidence claims okay so right now the software name claim in rats um the placeholder is that the software and in claim holds the uri of the suit manifest for that component right we need something that's the unique identifier for that and so right now uh brennan suggests the canonical uri but it's still the canonical uri of the suit manifest right as opposed to some other uri in other words we're referencing the uh the software component by its manifest as being the official id right so that's the proposal and yeah i get uh we can add the word canonical in front of uri if that makes people happier i agree with brennan's point there but since this is a point we've never discussed before how do you marry the uh the e requirements with the suit manifest and so the proposal is uh oh brandon please get up the mic and tell me what what words you'd like changed or whatever because uh if you have a suggestion happy to accept or paste it into the chat if you want a specific wording there otherwise i'll go on if i don't see somebody at the mic so okay i'm gonna go on i have to go back there's a specific element in the suit manifest called the canonical uri it's the the point of it is to point back to a place that you can find a full copy of the manifest so that should probably be the right tool for the job okay yep make sense this would be you know like canonical hyphen uri or however it appears in the subspec"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:22:02",
    "text": "um okay actually i didn't miss a slide here this is the next one yeah okay so i just wanted to so this issue 165 was the one that was discussed at the intro meeting where we went through the various claims that were in the uh draft burke hall's rat suit claims uh that document defines some system claims and some um suit specific claims and so the the the relevant discussion for teep was in the system claims section of that document uh now uh this gets back to one of the points that here was talking about and kira talked about the background check model and passport model where in t we've said the background check model is the one that is the more typical because it works better with constrained devices for for a team but it turns out that the passport model is not actually precluded in teep if somebody wants to do that and that gets to the point that the t protocol does not actually have a hard dependency on the evidence format of the e-format or whatever because it's just a pass-through right so it turns out you could actually use the t protocol with attestation results for that matter in the passport model right you'd stick it into the field that's currently labeled evidence and so i'll probably file a request and just point this out then whether it's evidence or attestation results just typically evidence right your your e could be an attestation results eat if you're using the passport model okay so the point is that the claims that are in here that are in the profile uh-oh yeah i think it's dave let me revoke his screen you can hear me okay yeah i hear it all right so saying that yeah the"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:24:00",
    "text": "claims that are in that that are in the list on the next slide and things are really things that the remember the the tam is a relying party the relying parties consume attestation results not evidence so the claims that are talked about in the profile is really things for which the attestation results need to be able to report to the tam now often the claims and the attestation results are going to be derived from claims in the evidence so the claims that we're talking about might be things that appear in the evidence for a purpose of being copied into attestation results but the end of the day these are claims that the relying party needs to be able to get hank is in the queue but yeah but i'm talking to i want to talk to dave so i'm just wasting my time sitting down looking at the qr code we lost them all together periodically they're getting in on the dave appears to be offline i was just trying to say a joke dave's picture on the changes to his picture when he was young so yeah akira i think dave completely dropped off because i see he shows off offline oh now i don't see him at all [Laughter] i think there's actually no one so this is hank i want to take uh make a comment on the third bullet item of the previous slide we have seen"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:26:01",
    "text": "uh that says that uh claims in the testation results can be copied over from evidence so i have a relatively good visual memory and that is a big problem and there's dave all right if you can hear me can you repeat your comment sure no problem so hi this is hank i've read on the list i have to state my name so i'm i'm consistently doing this now [Laughter] [Music] so so i think the problem here is with the um third bullet item on the previously shown list nancy is going there yeah dave since we lost you i i decided to just share the slides for you uh but now one up 15 is fine this one yeah so the third item says claims and attestation results might be copied from evidence that's bad because now you do not know what that means if you just do a copy of the value into an attestation result what you what the semantics now are is this is created by the verifier because attestation results are created by the way affair and they're conveyed for consumption to the alliance party so the verifier created this claim it is very important to add to the definition of that claim that when it appears in the testation result this is not evidence but this is the output of a policy that does a i don't know bytes copy of the value from evidence into the attestation result one by one there's a policy that says if i like the rest of the evidence then i can copy this as complementary information into"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:28:01",
    "text": "an attestation result it's very different to the fact that it appears in evidence that has a different meaning so now i would be stuck with understanding who signed that conceptual message and you are not obligated to say this is an attestation result eat it's just a cwt never forget that now you have to understand that the signature is doing the context and segment x and that's really bad so there has to be an out of band agreement between the relying party and the verifier that this is a copied overvalue from evidence and if you can't establish that out-of-band context this is broken i just have to really point that out okay unless you're doing something else that is co-locating another verifier on the entity that's the relying party and then say sure we can relay that evidence actually and the party has a stop verifier that can make sense out of that and now evidence but that is co-located with attestation results i think that's that's a very underestimated problem for consistency and it will break a lot of levels of things and if not done right so i think item three is really dangerous if not done correctly i'm hoping i'm back again yes you want to summarize where we're at or what to do next well i can you do like a succinct summary and also i want to make sure that it gets captured don't do three without explicit highlight that there's policy on the verifier that did this copying always imply if a raw value from evidence appears and hit the station results with this name same claim type claim name right"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:30:00",
    "text": "make sure that is out-of-band policy established that's then you are jesus we lost dave again i'm not doing this it seems like well the policy would be out of scope i think but but that text on having policy is not out of scope no defining how this is done yes but there has to be text either you agreed on policy or you're doing very something harmful to the internet okay i would think that's more of a security consideration i think there's a design flaw that has to be documented um if i have audio right now then the point is that third bullet fair is just a statement about what a verifier could have policy that it chooses to do there's nothing that keep this is just an informational note to the reader that says the verifier could have that policy from the parts that i could hear what hank was saying i actually agree and there's nothing in team that actually says other um so i think what hank said the intent is that the draft says what hank said uh the the slide is just an fyi by the way your verifier could choose to copy stuff but what heap actually depends on is having some claims in the attestation results whether they come from evidence or someplace else um it does the type has no way to know because it only sees the the the attestation results at their lying party so and that is a big problem the tip must know just saying and the tip can't know is a design error and i would oppose that okay then we'll have to talk about that because when talking about a relying party any particular relying parties attestation results has no visibility what the evidence is that's not their language exactly but it can't know that you got evidence because you're copying evidence in and as you just said it has no dealing with that you're breaking a rule here that's not good okay i i don't know what rule you're breaking"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:32:00",
    "text": "so i said i only heard that what you're saying you are conveying evidence to a relying party period i i think as long as he documents the notes and the policies if it's the contained and attestation result it doesn't matter never conveyed to our lying party ever yeah but item three says so no it doesn't yes it does and this is our this is this is our disagreement this we have to talk about yeah because yeah so again what happens here is it says the claims and the attestation results might have been copied by a verifier not their lying party from the evidence they're airing yeah but if they are just copied how do you know who created them did the verifier create them did the attester create them does the lion party understand that no nope exactly and that is a problem well we can talk about that in rats or whatever i don't extensively yes okay so nancy can we go on to the next slide all right this is the set of claims we've been talking about all along you can see draft 07 is the middle column that's what the draft used to say what the graph now says is the right side so you can see all of those are now referenced again this is the system claims category not the suit claims category all these reference eat except for the one that we had the long discussion at the intro meeting that's the class identifier that one there's no other document to refer to yet so that one still points to the existing burkhals document where eventually that should point to something whether we pull that text into this document or whatever else the point is there is still a class identifier that we need to say something about and that's what all the discussion the intro meeting was about it's just highlighting that that um this issue isn't um it's close to the set to the extent that we can close it now but um it does still have uh what do we do for the class of device in the t context so"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:34:02",
    "text": "since we spent all the intro meeting talking about that i think we can go on um since we've had lots of recent discussion all right so the proposed next steps uh are to update the document with feedback from the hackathon all the discussion from this meeting the hope is that whatever the next rev is we'll be ready for working group last call because hopefully we're teasing out all the last issues and stuff now between implementation and spec review that the implementations are complete enough that we hope all the issues are found that would at least block us from entering working your blast call right i'm wondering yeah and i'm wondering dave given the iot nature of this we can also trigger an early review to the iot directorate and hack security directorate yeah whether you do that in parallel with working group last call or what but yeah that sounds great i can do it even before okay so once once you um generate a new version dave let me know and i can kick off the early reviews how's that okay now i i do want to huddle with uh hank to see if we can work out what the right thing is in that last point so that's the only thing that really worries me right now that i don't have a good understanding i think everything else we've discussed i have a good understanding of what the editors can do next i think hank's point we want to follow up on try to work out what the proposal will be so yeah and if it could be documented as an issue that way we we all get visibility too yeah on a path forward so hank you're welcome to file an issue this is hank so uh so so the thing is um that i was talking about exactly that point with lawrence extensively and we have prepared a two uh early proposals how to deal with that okay and and and and i think there's even a very new pr look at the latest pr uh the youngest pr in the eat uh repository thing lawrence pushed something that's based on the discussion"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:36:00",
    "text": "from the hackathon and it's about exactly that's probably what you talked about in the rats meeting then yes yeah he's saying it should be discussed in a rats meeting then yeah it should great well good i think we're making progress and dave you're you're like right on time sorry i rushed you earlier was that it yep okay with that then um we have a presenter i lost my screen one second pengling are you online yes i'm here hi everyone hello sorry i'm trying to bring all my too many windows um this one nope all right let me relinquish the screen and give you go ahead and share your slides unless you want me to uh yes [Music] how how do i share the screen okay it may be easier if i do it hold on a sec okay thank you confidential computing oh i found that you found it okay"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:38:03",
    "text": "um here this one there we go yes thank you okay so hello everyone i would like to share uh maybe a use case or idea about uh can you speak up a little bit penguin we can barely is that better yes that's better yeah okay i would like to share a idea about uh computational computing in the computing aware network and the reason i would like to share in the tip is because that this architecture will you use tip protocol to implement the uh this configuration computing so uh next slide is about the so first we need to figure out what is can what is a computing aware network literally it's an idea about the which is computing and network resource joint optimization based on the awareness control and management over network and computing resource to determine the appropriate service node and dispatch the service request and provide a better use experience not only the atf but also the itu also mentioned this idea like the computing force network or computing power network maybe they are a little bit different but i think the basic idea is similar so next slide is about the brief architecture of can so in the left picture it shows that the computing resource consumer and the computing resource provider will communicate with with each other by the can network and even dispatch or issue a computing task during the network so the red side of the picture shows"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:40:02",
    "text": "that the logical layer of the can and the first layer is operation layer it's about the computing resource transaction a unified operation of open capability etc and the second layer is orchestration and management layer it's about the computing resource orchestration air engine and this item it should be the business management is a mystic i'm sorry and the third layer is the can foundation it's about the edge computing resource and the central computer resource and this resource will communicate with each other by the ip network and this app network should be the can network and this protocol has haven't been decided yet but it will be discarded in the birth of can uh can uh i think it's a tuesday or so i'm not sure so the difference between uh between the care and the cloud computing is that that can is based on network layer so computing task requirement and scheduling are carried by protocols in app network from the perspective of network layer cloud computing is just application layer data which cannot be aware by the network so the advantage of the account is that the network latency is awareness and the network topology is awareness and the convergence with network source and the computing resource is available uh think about uh that if you use uh cloud computing the cloud computing data flow will just be an application layer in the network and there's a decouple of the cloud computing and the network so i think the can is a better option for the applications that have the latency sensitive and some requirements so next slide is that"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:42:00",
    "text": "why we need confidential computing you can and i think the requirement is from the can user if the computing resource is a third-party resource like the edge computer resource which both they can and the network user cannot trust its security then we need the confidential computing technology so if the another is that if the network user cannot trust the computing resource controlled by the cadillac the central consumer resource then the competition computing technology also is also needed so when we introduce the computational computing to the network i think the two components are mostly involved the first one is that the cpu of computing resource must have the feature like the computer computing like the sdx tdx etc and the second is that the execution and the management layer must have the confidential computing feature which supports like tip and rest so so next slide is the main architecture so i think lots of you have familiar with tip and rats but in this architecture we added two components one is middleware and the other is midway repo and the reason is that we want the user to use computational computing in a network with convenient which means that if network want to use the computational computing resource it doesn't have to change i have to change any of its source code it just says that well it's a computing resource it's a competitive computing resource so i just use it i don't do it doesn't have to change anything of my source code so another uh function of the middleware is that it can provide like remote attestation and provisioning instead of let the application itself to the function i think this is much more convenient than the traditional uh t or"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:44:00",
    "text": "red architecture so this is the main idea of this draft and the next shows that how how this works so if uh if if a application owner want to request for the conversation computer resource it first will connect to the mlc all the time then the second step is that the time it will establish connections to the broker and send the provisioning information like the middleware to the t broker step three will be that the tip broker will trigger this maybe it's a hypervisor to establish establish the targeting environment with tip agent and middleware so the mapping between the tip concept and the instantiation is that the left side is the concept and the right side is the instantiation in the engineering so the mlc time and the middleware ripple may be a computing resource expression in in can and the pt broker may be a function of stack and the tip agent at the middleware maybe some openstack initiates the guest vm which includes a chip agent and a specific middleware like a anarchogram and or clone these three names are like some middleware or runtime that could provide a unified or very convenient interface to the user which they doesn't have to change any of any of the source code which is more convenient for the application to use configuration computing so next slide is about the arrest in can so after the first provisioning of the middleware then the rats will will work on so the first step is that a application owner may ask for a remote attached remote attestation then the second step is that the middleware triggers a attestation environment to generate remote attestation evidence for targeting environment and step three is"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:46:00",
    "text": "that the application owner gets the reference value and the reference value may be maybe could generate with source code and the images like the middleware and the tip agent maybe it's a could query from the third third-party authority for the reference value and the step four is that the middleware will return the evidence to a picture owner and the owner could match it with a reference reference value and decide if it will trust the attacking armament and there is a potential step five is that after the trusted targeting environment the pledge code application owner will provision is application to the targeting environment so after that the application will run in a trusted and confidential environment so that's a basic um idea of the rats how it works in this architecture and the mapping between the rights concept and the instantiation is that for example the attestation environment could be called enclave an sp and rmm and etc and the targeting environment could be a guest vm which includes the tip middleware and application and the targeting environment may also be a process-based environment like the sgx so that in that way the t4 agent and the middleware will be a function or routine in a process so uh next slide slides is about the potential next step about this confidential computing network maybe it could be used as a specified uh tpu use case about the conversational computing with middleware or specify the right use case about the computational computing under its middleware or it could be that a unified tool or specification for appb owner to execute a remote edition and the provisioning"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:48:00",
    "text": "so if you are interested in this idea maybe we could uh discuss more about that and see how we can move forward about this idea so if you are interested please uh let's have a discussion thank you that's that's it thanks pringling hannes is coming up to the queue hi bing um hi could you go back to slides i have a question about the drawing uh to better understand sort of the boxes so like maybe slide five or so yeah so this one so um on the on the right hand side with the diamond the middleware repository like that's on the server side uh that's the box for the server side the app owner is obviously well not obviously but the app owner is um that would be a different server before with the owner like the human uh next to it um the errors uh what do the errors mean in your drawing because they are not necessarily are they protocol messages or are they uh what do they represent or internal information flow uh you mean the the middleware wrapper is for the middleware different middlewares because in in different computation computing architecture there will have be different middleware to fit into the heterogeneous architecture of that cpu right um so okay um if we look at the um the boxes on the left-hand side uh like you have the target environment and then the hypervisor and cpu firmware below is that that is that supposed to be in one device or because there are separate boxes um"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:50:01",
    "text": "yeah that's that's one device that's a different layer of of a confidential computing resource but it's but it's a single device yes different layers okay so in the the green box is that uh that's in the um in the normal world so in the ree is that true no no the green green box is the trustworth this is the t oh that's the okay application middleware okay that's okay that's good so what i'm trying to uh to say is that the the black application could just uh load uh loaded into the targeting environment and wizard and it changed it could just directly run the application without any change of the source code to fit into the uh the composition computing cpu okay yeah okay uh and the deep the deep broker in in many other diagrams it was running on the the rich execution environment but here you are running it on the hypervisor uh that and that may be maybe a possibility um so like for example um so if i take for example veracruz this one uh possible middleware uh so the deep age the middleware would be veracruz uh and the deep agent would be somewhere let's say where would that be that would probably be maybe an option or so um and uh the application would be vasom running on veracruz is that sort of roughly how i i i should understand it or i think it would be good to have an example um on how this is instantiated to have a uh a good understanding on how you would actually turn this into a working system"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:52:02",
    "text": "here i think the next slide shows that the concept and the instantiation and how they mapping with each other and this is the very earlier draft of this idea and maybe there's something incorrect and this is just the meaning of it i want to share so maybe the mapping is not correct and we can discuss it more about that after the meeting i think okay okay gary you're on the queue yes thank you this was interesting i i can't i i can't claim to fully understand old aspects here i think we need to read the draft again maybe or or have more discussions uh i do of course agree that like it's it's super useful to have these kinds of capabilities that you could provide some computing facilities for applications uh in the network or close the network and and uh be able to um provide at the stations and the protections that tes can can can provide so i think that's good i did have a question uh sort of one detailed question on the record draft section six is about the use case examples and it mentions like vr ar applications and it it does say that the applications don't want the conversation to be uh or the network to be aware of their conversations but then it also says that it's hard to encrypt all the vr context because of an unacceptable cost and i would actually argue that that's not exactly what i would expect to see i would expect to see that there's both"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:54:03",
    "text": "protection of the data in transit so and that that we can do i think we can do that um and uh also protection of the uh data in you so this is what we can do with confidential computing so it's just wondering like if you had any further explanation of this encryption versus in that use case i mean that we cannot run all the code in the encryption type i mean a lot of times it's it will be executed or processed in a plain text in the cpu so especially uh you have the tdx architecture or some like some architecture like memory encryption then you can run your code in an encryption type right yeah maybe it was just that's the way that it was written that led me to be confused a little bit but i of course i agree that you can't always process only encrypted data you have to have these situations where where um you get get to process the actual unencrypted data and in order to do that safely uh we wrap it inside the confidence a computing enclave or something so yeah i i think i agree with that yeah yeah yes thank you i will make i will revise that for more secure and more correctly any other questions or comments nope so pengling ben also noted that there's a computer aware network buff yes that is scheduled for tomorrow session one okay so thank you you know it may be interesting for you to share those thoughts in that"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:56:01",
    "text": "i don't know if there's a mail list but um in that community as well in that group uh i'm not sure there are there if they have some time slide to share the material yeah i was just mentioning that uh the specific session time slot for the canva was the first one on tuesday because i think you had mentioned it was either tuesday or you weren't sure and i just left i think i saw yeah ben i was looking at the um at the agenda i think it's tomorrow yeah it's tomorrow yeah yeah thank you so much it's better to share in this group because it's for the security and the tip and rest in fact that i think this idea could not only use these in can but also can be used in any network i think okay unless there's nothing else thank you for your presentation ping ling and you know you can solicit more feedback on the mail list as well and i still would encourage you if there's a mail list for the can um since there's a buff that you might solicit feedback from that group as well okay um okay uh any orders of business comments feedback if not good progress guys thank you and have a great week at the ipf those who are here on site and hopefully those on on virtual can get some sleep thanks everyone"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:58:21",
    "text": "already thanks for the notes ned yeah i have to admit it's a little busy looking between the three screens and my phone for the time timer thank goodness yeah but there was a lot of i think there are some miss well dave couldn't hear hank's comments directly right and i think hank was just reacting to the text on the slide because the slide said something might copy right the attestation results which hank is right unless you have good provenance then how do you know whether you're getting that result the original or a copy and that the copy hasn't been fudged right well it's a question of context it's question of policy whether the copying is allowed or not but i don't know that that's in scope for teep and so my suggestion is in that scenario it should be listed in the security considerations of it would be a violation of the design if"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "02:00:00",
    "text": "that were to be allowed meaning in big letters policy do not allow this to happen right but if you are going to let it happen then we need to change the schemas to allow for the prominence to come through i think it wasn't clear if it was trying to say that there needs to be a an exception to the rats expectation right well so so on the chat brendan and uh dave were saying well nowhere in the draft do we say that we you know that a copy is allowed or not well now that you let the cat out of the bag that's what i'm saying and the considerations you need to put in the design the intent is that you wouldn't copy it's that circular that circular thing [Music] so i lost about eight minutes trying to get the meat echo and stuff going just fyi well so well we started almost 10 minutes late because i was trying to make sure remember i was telling you the data"
  }
]
