[
  {
    "startTime": "00:02:00",
    "text": "hi I figure one here for beer today is calling Tony Tony in the room hello Tony you wish anyone have beer with Tony last night I\u0027ve not seen him yet this morning seriously holy crap I\u0027m gonna just text him first we\u0027ll start but I want to make sure he knows we\u0027re starting without him and maybe we can see if he\u0027s okay all right a set of attacks hopefully hear from him I\u0027m gonna sit over here but that kind of doesn\u0027t let me address that because I\u0027ve to run slides from this side I like cueing these but this this laptop doesn\u0027t like me so shall we do it that worked Hey Oh Tony says he\u0027s all the ways all right he\u0027s at least conscious enough to respond to email so that\u0027s good okay now I\u0027m totally baffled how do I dare a young an arrow on this and PDF fit to page all right so you guys in the right place beer good everyone\u0027s looking up at me smiling I love that look at those direct eye contact huh minutes please someone raise your hand I need minutes we can\u0027t move forward we have to have this document there\u0027s always discussion after about who said what somebody Wow look at that eye solid on the keyboards oh come on is that a response is it you\u0027ve got it ah come on me you\u0027re good at it though all right got it I know people get a lot of conflicts that people leave um someone\u0027s got to do this who\u0027s not presenting today who can sit there and do all my usual suspects or presenters hey you think I\u0027m doing minutes yeah thank you please we need someone and I trust you completely there it is all right jabber scribe is someone on jabber anybody on jabber we have no one on jabber either eighty what\u0027s our role Pete I\u0027m a jabber scribe we got a roll full with the jabber scribe normally he\u0027s right here doing this for me anyone we got six people on here so we can\u0027t not have it someone else on you ever Tony behind you see your shadow no he\u0027s not coming in that turtle says he won\u0027t part me he\u0027s "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:05:01",
    "text": "got him thank you just asking for his name Oh you said toilets okay yeah that\u0027s fine but I can torture tour list of all kinds of agenda items thank you tour let\u0027s appreciate it anyone recognize this guy you\u0027re supposed to be our jabber scribe oh so here\u0027s the existing agenda there\u0027s been a lot of discussion about it thank you guys for participating through here I think I\u0027m this one we got in there and then we\u0027ll have some good discussion here moving forward I want to start with working new dock status because I\u0027ve had a handful you come to me and say hey this docks ready for last call what\u0027s the cue what\u0027s going on so what we chose to do with four or five documents ready for last call I didn\u0027t want us hammer cuz right we\u0027re all volunteers for time for the IETF is voluntary right I I don\u0027t expect people to respond immediately but with a two-week window at least say yes or no let\u0027s just progress so let\u0027s look at the stats okay we had cleared our IPA cleared in February still waiting for a shepherd I\u0027ve hammered the de list a few times looking for shepherds and we don\u0027t have them so I do have someone just stepped up this morning volunteered for this one so I\u0027ve got a shepherd assigned for that and we\u0027ll move let\u0027s move down te arc for people respond to the thread saying I accept this as a word as a last call nobody else we can\u0027t call that consensus I can\u0027t in good conscience send that off that iesg all right there\u0027s a lot of people participate in here this is significant addition to the overall architecture of beer at ete and I I cannot move this forward lesson good review so at least toilets didn\u0027t he he did rev it so I guess there\u0027s some input that\u0027s taking place but this is where we are I\u0027m gonna start it again after this discussion he\u0027s gonna present today and then please respond and that we can get some and that response could be know if you don\u0027t think is ready for last call if there\u0027s comments but please participate otherwise I\u0027m not certain what we\u0027re doing here all right next LS let me translate you people suck you better step up your game otherwise you get fire Tony does not speak chef he\u0027s tried and failed countless time shut the door shut the door turn off the recording devices bTW pls we got eight responses that was good that\u0027s on the high side but we had the author made thirty first we had some really good comments about the document itself which kind of sat dead I tried to kick him a bit July 12th we actually had a reply to the doc good so some practice product versus make is moving forward however I think the comments weren\u0027t a rev because there was some Corrections there was some clarifications so I would like to see that revved once rather than and submitted we can go back to last call on "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:08:02",
    "text": "that get confirmation and get a Shepherd and we\u0027ll move em LD and PIM signaling are both just sitting in my queue I was just kind of waiting for these others progress before I take them to the list but if you think there\u0027s something we can celebrate on that we can move forward something listen yeah so MLD we retracted that one right so we introduced the new one that the cisco juniper on our site so just the pin signal just to be clear gotcha alright oh so it\u0027s I\u0027m sorry can you say it again of a name at the mic please sure woman nokia so the only one we want to do a last call on is ITF beer okay I\u0027m signaling zero five what\u0027s and the status of LD just got revved right yeah so the ml DV removed it but we are presenting a brand new way of doing it perfect ascites okay thank you okay we have a jabber scribe now I want to this is stigma I want to clarify that so I think we agreed last time that it could go to work and robust called the MLD draft I do however have a question to the group this time to see whether we should make some addition or if you\u0027re good the way this now will be presented today yeah yeah so whoo man my apology I confuse them all David M LDP okay yeah it\u0027s okay I did on the email thread - where are we last one here right this just goes the other direction all right next doc few men so Greg actually again sorry for the conflicts this has been a kind of a conflict in week I\u0027m gonna take it to the list again to just ask a request for working groups that we have the peoples are participating in so we can try to get that that list cleaned up all right thanks Greg yes what we I just do the PDF thing rather than it works so got the comments reviewing comments from awara and we discussed it worked on it I worked on them some suggestions were very straightforward and it was easy for me to make changes and some questions they\u0027re coming to the working group and actually our Senate document back to us "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:11:05",
    "text": "so we need to discuss this chain how to change the document and how we proceed so some comments that were easy to address as to make RFC 83 to anyone which is on describing ultimate marketing method and experience that Telecom Italia has with use it from information of the normative references we have the discussion about their use of terminology and packet network performance monitoring which might be nice term but in 8321 it\u0027s used only once so we agreed to use marking method the question was about one of examples that is in the draft that says that if the head already marks the packets and there some nodes the afar\u0027s are monitoring so the narrative goes that it says okay it\u0027s easy to start monitoring in other nodes yes it\u0027s not that easy because there\u0027s needs to be some instructions given to node to set certain probably ACLs or something to start monitoring for the markings but the idea was that basically from the head there is nothing to do so it\u0027s only dynamically enabling or disabling the monitoring point that I think that it was addressed over I suggested to add operation of consideration section it\u0027s added but it might not be up to level because the question is outstanding from alvera is that can we can the document provide more specific recommendations in terms of parameters of this coloring blocks and frequency of measuring delay and purity section yeah Security section was really weak and just plain wrong I apologize for that so the question is that whether there is a integrity protection and as far as I know the alternate marking method does not have integrity protection actually the idea and go of alternate marking method is to have as minimum footprint "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:14:06",
    "text": "as possible as I mentioned some of questions and comments not addressed and they require working group consideration can we go to the next page please oh no yes yeah open delicious so the track 8321 is experimental and experimental it for the reason because Telecom Italia way of implementing it in IP they used space of differentiated services called pourraient field and only in their network so basically it\u0027s non-standard and ipv4 doesn\u0027t have a good way of supporting alternate marking method because of status of 8321 so i wanna raise the question why this document is an a standard track and since we don\u0027t have reports of implementation and deployment of alternate marking methods other than Telecom Italia recorded in RFC so whether it should be experimental or informational and that\u0027s something for the working group to discuss in the side another question is we do have beer om requirements document which was already a working group West called and clearly this draft on applicability of marking method in beer is to address some of the requirements Gregg quick question before its kids escapes my mom for them for the marking has all the IP are being disclosed yes thanks so and the question is if we are progressing this document why there om requirements is not progressed at least in the step with it am I correct do you want to go one question at a time or do you want to just go through the whole slide and come back or actually and that\u0027s I think this is the last slide you just want to okay my understanding is that I want to inform the community about this discussion even though the discussion was in the mailing list as a summary because I don\u0027t know if we can reach the decision here so I it would be great if we can reach the "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:17:07",
    "text": "decision here my expectation I came to the meeting with expectation that we might start the discussion but their final decision will be made on the list and it\u0027s probably will have to go for another working group West called that I don\u0027t know this chef as chair asking my boss man over there what we\u0027re producing our specifications right the requirements talk is often I look it as being a working document for the group it\u0027s not always needed to go all the way to publications just use through the process so if there\u0027s something in there we need to reference directly then maybe we need to progress it I would prefer to dress that in this dock and move it as a solution right so specific to that comment that\u0027s why because the three points there are independent so that\u0027s why I was asking that you want to go question my question but when I was reviewing this hey you know my other things that go check the mailing list and other stuff and that I follow available is that requirements draft and I thought well this one that it\u0027s tried to solve an away in problem doesn\u0027t even talked about the requirements raft doesn\u0027t even say there is a requirements raft over there right and then I think remember correctly it went through last call or some state like that so my question too great I think was you know what is relationship now his initial answer was okay oh we meet requirements 2 \u0026 4 or something along those but there are like 14 requirements so of course the next question is well what about the other requirements if the working group agreed whether we published the requirements document or not is relevant but if the working for agreed on a set of requirements for OEM and we only support two or I can answer it III think that I try to answer my question about the relationship I don\u0027t think we necessarily need to publish the requirements I agree all my question was is if we already agreed on a set of requirements maybe we should say something about why we don\u0027t address some maybe they don\u0027t apply or you know whatever it is yeah I\u0027ll have to go back and read them all to give you a solid answer but it would seem to me that especially with OEM requirements there\u0027s not going to be one tool to solve all these requirements right this is a tool that solved a few and maybe we if if the document is gonna stand as a list for us to accomplish and complete then maybe we should continue with it reference those pieces as the tools are developed and then we can finish our list right and the other question related to that was that because it looked and I have to go look again it looked like that requirements draft may have been through working through bus call and so I wasn\u0027t sure if the intent was to publish or not so in my opinion is that if we are going to publish the requirements draft I agree with you that we don\u0027t necessarily need you but if we are going to publish it as an RFC it makes sense to me that the "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:20:07",
    "text": "requirements of these are published at the same time as a solution not after because then after that has no real value usual result problem right the real or chiral Valley so that\u0027s just sort of a process timing thing that we need to worry about so again is chair Antonio disagrees but I\u0027ve often looked at the requirements documents is something to keep open until complete its trouble in an OEM case where we have a tool that solves a couple of them knowing it\u0027s not going to be one tool solves all solution we\u0027d like to see that thing progress but there may be requirements that come up along the way they get exposed that we\u0027re because we\u0027re just developing an architecture and starting to finalise this stuff it seems a little premature to publish that one now and one tool addresses only a couple Melissa so yeah that\u0027s why I was asking what\u0027s the relationship and as you said you know we don\u0027t necessarily need to make that requirements locked in an RFC when you say keep it open to me it sounds like you can keep working on the draft and sure you can reference the draft from the RFC s as informational and that\u0027s it right the draft is so why I encouraged the requirements on the OEM site initially very strongly is because we have no tradition of publishing good OAM on our technologies okay and this is no major carrier stuff and I think we have to shift this culture and then having these requirements not being contested because there\u0027s so many OEM things right models what you could do could lead to some productive work rather than go and argue once you know a couple of competing OEM things have materialized now where the information should be the requirement should be published informational I don\u0027t think so because you have a good template to go and beat other people over the head and says like that\u0027s type of Oh am i want you to bake into the next technology that we can deliver the stuff solid but you know whether you see any value in that on alternates our job is to deliver and carry a great Oh a.m. with beer or for beer whatever yeah so that\u0027s I consider that a nice vehicle and publishing and documenting that allows people historically to track back right what we\u0027re up to and which tools can do what but yeah I mean we can also skip it and just hear the tools fine with me and we could Greg again we could progress with a like I said informational reference to the draft and then at some point make a decision whether we move that draft forward to it if we concluded all those requirements with tools would that make sense yes and maybe not the reason I\u0027m saying that is that if we ended up with five tools or whatever that solved most of the requirements and now we\u0027re just documenting that for posterity I don\u0027t know if we need to if we couldn\u0027t meet all the requirements with the five tools and there\u0027s you know some other stuff as "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:23:07",
    "text": "Tony said that maybe we want for the future for someone to look at in three years or whatever then maybe it makes more sense to to put that in an RC but I think that\u0027s something that we probably need to circle back as we go along because I agree with you that once you said that if there are other requires that come back then that come in maybe it\u0027s not time now to publish that draft and that\u0027s fine I just don\u0027t want to publish a draft that says your requirements and the solutions that solve all these requirements were already popped that is what seems to not make a lot of sense if there are substantive requirements that\u0027s a different that\u0027s just commented that a bit seems that may be more of a semantic argument I mean the OEM requirements document started first we worked from it developing these tools just because the publishing process was out of order doesn\u0027t mean the process was out of order right it\u0027s a perception and says from the ounce that I made look like that happened just because of date of publication but clearly we know in the IETF documents did begin that publication date right I mean there\u0027s just a waste of other resources later because we need the operations and security and everyone else will review the draft and the iesg and all this stuff for something that we already know was used I guess or oh I see right right that would be a brutal process regardless we\u0027ve already been through right and then we\u0027re gonna have you know 27 or not 27 13 and other 80s abstain of the document because we\u0027re republished all the solutions for that so I think that I would rather either publish the requirements at the same time of the solutions or if as Tony said there are requirements outstanding there are left for the future then we can you know supposed to then and call those up and say you know we solve all these things but then there\u0027s there\u0027s these other important things that we haven\u0027t solved there we still need salt but right now then then the tools that get published should not reference the draft in that case with a reference with informative reference saying what if the draft expires that\u0027s and then if new requirements come up we resurrect the draft sounds good I like that room and that makes sense because I sorry I was standing on the line for I know but I\u0027m referring to his conversation still so can we did that make sense to people in the room nods hands okay do people agree that that\u0027s a reasonable process to go forward to publish the tools keep the draft open we can reference it normative informative excuse me foundational thank you informative and what it expired doesn\u0027t progress we can resurrect it if needed yeah anyone agree with that anyone disagree with that I have a different I\u0027m standing here on the line to say that I completely disagree right I think it is a you know not helpful for furthering you know work in the ITF when the stuff that ultimately people are referring to to understand why the heck "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:26:07",
    "text": "is are these protocols doing all these crazy things are is seen by the iesg as second-class citizens and the process that we\u0027re doing right in my case in the animal working group was also you don\u0027t the architectures you don\u0027t do what requirements documents in the end all the stuff came up during iesg review of a lot of the documents and all the explanations went and bloated up specifications which is worse than what we have here which is perfectly fine standalone documents that are run in parallel sometimes the explanation of why these things that these protocols are doing are needed to take longer than actually coming up with the protocols themselves and and somebody comes oh you\u0027re too late right you should have finished all these requirements in detail before these protocol bits were developed I\u0027m sorry but I\u0027m on completely the opposite side of El burro and this one and sorry I came I told the second I\u0027m not I haven\u0027t read this I\u0027m not you know for this specific this is just very in general my bitching about you know requirements documents being seen as something uh sorry we already got too much to do go away so let me just interject we\u0027re discussing now is IETF process more than the working group process so one more than we gotta move this Akbar just one comment from previous experience if you have requirements or something that\u0027s requirements like people might object to classifying that as informative because by its very nature it\u0027s actually normative so again maybe if the IDI you know supports I think it\u0027s a good thing to what the ad proposes and what you propose but in similar circumstances we\u0027ve run into problems when they went to IEC and they said well you cannot make something that\u0027s a requirement is informative because it goes against great and Laura thought I talking more about IETF process I think it depends on how you make the reference so you can get away with both now the thing is that if it\u0027s normative than what that means is that even if you send this for publication now we\u0027ll have to wait for the requirements we publish and that\u0027s equivalent to what I was the other alternative which is let\u0027s publish everything at the same time right so it\u0027s the crippling either you send me everything at the same time or you send me everything in pieces and then everything gets published with an RFC no but at the same time at the end Gregor\u0027s chair that being the case then the only risk would be if Newark armors come up we have an addendum to the RFC that got published in the requirements draft right it\u0027s just at that points the semantics really the process is the same we just called the document right and what I meant is that you can keep working with the requirements draft all you want and then send it later and because if it\u0027s normally if the other RFC is gonna wait Thomas Eckert so again it for a normal requirement stuff that\u0027s kind of closed and seem to be finished for whatever it\u0027s done don\u0027t think what I wanted to say is "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:29:08",
    "text": "interesting but I thought that Warren had this thing going on with a more agile you know document option and maybe that\u0027s something so tomorrow at 8:30 in the morning there\u0027s certain living documents cite me occasion time timeout on this discussion I don\u0027t see any action items what it\u0027s so journalist or it was marching point on this last point on this slide okay that there the draft currently has I am a section and I agree with our word that it\u0027s odd because only what it defines it defines interpretation of the om field which is a part of beer MPLS header so there are couple questions out of this comment is so can there be other interpretations of om field or only once that will be defined in a this draft and even the protections of oil filters only in the finest is then draft does it mean that this draft updates there RFC eighty to ninety six so in any case I am a consideration section dozen is not needed because if there could be other interpretations then they do their interpretations if it\u0027s the only interpretation then we update the draft in Ayana has no action and then the question of the naming the loss and delay versus single and double marking method that it\u0027s okay Tony so if we go the route I\u0027m kind of agnostic that this came of multiple interpretation you have to specify a mechanism how this you know the semantics are being signaled and you can say very well it\u0027s out-of-band configuration whatever but you have to say something right and that\u0027s what the draft says right now there\u0027s no way to discover what you\u0027re doing right you configure the two endpoints and you interpret the bits that way right and there was a question because yes the beer header has two bits and it says that it can be used for LeAnn but doesn\u0027t hate see how the way I interpret the RFC is that it\u0027s open to the OM method to describe how and then you agree but the way this draft was written was that it was basically taking ownership of those bits yes and not leaving the room for others to use them it\u0027s another Hawaii right so this "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:32:08",
    "text": "question to the working group is that the interpretation that the bits can be used by any method you know and it\u0027s just a matter of configuration or discovery or something or is the intent that we were to assign those two bits to a specific mechanism and if yes then is this the mechanism Quantrill silencer well there\u0027s no advantage to like take ownership of those bits right okay so ladies and gentlemen those are pretty much you know watershed decisions here for the foreseeable future except yeah listen to these things so good points came up I mean we should highlight those from the minutes and I\u0027ll bang those things out who\u0027s got the minutes again where\u0027d he go there you go great mm-hm okay so we have to go to last call again yes there\u0027s a rep yeah which is so who\u0027s read the current rather the draft we got three people four people no actually I think that we need to discuss it and because actually all this open issues that are not addressed before yes so basically it\u0027s a track relationship with the requirement document and flags and again then the relationship with the beer Heather so seamless spiritless with a dedicated threat an email highlighting those issues with the intent of getting some conclusion and revé and then we okay then I\u0027ll start the three threads and we\u0027ll go from there thank you thank you sorry for the conflict a free hmm you know I have a full screen this I\u0027m in PDF mode and I get this like scrollers all I get when I do that that\u0027s it that just comes PPP mode because I have some seems easy mode there\u0027s a PPT mode look at that we can switch between them decided no I have to sign into Microsoft to use it yeah TDF right that\u0027s right that\u0027s kind of where I\u0027ve concluded all my work and with the new Windows to Microsoft tools I have to be online yeah so I said I\u0027m done ok edit on a plane so this is an update to the beer tethering drafts we have they new adults you from Resident "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:35:09",
    "text": "joining us as co-author we added the some text about the loop possible looping prevention and then some other scenarios like one for many and many form protection I\u0027m not helping so some quickly goes through the basic idea of peer telling it\u0027s in the wrong for your deployments situation how do we handle incapable routers you either get around them or your tunnels through them in the left picture it\u0027s that\u0027s where we get around them the router X does not support peer so even though going through X is the best pass from our unica\u0027s point of view because that\u0027s not support beer then we\u0027ll go through be a bar to even though the cost is higher another way is the tunnel through the incubo routers that\u0027s in the right picture Nick with a nose who acts next slide so sections six point nine will be rocked and respect talks about how this paneling is done automatically I\u0027ll skip it next slide please so paneling along it works but may not be good enough in the in this picture imagine that okay so because there is no animation here who has to imagine for a moment that would be fr X that\u0027s my exist here so for PFR one will need to tunnel for copies of the packet from bf bf ir 1 to p FR 3 4 5 6 respectively and if the link between p FR 1 and roster X does not have enough bandwidth then you\u0027re wasting your precious bandwidth on those replicas copies so the solution for that is that we attach a beer perhaps to to the router X with a local fed pipe then the be a part 1 with ton of the package to the B FRX just one copy and then be our FB of our actual panel individual copies 2 3 4 5 6 through that local fed pipe next slide please so because that BRX is like a stop router there so the normal six point five a six point nine procedure will not how will not work so to make it easier we do some additional signalling I\u0027m going to jump to the alternative method there we\u0027re a basic the PFR X signals that I\u0027m the helper for this router X with that other BFRs will use the section six point nine method Titano "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:38:10",
    "text": "to be a power x and b RX were the internet on o2 other the fpr\u0027s next slide please so we had that\u0027s a simple picture there we had attached that be FRX to the to the Inca router but any is notice that some bf are three four five six in the picture they are connected to ax they are capable beer any one of those or multiple those could all be the helper 2x as long as the connection between the helper and that there helped its fat enough so when you have their kind situations they\u0027re signaling that I\u0027m access Harper can carry a priority so that\u0027s the ones with the highest priority is used as helper you could even have multiple ones either has in the same priority then all those could be used in other situation is that one helper could actually help not multiple number efforts will have a slight later for that so with OSPF star I assess signaling the helper needs to be in the same area or level as num be a par that it helps that\u0027s the OSPF is a signaling now I also have a slide on how to do tethering with BGP signaling later next slide please so you may have some concerns on possible looping situation you may get into what if BFRO and tunnels the peer packet will be FRX and in somehow pfr X sends a packet back to PFR why especially if you have a direct angle connection between VFR while I\u0027m VFR X so there are some simpler scenarios where if you have a dedicated stop helper that does not have any other connections then you you\u0027re guaranteed not working in the loop or if you have helper that has other connections for example in this picture PF rx has connections to be a power 5 5 \u0026 6 it\u0027s no longer a stop helper but in but as long as the upper axe does not have connection back to the tunnel ingress then it\u0027s also fine but you may say that it\u0027s probably harder for me to guarantee my topology like that and next slide please it turns out that it can also be "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:41:14",
    "text": "guaranteed as long as you do as your SPF calculation niku let me jump jump to the boat and slanted text there basically in this picture pfr 1 when it decides whether PFR acts can be used as a helper it just as a SPF calculation with the PFR PFR acts as the root even if it realize that if somehow be a power X would use PFR one as next hop to reach be a power 3 then PFR 1 will not panel Packer to be a 4x too risky a par 3 so that extra calculation is actually no different it\u0027s the same as the extra calculation you use to prevent looping in the OFA so it\u0027s the same idea in fact you can view the tunneling of beer from beer power 1 to P of X as LF a protection pass it\u0027s just now you you always using that protection passing stuff in so that nature pass so that SPF calculation routed pass the other helper is the way to guarantee that you do not get into the looping situation there\u0027s Greg independent just trying to follow the example I understand what you\u0027re trying to do but the example has me a bit baffled and I don\u0027t know why that would be a problem here because you\u0027re going back I mean why would I go back to be afar one in the first place if the bits not set for that and no ingress would set its own bit coming in so I only work at bfr one was the path through X back three and four it would take that path right so in this picture imagine that the connection between B F R 1 and b FR x has a costs of its it\u0027s three it\u0027s the same cost back x right but cost of beer for one from bf4 X is now four through X + 3 / 3 if I want but why would it send anything to be FR one was a bit is set for it in this technology as long oh it\u0027s that sum I think first of all or the metrics there may be the metric is not the rights to these explain the problem this is imagine that PFR one send a packet destined to be a BF ER 3 to be a power X because b FR ax is the helper and somehow b FR x does its calculation realize that oh that the torus PFR 3 actually have it goes through the FR 1 in that situation then yeah ok but that extra calculation that is the same thing we do for our fa purpose well address this concern so when we "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:44:19",
    "text": "first came up with tethering solution how always kind of nervous that\u0027s where I get into looking and with this I\u0027m actually much relieved that this is finds it\u0027s going to work out next slide so what what if you have a situation where you have you want to use one helper in this case it\u0027s BF r XY in the middle to help multiple non capable incapable routers x iy xn y here that is just a special case of translators so as long as you do the extra SPF calculation and make sure that you won\u0027t get into loops situation looping then you can use the PFR XY to help both x and y here this slide is about how you do the signaling with bgp to do the tethering we I had a animation in the PPP mode to make it easier but now I\u0027ll try to explain so if you look from the right side of the picture PFR ER 3 4 5 6 they advertise beer prefixes along with Tunnel encapsulation attributes their attributes is said to the PAPR 3 4 5 6 own beer critics that panel encapsulation attribute basically tells the receivers of this Eddard husband that when you send packets to this for this beer fear of fall for this BFE are you send it to the BFRO you know encoded as in that tunnel encapsulation attribute so for example when the when the par-3 gets that announcements appear BGP at her husband\u0027s and it gets a beer packet destined to be aware via ferry BF ER 3 it will send the packet to P of e r3 now VFR 3 4 5 6 continue to advertise those bf bf our prefixes to be FR x ya to be a power x now this time you will change the panel encapsulation attribute to be across 3 4 5 6 peer predicts that were there with that when the routers on the right on the left side send them beer packets with some kids be said for beer for ER three "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:47:20",
    "text": "four five six they were just simply send the packet through the PFR three four five six now when X gets that advertisement it will advertise reader has those two PFR X the helper now this time X no longer says itself in that paneling hydrogen attribute instead X will set what changed the panel encapsulation attribute to address of the PFR X now X as this does the same thing with PFR one and so on so forth so when that when the package from be Fri are one arrives at PFR 1bf our one war send the package to be F our X because that\u0027s what the tunnel encapsulation attribute says and and then we have our X or or follow the tunneling has a encapsulation attribute and send the packet to be across three four five six I wish I could explain this better in here but if you I think our sender PT key to the email to the mailing list and that way people can convey their draft and then can can can follow the animation and it\u0027s easier oh the PPD oh okay good good okay it\u0027s just we cannot display it here okay ask me to log into Microsoft okay thanks so the in summary tethering be a power helper will reduce the copies of tano\u0027s packets over scares links so it helps there are two options to signal and the preferred solution of signaling is to edit I that helper otherwise that I\u0027m the helper with that then the incubo browser does not need to do anything which is a good thing because in most cases if you cannot do PR you don\u0027t you would not want to upgrade it for whatever reason a software upgrade and we have some flexible heathering options you can have stop helpers different transit helpers you can run for many helper or many for one helper and we know that if you do the extra calculation you can you know that when to do go through the helper or not next slide so we continue to see comments and the authors also believe "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:50:22",
    "text": "that the document is mature enough for working group adoption so we want to that request yes thanks Jeffrey who\u0027s read the draft in his current form right I think it\u0027s who thinks it\u0027s ready for last holdout and dachshund have you been the first ten minutes who thinks it\u0027s ready for adoption all right so it looks like those who read it or on board will take it to listen Thank You Jeffrey okay thanks do you have see a question Oh Sam right this game what I didn\u0027t read the draft so bear with me so X in this case is going to keep the state of all the the end points X yeah I mean the if you go to the topology if you go to whatever I don\u0027t know whether we call it it\u0027s more like a proxy or more like it can I call it proxy yeah yes it\u0027s it\u0027s proxy but the the reason we don\u0027t call proxies that some there is already another traps with the proxy is that it\u0027s that proxy is really trapped it\u0027s really about so you are realizing beer or prefixes across areas or across protocols stat rather already used the proxy turn so that\u0027s why we\u0027re not using C indeed it\u0027s a the FRX is the proxy for X okay so it\u0027s going to keep the information what bfr one is supposed to keep is that right because you\u0027re tunneling to X and X will actually going to for the packet two different year for dogs no BPF for the helper that does not keep additional information except that I am the helper our X that\u0027s the only additional information that\u0027s bf Iraq skips that way when the when the FRX does is calculation knows that so I\u0027m not going to use X and then the other BFRs they also they only remember that pfr x is the helper for x therefore when that when for example in this picture when PFR one that\u0027s the section six 96.9 procedure instead of replacing X with access children that suppose beer it will simply replace X with its helper PFR X I system so you\u0027re in other words the whatever the advertisements the control plane is going to send to the VFR I r1 will remain the same right so it\u0027s not going to Rhian capsulate or anything of that sort right my corner might get a question so "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:53:34",
    "text": "most of the examples here I see only one router that cannot do that is not beer capable and and we are trying to get around that one router so I\u0027m just wondering how realistic is this in in like a provider network and the second part maybe would be the same token is let\u0027s assume that now that one router becomes a cluster of a router like a ring and we want to bypass that ring that is not Bill capable how will how will these procedures go so let me press I\u0027ll answer that you\u0027re very pressed crashing down imagine that you have a network where most of the routers do not support peer and those routers are like workhorses for unicast yeah it can handle tremendous amount of unicast traffic and but now you want to pierce and it\u0027s not just not feasible to add peer support to those routers in that situation in in theory you could attach a small PFR router to any one of them and then you can just do the tunneling through that help that that\u0027s in theory so you can just pick your you just look at your network and you see that okay even though there are many billion cable routers there I could attach a helper for every one them or I could just simply pick a couple or a few of strategic replication points attached help more help there so that\u0027s one way to do it yeah again I think it\u0027s great idea I\u0027m just trying to understand like how far down the road to be doing this procedure is gonna be relevant so like just thinking about like a third-party off-the-shelf basic kind of thing which does a lot of throughput and doesn\u0027t do beer you know okay I can understand if it\u0027s top of the rack type of switch and and you want to bypass that and maybe this car in handy but it is this a type of scenarios that you\u0027re thinking about no it\u0027s when you say Papa wreck you\u0027re talking about either centers yeah well beer exactly like a 5g data center or something like that all I\u0027m trying to understand is like where is this going to come in handy any network where you think that you want to start doing beer and is just for a short term you you you don\u0027t have that every router that can support beer you can you can do it it is just a matter of how "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:56:35",
    "text": "many helpers you want to attach what you telecom to your question how relevant this is as a co also also from from this draft for example in our network it\u0027s it is relevant if you think of the brownfield approach and you have a life cycle of about five to eight years when once you renew the router we have done the calculation on our end and we see that we have some relatives in the middle of our backbone which will not be being capable so the question is what do you do now do you do you wait until you have got a complete refresh cycle of oil routers which be a capable then then you have a very long time to cover or are you looking for ways around how you can do for example tethering so that you enable in the network with with side machines to really gain the profit of fear in order to make it and the whole backbone via Cape just a third question in that case like there are two scenarios here there is a tethering scenario and there is a scenario that we go away from the non beer capable so going away from non Butte get all that that completely makes me you know put a router that is pure K for all your unicast goes over the one that is not there and your multicast goes over the one that is beer capable the one that is for title tethering which actually tunnels the beer through whatever LDP sr or whatever it is so in that case you\u0027re saying that the router so there\u0027s no way to put a be a capable router beside you just can\u0027t bypass it right quick comment down to a human if if you want to get around the income of routers then you still need to ensure that eventually you have a connected graph for other the rich or the B F ers and sometimes you may not be able to put in those additional connections you can put a router in there but you may or may not have an extra fiber or connection for that with the tethering as long as you have a local fed pipe to the between the help rather than the helped then address will just work out we shall leave no move up for you right okay the Sun is only he my question is I just admitted the newest version of this draft and I found that there are two no two type of node is defined in the draft helper note under help know that right and it reminds me the PTP feature for "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:59:37",
    "text": "grace for restart and the only the node who will help to other know that will send this a future of helper but no one\u0027s then is a helped tutor for it so I\u0027m just wondering if we should define only one type of it just however not helped so for the first comment now yes there is a helper and then there\u0027s helps I remember when it come to a signaling I said I said there are two way to advertise the helping information that the second one I am the helper of X that with that you that that the help the router that the one who does not appear does not need to do anything it\u0027s just ignorant how anything and everything is handled by the PF ours and the PPF apfr helpers so does that answer answer your question or no twitch can\u0027t support beer he will not send a pure perfect other information associated with the IDP OPP extension right so we know that this node account support we are already and we can also think this node need help right right the thing is that if you look at this picture here even though this is BGP you\u0027ll spoke about this is about BGP so the here X does not say anything and pfr one following the existing six-point-nine procedure if you were you will realize that okay X does not support peer therefore for PFP are three four five six I will have the tunnel to be a par three four five six crossbow Nene and that will work but it does not work well because PFR one needs with tunnel for copies through X now with the additional other hidin from VFR X saying that I am helping X than PFR one will say that okay now instead of replacing X with PFR three four five six following the section six point nine procedure I will just simply replace X with P FRX with the helper so that\u0027s the that\u0027s the trick here are we gonna really behind here so you did the neck OH I guess we dressed this all the way down the other question is to address this so I in the discussion where\u0027s the DT guy "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:02:39",
    "text": "that we agree on whom is questions as well maybe an example that shows incremental deployment as opposed to the tail end of the deployment right like I\u0027ve got a couple modes I can put in and the majority of my network has not how would this tool migrate as opposed to because it because the snare is like one lock left node as opposed to a couple of EUR nodes and everything else not I knew was that would that be like a valuable human would that be valuable to the to the draft that we showed that incremental deployment is supposed to like the tail end right I think clearly these questions are coming up so if it\u0027s looked at as being transitional would show that path would be all right all right next I don\u0027t get out of this I found the button so I\u0027m making progress here oh by the way I just found this slide doomed if you have PowerPoint documents they need to be converted to Google slides and just all of these simple instructions this is but this was at my desk right here right so apparently I\u0027m supposed to do this to allow you to animate for every deck it\u0027s just let you know this is not gonna happen up here but if you need this stuff maybe we should all go to Google slides instead and then we\u0027ll be a quick quick move thanks all right next is signaling over beer this is ml DP not ml d I did the same thing of a mailing list when I saw the the requests come up there one letter difference between them so this is the second try for the MLB signaling over beer the previous draft that we had I think there were some concerns about the way that the signaling was down so we retrieved it and here\u0027s a new way of doing it that the main problem is the same right so we are trying to segment of the network we are trying to go to beer brand new hardware that can support beer and we got all these access or legacy multicast part parts of the network that they want to be communicating over this new beer let\u0027s call it a core and we want to make this happen excuse me with minimum disruption or software upgrade on these legacy multicast networks so next slide please so now the way that we\u0027re gonna do this is via RFC 7060 we\u0027re gonna try to connect the two ml DP Islands together over the beer we are signaling TL DP "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:05:39",
    "text": "through the beer core so literally you\u0027re gonna be seeing the TL VP packets on the beer core they\u0027re not being tunneled or anything like that tree the beer you\u0027re gonna see the signaling going from the IBB are today eb b r and they\u0027re gonna signal the and all deep effects through the core of the beer core one thing you gotta keep in mind is that usually MLBPA as everybody knows is in a d u mode with the TLD P it\u0027s gonna be downstream on demand meaning that I PBR when it gets effect from the from the receiver will actually ask from the label from the upstream router and of a stream router which is the egress bbr pH router will assign that label to the to the downstream router next slide please so from procedure point of view again on the ib b r is very simple when ml DP fake arrives on the ib b are we find eld possession to the other beer edge router at the way that we find that egress beer edge router is via procedures described in RFC 76 II or procedures that are already in the draft ITF PM signaling so those procedures on the IP BR will actually identify the egress beer router now the egress B router again it\u0027s the last router that supports beer B floor the root note on the point-to-multipoint LSP next our next slide please so on the ebbr on the BBB are basically the procedure is when these facts arrive from the IBB are the ebbr needs to track all these facts the reason that it needs to track the facts is for the same facts it needs to be built at beer header basically the same story as PIM signalling and also the ebbr as it was mentioned before it assigns the other stream label so there are multiple ways of doing that but we feel that that assignment needs to be unique throughout the entire beer domain and that\u0027s why the draft MVP an EVP an aggregation label which uses like unique upstream label assignment it will come in handy in these procedures are also so next "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:08:42",
    "text": "slide please so when it comes from the other pad perspective as when the packet comes back from the root with the MPLS label it arrives on the ebbr the ebbr will do a swap with the label that it has assigned for all the downstream labels with the same token it\u0027s going to look at all the PFE ours that are interested in this fake based on that information it\u0027s gonna push the beer header on top of it we are thinking that the beer header protocol prototype protocol should be an MPLS so the BF ER can identify that beer packet as an MPLS payload and actually removed the beer header look at the MPLS label underneath do a swap with the label that is relevant on the leaf domain if you will and then forward the packet through the second MPLS Island if you will access Island and that\u0027s how the data path works next slide please yeah so the next step for this is you know we definitely want comments on this draft any questions comments and we are hoping to ask for working group allocation who thinks this should be adopted his working group item solid support from those who read let\u0027s take it to the list thank you very much we are really behind so I\u0027m going to start putting stuff through this sorry but that was a good discussion especially the operators community thank you give me a third minute 30 minutes I\u0027ll regret at all all right next is HTTP Dirk yes all right hi should be a quick one okay so so this was an update to the micros overlay for adaptive streaming services since the last idea of 104 we\u0027ve you know we have a use case of expanded comes to the next one we ever the the trough shows the reference architecture and the realization of the multicast overlay in over IP MC but also over beer as a comparison if you will and the pros and cons for both are described in the draft and for the realization of a beer we provide the operational details for elements like the you know the PC service hand etc that are introduced in the reference architecture next one piece as a recap the the yellow ones are the application elements in that are described in the draft and the red elements are the elements that are introduced by the "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:11:43",
    "text": "reference architecture for the for the use case meaning the the service center as well as the PC and the multicast overlays then formed by the IR and the yours of the beer layer and the service handler is performing the additional operations for the actual arm streaming service of the of the use cases to the next piece the details that we\u0027ve changed compared to the previous version is that we added a second category so we focus initially on the HTTP based streaming use case where we added a description of - in there I guess that\u0027s the realization in one of the examples but we also added another use case for HTTP based software updates that\u0027s been added in the new version - just have two different categories of HTTP based services and we also added an enhanced the security considerations to address a comment from the Beavers ITF on the HTTP based exchanges so since either the the certificate handling is being included in that section these are really the changes since the last time so next steps is well first I would like to have comments and really you know people you know reading the traffic avoiding comments back and from our perspective you know we have finished with a details and so would be asking for last call for this draw specifically looking one was on one on one published it was just after Prague then right yes yeah yeah it was a quick update it wasn\u0027t very clean update all right who\u0027s read the draft in its current form you\u0027re an author all right who thinks it\u0027s ready for last call yeah I get soft response couple hands went down we can listen let\u0027s take you the lists open thread and yeah again going last call is often just a stick in the nest to get you read it and respond right so I\u0027m gonna put it in the queue with these I\u0027ve got going but we need to respond to this week in progress okay thanks thank you very much okay next beam tour list have you seen this guy he has no tour none your socks hex light oh I\u0027m sorry we have a meeting ok so right so this isn\u0027t working group last call you heard the working group chair please read it please provide feedback we really want to get it out to ISJ right just few more voices and so we thought that we read it ourselves that some of the past comments were this is of obviously it\u0027s somewhat difficult technology so we added text to a better I think get started in reading "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:14:44",
    "text": "it in the beginning so next slide so improve the abstract right so basically even though we introduced beauty obviously everybody knows what traffic engineering is no and of perfected stateless strict and loose path engineer replication forwarding right using peer packets call that beauty the basic examples I\u0027m going to show and then basically we edit how this topology think that the basic example show comes into picture in the architecture and then also for people coming from this world of segments routing you know trying to find some way on how to upsell beauty to them in their terminology okay so this is the basic example right is the first one on this slide is showing hop-by-hop native so to speak these are all layer two adjacencies forwarded you see the full be ifts of all the routers and then the text one page or so walks through the forwarding of an individual packet how each bloody bits does its work at each other so next slide same thing overlay so basically we\u0027ve removed two of these routers from beer they\u0027re not beer capable so now you\u0027ve got forward routed adjacencies before between the four remaining ones comparison also how the bits react and basically those are the two type of you know extreme beauty topologies we can think of a native one and overlay you can have any combination that\u0027s what the examples in this new introduction part say so and that basically means in the in the architecture paper it\u0027s really the beauty controller host read/write so the controller discovers the network topology and out of that it creates whatever thinks is the best beer to eat apology overlay native combination and the rest is obviously all was already there but this particular piece of explanation hopefully you know few more people reading it with this new text understanding it saying great right so that\u0027s what we\u0027re trying to do please last light right so then oh there was the word Tecna drought we missing in the in the title here on the slide sorry so yeah so basically the be peace in in the sense of segment routing can really be seen as equivalent of forwarding segments except that you can\u0027t take a bit position you know and think oh it\u0027s a global thing I can send from it from anywhere because the whole trick of how to steer things through it is that only you know the adjacent nodes have this bit and replicate to it right so basically maybe in this terminology we call these beer te bits adjacency scope forwarding segments right so I mean it\u0027s just more food for thought on how you see it I\u0027m also saying that SRK naturally be combined with beer te and help to optimize it right when everyone is deal without replication SRS fine the whole point of beer te of course is to steer and replicate right and then the last one which I think more people from just the beer side may have an opinion about is that you know you can also see that here itself you know kind of just "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:17:46",
    "text": "destination sit with a fashion replication right instead of having a long list of egress it\u0027s in a packet and replicating on that well every set is you know compress to one bit so that was kind of you know this can all be removed if people don\u0027t like to be compared with us are right this we\u0027re just hoping it\u0027s helpful to bring people to beer and that\u0027s it the end Wow even conclusion that\u0027s kind of cute let\u0027s take that delicious of the response we took this to a last call before we had to people said it was ready for last call but we\u0027ve wrapped since cleaning some things up from response we can start the timer again make sure the minutes note that I\u0027m going to take a vote who thinks it\u0027s ready because we thought we were before what we need if people who are ready to read so please participate alright next after tortoise is dig this is the three letter M acronym and not the four letter correct and movie without the piece [Laughter] alright just go to the next slide I guess there\u0027s only one slide really so I thought we were done with this document but then I realized that one month you want to discuss with the working group currently we are saying that the source address so the MLD or or RMP messages is the beer prefix and we use that to figure out the B Friday or the sender and subdomain we completely figure out we just said it has to be configured in some way or you can use multiple instances as it\u0027s discussed in the draft and you could say for a certain destination address we assume a certain subdomain anyway in pema decided that we wanted to use that John attribute to explicitly specify the be Friday and subdomain and so on out there oh the join sender instead of relying on this and the question is should we do something like that for our EMP MLB overlay that the issue is that tip typical implementation at least some implementations when you parse the RMP remedy packet you don\u0027t have access to the deBeer header that could tell you who sent the which beavers sent the join message or origin PM le report so one option is to say they\u0027ll just go with what we have it works it just makes some assumptions on the source address and configuration and stuff or we could potentially delay this draft further and do some work on extending the item PM LD "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:20:47",
    "text": "messages to include this information I would say normally it\u0027s a non-starter to modify our EMP or Emily but these messages only sent or received by beer routers so it\u0027s not like any modifications any many existing implementations also maybe a bit for a background in the RMP worsen 3ml ever since your RF sees it this explained how you can have additional data in the message and how existing implementation should just ignore any such additional data but we could possibly update those and do something special for beer if that\u0027s what they wanna do who may not hear just thinking out loud it isn\u0027t this the same comments that were made for yes it\u0027s the same so within the same hardware without the same issue yeah so that means either as if you have that issue it means that either we need to add this information or we need to just enforce and say use the vo prefixes the source and decode that from the this source address yeah yeah I agree and I think that\u0027s on the suit all I\u0027m trying to say is that so so for pin we made an assumption as a working group that you know using the beer information from the beer header could be hard for certain hard yeah yes I think that I would imagine yeah yeah that\u0027s so assuming that that is not possible where it is very hard then you only have two options either we just say used to be a prefix get the B Freddy from that just sort of getting subdomain by configuration or the other option is extending our EMP MLB messages themselves and yeah I\u0027m just yeah curious so people think about this I\u0027m kind of agnostic myself it could be nice to include that extra info on the other hand it works the way it is defined now and it\u0027s nice to be done with us but I think it\u0027s good to discuss it or think about it before we publish the draft so Jeff is coming to Mike alright good so women again in in my opinion it\u0027s fine the way it is any hardware that supports beard it\u0027s some next generation hardware that can read into the header so okay since we did that additional second in proposed PIM and actually MEP as well with my dad said do this for AT\u0026T and I guess one question if you want to do this for our GMP MLD is it worth publishing what they have now and say this works and then you know do some kind of update to a new draft later with that extension or should be rather wait "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:23:47",
    "text": "the problem with the problem in what I just said though is that implementations may have to deal with two different ways of doing things so maybe it\u0027s better to wait yeah I guess other than that so we don\u0027t have RC for a little longer there is no other bad impact right yeah at least I mean even if it\u0027s not an RFC people can charge implement what we have now even even if we delay the publication so so maybe we should check on the list but if if people agree am I\u0027m happy with what Geoffrey said if people agree with that then it means he won\u0027t be lost its call yet we need that it may actually need to go back to the pin working group and talk a bit about what is the best way of doing this kind of extension origin PM LD so I heard conflicting suggestion there was yeah progressed almost taken back to Pym so you saying this conversation should conclude with PIM before we go - no let\u0027s discuss this on my beard mailing this okay a little while I think if the decision is to extend out your family for as well no Tim all right thanks okay thanks it was a sandy show you got three in a row you ready good afternoon i\u0027m sanna Dom from the key this furnishing is for purely ipv6 we have caused our pony eyes and many people so we know who the horrible bag let me read it let\u0027s see the advantage of beer we know that here can achieve multicast I hope I hope forwarding and op c 8h tools 96 defines to bear encapsulation ways I\u0027m sure an anonymous and from it we know that a new internet type for peer is defined and if we want to use peer forwarding in ipv6 situation we can use the native Ethernet packet forwarded but we know in many networks the reorganization of the new Ethernet cable for peer cannot be supported so we he find a general and a simplest way to "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:26:47",
    "text": "achieve the beer foreboding king ipv6 situation and so we just introduced a new protocol and you can call it a new header in ipv6 frame and it can achieve the fast forwarding paths and so sort of their forwarding paths multicast forwarding and in order to receive the ipv6 encapsulation pure package rotor must advertise appear ipv6 encapsulation transportation stop Shelby it\u0027s a very simple sceptre we for the beer information therapy or defining OSPF releases or BP for a rotor in the word highs and advertises many encapsulation ways such as ipv6 and a healer nature or some other the rotor max must accept all the encapsulation it that it advertised because the extension fool ipv6 header is very simple so let\u0027s see the other fields in ipv6 header for directory connected neighbor we know that the destination address should be the neighbors link local address and the source address should be the rotors link local address but as we all know we can defend the local policy on the router but we can\u0027t keep the source address unchanged it on the other policy so we can make a great make many changes for it and an Arab of course the ipv6 here must be state water and let\u0027s see for now directly connected neighbor the destination address should be the beer traffic\u0027s of the neighbor and the sauce at address should be these rotors we have our prefix and of course the TTL must be large enough to get us a packet to the neighbor and the flow I dealing the ipv6 packet issue to be copied from the entropy field in the Barry encapsulation next week and the peer header is very simple because it\u0027s allowing away the format defining a P FC and eighty to ninety six for an Alan Carr\u0027s worship and the the errors are Ethernet extensions perms SEO and the pure prefix written tribute which dropped can be used for ipv6 encapsulation transportation enhancement "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:29:47",
    "text": "associated with prefix across ITP errors or protocol boundaries thanks Devery very much for his helpful for editor thank you so any comments mr. blue shoes sorry turret Secord haven\u0027t gotten around reading it but is this meant to support you know the way it sounded partial deployment of some hops use ipv6 and use Ethernet encapsulation right and you can use these ernet or so but you know that some chips will not support the record nursing of the either new user data type right so we can use these ipv6 extension to achieve peer forwarding so be our character will be the payload of the ipv6 header and you can do hope I hope forwarding to achieve multicast well I\u0027m saying I haven\u0027t read the draft so I haven\u0027t seen if there is anything about partial deployment capabilities given how you have but doesn\u0027t say anything about the slides don\u0027t say anything about that it\u0027s just it kind of implied by the fact that you can have a remote neighbor and you\u0027re announced again the IGP is it meant to be Otto discovering yeah yes yes yes out calorie yeah so so the idea is not only the encapsulation but also the system might think that in the ITP you\u0027re kind of trying to figure out what\u0027s your next neighbor toward the destination that\u0027s you\u0027re capable okay yes because I didn\u0027t say this is just I think we I think I think we spelled it out in the draft the primary intended use is towards home net which means you have v6 chips which you cannot modify but you don\u0027t need a high throughput right you could be on the fast path for it go look behind a ipv6 header and process what is inside on l4 but if you don\u0027t have that then you have pure ipv6 you pop it up somewhere to a slow processor and you can process the stuff without changing any of the v6 chips or any MPLS or Ethernet support okay that was a great answer just not for the question I asked so the meant for partial deployments that you know but but basically it\u0027s meant for partial support networks the network can partially support beer and it will automatically build ear across the nodes that can support it yes no the funds also support well because if some nodes don\u0027t do beer it seems as if you can\u0027t got over them by having this non directly connected neighbor stuff that oh yes but that\u0027s just unintended consequence which is the strongest force in universe so it was intended to be purely hop by hop but of "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:32:47",
    "text": "course you can go multiple hops all of a sudden you don\u0027t have to build tunnels right you can just use v6 to jump over stuff yeah but that\u0027s unintended consequences it\u0027s an IP over IP so as a native kind of multicast person you don\u0027t like it but an operator could see it as a benefit that\u0027s precisely how I should show it okay I would say that that\u0027s fine that\u0027s fine so the only other small comment is I\u0027m not sure about the cost of copying the entropy field into the flow ID and I\u0027m not quite sure if both of them have exactly the same CMP meaning so maybe either sell it stronger or they degrade it to a may because you know forwarding plane there is a cost of copying these things yeah entropy is a tag how you process it yourselves in a structure that just tells you it so you so when you get to those conditions you make those decision right there but there\u0027s a lot of explanation beer and basically I don\u0027t I don\u0027t think you have at least to say that if you find an entropy on the beer you better have the same entropy on v6 whatever it is because otherwise you start to miss order okay so so I think the draft says I mean just a little slide here that you are using link local address and TT other one so it seems clear that you can\u0027t bypass unknown be a rapper okay but if you I fear lower global address and all the TTL them you could of course okay all right so where are we with this dark it\u0027s a dot that isn\u0027t it for my date track this the third Rev it is Zhang beer so its current name is not an adopted draft all right it\u0027s not wearing the document yet it\u0027s not yet a working group document it\u0027s just it\u0027s not adopted as a draft for the working group yet right yeah that\u0027s i\u0027m till checking status before i did that those are just confirming with you and my name\u0027s i got here so who\u0027s read the draft in this current form okay who thinks this should be adopted by the working group as when you buy them I\u0027ve got yeah everyone who read and then some more all right let\u0027s take that to the list and we\u0027ll go from there okay you\u0027re not moving yes do right there thank you for protection yes source protection okay "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:35:50",
    "text": "this presentation is for peer source protection we have caused our Gregg and Jenn and that see the background of destruct and we know that the motive has the sauce always connects two or more always ingress routers to avoid a single node failure that\u0027s easy to understand right if this domain is beardo man you know that the ingress router we call it a BF iOS will advertise sourcing information to all the BFE eyes and the egress router will select the router which he thinks is the prevail priors and rotor is the upstream multicast hope and the signals to the selected via fire so in this picture picture we know that and the PFA Yahoo will receive the advertisement from VFR 1 and V F IR to and from the local policy if ya - maybe it will choose B F IR one is um H so BFA Yahoo will signal to the BFI R 1 to get the multicast flow when the selected BFI affairs in this picture we suppose that the PFR one field the pfayetteville will choose the p fi r 2 s the um h and a second or two it from it we know that the sooner of the Vav architects the failure of the UMS the quicker the multicast flow recovers so in order to accelerate the detection time we have some solution about yet it\u0027s the first solution let\u0027s see the ERP so the it\u0027s the same example if a yeah ii can send the periodical ping packet to the selected umh in this picture is be a fire one so P available and should reply to be fer to the ping packet so P fer to will monitor the status of PFR one and also the be a Fiat you can monitor the past status from VFR one to be a via to FB a Fiat who can\u0027t receives a reply from the behaved one for a period of time the PFA Yahoo will treat the PFR one is a failure load and it will second node to the PFI r2 to receive the multicast flow and in order to achieve the its goal the S\u0026P ping or "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:38:52",
    "text": "the ping defining the airplane Draft can be used here but there\u0027s problem in this solution if the path from the BF ER to the selected the umh is different from the past from the umh to the behavior in this example we can attach if the past from PAPR to to be FR one is different from the past from b FR one to BF ER to the ping packet ER may result to an incorrect result because if the p the past from PFA year two to be fi are one hell is broken the path is the path of ROM BF our one to be fer two is good but as a ping packet er will not be received by be fr one comment on jabber doesn\u0027t the pink establish bi-directional or each ability we can use transition though as SMTP sorry so do we use beer bingo we do traditional ICMP Kylie\u0027s doing her also abused yes you can use the traditional king because you\u0027re the penis of Romans the BFA yacht will be a fire so that the two functions can always be used here there\u0027s Esther depends your choice so mmm if the path is different maybe is a pink packet er will be lost in some ways and the so BFE r2 will make us a necessary switchover I might be wrong but this is steak I think what we\u0027re saying is if the if you have a symmetric routing so the path to there to that first hub or to the BFI are is different from the return path yes yes and the the request might be lost on the way to yes yes next piece let\u0027s see the second the solution the BR PFT it\u0027s defending the RPG dropped and so we know that the in this solution the universe router will sense the periodico us today the periodical p2 and ppfd control package to all the bf yes which is select itself as the um edge so the egress routers in this example we know that the we suppose that the BFE i1 + PF e r2 + b f r3 all choose the b FR 1 is the um edge so PF our one will send the periodical feed from ppfd package to all these three routers so if somebody "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:41:57",
    "text": "ahhhhh in this picture we suppose that bf yah one cannot who receives a packet from if I are one and the reason maybe maybe the BFF IR one has failed and the other reason maybe the past from I want to be a Fiat who is broken so BAV yeah what can choose the be fio2 is umh and the second or two here and so again this function we we can use the pure ping packet a defender in burping draft to bootstraps the people and PPF decision so this is a easy way and the earth and the past from the egress ingress router to the egress router is the same with multicast flow so there is no problem that will cost by the PRP just we mentioned in master slides this is a great question is there a reason why you\u0027re not running BFD between both Canada B I thought from both Canada B if IR s down to the B F ers it sounds like you just have the BFD running on one case and when the detection is failures detected you have to then not only reelect but then re-establish a VFD relationship and begin that process it seems it would be more expedient to have that running between both and then you\u0027ll know if you got a double failure you\u0027ll know if one comes back live right there\u0027s an active relationship between both candidates hmm I think a you means that if was also a bf I ask you the same as a beer yeah if the brackets is right in this is a question because for different emotive half the flow different if I our B choose to for it right true yes so the nation all no yes yes so we think that if the mmm ever the truth bf4 is sending the packet to the it\u0027s necessary for the truth the PFI are to stand in the packet a to zaroor the PVR right and the maybe is a if I are to the back will become hoeata back half right back up can send a the generator editor arsal it has what no you has then I just mean that because in this feature we know that\u0027s the beer for our one is primary standing petted but maybe BFI are to respond stirred for some other people for the Eau de Caza forwarding right so we have our 1 concern does a karateka be FDA packet to the be fer one to be a yes yes read and the BFI are two can send also the the chillin EF de pocketed to the other the FA yes which "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:44:59",
    "text": "selected his you jump to an application of it or but I\u0027m thinking more just from a protocol design operational decision the EFI the B F ers decide which be if I are mm-hmm okay so if they\u0027re deciding they need to know whose all there they didn\u0027t know the liveness of all of them that are there right so it\u0027s almost like you\u0027re making you\u0027re letting them decide and then you\u0027re making them tell me if I are what they\u0027re going to do to detect the liveness it be it seems to me I\u0027m just saying if I knew that all over there and I\u0027m independently making decisions on which one I\u0027m going to use I\u0027d like to have all the information all the time and then I could decide you know what\u0027s my primary backup would have that algorithm is backwards yes isn\u0027t it yes right and then then you can know if I have a double failure if a BFD died on one I try to re-establish another one i I am assuming it\u0027s there it may be gone as well they make the filler maybe somewhere else right or between the two so I just it\u0027s it\u0027s noise in terms of messaging and the state machine already has to be ready it seems to be a more efficient process if we just let them communicate all the time so there\u0027s many ways to nose off they are also ingress is all that detecting my neighbors to begin a process is not really expedient once I have my neighbors and I want to elect between them that\u0027s much quicker I need be on top of that stuff so is there a is there an example within application the uses of BFD where I\u0027m not just doing point-to-point liveness but I\u0027m doing a redundancy comparison like this that\u0027s if we take an existing mechanism using VFD that\u0027s not beer related that looks like this we\u0027ll just you know we then we have some precedence Geoffrey\u0027s got an answer okay so imagine the overlay here you use its PGP MVP M then what you have presented so far it\u0027s already covered by by the the phosphate over her yes I\u0027m looking for us to feel overpressure yeah and another question here is that with fear supposedly the unica safe are utilizing will be used and then you can quickly switch over to the backup pass so most likely your traffic will recover very quickly and now when you use this PFD or PM to decide to switch to the backup be a PI R I wonder you if that switch over would take a longer time for your beer traffic to recover with the original efi are the egress rotor can send a signal into the backup ingress router for backup the purpose right but it\u0027s not including this draft i think "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:48:01",
    "text": "it\u0027s many ways to achieve it right because ii Oleum will take time yeah right so the first of all teat a PFD for the DFT to detect that you have a problem that takes time and then you send a signal into the back happy if IR that takes some more time so I wonder by the by the time all this detection and switchover her request happens the the the original that the traffic from the original P Farr may already have recovered on the back half pass I\u0027m just curious if that could be the case you just a sink in a solution figure yes I agree with that comments if there\u0027s a link failure you might be able to route around it and you may not eat it which ingress router is forwarding what you may be he do is do some kind of forwarder election though and do BFD between be if I are one and two and if one of them goes down and the other one takes our SS forwarder if you imagine that you actually join to both both the bf IRS but only one of them will send your data yes in P me you can join the two PF p fi RS and receives of all the multicast flow butter you\u0027re just folder one flow from the PF i r1 and the discard there\u0027s a other flow yeah just quickly also if you\u0027re using m LD overlay you are sending your Emily reports to all all that Bevers yes so either of them can decide on their own which ones it forward one more question we got move Neil\u0027s just as a extension to what Jeffrey and stick just said what are you trying to cover when you\u0027re trying to cover a node failure I\u0027m not sure if this is the right mechanism if you\u0027re trying to cover the link area then the underlay is probably quicker to detect it then then you can do with a in the overlay because the PF key can\u0027t get hacked has no the feeder can also get hacked as a link fader right because the pass from the ugurus rotor to the egress router at will if the rotor is broken the PFD factor will be discarded so you can use a PFD way to find the post no the feather and then understate my comment is more on the line I think this is already detected in the underlay before you get the response from BFT can i address that that one\u0027s been beaten up but you had such a question initially about node failure all your comment was I don\u0027t think this is the right mechanism what would be the right mechanism for node failure then [Music] "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:51:01",
    "text": "more on the line what what stick has mentioned before so that you you join two to two ingress routers and balance it why are the joints there but then they have to communicate between you know who\u0027s actually good is why then the BF ER has to know which which nodes exist and the underlay does does detect if if there\u0027s a being fairly underway we\u0027re talking node failures on ingress that\u0027s the underlay is just going to give you topology information right needle route packets accordingly I\u0027m trying to I join them both they need to know which one is going to send packets on behalf of those joints yes alright so yeah communication but if I can\u0027t reach the note anymore and this is probably quicker detected in the in the unit who are you you said I can\u0027t reach the note if the via via doesn\u0027t get any and you couldn\u0027t any route anymore to the PF ir routes by me the failure could be not just it could I have a route to it just fine it\u0027s not moving packets networks link behind it\u0027s failed and that\u0027s not going to be a my GP I\u0027ll never know exact as a BF ir yes that\u0027s different than its down right so that\u0027s route to it it\u0027s not gonna be detection okay that\u0027s a different use case that I thought about was still redundant redundant ingress routers they can fail in numerous ways it\u0027d be nice to have a mechanism that address them all and instead of a bunch of pieces taking up to fine as I said this was a different use case than I thought about okay okay I think this picture may cause some confusion about it it\u0027s not one hope from the ether s rotor to the egress route her story is multi hopeful from the ingress water to egress water service read every IETF draft right just a cloud picture right there yes this is great discussion I think we need to really consider all of the failure scenarios to be kind of interesting to to break those down and see what we have in terms of solutions what problems they\u0027re addressing and maybe if there\u0027s some open problems but who\u0027s read the draft currently all right and I don\u0027t believe it\u0027s adopted right it is still an independent craft okay and you think this is kind of work we\u0027d like to adopt in the working group I see any hands I see a few hands okay all right because honestly I think it\u0027s I think it\u0027s worth taking on this just drag independent just didn\u0027t keep these conversations going so that we come to a conclusion whether it goes all the way to RFC or not it\u0027s irrelevant in our process we have to solve problems and whatever the solutions fall out this is helping us to get there I think we should do it thank "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:54:02",
    "text": "you oh yes young lady I only had this um I hadn\u0027t read this I haven\u0027t read this particular draft but on the case of sort of trying to detect node failures and so on the ml DP fast reroute RFC talks about figuring out whether it\u0027s a link or a node failure based on where traffic streams are coming in and if you haven\u0027t looked at that you might find it interesting yes great input thank you thank you all right you haven\u0027t one more I think don\u0027t you yes last four yeah PFT yeah yeah you just I was showing how you alright Co me this front is for PR PFT because the author account attended this meeting because of the visa problem so I present it is strapped for her and the update of this version is the description about PRP of decision bootstrapping and the actual hotel part has been updated and we know that the multi-point of EFT and active terror draft has being published as FC propose the standard of ca10 562 and 8563 and also the other modification is about the PRP ft sub Jovi or sub sub shall be carried genes SPF and you see is advertisement it\u0027s aligned with appearing for mission advertisement the PRP of T is based of cat5 62 and so it used the D minor mode to build as a BF decision okay I just jump in on the time that this is this is great but this is not sure how it works is just you\u0027ve done your homework this is great so let\u0027s go what our next steps are here so the idea I think with BFD and how its units all standards based which is excellent I had the one comment about that use case if there\u0027s an existing use case where BFD is used like that we can kind of use as a model be beneficial are there other use cases in this draft besides the one you just presented before you or in mindedly the previous presentation is for this yes it\u0027s a usage of the BRB FT right the only one not so many but I think it can "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:57:03",
    "text": "be used the other question yeah whose run this trap no readings when I trying to lose a long time ago yeah alright so I think it\u0027s willing to throw to the list get some feedback on it again I think to work from this right now is tied to the previous draft which we\u0027re gonna take to the list anyway so I think it makes sense to have this part of the conversation well we\u0027ll take it to listen see where we go okay thank you thank you sorry for pushing a bit but we\u0027ve got we\u0027re almost at a time when we\u0027ve got at least one more here we got Mike McBride Hey Hey look at his face is up there hmm best-looking guy in the room have you been watching us all this time yep and telling Hoxie all right go for it okay so at this point three-minute review there may not be much any time for discussion but this draft has moved from a problem statement to a requirements draft for last night if discussion we\u0027ve per the decision of the working group moved the requirements section up making that the main focus of the draft we added regime as a co-author it\u0027s now a working group document and we\u0027ve put out a new array of mainly developing the requirements section next slide hopefully you already know what the draft purposes so next slide so the these are the requirements and we\u0027ve added some more commentary to some of these requirements we have a few additional requirements that we intend to put into the document between now and next month and please look at these requirements if you go to the exercise you\u0027ll see some new requirements that we intend to put into the document my suggestion request based on our last discussion it\u0027s that we probably shouldn\u0027t drink options Solutions until this apartments draft is more mature and I think we can get to [Music] requirements draft that we were there to get to that point each other documents contribute to giving our best what those are and where this thing that leads us to that last slide is just looking at you know the different solutions we need to provide the pros and cons per our discussion less EF l so we will we need to be as impartial as possible we "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "02:00:04",
    "text": "probably need to which we don\u0027t do right now explicitly state at the beginning whether this is an encapsulation method if visits an encoding method we probably need to agree on what exactly native ipv6 means to us and because everybody and in all those solutions we all talk about native ipv6 I think it made me a little bit something different each of us we don\u0027t have time to discuss it now but we can take these things to the list but that\u0027s our request and that\u0027s the update so my thanks for much for doing this remote I\u0027m sorry they got crushed on time I read through most of this again this morning and you you hit on the point that I wanted to make and I just want to beat this dead horse a couple more times here if there\u0027s any reason to modify the bier header there needs to be some justification in doing so we have a beer encoding already established encapsulation is what we\u0027re really targeting if there\u0027s encapsulation use cases to do it but when we merge the two as you said capsulation encoding there has to be reason why we\u0027re doing that you know and caps to get over something but the encodes already established in this cut in stone we can we can deconstruct it but there\u0027s we need to know why right because there\u0027s hardware being built to pipeline this stuff through and if there\u0027s another step to be ordered in front of it to take pieces out of an existing header and put it back into a beer structure for the hardware it\u0027s and consider transitional that\u0027s transitional hardware is a really hard sell yeah right yeah agree that will all be specified in this draft okay but and again I don\u0027t want to read it one more point if your solutions in this document please step up I mean that that\u0027s the deification comes through you can come out and say this is what we need the existing tools don\u0027t get us there we need something else then we\u0027ve got a reason to go forward with this work so if your use case is on there and and you think this is important work you need to make your case thank you thank you Mike any other questions Belushi\u0027s came back Mike thanks for the presentation was excellent and thanks for keeping you so terse and thermos is on the way tolis you\u0027re so special "
  }
]