[
  {
    "startTime": "00:00:48",
    "text": "[Music] [Music] [Music] good afternoon welcome to PCE that\u0027s around about 10 to 2 so we should start here I just passed around the two blue sheets as they\u0027re coming around the room please key to make sure you put your name on there so but we have a record of who attended the meeting I will start with the ITF note well this is something that most people will have seen before it\u0027s really just a reminder of the ITF policies which govern things like intellectual property rights please be aware any contribution you make in this meeting is regarded as an ITF contribution and if you want more information then you can see the references here on oh well okay so we\u0027ll go through the usual administrivia first please sign the blue sheets as I said we have our usual way of taking notes is to use the ether pad on the you\u0027ll find the "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:03:49",
    "text": "link to the ether pad from the IETF meeting agenda site who would like to help me with the notes today Dhruv is there anyone else Stan yeah Harman thank you okay that\u0027s that\u0027s fine you know it should be enough of this anyone else who particularly if you come to the mic can you make a comment you might want to go check the notes make sure we recorded your comment correctly and your name correctly that would be helpful thank you and a job ascribe I don\u0027t know if we have anyone in the jabber room but it would be helpful if someone is in there down is in there thanks very much down if you wouldn\u0027t mind keeping an eye on the jabber room okay we are streaming the audio and video of this meeting on to meet echo I see we do have some participants on meet echo including some people who are not in this room so please when you go to the mic please only speak in the meeting at the mic please state your name while you\u0027re at the mic and there\u0027s actually not a pink box this time we have a little pink X on the on the floor but if you\u0027re presenting please get you standing but vicinity of the thing X and then your image will be captured by the cameras for the people watching remotely I should have said I\u0027m John Hardwick for those who don\u0027t know me my co-chairs Julian couldn\u0027t travel to Bangkok this time so sorry about that it would be a good idea maybe he will be be joining us I think it\u0027s still fairly early on in the day and in France but then maybe I\u0027ll be joining us later on meet echo okay so a little announcement about working group personnel this will be my last meeting as PCE chair I\u0027m stepping down basically the reasons for that are because I need to free up more cycles of my time to do other things but I very much appreciate the time of being able to spend hours chair of a working group really enjoyable working with you guys and I think you know we\u0027ve done some good things in PCE and I\u0027m sure working will continue to do great things and I will continue to be involved I just because I\u0027m standing down as chair I\u0027m not going away you may see me a little less but I\u0027ll still be involved I\u0027ll still be shepherding I\u0027ll still be on the mailing list so you don\u0027t get in Britain me but it\u0027s a that\u0027s for the change Deborah not the mic Deborah I\u0027m speaking as your ad Am I let\u0027s give a clap you know for John he did a lot of walking yes thank you so much you did thanks everyone now on to the traditional admonishment to use the mailing list please "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:06:50",
    "text": "actually Lou Berger did a really good job of this and T\u0027s I\u0027ll see if I can do remotely the same job here particularly where we have a working group draft the draft is owned by the working group not by the individual authors so it\u0027s really helpful when making changes to your documents particularly when they\u0027re a working group draft if the changes are advertised on the list before they\u0027re made so that people get a chance to see them on objects rather than just paste it into the document and then uploaded and then there\u0027s kind of a fait accompli so if you could please using the mailing list both to discuss changes you\u0027re making and also to raise comments it\u0027s really unhelpful when things happen off the list because then we as chairs don\u0027t get to see what\u0027s going on the other participants don\u0027t get to see what\u0027s going on and it kind of reduces the amount of collaboration that we can do so please do the work on the list that is not aimed at any one particular thing or anything but it\u0027s just the general trend and I have to keep reminding people okay this is our agenda today you will listen to me hopefully for less than twenty minutes and then we will speak of several topics the first one segment routing there\u0027s a lot of work in the pipeline we\u0027re only just beginning it seems of segment routing so we have quite a few drafts to be discussed today Chang lead Ruth Jack Jeff will be discussing those next there will be new optical work Jung is going to discuss piece of the flex grid then we would go back to Dhruv who\u0027s going to talk to us about pce as a central controller now we have just recently adopted the base protocol extension stripe about we\u0027ll be talking about further extensions for p2 MP and using SR b6 and then finally Kwon ji-yong will told us about the multi-layer Association draft would anyone like to bash the agenda suggest any changes or making the objections going going gone okay thank you very much so that\u0027s what we will go with and so working group status so we\u0027ll start with things which are not working group dress anymore so one urs see since Montreal as RFC 80 408 this is the path setup type RFC is really good to get that published that generalizes PCE so that you can you know rather than specializing to RSVP setup types now we have a general mechanism for saying what "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:09:51",
    "text": "kind of plaque setup type and this was really needed in order to do all the segment routing work which is now following on so it was really kind of foundational work so it\u0027s great to get that out of the way and published we have free dress right now with the IES g2 of which the gmpls extensions and the segment routing base draft both been through IETF last call I think that we have Directorate reviews opposes well Debra or I think we\u0027re not waiting for anything so maybe they\u0027re they\u0027re ready for the next step I think then we also have the ws on draft which kind of follows on from the gmpls draft where we haven\u0027t done a nice yet last call about yet we we did a Directorate review I think last few days young you\u0027ve updated the draft yeah so that\u0027s that\u0027s addressed the director of comments so I think now the ITF has calls probably ready to go okay so those are moving forward which is good we have early code point allocations I\u0027m just using this moment to remind people that we have allocated early code points for their drafts and that those early code points don\u0027t last forever so the PC segment routing draft most code points expire in August hopefully gets published before then because you know we\u0027re nearly there but then the other two stateful PC P 2 MP and the Association group drafts I know they\u0027re kind of or will come to them in a moment but we have code points for those we\u0027d lose him in October we can renew but it would be good to not to have to so let\u0027s let\u0027s try and keep the momentum going for those we have one errata raised on the list against RFC AV 231 where I think the summer my summary of that was we have some maybe enough which is a little bit confusing and it confused me when I reviewed it but I was persuaded but it was okay and now since it\u0027s confused someone else as well so I don\u0027t think we actually need to change the RFC but I don\u0027t think we\u0027re close here ratty yet and I\u0027m not sure whether what we should do is just leave the documentation on the mailing list as to like what the clarification is or if there\u0027s some other step we we need to take maybe by closing via writer with a comment to clarify but as far as I know that arrived is still open does anyone have anything to say about that or shall I just take it back to the list truth you\u0027re looking puzzled no no okay all right so I\u0027ll try and get my closed off line but I think that\u0027s something we have outstanding all right so we have some working group documents which are "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:12:51",
    "text": "either at the last call stage or near the last call stage four of them currently waiting to be shepherded to the jeez over through last call and we have live provisions of all of them I think first of all inter is applicability dan you mentioned that you were going to have an update to that hi Daniel King yes indeed so I\u0027ve got a new version which are submit considering it\u0027s been 18 months I figured a couple of hours you know wouldn\u0027t make any difference at this point no no I\u0027m smiling but I\u0027m really crying on the inside the the other document I did post this morning was the the stateless hierarchical PC extensions document so that that has been posted have sent a update to the list just summarizing what the changes are and if Adrian Powell\u0027s in the room I\u0027ll let him know that I will email him on the list and respond to each of his comments that he made when he did his review thanks Dan okay so I should remind everyone the the inter is update Dan\u0027s referring to us in response to my Shepard comments from a while ago and I think when it gets published and I probably need to take another scan of that and hopefully we move it forward hierarchy extensions the updates were from Adrian\u0027s comments at last call I think the next step for that is that the document Shepard needs to get hold a bit and do the write-up staple PC a point-to-multipoint that\u0027s sitting basically with me waiting for me to do the shepherding I have to review that one last time and then we can push it forward apologies for not getting to bat until now but I\u0027m still intending to do it maybe I\u0027ll do it later this week and then lastly the Association group draft has been free working group last call there were some comments drew view of update of the draft and it\u0027s basically now waiting to be shepherded so push it forward we have four drafts waiting to be last called we know they\u0027re ready we\u0027ve basically just been they\u0027ve been in the queue behind the others but it will happen now very soon staple PCE Auto bandwidth number one a CT and applicability number two piece up stateful extensions with GCM PLA gmpls the free and peace of stateful extensions for hierarchy where I\u0027d really kind of like to get the higher but base hierarchy extensions out of a working group on with the isg before we do working group last call on that but I feel like they\u0027re pretty close to that now so I think that\u0027s good to go see "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:15:53",
    "text": "[Music] other working group documents a newly adopted working group item PCE extensions for PCC see that was adopted in the last few days well done to those authors and a whole list of things which are making their way free of a working group some are closer than others to being thus called do any of you draft authors who maybe in this room want to stand up and give a status on any of their drafts I\u0027m not going to force people but it would be good to hear from you Adrian Farrell just to talk about the flow spec document we think that we\u0027ve pretty much got everything we need to have in there it needs a bit of a bash on there on the language and I really want anybody who\u0027s implementing or looking at implementing to say something soon because otherwise it\u0027s going to move forward relatively soon I expect the chairs together hope from us probably after the next revision saying we think we\u0027re done that makes sense thanks from Holly this is the to update to the draft elves enhanced era and we have updated this draft mainly to align with other part of the extension and the more important thing is we also propose some future requirement for Averell handling sections for the future PC extension so we assumed this worker is now ready and we can move forward and you are you are all invited to review it to make sure that it\u0027s done thanks but that\u0027s a really important point actually if this draft is proposing putting requirements on future drafts for error handling sections then that\u0027s probably and everyone\u0027s interest to take a look at a review quite closely because it\u0027s gonna come back to bite you when you come to write your next draft hi spending on me as well I\u0027m supposed to review oh by the way this is truth from huawei apart from that let me talk about Association diversity and policy we have not made an update I think the documents is stable is we are just waiting for the Association group to move and then we can move these as well there are no pending open issues there with the end we did make an update we sent for the early doctor review I had a chat with Mahesh who who is who\u0027s in midst of preparing his answer but I got the gist "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:18:53",
    "text": "of what really what he\u0027s thinking okay and I\u0027m continue to chat with him and then Tom also gave some comments on the list so once I have the yang doctor review will do a reprint and LSP shed Yuling no update done but more reviews would be then I useful specially for that document yeah I did for LSP control request no update documents is pretty straightforward very simple extension and I think it it\u0027s in my mind it\u0027s kind of ready for last call as well because it\u0027s a very simple extension protection I think we did make an update but that was just because of the hurries affiliation change it\u0027s also basically waiting for Association group to move and I think I\u0027m thanks truth okay I for I\u0027d share with you this slide which is the current queue of drafts sitting in the adoption holding queue we got a little bit behind on adopting drafts and or there was so much so many drafts coming forward to be adopted that is generated a bit of a backlog so we\u0027ve been working on clearing that we adopted a few of the last period at the moment we have these four still sitting in the queue and I think the queue is in this order this basically the order have they requested there was the PC ridicule bandwidth draft which I assume is I haven\u0027t heard about from the office on that for a while but I assume is still alive and wanting to be adopted apologize for the delay authors we will we will get to you very very soon - ow for the PCE CCS are extensions I think logically comes after now but we\u0027ve decided to adopt the base draft we can we can pull about no problem youngin dhruv there was a PCB an association draft where I think there was some controversy generated the velocity idea tonight sorry I don\u0027t recall what was but did that did you have a discussion with Igor online did he finish yes absolutely he goes come into US VN Association can be also applied for Turner said Turner said binding or I forgot that words so we\u0027re gonna add text that VN Association each VN member response to tunnel when you find associated with VN that in effect satisfies egos desire to have Turner set bundling yeah that\u0027s great okay so please could I ask you add the "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:21:53",
    "text": "text and me or Pope was gonna be sitting in the chair seat by then so that we can start the adoption it would be good that if the eagle has text to read as we do the adoption so you can comment what Mayor be able right now thank you and then the final one of the list actually we did the poll already and I was a bit surprised by the answer so I just wanted to ask the question Josh young PC was all sharing I I remember a couple if\u0027s ago this was presented I said hands up if you like it and I think about 12 people put their hands up and then I did a poll on the mailing list and I think three people answered so but that was if I was a strange disconnect I don\u0027t know if that\u0027s because people weren\u0027t looking at the mailing list or if actually there\u0027s just been a genuine reversal on that draft but it didn\u0027t seem that there was enough momentum behind it at that point to say yes so I was just thinking this is what happened Holly speaking as the one of the authors for this draft I think that now it is a slightly different way the very beginning so we are switching from defining new objects to using the association object specified here as a document or so so this is a part of the Association work but the only the name is society anyway it\u0027s still we would like to steal you white people to review and and provide your opinion on this okay well I think probably the action is to the updates that you do when you do then send a mail to the list invite some feedback the fries maybe maybe come here next time and do a you know an update for the audience and then we can perhaps do the poll the game I will do some homework and also I think the main problem would be this crafter last really for to love the exactly yes I think I think we need to renew it and then we did okay thanks I said okay so yeah let me let me just figure this [Music] "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:25:09",
    "text": "works like a charm well okay so everyone can hear me I\u0027m Chun Li from Maui and today I\u0027m going to introduce as a path segments and bi-directional Paris in Sep so the motivation of why we are doing this is like in some use cases like intend pass protection and bi-directional pass correlation or performance measurement if they require the ability to implement a segment identification in essa networks so we propose that to draft the first one is draft showing spring amperes per segment you define a new path segments a new segment code per segment to identify in an esse pass in as I am Harris Network similarly we proposed a new draft coded draft really spring as IV six-part segment identifier Inessa of a six-part in SM v6 network so for configurating all like allocating pass segments in as a network we need the extension in P step so we propose the draft of how to allocate the past segment and as well we also propose and draft of how to allocate how to combine to as a pass into and bi-directional pus in a sub Network this draft who opposed have been have been posted in ITF 102 and today I\u0027m gonna um I work this I will introduce the updated of this draft first of all we we update the droplet c-segment and right now it has been the it has been the version 0 3 \u0026 4 the draft in pcs by Russia my past it has been the version 2 so just for recalling you can see the the slice like we define a path segments cherry in airspeed objects to identifier to carry a paucity of her segment yep a segment in airspeed object and we also create PFLAG in SPL just to indicate whether the segment and should be allocated so in draft Li pcs up by the rational pass we define a new Association group of just called double sighted bi-directional I suppose Association "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:28:10",
    "text": "group so let\u0027s talk about a PC extension and its PCP extension for path segments so identification in huh okay so the the major updates are we update the pass ID to pass segment in SRV six cuz we just updated the solution in SRV six to identify an SRP six we used as a we used the past segment instead of pass ID carry in the site and also we deleted the ingress allocation mechanisms and to label solutions because when we deploying or implement implementing the per segment the customers and vendors we have make a decision to choose the eager egress allocation it\u0027s the only way to allocate the power segment and you can see this update in channel spring and pairs per second and draft also as well we we delete the two labels the solution new things we add new orders and contributors from CMC see China Mobile Chang Chang and Rakesh Dafa from Cisco also we add the part of a Ana consideration and data plan consideration and error handling so for implementation how is implementing this solution in PC and PC products I suppose that some vendors doing the same thing as well so let\u0027s go to the second part the the PCP extension for bi-directional Association associated policies so major updates are we also update the post ID to per segment in a 4 s a B 6 and we delete the stateless PC port and new things are new others and contributors from China Mobile and Cisco and IANA consideration secure security considerations and error handling at at it so for implementation we we also were also implementing this solution in our products so since the draft the contacts of the draft are stable and commercial implementation is going on and this solution and mechanism are supported by several vendors and operators so we decided to post a working group adoption request for this draft Inc in order to we we can request for earlier I in a allocation so we we post working group "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:31:13",
    "text": "adoption request for draft Lee pcs are segments in PCs are bi-directional pass and your Commons and contribution are very welcome thank you any comments all right so thanks for this thank you I think that I mean this looks interesting to me I can see the several use cases that would benefit from this and then it\u0027s quite important that things like bi-directional LSP turn om work with with segment rousing I think there\u0027s a process here there\u0027s a a base draft in spring isn\u0027t there which discusses the the past segments so and that\u0027s on the agenda in the spring working group for this meeting later on this week I think so I think the process I propose we follow here is that I don\u0027t think we can really move in PCE until we see in the spring working group is adults of the path segment draft I think that we need this bring working group to say yes pass segments are a thing and that\u0027s how we\u0027re going to solve these requirements once we get to that point then yes we we discuss doing an adoption poll for for this work yes so I don\u0027t see any impediments as far as the early iron allocation request yes I hear you I know you have an implementation I think it\u0027s going to be easier to do that with an adoptive draft it\u0027s easier to take the boxes to say that you know that\u0027s that\u0027s it\u0027s going to be a kind of a more lasting yeah less ephemeral thing so I think the process is this sort out Springs adoption or path segments generally yes we toss out these and then we talk about iron allocation yep after that yep so we we could like to post working group and requests in spring as well for yeah yeah but a chance bring em pairs per segment yeah thank you okay in the meantime please review this work I know it\u0027s not adopted yet but that doesn\u0027t mean we we have to wait please look at what\u0027s being proposed because I think it is useful and important stuff okay thank you Thanks next speaker is true "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:34:45",
    "text": "I think we should be okay let\u0027s June let\u0027s just do what we did last time that works yeah okay hi everyone so I\u0027ll be talking about SR e6 the first draft that\u0027s being presented for the second time we had the early discussion of this couple of five years ago and then we have the young extension for sr v6 as well which is a zero zero document so let\u0027s start with just a quick introduction where we are coming from you guys have seen the SR in piece F is already gone to the SG so we had the discussion that can be used piece F also to compute s our v6 path it kind of made sense that yes we could use the same protocol to do both there\u0027s nothing that stops us at the end we have a good PST as well part setup type or using that we can do both SR MPLS and SR v6 Park imputation and we be kind of thought that whether piece F is the right way to do it and if you do it what\u0027s the what\u0027s the what are the extension would look like so basically what is happening in ipv6 phase you have the path segment which is an ipv6 address so we need to have a good way to store the list of ipv6 address which are sr e ro can do and once you have that path the ingress has to convert that into sr h which is the ipv6 extension header for segment routing so some conversion of s ID list into the sr h is something that is needed so from the protocol point of view it kind of fits quite well you have an asari ro we need to extend it so that we can do s our v6 information there same holds good for sr r ro or we need a good capability mechanism because this is something new so how can we advertise that we support sr v6 in pisa and the new parts are hot setup type 4 sr v6 so that\u0027s basically the gist of what this document has just a recap I think everybody kind of knows this you have an asana cheddar or included in the in this which is each Sid list is made up of this 120 128 bits ipv6 address with location and function and you have a list of segment lists that we need to put in the SRH so basically in Pisa protocol we need to have a way to carry the set list and that CID list needs to be converted into SRH at the ingress so from the update points of view not big update what we did was there were some changes in the PC segment routing base draft so we need to basically align this work to that so we have done that we have SR PC capability so here we have an SR v6 PC capability for to carry SR v6 specific information especially what is the maximum segment length you can carry and "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:37:46",
    "text": "whether you support conversion etcetera and then we have a new PST a new part setup type for SR v6 and what you see in the bottom is an extension of SR ero sub-object that\u0027s defined in the segment routing draft now if you remember there we had something called as si si D and Nai so we kind of did extension that since said list for us is just 32-bit our s our v6 thing will not fit into it so we had to put this in something like what you see below which is a SR v6 identifier so in case of SR v6 we will not be using Nai we will be using something called as an SR v6 identifier there\u0027s something that you see at the bottom and all the information related to SR v6 is kind of put there and we don\u0027t use the S ID 32 bits that was there in the in the existing SR ero sub-object good thing is that that\u0027s of object was on anyway allowing that s ID is optional in some cases so it kind of fits in you just don\u0027t have to encode s ID just include the SR v6 identifier and put all the information right there and the rest of the bits that you have you can simply reuse and if you read the document you will see that it kind of fits the extension of a pc segment routing we don\u0027t have to make too the changes and we could reuse a lot of things which were already there one question that came came up I think I have that in the next slide I\u0027ll discuss it at the end then so so this is basically what we updated in the our basic SR v6 document for stateful PC a simple extension for supporting yank we definitely don\u0027t want to add this in our PC yang document we want to move that so we have done a small augmentation and making sure that capability is handled max SLE is handle SLE limit is handled at the various places and in case we are maintaining a list of information the segment list that we use from the SR v6 said this is from the SR v6 yang module which has been done in the spring working group and that\u0027s something it\u0027s a simple extension for a v6 yang and we have written a 0/0 document so please review so what\u0027s the question and next step for the working group last time when we discuss they were support for this that yes we could do sr v 6n p sep it fits in within our scope then the question came in the extension that we have that is extension of an SR er oh is that the right approach should we come up with a new sub object do we need to just extend them is a better idea or something else so that\u0027s something that I really want to get feedback from the group and special implementers they do they\u0027ll like extending MPLS SR with a little bit changes or they would they prefer a different approach there and basically we feel that this could be ready for adoption as well so that the "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:40:46",
    "text": "working group can look at it and work on it keeping the SR part this I think I had one question but I might fall I have oh I will discuss this in though I have one more SR v6 that\u0027s why I got confused which is about ECCC for SR v6 where I have an open question with respect to the last point that is in s our v6 they have the node the locator included SRV success ID is made up of the node and the function so sometime this node information is a part of s ID so continue to use the NAI functionality where I used to encode that who\u0027s the owner of this SR v6n since that information is already there in the SRV six identifiers what\u0027s the right approach I\u0027m still looking for a good answer so if you have any feedback with respect to that please send her on the list or find me and I would like to discuss this some more and I\u0027m done any comments or truth okay thanks Lucy um has a question if you go first short comment and terminology so your agent Maps itself before another document but it\u0027s not really left it\u0027s how many you can impose so maybe you better align it with the episode rather than the I\u0027m aligning with the I sighs SRV six document and since this is a separate capability I\u0027m not we are not using the SR MPLS SR TLB here this is a it\u0027s number of or depth of the service six header you can impose it\u0027s not what\u0027s left it\u0027s what you are in okay I think I need to talk to diocese authors because I just left what do what these guys were doing so yeah yeah my question was is there any paths at some type of this where you yes person okay that\u0027s okay yeah thank you adoption question mark I mean it was a throwaway question but yeah I don\u0027t think there\u0027s anything particularly stopping us from doing a poll for there something lost last time we asked there was plenty of interest I don\u0027t through some comments at you last time I think they\u0027ve all been addressed now in terms of aligning with the base segment routing so yeah I don\u0027t think there\u0027s anything to stop that Jeff here up next hi everyone "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:43:55",
    "text": "it\u0027s just I\u0027m sure I\u0027ll be talking about the binding seat setup in PC networks so binding City has been defined in 80 402 and it\u0027s used a stable anchor local to the knot itself when not looks up binding seat label it yields a an action or another sir pass or pretty much anything he can attached it it\u0027s essentially use another application being optical being reduced depth of label stuff so there\u0027s a long time to you adoption so binding seed could be reported true except from PC to PC PC could you a species to allocate a specific binding seed so it worked what direction and it defined that was be objects very straightforward he\u0027ll be I would say it\u0027s a type and value so far we have defined two values one of them is simplest label or label stacking in one case it\u0027s to any bit another case 32-bit so again it\u0027s been around for quite some time unfortunately got stuck the number of implementations been used in many other solutions that rely on it so we would like to request working reproduction and there\u0027s number of things we have some ideas about we would like to consult working group so today it\u0027s generic could be used in bottles PT and SR case there\u0027s no really use case for a CP so the question to grow do you think we should just say it\u0027s a sir only be done ideally format I think everybody\u0027s happy with it again many people used it in other solutions so if you have any comments be happy there are some questions about using index value again I\u0027m not familiar with an implementation that would do banging seat as none absolute value however if you have any please let us know and I think we have already agreed to move DCCC section to p CC bc CC dropped rather than keeping fear questions i me just on this previous slide it\u0027s I think we probably don\u0027t ask this other question enough that is it would be really good to get feedback on things like is very use case for feature X and this draft before we just go ahead and blindly assume there is and publish it it\u0027s really good to be able to simplify the drafts as much as possible just from speaking as an implementer rather than as chair a guy who has to write the code as well so yeah I think it would be nice if we can get feedback that there is a use case probably the right thing Jeff "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:46:55",
    "text": "or Dhruv if you\u0027re driving this is to pop the question to the mailing list and try and flush out an answer that way and if no one answers then I think we can just assume this we can simplify yeah as Jeff Sosa says this has been around for quite a long time and it\u0027s been quiet and there\u0027s now come back it\u0027s ideal for working group adoption I\u0027m I\u0027m a co-author on this so I can\u0027t do the adoption poll I would be the Juliane to do that I am sort of interested to just see a show of hands for the numbers just to record in the minutes please could you raise your hand if you have read this draft either like recently or in the distant past when it was first put forward great alright so boy about eight people there and please could you raise your hand again if you think that this is suitable to be adopted all right so it\u0027s about six six or seven so yeah it\u0027s it\u0027s good I think the the thing probably is it\u0027s been around for so long but maybe people haven\u0027t looked at it recently so would that work to start working with adoption in parallel will resent the working group mailing list questions and we will address them if they\u0027re right I again I presume that discussed for so long yeah right okay thank you Jeff a young here next good afternoon my name is Jung Lee on behalf of co-authors I present mr. extension four flex grid networks I think there are some changes in PCE related work for flux grid RFC 769 eight has been published as a framework and an OSPF to work has been RFC 3066 three and RS Piketty as well for flux grid networks and as we have seen in the earlier part of this session now pizza for gmpls and w.zahn also has had moved to RFC publication process to be technically aw son it\u0027s last call "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:49:56",
    "text": "close to last call but a simple as it passed idea last call so I think it\u0027s time to move you know the counterpart which is flux grid is now a lot of deployment in the optical networks especially coherent hundred Keegan higher so what is a flux grid networks maybe this one is good example in Tablas on DWDM grid for the flux grid allows frequency slots that have a nominal central frequency and the slot ways so that the bandwidth can be a flexibly increased as opposed to double idiom channel being fixed with a 10 gig or 2.5 gig of only 100 gig this allows you to create up to one terabyte and beyond so this is a very important capability in optical networks so we basically added one object si object in the existing piece network spectrum assignment object basically it allows for explicit label control years.he mode or not so that reply can reflect what that means and estrella object basically has frequency slot selection TLB and frequencies restriction constraint TLB and other optional TLB and frequencies last election TLD looks like this we have frequency slot assignment FSA method first fail or random or anything else we can define here and frequency slug restriction is basically what are the restriction or allowed wavelengths or spec in those reflects great terminology so that you can associate with the link with what other you know MN and value available so that tunnel can grab those channel and in peace reply frequencies la decisión TLD or it depends on years similar or not so we haven\u0027t defined a detail on this part but I think our properties are quite in cachet in parallel with the table Sun draft and we need to have some work to return but I think we presented this before and what was holding bag was gentle s and W sand draft now they\u0027re moving down the pipe "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:52:58",
    "text": "so hopefully we can move this faster actually this is more important than actually aw son because of the marketplace is now changing so I just want to ask for working robot option this time thanks young yes I mean we are now in a position where we can start taking this forward now the base gmpls is polished and yeah the as you say the marketplace is more than a flex grid so if there is interest so if if you\u0027ve read this draft or please could you put your hands up yeah that\u0027s great okay so maybe fifteen people and please could you raise your hands again if you would like to see if this draft adopted by PCA yeah about the same so that\u0027s that\u0027s a good response young I think the next step is to do a poll on the list okay thanks yeah Trevor says here that you\u0027re next [Music] yeah so these are some new extension 0/0 documents for p2 MP and SR v6 I just wanted to present them together so we know what PCE CC is we have the t\u0027s Architecture document well published some time ago we have the base PC CC need to change the draft aim now because it\u0027s adopted and then we have the PC CCS are also just waiting for adoption pending basically and both were presented in ITF i-10 too as well will be made the bigger update that\u0027s why we kind of explain what are the big changes that we did especially with respect to reusing of existing messages rather than defining something new so first let\u0027s talk about p2 MP so before we do P 2 MP let\u0027s just have a quick recap of what we basically do in the basic PC CC your aim is to provision all the notes you assign the labels directly from PCE to the notes and this we do why are something that we call as a CCI which is a central controller instruction we have an object type 1 which is for MPLS label and wire that you can simply push the central controller instruction to all the nodes after the path computation and all the things related to that so what basically "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:55:59",
    "text": "changes in case of B 2 MP the only new functionality that you need to worry about is the branch node capability more and this diagram if you see at the node n 3 you have incoming label B but you need to replicate and send with label C towards n 4 and label D towards n 5 so this is the normal branch and replication capability that P 2 MP requires so all we need to changes may be program the branch node with this thing pretty straightforward good thing that our message which we had in the base document already had something called as a CCI list so using that list we could have multiple brand or outgoing branch notes and one incoming notes so no need to change too much in the protocol just this one extra functionality will take care of our basic P to MP in case of cccc so what are the changes in the protocol we had to do one bit that says that you support P to MP reuse the same CCI object no need to change that and then it is just some error codes with respect to make sure that there is only one incoming you can have multiple outgoing all that stuff but simple stuff so very simple extension just the branch node capability in the existing PC CC takes care of our multicast use case rest of the functionality like all the other use cases that you have make how do you take care of everything else like a synchronization request initiate nothing changes all remains the same this is one new functionality that you need to take care for p2 empty rest of the things whether it is a p2p LSP or p2 MPLS fee doesn\u0027t change stateful PC and PC CC takes care of all of all of that so this is about p2 MP now what we did for SR in case of MPLS was use of PC CC to allocate and assign the s ID which could be an index or it could be an MPLS label directly from the pc e to the notes and use that to inform all the notes about the node s ID or the edges in CS ID in the network so the extension here was that we had a new type for CCI or new object type which was used for MPLS SR and then you could use that to do node prefix adjacency all that stuff so what changed in case of PCC csr v6 is just that instead of that s ID being an MPLS label or index it could now be an SR v6 segment and all the rest of the things are fine so but in this kiss we did it a new CC object because as you can as you can see there\u0027s our v6 is little different and make sure that our capability are able to handle them "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:58:59",
    "text": "and how it links to the the draft that I presented earlier which was the basic SR v6 where you are not using the PC CC you\u0027re only talking to the English but here you are also talking to all the nodes in the network using the PC CC capability so what is another new thing that we need to worry that once we get this instruction what is the job that the node needs to do which is described in the last three two bullets which is on receiving SRV six node or prophet society we need to update the my local s ID table which is described in the SR v6 document and also do some local next hop computation etc all what is as per the SR v6 document we said just need to refer those and same whole boots for the adjacency as well so how does the CCI object look this is the new object type the first two things are very similar to what we had for normal SR you have an ID you have an empty I D algorithm Flags all that things is exactly the same the new thing is the functions which is the SR v6 endpoint functions added their mapping to SR v6 s a v6 network programming draft then you have the 128-bit SRV six segment and some optional TTL we so the question that I had which I was thinking also valid here which is we have locator and function together as one s ID but in Isis document and other document they also allow locator as a separate ele and function as a separate TL way I\u0027m not particularly sure that it might work for ISS where you are flooding all the information but here it is it better to just keep everything together and program together my personal opinion is I like this but I really want the feedback from others if they feel that something needs to change with respect to the CCI object encoding so this is this is again just a new object type rest all the procedure are exactly as the pc c c sr we don\u0027t have to do much change here so most important are these features useful would we use pc c c to do p to MP + sr v6 well we think so and we also have those in the t\u0027s use case document explain why we are doing this and then do we like the way that the extensions are written do you have any other suggestion please feedback let\u0027s do this is just 0 0 version so lots of if there is any change needed will be waiting for your feedback thank you [Music] "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:02:04",
    "text": "I had one dream but it has nothing to do with anything like that you were talking about so but let me see if I can find it there we go all right basic PCC sees you would it says but PC ECC will take responsibility for managing some part of the MPLS label space for each of the routers for their controls this is that like so what\u0027s being proposed there is that cuz I didn\u0027t see anything like that in the base PCC director yes so the base piece ECC document assumed that this is done out of band that why are some configuration you can do it but at the same time if you remember last IETF Chang Li presented something called as a PC control space so using open messages they could exchange that this is the kind of label space that I would like my PC to control so there is an inbound solution as well which is in a separate document but this document assumes that that has been done the PC is aware of it and next what is the set of procedures so it doesn\u0027t mandate that you should do this via PC itself by a configuration why are yang models why are whichever way if you want to set these parameters it\u0027s also fine I got it so is that effectively the PC CC is delegating part of the sRGB to the controller yes yeah okay all right and that\u0027s so that the controller can a priori choose a label yeah all right got it thanks very well thank you thank you drew our last speaker is Guanzhong I\u0027m thrashing from duty my presentation today is the PC Marty layer LP Association and let us look at Association related address the first one is to pay skirt a generic word association and and its aim there waiting outright waiting up for the right half and there are four working group tracks and like the diversity policy bi-directional protection and there are Melling invidual traps just "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:05:07",
    "text": "such like there s our policies client pathways but your network segment routine by direction and the resource sharing and make make before break and the last one is there matty layup association in this document multi-layer association draft the daryl version provided a march 2017 and I have updated the days to the second version and this Marquis layer as LCP including the Apple AOSP and related the lower layer SP and they can be associated to your group to improve the service provision under the peace peace app extensions to Association object including their multi-layer cessation type and is to be assigned and the multi-layer cessation group it is log4 short under a multi-layer session TR we it including H page and the L Pete the Asia page is that indicates that it is the Atlas V and the air page is that indicates that it is lower layer SP and Adam there may be many more than one air a lower layer SP but owning one hour per layer SP under this this version updates sensor their own version and there are two updates and the first one is we updated their operator configured under the cessation a type list here we as the generic Association tracked and ER we add a use case for their inter domain stitching and though we will make detailed discussion in for estefany under there are three use cases provided to perform their multi-layer Association SP and the first one is top and widest adjustment and like the figures show their lower layer sp1 and Lola sp2 and either they are revealed as they\u0027re forwarding the chanson see else pf8 SP aster r / leo SP and enter oh we if we want to update an inert adjuster the band widest of the outer layer SP we lead to first to energy to lower layer "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:08:07",
    "text": "SP and then nurture a player speed there will be two messages sent from their pc but if we use the cessation group we will lead only we just owning senator message to announce the amp relay OSP and they\u0027re the PCC one we\u0027ll search the law related to lower SB and there announcer relates the null else piece first and then announce that they\u0027re up one so this is the first or use case and asked their bo t scenario we are used to the same third Marty Leo Association LP under the use case to is 30 links optimization this is the same visual but if they\u0027re lower layer SP has a failure if the else p1 failures fares and it relate to in from there a player espy because they\u0027re low low else P and field as their T links of their a player espy so if they\u0027re low loyal else P fails it leads to in found a player espy and to to perform the t link optimization so next night stator use case three it\u0027s their inter domain stitching and there are several domains and they\u0027re each domain contains a single case each you which is which be responsible for total for its own domain and each domain has set up a SP under the lowly OSP under a blow as we we build them as a lasting SP under the lower layers be is field as far SP and for the a play or SP so if even overlay OMA Tito main scenario their lowly OSP in each domain may be issued by respective domains PC and stitched together and to an association group with end-to-end SP as the figure show is there SP for so they they can stitch there and as Marshall AO / cessation group in inter domain teaching scenario this these are those three issues cases to perform the Marquis layer cessation "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:11:07",
    "text": "of tongue and that\u0027s the steps contributions and their quarters are welcome and ER we request the working group adoption so any comments this is true my suggestion would be that if you look at the use cases we have RFC five six to three which was the interlayer framework in the PCE from some time ago where have we had the various ways the PCs work with each other to do interlayer path computation and if you use those as the reference to define your use cases things would be much much clearer right now I can imagine where this could be used but when I see the use cases it gets lost a little bit for instance let\u0027s take this case where each PCE is aware of only one of the layers so even if Association exists the other Ellis fees are not there in its database so how can we associate so this there is a use case if we put say the parent PC involvement or if we say where is the higher layer PC which which has the information about both the layers then the Association object would be very very useful so I would just suggest that with respect you use cases referring to existing framework and building on top of that would be very very useful rather than coming with the new topology and a new diagram where things are not as clear just a suggestion for you yes thank you yeah I think it makes more sense to me in the context of thinking about LSPs that are associated inside the PCE what I think about it from the pcc\u0027s point of view it obviously knows that LSP a runs over FAL SBB because it has to encapsulate packets and send them down FAL SPB so if you tell it to increase the bandwidth on LSP a it already knows that it\u0027s running over LSP B because that\u0027s how it\u0027s been programmed it doesn\u0027t seem to me like you need an extra Association to do that because they\u0027re already explicitly associated in the data playing but to the PCE it does make a difference like because it has VL espy\u0027s in its database did these to track some kind of association for PCC is reporting that information up to the PCE and it\u0027s a matter of telling the PCE hey this LSP is fusing bad LSP is the fa adjacency and and then it makes more sense so I think my I would I would have had a less confusion when I read this I think if you had presented lea use cases from the PCE point of view rather than the PCC point of view right I\u0027m not saying that "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:14:09",
    "text": "the use cases are wrong I\u0027m just saying I think that the use cases exist in the server use case one and a to the PC needs the information about the Association the PCC already has it because it already is doing the for it but in in use case free I haven\u0027t quite understood yet I think I probably need to check them more but this this drew says each PCE only sees one of the LS B\u0027s here so I\u0027m not sure quite understood how that works maybe I need to think about that some more okay I could I just find out who has read the draft okay that\u0027s four four hands oh this is here we have five so you keep changing I think maybe seven unique hands went up some of them went up twice okay so I think that\u0027s a wrap thank you everyone for your support and yeah we\u0027re too kind I\u0027ll see you against the I\u0027m sure you "
  }
]