[
  {
    "startTime": "00:00:18",
    "text": "Welcome to Ne mod and I kept one six seen I'm Lou Berger. I have also online with me my coach kent Watson and this... Our secretary. Jason? Who's been a huge help putting together the material of the agenda for for this session. So Thank you. Jason appreciate that. And with that, can I think you're gonna take us away? You have slide control? I do, but I think you're presenting or Microsoft So yeah. Please. Go ahead. Okay. Apparently, I'm presenting. So We are towards the end of the week. And so you should all be familiar with our note well. Basically, this is our statement related to our process and that anything you say here becomes a contribution, and is governed by our process, please, if you're not familiar with the note, check out that Url. And become familiar with it. And the the key takeaway is When you contribute, an expectation that you follow the rules, which includes disclosures of Ip r. The App also has a code of conduct, which basically comes down to please be professional and respectful, even if you're in a heated discussion, keep it technical."
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:02:03",
    "text": "And avoid anything that is could be cons through as a personal comment. Again, we're at the end of the week, and we've been doing this doing online for a while now. So I think people are familiar with how to manage the session when your remote. When you're here in person, the only change that's come along recently is please make sure you register with the on site tool. Very important. And that's you can scan the Qr code and jump right in. We all are going to use the mid echo for q control, both in room and out of room. So if you have something you wanna say on the at the mic, Please make sure to click that raise your hand on the app and and then join the queue and that's how you'll be recognized. Even if you wanna respond to someone else please join the the the queue in the app and be recognized there. Final point on this slide is please join also on our joint minute taking. That bill... Url all to that is also in the chat. So if you want an easy way to get there, you can click there. There's also other buttons in need echo to take you there. Excuse me. We have pretty packed agenda while we started out with extra time. As always it happens, we get late minute request and the kinda gets pretty full. Okay. So we have no recent Rf c's or documents in the queue,"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:04:05",
    "text": "know, we're here to produce documents. So that's it's always better when there's something there. But we're closed on that's the common yang types Kent, do you wanna say anything on that? Really? I mean, it's been pushed to rub for ad processing waiting for that review to come back. Okay. Great. Looks like Rob wants to say something, but maybe not. Oh I think... Okay. So he's processing it. That's great. We have some documents that are post last calls. Sorry about the font changes, not quite sure why we have that we have the... On the agenda, we have an update on what's happening on these long standing documents related to Ethernet. Those are the first two. On agenda also is the version documents, we are really hopeful that these will be we can complete these this work and move it forward for lucky before the next It, but we will hear from the authors what they think. Shortly. Sys log That's with Kent. I can't remember if there's anything specific should say there kent Now it's... I just need to process it do the shepard right up and push the button. Okay. We have one document that is not on the agenda. A question to the authors is how can we get this document complete, what's left? So Pause here for a moment. For note actually make later since last It meeting and posted to list within the feedback from Logan and Evan."
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:06:01",
    "text": "We gotta start there. So you think you're done. Yeah. Single. Okay. Great. Thank you. So we've had one incoming liaison there is from three, and it talks about a need that they have They have a requirement that they'd like to see filled and they talk about Is it variant? And system created properties. And they've identified a particular draft as candidate solution We have Scott coming to the mic. Yes. Thank you, it's Scott made throughout Eric just wanted to provide a little warning because the It u t study group fifteen meeting is coming up in the last two weeks of April and Isis suspected that you'll see liaison from them saying pretty much what 3g So there is support for this even beyond 3g. Thank you. Okay. Great. So that this is something to keep in mind as we discuss, the document they that document that's identified later in this session. Oh. Yep. Hey. Charles Z. And Yeah. Just wanted to mention a couple things first of all for those. If you who don't know on a new liaison manager from It after three. So I'm I'm interested in following this and not an endorsement for, you know, what the approach that's been provided, I think it's gonna be discussed and it's in the the layers on. But I do think it's important that we get a response back to 3g. Saying, hey, we"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:08:01",
    "text": "understand your requirements. We think your the draft is right on track. It's it's gonna be adopted or we have real issues with the draft. We think we need, you know, or we already have a different solution, whatever that is, I think we need to discussed on the list perhaps, but send some response back to them, so they know work we're taking it seriously. Right. Yeah. Thanks. As is the case for most working groups, we always appreciate suggested response text being sent to the to the list. If for some reason, you don't feel comfortable sending to list and you wanna to discuss it with the chairs first. That's acceptable as well. But if you if you have a a suggestion on how to respond, we are interested in hearing from you. Thank you. We're familiar with working remote this is really just a placeholder to remind the working group that we can do interim if that is helpful and moving the process forward, we don't have to wait. For a formal Etf. For have a formal meeting. And if you think that you need to some add discussion time, higher bandwidth channel than email you're welcome to put in a request for formal virtual reading. Just contact the chairs, the the chairs alias that'll also hit Jason who know will be helpful in that. Set it up as well. And with that, we're gonna move on. Two Scott Mansfield. Did not need to join the queue for this. You can own the mic in room. This is perfect. Thank you very much. Welcome to the last day. And now the last session of Net mod for for this week. So this is the first presentation and it's a presentation that I just a recap of what"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:10:03",
    "text": "happened at one fifteen and now what's happened since I one fifteen for these drafts. I inherited these from Rob because they had installed and so Don fe and I have been trying to progress the work that has been identified. So if you go to the next slide, there are two drafts, and there are github I think the github were on the front But they've been rep page. And I've updated them based on the comments and addressed, but I I think I addressed. The comments that were listed in the issues on on Github and there's other contributors that have identified that their interest it in this work and getting it done. So we have other eyes on this other than just Don and I. And the one thing I know we need to do is that there's an acknowledgement section. We need to clean that up and there's some other editorial things that I'm sure we'll come out in in the last call. So go to the next slide, So where we are is that the common interface extension yang all the issues like I say, have been addressed. And in the sub interface, there is something that I want to send out, I should put this out on the mailing list and not just do it through the issues list, but it's still referencing this draft called Ie best l two Vpn yang, that's that one's long expired. So I would like to know if we really need to keep referencing that or if we can just remove the remove that. So that's something that I would like to see some discussion. And looks like we have a Yes. violation by our eighty all six We have a processed process."
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:12:03",
    "text": "Cisco. Just to say, this is their Hats. Profile relation. Is it a moment reference someone from to reference? So right now, I... It's just an informative reference. I think we can just get rid of it. I find next. Would be what my. So, know, this is that's properly following the process. Yeah. For the interface young. I I see actually in this job the briefly review it managing like a commit attachment the attachments. Okay. So I just want to remind actually there's attachment draft has been discussing Case and also established may be irrelevant. I'm not sure it could, you know, replace. Yeah. This. That but we can think about that. I can... That... That's a good idea. Gonna have that conversation. Yeah. I don't. I got it. Yeah. I it's Be careful not to get slowed. useful to consider it may just be a terminology issue considering this this one was from, like, two thousand eighteen. So Sys. Just a quick question about the. Is is the type still one a device level model Was a network general model? Right. Attachment circuit model do you referenced. Yes. It's twice level. It could be either audio. I'll find can place. But I'm with... I'm with Lou. And so we do need to address that to I put it in here and I do he sees some here's some issues. So here's in my comments. If go next slide, So just to be clear on that reference. I I think if it's informative, Yeah. Taken it out. Send a message to the list ask if there's any objections right? Move forward. Got it. That's the direction I'm looking for. So just we're hoping Mean, these are fairly well done and"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:14:01",
    "text": "they've been out there for a while in the comments that were there have been addressed. So I think we're at the point where sometime between between now and one seventeen, we would like to start a last call on these things and have them finished by one seventeen. So That's all I. That'd be awesome. taking this work back up. Thank you for Mh. next So What? up Yeah. Okay. It... We have Tom Hill and Joe. I'm not sure who's going first. Tom, you're gonna do both? Okay. So gonna do the second. Second. Hiding there. Thank you. Correct. That stay there I hope. Hello hello everyone. Good morning. Friday at last. So a little update on the young version solutions. We have obviously been meeting weekly for quite some time now, including over a couple of the last Meetings. And I just want to give you update on where way over this. Next slide, please. Next slide, please. So just to recap the un version solution overview, includes five different drafts. Young module revision handling semantic version number scheme, or module semantic version on the scheme. Scheme of comparison tooling for these young modules. Version young packages. And also some operations for package version selection. Such that clients can select different between different scheme versions within a package. Next slide, please. And there's a just all the Of the draft that we've been showing some love to over the last couple of years. Next slide, please. So very basic general update."
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:16:00",
    "text": "We all meeting every week as I suggest with the authors and many of the interesting parties including myself. There's quite a few different companies involved in this many vendors. Fewer operators in involved. So big, if you're if you're interested in this work, and you happen to work in a operational context for an operational company. That would be useful. Key issues are of course brought back to the working group mailing list. We do a lot of work. Back and forth from github help as well. The actual wiki meeting is hard to schedule across as many times zones as possible, but we're working on two. Gmt. Well, local Uk time. And it turns out to be about nine am Eastern much to the time. Of course, you can see a little bit more about what we're actually doing in real time on the Github page there. With the euro. Next slide, please. So the second working group bus call is imminent for the module version and yang sem drafts, which is great to see. There's a few little bits and pieces there to be done Ip calls. And when you're just making some jobs and changes to who is a contributor and who has just been acknowledged. Focus on the weekly meetings at the moment is primarily on the scheme of comparison draft. We're working heavily on that at the moment. There are plenty of key issues identified that know, we're we're working through. So if you're were again, if you're interested and in this piece, please jump in as soon as you can. Packages draft is next, always seems to be next. Packages draft is next and so I'm looking forward to that myself. Next slide, please. And that is the back. Yeah. So I think it's time for Joe. The next bits and pieces. For the update and good progress. Appreciate it. Very much."
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:18:03",
    "text": "Alright. So this is the current work that the authors and contributors are working on. We chose scheme of comparison to work on next because We felt that based on some of the comments that we were getting around the yang module version yang Sim, we wanted to create tooling that would help kind figure out for both consumers of yang modules as well as authors of yang modules how they should go about creating burg rules or understanding the backwards compatibility between various yang artifacts, modules and and packages when we pick that work back up. So this this is turning out to be quite a bit of work And as Tom mentioned, we would love more of of voices especially operational voices. So next slide, please. Alright. So we have a few things that we're gonna go through here because as we delve into this as we started to key the layers of the onion, we saw that there were lot of of things to consider. So we have obviously, the the underlying tooling requirements that we wanna do. But we also want this ultimately to help those as I mentioned, the consumers, the authors understand what are the backwards compatible, non backwards compatible. Maybe some of the trickier non backwards compatible and editorial changes in the modules. Either the modules they're writing or the ones that are consuming as part of their applications. And then help the users decide whether or not they have to make tooling changes of their own to their own hoarding their own automation management, whatever tools. Next slide, please. The issues we're now facing, we have this notion of an wire versus a sc related change. And what does that mean? What are the rules with with respect to checking that. We have slides on all of these"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:20:01",
    "text": "So I'm just gonna blow through this on the summary slide. I we'll also talk about what does it mean to be compatible in terms of error messages? Something that came up was how dependent are people on the structure of these, the text within these error messages. So we'll talk a little bit about that. And and what is the comparison scope? Are we looking at module by module and and doing a comparison there, are we considering the sc as a whole or the artifact as a whole like in a package world and considering changes there. So we'll get into some of these. So I I can see everyone's waiting to ask question but we'll we'll get there. Next slide, please. So on wire versus sc, analysis and looking at the different changes there. On wire meaning, this is what you you you would actually if you did a you did a a sniff trace and you you decrypt it, this is what you would see on wire. Did that change? Is something turning from a string to an, for example. That would be something that you would see reflected on wire. Versus the sc, which would be something that that might not necessarily and we have an example of this night not not necessarily be something that's reflected on wire. If you were looking at a before sniff trace and after sniff choice, it would look the same But there's still especially for module authors there's still a challenge there. So do we go with one or two algorithms with which to determine backwards compatibility and the consensus amongst the contributors was we would have two different algorithms. Beyond wire algorithm would focus more on the client compatibility. Obviously, if that strain change to an end, that's gonna break some clients. So we wanna make sure that we're we're focused there. Whereas with sc, we're looking at a lot more. We're being a lot more picky, so to speak. And looking at those sc and node differences, because that's likely going to trip up the module author"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:22:01",
    "text": "especially those that depend upon your module. And then we also have to consider what what's going to happen if there is a non... Let's just say a text change initially? Could be semantic change could be non semantic change. We wanna highlight both. So we also wanna be able to point out those non semantic changes that are in fact, editorial. And we're going to be is adhere to rf c seventy fifty in terms of the backwards compatibility rules with respect to things. We also added in module version. So reorder of things would also not be allowed. Next slide, please. So here's our on wire algorithm. So comparison is made. We flatten everything. We look at all of the yang has in the definitions. And we look at the instance identifier. We don't really care about sc and nodes at this point. So things like choice names, we're not looking at them. Where instead looking did anything change within that path. Is our our our nodes going away are the types of nodes changing to a point where we would see things selected as something that that changes on the wire. So we're not looking like if a grouping name changes from an on wire standpoint that doesn't really matter to us. We just wanna make sure that if a client is going to send what it was sending, in terms of a configuration change, that that's going to be accepted that would be backwards compatible. If it's not if things change there such the on wire scheme wire payload would change then that would be reflected as a non backwards compatible change. Next slide. Whereas on the sc side, So the sc of comparison algorithm is looking at these hi from a sc of node standpoint. So here we take into account things like choice names changing. That affects the points that you might"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:24:01",
    "text": "inter with from a sc standpoint like if you're going to use a uses. Like if you're going to use an augment. You want to make sure that from... If I'm going to depend upon your module Maybe not as much as important for vendors since we we don't typically see customers extending our modules. But from a standards definition standpoint, if our modules could be extended we wanna be able to report on any sc changes. And that includes things like type name changes. So even though the on wire didn't change, if we change The name of a type def that we might depend on in some other module that will, of course generate a non backwards compatible issue for those consumers and we wanna flag that. So therefore, we're looking at the full non backwards compatible that we laid out inheriting from R seventy nine fifty and documenting ultimately in the Yang module version. Draft. That's scheme that's the sc change. Next slide, please. This is an example. So let's say we have this leaf that used to be was called count used to be of a type you and eight. That was version one point zero. Let's say In version two dot in version next we change counter to be a type counter underscore t. So it's it's a type def of type counter. This would be non backwards compatible from the standpoint of the Sc So we've changed... We've changed this type it it it it isn't exactly what we would it isn't exactly what we would say from from a sc standpoint that is it is we're ultimately changing the type However, on wire, it might still be this unsigned integer unsigned eight bid integer. So forty two, we might still see forty two. On the wire, the values could be the same"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:26:00",
    "text": "but we've changed the underlying sc of definition of this node. So on a wire standpoint, it would be backwards compatible in the scheme world it would be non backwards compatible. Jeff. Okay. He's willing to wait till later. So slide eight, please. So there's still several open questions in this obviously, we we're still debating few a few of these items. Where whether or not they are to be considered non backwards or backwards compatible, And how should we go about reporting all of this? And at what verb velocity should we go about reporting all of this? Should we report when when the definitions changed when things are used. What does the ultimate what do users want to see? This is one thing that we would definitely like feedback on as to how this ultimately on sc how all of this should be reported and what would be the most useful in terms of consuming the output from such a tool or set of tools that would do these sc of comparisons. Slide, please. So some of the open questions whether or not it's backwards compatible or not and how to report related to grouping and uses. And general, we think that changing a grouping statement that breaks the the kind of requirements, the the linkage if if I'm going to if I'm going to depend upon your modules, so we think that's backwards compatible. Same thing with things like typed changes there, choice names pre things that could become potentially used as augment points or inherited or relied upon from one module to a next, we would think Those are backwards compatible. Now where things get a little bit thing is if we just rename a type def, is that an on wire"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:28:00",
    "text": "we we could say yes, that is a sc level non backwards compatible change since we might use that type def as as as another module depending on yours, But if it's the same underlying base type, does it become an on wire change? And how do we report any of these small editorial changes? Is it something that is by default people wanna see or is it something that they're not necessarily that that might be protected behind an an argument instead people are more interested in the higher level, the non backwards or backwards compatible changes at a larger scope. Next slide, please. More so. Editorial changes that we can't really detect are the editorial or are they or are they semantic different? We were probably wanna flag changes to the description statement. And say we don't really know... I mean, maybe chat Gp could help us out there. I don't know. But we don't really know if this change to text is backwards compatible or not. So it could be put potentially non backwards compatible. So we might wanna to have different arguments there to... At at what level do we start flagging some of those? There's also text that exists conditional that exist in win and must statements. We're not necessarily interested in in evaluating all of that So maybe we would mark this as either a change to those those the tech within there the conditional within there, we would either flag that as non backwards compatible or potentially non backwards compatible. So those are things too to consider. How what what do people wanna see What is the right balance of tool complexity versus things that provide us that provide the users the most use same could apply to presence containers. At what level do we"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:30:02",
    "text": "this is non backwards compatible versus man we can't really tell, So we'll flag it maybe is potentially backwards compatible. Non backwards Slide eleven, please. You actually you to before waiting to the end, you know, we can discounts the No. Fine. My sorry My mic was off. Yeah. I was just saying that we have multiple people in queue that we don't have to wait to the end unless you want to, and it sounds like it's okay. And while Jeff is first, he's gonna wait. Or maybe not. Maybe not. Jeff, would you return to slide seven briefly? Slide seven, please? So I'm gonna pick on this as a very specific big example. So the case where counter t is being defined, the types of thing you care about here is has the underlying typed def versus the prior is type one, you know, that is new versus type two groups that is old, have similar semantics. So it's possible to have a counter t defined that is a strictly a you and eight that hasn't changed anything that maybe only adds a description and adds units seconds as an example or, you know, units know something else. So this is an example of there's no actual change. It's worth flagging of because it's of interest that we haven't actually changed underlying semantics? Correct. This is kind of a soft example, but some of the things that we've considered the potential though is this could lead to sc related backwards inc comp down the road whereas initially, from a... Especially you mentioned units, assuming the units doesn't actually change context of of of the node, you wouldn't see a difference on the wire."
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:32:00",
    "text": "Client would still successfully make that that config change. You're you're absolutely correct. So, like, if it adds a units, it doesn't change the semantic necessarily unless you know that So it's worth flagging, but it can't be strictly know, automated to say that this is violation. And it's good point. And these are some of the challenges that we discussed is is... Sometimes the rabbit holes we go down is at what level are we considering and we wanna make this as useful and is less noisy as possible for all involved. So it's those extra insights that we can get that that really help on this work a little bit more. Yeah. To get a flag another specific item here is that changes of typed deaths that have regular expressions as their in matching criteria area. That is a thing that you really probably can't get the away with trying to do, and I I think a very example that we're living with red right now on the Module. We have courtesy to see where we grab stuff. Two different regular expressions for validating Ip v six addresses. They're semantic equivalent. They're technically different. And and that goes again to maybe to the wind in the mosque that we're going to get into something, I think where it's potentially non backwards compatible as a output of this tool because we either can't or can't easily run down whether or not those are semantic different. Yep. Two Actually, for this two algorithm, why is the one what? Audio the one is I maybe think it why is an instance lever that otherwise disclaimer levels. So for wire at the system maybe just try to identify syntax consistent issue but the for the scheme never maybe be more checkout"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:34:01",
    "text": "So one example, I'm a little bit confused is before you have some description text changing it. Whether our use wire says sc. It is So the question is, to your right, instance level on wire sc level Sc. And your question is, if we have a description change, is it on wire or ischemic change. That would be it might there would be sc level change because it it the it... The... What changes on work how you approach that might change as a client you you might... If you knew that it was different, but it it wouldn't necessarily change on wire. We might still have to flag it up because how the client would behave differently if they knew that the semantics of that changed. I can't think of quick example off the top of my head, but it might still be something that we'd want the client to know that... Okay. Even if you send the same data, you're going to exhibit a different behavior on the on the underlying server. So even though it doesn't change what's on wire, it might change behavior that the client has, we probably still have to to show that in in more of an on wire look. There there is a little bit of gray area there. Yeah. I was single, you know, we have two kind under algorithm. Because we already implemented implemented this easily to you know, you compare based per expires better, You know, you go to these kinda sc as actually, maybe you need to, you know, This can provide the fine granularity, you know, this kind comparison I it's a very come a little bit. So I'm just wondering whether for these two, we choose the one mandatory ready to otherwise obviously. So we're gonna get to a a slide"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:36:04",
    "text": "probably the next slide not after this, but the next where where we talk about? What is the output of the work? Do we put code pseudo code? Some code like, I I I always think of the line wrapping example that went into the draft Is it is it that we... The the ultimate thought is well, the thinking of the working group or the the group that the contributors is it some of the the the output of this would be the code. So would it be mandatory to implement for us as the contributors, I don't think we've gotten to what's mandatory, what we're absolutely still an open question. But it would be something that would ultimately be contributed to... The industry, the the people is at large versus something that every vendor or every yang body would implement. It it would be something where this... Whatever gets cod or written or published in this this document, would be implemented in code once, and there would be well maybe ported to a different a few different tools, but we would pick like a reference tool like P as an example. And there would be a reference implementation there of presumably both algorithms that we come out of this work. But that is still an open question as to how far the the work on the document will go. You one last question, how do you report this you know? You may know, use this two different algorithm. You find some error. Called or or error message you need to distinguish it between, you know, this online. So reporting is is also an open question. Do you run with, like a dash dash sc dash dash on wire? And and get and and and get different output. Is that output Json formatted, so it can be loaded into another tool to be"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:38:02",
    "text": "processed, Is it human text readable? Those are still open questions as to ultimately what we report how we report And what are the arguments that will generate the result of both algorithms and at what verb level do we go? To some of what Jeff is saying or said, do we have all of these potentially non backwards compatible in the output by default, or do we have just the things that we know we can we can test empirical and say these are non backwards compatible. I'll I'll we'll get into a slide on those open questions. that that help in that input. We we need Yeah. Happy to contribute Join us. Two comments. One is chair one contributor. As chair, please manage your queue as you see fit to be done in that. Time copy that. And then as contributor, what what encoding are you looking at for on wire? Because different encoding may have different behavior to what's compatible and non compatible. That is a good question. I don't I don't recall us getting to the encoding question yet. And certainly, we haven't... I I don't think we bro anything around, like, binary encode like a sea board type exactly yet. But those questions will have to come up And unless Rob, you can remember something I can't in terms of the conversations. I don't think we've gotten down to the encoding level yet our discussions. Robots and Cisco as countries. I think the for the encoding come down to whether you end up embedding type information like the type name at all coding which I start would change. Otherwise, I think that shouldn't matter. Well, the example that we're showing is highly coding dependent. Right? Because if you were in say a binary encoding. The type of change. While the example was texting encoding with Xml and it didn't change."
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:40:02",
    "text": "What was the example? Was it the seven eight over changes to a different size. Actually, this one may not have, but I could... I... I'm sure we can come up with a an example where it does I if there's one's where it has, like, you move from you intake to you and thirty and that isn't been fixed size yes I. Yeah. Exactly. So I think you'd flagged... You you... I think in all these cases you flagged them up when you in the comparison. Just we figure out what's changed and then you make a decision as to whether it matters you and autumn with classified as Nbc or not. Yeah. I just think it's gonna be it feels like a slippery slope here of whether or not it's a good class to follow. Quite honestly. We'll see where the work progresses. Okay. Thanks for the comment. Jason, Hi, Jason stern here. Yeah. I I Agree with the comments about the encoding we'll have to consider that. Especially even coatings that aren't necessarily Like J. Best coatings. The the thing that I wanna mention is is I find a useful way of thinking about it. Although the other people and authors may maybe think about it differently. Is I I think of the sc analysis as applying the full rules from module version. So everything that isn't there that defines that Nbc change would be flagged as an Change by the sc algorithm. The other algorithm, the on wire we're... That's the one where the the more debate gonna come in and it's is there a subset of rules? Are there some rules we can ignore that clients don't care about for on the wire and will some operators and users of the modules who maybe aren't augmenting who aren't composing them. Who just purely kind of using them as a from a client point of view. Know, maybe don't know they don't care that a typed def was renamed as long as all the properties state identical. They don't care the type def was renamed."
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:42:03",
    "text": "But in our sc algorithm, that's Nbc change. We didn't change that rule from seventy nine fifty. So this is really what we're struggling with mainly is is there is there an on wire algorithm that makes sense where we chop out a number of rules, and that's a useful comparison. As I put Carson? Woman. The biggest trap we have in Si is that when you put something into a union, the encoding has to change. Because Ying has built in ambiguity for overlapping. Types of unions. And given that these types may have different and coatings and and jane Civil, we essentially have to switch were completely different and calling once the union is involved. And that's always non be compatible change. I said, as Jason said, we will have to discuss that. Clock running. So let's head on to the next slide. So you're cutting the queue. I appreciate that. Thanks. Eleven. Okay. So compatibility of error messages This is something that we can't that started to be discussed later more recently. If we look at some of those error messages. Clients made rely on those error messages. It's kind of a weird way maybe to do programming, but they might look at the string and say, oh, the string has changed. So that's something we might want to that's something we might want to float up is if you're dependent on this as a client, that's of that on wire nebula that Jason alluded to. We might want flag that up. We've failed my statements we can assume the changes there maybe our Nbc. And again, with all of this we might assume we might flag this up as being"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:44:01",
    "text": "potentially non backwards compatible just because clients may depend on it. Next slide, please. So what is the scope? I mentioned do we do sc out the entire sc versus module Do we consider run it from a feature lens standpoint or we just look at everything is kind of a flattened assume all features. And do we look at are we looking at sub modules or how do we look at sub modules imported modules versus implemented. And do we offer the ability to filter out how how complex does the tooling allow us to be? Final slide, I think well there's this fourteen. So here are some of the open issues. I'm not gonna read them all. You can look at them, but some of this Chen mentioned, and I mentioned that we would get to those what are we going to do here? How much are we going to do in terms of code publication? This could turn into work as we get more crystal in the document. Next slide, please. And yes, thank you. So I did answer a number of questions. I am how time, but we are meeting weekly on Tuesdays. We will meet on April fourth. It's at ten Am eastern daylight time. I'm not do the math. So we would appreciate anyone joining that. It's open to all and Jason does a good job summarizing on the list. So thank you very much. Thanks. There were some interesting comments in the chat. They weren't substantially different than what was voice, but it's still interesting. I wanna take a look at that. And this seems like a good topic for further discussion on the list in addition to in that sign meeting. Yep. Thank you. And that stuff Hello. Good morning. And this is Jo from Huawei. And these presentation by the system defined configuration."
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:46:01",
    "text": "Next slide, please. Yeah. So I think this work is already adopted by working group a couple months the ago. And there was a vigorous growth discussion and authors would really appreciate that. And since the last meeting, there was some up updates but I think most auditor updates for clarity And The solution now, I think it's generally stable. So we I think we at a grid age, we can define a conflict food red system that is doll to hold system configuration. And we define a reliance system parameter which controls whether to allow the server to perform the auto copy of the reference system configuration into automatically. And the reason, I said it is generally because I think there are still a lot of details many other discussion. Okay. Next slide, please. Okay. So these slide tries captures the ongoing oh sorry. So these light about these one of the update of the document about the so what heavier is not given with our system parameter. So general we think that we would about declined to have control already configuration all on the configuration and the service making change to the configuration without declined, knowing that could be really surprising and sometimes even caused some confusion So instead, I simply said that this so should not running in anywhere. Otherwise not specified by the client. The of the document just do not use the capitalized lights or not and say that"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:48:00",
    "text": "can clarify that the intention is to bring awareness to the general need to price clients. With package chance. Okay. Next slide, please. So this light is about the ongoing discussion around this system some configuration and I think led by can't in net working group. The discussion happened on this week. So I tried to capture the some of these discussion. And I think is lab rest question in his id review about whether we are making this more complex than necessary to always require all the references some configuration must be present running. And I think it's the reality that the Md and does define that running must always be valid as the reality. Right? But I can also understand that draft also said at be it is intended that is subject to the validation So if we say that the references configuration is not in running, I think can definitely do increase okay. To consume that run is implicit when is if intended is valid. But, I do think that there is a quotation from Marian I think ian. You similar your comments about this what happens between running and intended it's not covered by any standard have as have to today. So there could be the configuration transformation from running to intended. But there let's it's how that transformation happens in not standard today. So I I do worry that This might be difficult declines to offline validation of ronnie. When they... Because they have to implement the vendors specific configuration transformation algorithm."
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:50:04",
    "text": "We can just said that maybe the client can use that reliance system parameter to allow the solar mo references some configuration into running, that that would already hurt the client, a next client you do not know the parental and also do not knowing the of system would be my brag, unless all the references configuration. Is copied to ronnie. So... But on the other side, if we require that the references configuration must be iranian and we need to answer the question what happens is configuration in system updates disappears and their copy still in running. That's the question we need to Clearly, that is studied in the the document. But I think generally we never want the something like automatically card into running. About the system app that. So this about my duration. There any comments regarding this slide? Robert Cisco as I think as a contributor So my concern here is about... It's the same to what thread thing is how thread base. I think we need to have more discussion on the earliest and result this gong is a key thing. It's the was like an ambiguity was in Rs eight three forty two when we define that we we define how you could evolve the configuration between running intended by doing expansion and come configuration. We still kept the statement that ronnie is always a validate store. And I think there's been different interpretation as to what valid means in that context. And some people interpret it is being valued by implication because you go"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:52:00",
    "text": "you update intended at the same time, You've value intended and by invitation that makes money invalid. So it makes running valid. And then other people also up to the saying well no, means that it's funded as per Rs c seven nine fifty, Which think well is states. I hence you need to check all the leaf us these that. Because I don't understand how if you have like configuration that you might be able to comment out. You can... You have to both validate the configuration in running with the configuration not committed out, and you also have to be able to validate intended the configuration commented out. So I think you end up in having consistent state. So I think this is something we need to think about can definitely make sure we end up with a sensible. Awesome. K. Thank you. So let's slide, please. And can I have a already this discussion? So kent once is asking to do a poll here, can't you wanna introduce it Oh, sure. So it's just what rob was saying at the moment? Month ago. And would it be okay to move to for this draft to move to D interpretation now. Is that running is valid. These are the intended thing of being valid Before we pull on this... Close make one quick comment is there is a solution here potentially where we define different semantics for n nda compatible servers and pre nda ones. So we do have that choice as well. We're we're not getting a lot of uptake. And it may be that people feel like personally I do as contributors. I'm not... I I want more discussion before"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:54:01",
    "text": "training in on this. I'm not ready to like vote. Or. And I know we don't vote, but I'm not ready to have a a firm opinion. I I I need more discussion. So I'm gonna interpret that the low participant count is for that. Don't know if that's helpful or not. Yep. I think that's good for now. Thank you. Thank you. Next slide. Yep. So the this Version is about the system parameter because Currently, we define this parameter to allow this forward to copy the references some configuration into the Ta tech stall and I I think we need to think about that with the precise meaning of the reference because generally miss maybe most of our understand about you the leave reference, the system some configuration present in f past, but I don't know whether we should out cow. Cases like the system configuration is in a or master or defined as the mandatory through that or not, which is you can which is not configured by the client when pushing added config into running, just system coffee configuration is defined to exactly satisfy the main element cost chance So I don't know whether the system should cover these cases and also put our cloth into the running. Slide, please And this this slide is about the timing for this server twenty reinforce of the copy. Currently we just think that the enforcement should at the end of the Rpc operations, but I do want know if this is actually correct. I think if the the target it that is always can you and the test option. Is said, maybe we can just that all the copied to a commit of a debt our Pc but in this way, I think we met"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:56:03",
    "text": "We we can I give the commit of a to support this parameter? That If we would like to cover advanced, I think, when conditions in the expiry pressure should always be copied. During the config because that is during a parallel person as defined in nice. Okay. God please. Yeah. Cisco as of. Can you go the previous slide, had to comment on that one. So here, my intuition would say that if if the data still validates and intended with the system configuration merged in then what you'd copy into running is and... Is everything you needed to merge in to make it validates. Yeah. Into running. So effectively, you copy anything extra was resulted in made the validation seat is what my. Okay. Thank you. Next slide, please. Okay. If any other comments. For questions? Hi. Charles Ec. And just a question on this because I it the the liaison on that I mentioned earlier, it talks about two things. The is in variant and then also system config and that prompted me take that quick like, you know, look at both drafts and There's obviously a lot of similarity in the requirements there. I was just curious what's the What are your thoughts? Does this also address or credit with minor modifications address the is in very. Requirement of fuji."
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:58:01",
    "text": "I I just or do we really need two different mechanisms here? Any thoughts on that. So I I I think this this document that the system configuration management and it's not really about the intention to module is but we have... We do have another of black document. To resolve that issue, and we also think it's important to module configuration. To show the client that they cannot modify notify this. System some reaction it should be. But some folks also think that there could be other cases, not only just this configuration. So that's a reason why we would with another individual document run and cover with this document. Okay. Yeah. Just like I said, with that quick look at both there's a lot of overlap that seems to me between the two. And it'd be nice to have one mechanism that meets both use cases. If possible. Okay. Thank you. So Two points. If the our auto copy is deferred to comment commit, on a candidate, but you also need to configure some items that are below contained in the auto copied parts. That would mean that you can't do it in one go. You have to break it to separate comet. So I don't think outcome it can be for this reason. Other is answer to the previous question is that some people want to use immutable or some some similar solution even without the system. Config So that's more. Yeah. I I will answer your question on the male leaves because I have no time."
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:00:00",
    "text": "For this presentation. Thank you. Appreciate it, Charles. You're still in queue. I don't know if you mean to be but we're gonna we're gonna move on if that's okay. Just so we stay on top on time? Thank you very much. You. And I believe Kathleen is next up. Cath are you here? Yes. Awesome yes. Welcome. Thank you. Having. Can you hear me okay? You hear you're fine pest control to you? Oh, okay. I only have two slides. So this is pretty simple. The Etf trust but an inquiry from the eye triple e, because they would like to use the yang security considerations template, that has been long in use by the Etf. Edited it over time, but I think the last said it's been several years I wanna say it was a twenty eighteen with last time there was an edit to it. And essentially, it's template text we keep it in a wiki. And then as you know, when you're writing a yang document, you copy this into your consideration security consideration section, you edit the parts marked to be edited and you're done. So other organizations would like to use this they wanted to do it properly, so they reached out to the trust to see how to do that. We dug into it and it looks like we didn't do the right thing by just setting up the wiki. The trust legal provisions and I have a link here, but you could just quickly search trust legal provisions, it'll come right up. Item number nine, explains that if you have template text in a document that you can copy it and use it in the way that we do the"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:02:00",
    "text": "Wiki. But other organizations could use it similarly. And this is ideal. Right? Because then everybody's using the same set of security considerations. It's nice that they're just following ours. It makes it easier for vendors to have that consistency across Seo. So essentially, this just pulls the exact text. It doesn't modify it at all because that would be a different process. And puts it into a document on its own so that you're only using this document for template text. And then Can consistently use the same one. Are there any questions? So I... You know, we would... That myself and the trustees would like to get this through fairly quickly so that there is a stable, Rf for the I triple to for one of their publications in queue. Either Glenn, appearing in my rules chair of the It trust, I think this may in fact, be the very first time that a trust issue has come to a technical working group. To be presented. So it's kinda cool. What caffeine just trying to publish this. We found a mistake in the way it was labeled. No nothing else has really changed here. And we're trying to find pathway to let them make use of this in the way that was intended to So but do it in a way that fits in with the T etfs rules for health and stuff is license and access. So it's pretty minor changed and it would really help get this seem usable by triple and the way they wanna use it, which is what we tend to in the design of the whole thing. So we've we'd like get your support for doing this. So Rob Wilson Cisco, I think with an Ad hat on. So when Kent was doing his drafts in that con"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:04:00",
    "text": "to do the key store all related ones. There was some discussion about from kent about what the right way of for populated this template was in terms of what parts do you actually want to here you identify all of them which the template sort to leads towards scrolling today, or should you really be just picking out the key ones that have particular tourist implications ones you might put na rules on. And I'm somewhat persuaded by Kent comments that actually I wonder whether we're putting too much stuff in this in this section. And we should be trying to cut it down refine it to something where you're only putting out the sort of more detailed thing. So before I heard about this sort of thing, I was chatting with the security ids in the ice about saying, I was potentially wanting to rework this template text and to changed its definition potentially. However, this came in and I'll understand that this is quite pressing to sort of sort out and resolve I get get this documents sort of in through the process. Hence what I would like to propose is we get this through the process quickly to keep our liaison relationship happy. Got it that that wants to use this. I solve that actually should be then reopen whether the text is the right template text and have discussion as to whether we want to refine that. But that then follow offers as like, a update of this fairly quickly. I'm sorry, A this update of what. Well the best update of whatever this one turns into this rf, This isn't an Rf. This is a Wiki. Right. Thanks with eighties concert it and then the next revision after eighty sponsorship becomes an Rf like to open it up. For vision to the template. Separately. I may have missed it. Can you restate what you are asking for from this working group. You wanna take this you want you take this? Yes. No. I can I can absolutely say? So just as he stated with his his hat on, we'd like to move this quick"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:06:01",
    "text": "as an ad sponsored draft, And then separately, he raised an issue that they do want to modify the template text, but understands that this isn't the right form. So for this draft, we'd like this to go eighty sponsorship, move it forward, And then if there's edits to be done for that would be done in a biz draft. Of the Rf c once published. So I I this is Lou with care hat on. I think this is great. It's fine for us to be doing it and this work group, but I'll point out, but it's my memory that the wiki is an ops area wiki. And not a net mod wiki. So I would say that if you from a process standpoint, I would expect this to go to Ops area. Not to Net mod. Now that said, we should just move the... Let's do... What's stick Ex. If you wanna move it here, I'm looking at Rob if you wanna move it here, it's your call. It's your area. So... But I would have expected you to bring thoughts area, not. Okay. But what Hack kathleen. So if we need to solve that one, surely let's do it. But let me ask a question. So it was done a wiki because in the past, we had to update it I then the process was very very simple, meaning we custody of the young doctors who discussed with the security Ad the id and with Would just agreed to do it. Now you want to do us on track. So what would be the process there? Right? Let's say that we got new security guidelines for I know sea or yang push and all. To need to get the buying from the entire community. Are we losing the flexibility to just do the what's right of of updates. Now I don't want to say we don't not to do this. Right? Have a problem let's solve this, but I want you think also about the process of dating this in the future Thank you. And Ben benoit, it looks like it hadn't been updated since twenty eighteen."
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:08:01",
    "text": "So it's been pretty stable. Although I I guess the the group is talking about new updates. So Glenn? You're head of the queue. You want. I just want make one clarification. So the probably we're doing through this path for the tripoli e so they can make use of as a licensed material because the original request that came in was they want us to write them a specialized license use the wiki, which is something the trust doesn't do. So we're sort of because it's an external org, happy big with this path. Does that make sense? Okay. So I remain a little confused on the specific ask from the trust. Can we rather than do a a draft, can we just put this text on the wiki and to declare done. No. No. That was the problem. Yeah. That's the problem. We can't license out the wiki. We wanna waste... The the tripoli wants actually do is following all the procedures, you you former trust you know. And we want you also write we don't wanna cut a specialized dedicated license license to them for this one purpose. And so what we wanna do is just do it under the existing framework is established by the Tl p, which says you publish an Rf, you wrap the text with these two tags. And you're good to go external serve organizations. Can take that text modify as viewed and publish it. And so we're using the framework that was intended, but it has to be via rf dot via. A ricky. I like the expedited solution. Great. I would suggest to the trust that they think consider general licensing terms for the wiki so that the next person that comes along addresses that as well. We'll take the advise, sir. Thank you. Thank you. So to wrap that up I believe the action is with rob"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:10:01",
    "text": "to come up with a eighty d sponsored draft, and who tell us which working group they he wants to run the process in if he wants to run it at all in any working group. Cisco. I think the draft is already there. I things where got to draft. So it's just a matter of how It goes forward and I'm happy to eighty sponsor this. I think I I think that's fine. Rather than be through any work group. Because it's the same text. There's no new text other than adding the be an to template text. Statements to it. So I think we need to do this quickly. So I will all I all... Like I'll add you sm direct. Thank you very much. Thanks for keeping us informed. And I see Michael is in queue. So let's let him and close out out the session or this slot. Thank you for such a concise slide because I did not get this misunderstanding from your document, and maybe that's problem. But So I have two questions. One is is Glenn, can you tell us really this was the only place we could do is with R, we don't have any other place we could put this there, that seems really surprising. We looked and I came up with the template text, and that was the one way forward. Okay. So so my next question, nothing to do with the... Was it the ie triple or the the thing is does this new document constrain ask to not keep our text on the wiki and updated as we go. No. Don't I I don't think so right. No. No. So, Michael, the the specific reason we're doing this way is because the external org if you look at the trust provisions that Caffeine has leaked on the slide here, they give up of means for the trust on behalf of the have to license out stuff the third party organizations. And that's captured there we don't today have a means to license out the wiki. But the wiki he can be happily used within the Its etf process."
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:12:01",
    "text": "I realize that may some weird convoluted, but we're in the world of copyright. It is weird and convoluted. Fair enough. Let's do it as fast as possible then. Thank you. Alright. Thank you for that. Definitely a little different. And moving on to the immutable draft. You're again. Yeah. This is too. Yeah. Yeah. So the the words should be this zero six is submitted a couple of days ago. So next slide, please. And a brief recap of these document is that we think ideally any configuration is allowed to be created debt it deleted. But in the real world, there are this a lot of sorry not a lot of some data that cannot be modified by the client, but still need to be declared as convict for all kinds of reasons, not just forces some configuration, but all kinds of other reasons, like we need to allow configuration of the nodes plus all the reference constraints are just ensure some existence of specific system created entries my additional entries. Could be allowed to created updated deleted. So we think that if the server already knows that it we always reject the configuration it should inform declined early possibility in implementation time so that the client can avoid or failed operation like Ip errors. Next slide, please. So in the last meeting, I think there was... There are some folks do have some concerns regarding this work like it seems that we are adding some restrictions we we are making the the the the life of the"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:14:01",
    "text": "client even harder. But here the authors would like to highlight that mobility is existing allowed to behavior. Already today, the stories allowed to reject configuration for this not documented in the young module because the server just internally causing that that note as immutable, and this is not immutable This is not documented in the young no form where to define that. This behavior is already allowed today. And it's not in your behavior. Not introduced by this work. And also not that there is a number of Seo and vendors already implement this in prob mobility concept. I will show you in next slide. So the Our will goal here is we would like to define one standard It solution instead of the existing vendor of of organization's specific solution to it to facilitate at the interoperability. Next slide, please. So this slide references the something from three p about the users of mobility and young we a number of and vendors to implement they either use the in mobility concept already are just directly define this young extension in their specific solution. Next slide, please. And this slide is about the use cases of notebook configuration the comment and already documented in the draft. And so I'm not going to present them when I when because of the time limited. So next I, please. And regarding the document at updates since last It test meeting, the authors try to reward the abstract any introduction sections to emphasize that the proposal tried to formally document existing allowed behaviors. And we aim to create one"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:16:00",
    "text": "single standard solutions and also we an like that probably behavior is allowed, but it it should be discouraged and be treated as the last out. And also, we have some editorial and ref updates regarding the solution part by no substantial change. This is not because the author the solution now is completely perfect, but just would like to put more efforts on the motivation use cases now. And we also add a temporary section in appendix about the usage of concept multiple vendors and organizations. And we also rewrite they use cases in appendix, we would like to travel the most common and what reasonable has this. Okay. Let's slide, please. So this slide is about an argument why current mechanism are is sufficient to mentioned in last meeting when it's about neck which can be used to restrict the the client access to a particular data node but this mobility, it's something that so internally reject the configuration from client. It will always reject that but that can be disabled or can be bypassed and last but Neck rules to express mobility itself is also in. We're only to clients there's no usually is to update them and we have nowhere to protect them from being side that it's much like a... Catch turning to issue. And regarding the young deviation, just young deviation is also a mechanism to have the they declined understand how the store implementation vary from the standards. But just cannot help modify the mobility of particular death node. The"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:18:03",
    "text": "It can use the only be used to d at the the current existing statement like the mandatory mandatory config or next element. Cannot help modify mobility. Next slide, please. And regarding the the v liaison sent from to 3g recently, We think that the document is an alternative which could be used to model the concepts defined used in 3g. When is about is and it's attributable used by three p and where is invalid, it's set to true. We think that this attributes is a assigned of value when the objectives credit, but this value cannot be modified the letter. Then the only way to modify that is to delete it and require result. The the desired value. And this could be easily documented in it easily result in this in a solution with rapid pool here, with immutable and the create and delete exceptions. Establishments for the grid and get it, so you can just cannot update it. And the second concept is system created. It used to express that the instance cannot be created or deleted by the client. So it it can only be it created than by the the server of the system. And could be used using the young extension with exceptions for app updates. So you can update, but you cannot create or. Next slide, please. And for the the the next step, I I think this document is derived from the system configuration and We have cooked. At a long time actually for this work and the authors like to we can ask the we can group to consider adopt this work."
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:20:00",
    "text": "K. Jason in queue. So Jason before he goes just a heads up, we are gonna pull this So if you have not registered on that Luke, can you speak to the Microphone please? Who can I hear you? Yeah. Sorry. Just a heads up to pull a pull is coming, please if you're in the room register on you can participate. Jason him, go ahead. Do you mind flipping to the previous slide for moment? Jason stern. So with the is variance, I I see what you're saying by order to effectively change, you have to delete and recreate the parents. Context either the presence container or the list entry. And I guess in a in in these transactional systems, usually you want the candidate to represent kind of a to be a declarative of what you... What state you're trying to get to. So I I guess how I would kinda see this immutable in a way is all it's saying is the underlying server. Would have to to destroy and recreate the object if you change the immutable value. In other words, you'd be able to in the candidate give that immutable leaf a different value and the flag would just tell you that the server is gonna destroy and recreate the parent. In order to achieve that new configuration state. Is that what you mean? I I think it should be declined to to delete it and then recreate because I'm not sure if client with experienced some traffic disturbance if let's so were directed delay and that required. That with the desired value. So it it just cannot modify it and we are documenting this have"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:22:01",
    "text": "I'm I'm gonna start the poll because we're actually over time on this session and we're gonna be running at of time, but I'm gonna start the pull and then we can continue with the queue, kent and bella larger up account? In the pull because I can't unmute myself while the poles is running. So I think this is good work. And I just want sort of answer Jason's question, I mean, shift on set it correctly. And I'll say it again. Nothing changes. There's no new runtime behavior being asked by the server. It's all the same run runtime behavior. All the only thing Server has to do is to ferry a document to the client. The... There's no new run runtime behavior on the client either if they don't wanna look at the document, they don't they don't have have a request the document. But if they wish to have more knowledge about how the server behaves, then they can process the document. And so it's just goodness, I think. In that regard Thank you. Alright. So on the actually blush. Go ahead. Maybe we found an Au ui bug go ahead. I agree with with the previous said that we are not looking for new behavior, we are trying to document access behavior. And some of these behaviors in three And I think also in It the decades old, and they are not prepared to modify because they have been using that for the item. Fifteen years the same way. We they would like to use yank and document all this in the ink. We either serve them or tell them that put that into solutions or description texts. Okay. Thank you for that. So this"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:24:00",
    "text": "over we're out of time on it. We had well somewhere under half of the room participate and overwhelming number supported adoption. So we will be stay tuned on the list for this. Thank you. Thank you. Blush. No. I'm sorry, Jeff? And if it's okay we're gonna to give you eight minutes. That's fine. I'm hoping never recover some time for you. So I'm Jeff. I'm here to talk about representing unknown Yang that's an operational state. Next slide, please. So we're routing protocols and modeling routing protocols, you know, vectors are a common element and we have to figure out the way to represent the statements in there. Very easy example from the Beach graceful restart. We have a n that exactly when flag has been reserved for in the original e. And it Usually, this is a kind case. We have one, we have, know some, we have something that are reserved. Next slide. So the problem that we have is that in yang, it's very easy to model, you know, known bits. We can do different things. To most common patterns are to use identities and a base identity for that big vector type. And we have an example of that inside of Usps. We also have the bits, which is little bit nicer in terms of protocol, nice you're trying to do debugging because it actually gives you the explicit it binding and naming of the things. Next slide, please. The problem that we actually have is what you do about the things you don't know about that aren't modeled at this point. And modeling known stuff is very easy. You name it you give it a position. Even if it's an entity, you can just give that to the description and the it's it's card the fundamental type. The trouble is if you want to model the end unknown stuff, well, you can't assign something and give it a name, like a unknown one and then change the name."
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:26:03",
    "text": "Ea once these things to be stable. So the problem is if we went to assign it to make it visible this means that we cannot change it. So this is a problem. Next slide, please. So an example of... Know, from the prior one, it c forty seven twenty four. Started with, you know, the ar, and then we entered the end bit in eighty five six the eight. Next slide. So why do we care? And this this means that the incremental deployment of new features that made use of those unknown commits may cause the protocol element note that has a yang model the older version to see the new things and they're not yet to visible. Perhaps this is being passed transit through this them and as necessary thing for you to see for debugging something in the network. The troubleshooting is a big deal here. Next slide. So a modest proposal then hoping the working group decides, you know, boring and just quickly runs through the R process if you agree. Is we define a typed def that gives a consistent naming scheme. For a unknown bits in a detector. And modules that need to modify model those are unknown bits create basically a parallel to the known bits of the unknown bits which may be absent if there none present in the protocol. And then you simply use this type. In there to show those things. Next slide. So an example usage if we you, call this thing the unknown bit types We have a a unknown flags that go in parallel to the prior example. And this means that for those bits that were not actually known, going from version one where we only had the orbit to Version two had ended if we... This is a version one system the had only orbit the end would show up in the unknown flags in this example until we had a ischemic rev in which case it would move into the expected place."
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:28:00",
    "text": "This both gives the user an idea that the system is transitioned from we didn't know to do this to now we do all the same time, not necessarily moving the debt to positions This means that tools that know there association between these two leaves, which This is one of things I suspect the working group will have opinion about, how do you actually consistently say leaf known and leaf unknown are related to each other. Next slide, please. So is hopefully a very modest proposal. I like Breaking group have wisdom to share. This has had some feedback from the mailing list. My request is if this is considered valuable work, leave group group pick adoption of it, and I suspect it probably can proceed to fairly rapid transit to errors editor of cell. Jason's in queue? Aaron Hey, Jeff, I guess one I guess one thought for you And made the working group. Is it this this is kind of I guess, a modeling convention being proposed So I guess guess I'm kinda wondering is this an informational rf because we're not gonna mandate that this is the model that thou shalt use in It models for sn x y z, It's kind of like, hey, if you have a scenario like this, here is an idea of how you could model it fact, I could see many such I could see many such proposals like this for various scenarios that might be useful to have kind of modeling templates or or modeling proposals. So I guess I'm just wondering how you see that as far as is it information while you're thinking? Is there an applicability defined or Yes. I I understand your question perfectly. So what I would recommend personally is this document would go in as a proposed standard to define the type"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:30:00",
    "text": "all we're doing here is we're defining a type. It provides a example pattern of how it's useful For the second half of your question of, do we want to mandate is absolutely not no the point is that people have freedom to use Now, whatever modeling technique is best suited to their environment, this is just an available technique, maybe the end doctors having this in their toolkit kit. As part of helping people with reviews suggest this when appropriate. Excellent. Yeah, I didn't read your draft, but I have one question, I can from your a presentation a clarification question. So when you model this how do you avoid placing this version issue that you said so basically you had an I've see it had an un undefined bit define using busy new type definition, then later on becomes known, you you still need to changed that model so. Can you explain how that hold and in the face of the prior presentation about basic backwards compatible changes. The example if we were to rev things forward and, like the... What's actually in the D yang model that inspired this. We have know the version one with the known field. Version two just simply says this is unknown if you're operationally receiving bit number two, it shows up in the unknown case. Not in the node ones. Version two of the draft of the R comes out. Eight detector gets fine, You know, the two is defined. So you do have a change in terms of scheme of presentation, your bits for the known flags, do alter. Your and unknown bits change or go go completely way, because there's nothing present in there. And this is expected because we're not changing the sc of. We're not changing this semantic necessarily. We are providing however a hint the user that this version of the model does understand this thing is not necessarily non backward compatible, but it is an upgrade. Alright. Okay. Thanks. Alright. Large and also I'm gonna start a poll"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:32:02",
    "text": "I think this actually modi the backward compared to rules. So going from this unknown to something degree known is backward compatible. So maybe still be documented in Rf. Thanks. I I agree the pattern is that fashion I tend to think of it personally as upgrade and maintain which will tie into the presentation that hash will be giving. So the working group will have an opinion about what this path looks like, especially night of the, know, non macro compatibility flagging these things as sc of changes. I do not have a strong opinion about this detail. This is an operational fact of life. This shall happen and the operational capability of viewing a known state we need to address this in some fashion even if it's selectively per module. Thank you for your time. Okay. We have a poll going on. Are you interested in in this work or working on unknown bits, coming up with the convention. Not we're not adopting this document just yet. We just wanna know if this is a topic the group would like to work on. Okay. So I'm gonna stop the pole it looks like about a little under half participated or about half participated And overwhelmingly, there was of those people, there's interest been this work. Thank you. And with that, I see my hash. I'll start I guess I have a more british time. So this presentation was made by Jeff and routing area looking group yesterday"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:34:02",
    "text": "focus, of course being work on Bg. And I'm gonna tune this a little bit to the language aspect and that changes the the issues that we run into. Next slide, please. Say here's some of the cool lessons that I'll kinda quickly go through. Actually. So the model came out to be set of five modules and nine sub modules. Yes, we did use sub modules although do they not very popular. But we liked it simply because allowed us to bucket items within the model that belonged to sudden modules So in total, it's probably it's close two and twenty five pages, probably one of the biggest young models I for lab quite some time. Normally, some of these models would start off with and... But we will blessed innovate that we got some initial work done by open config that we were able to inherit. As a starting point. But that work of trying to define of what content needed to go into the model. Was took that's quite some time. Even though what we were trying to do was only course on base model set of features that we wanted to define. To the and as usual that happens idea is a fairly active group. It has many more drafts that go and become rf. This is And running. So you can imagine there was a bit of a feature creep that we had to deal with. And multiple reviews and iterations we tried to see if this model was the right one. Young doctors were kind of helpful"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:36:02",
    "text": "but they are not experts. So definitely having that those kind of ice what I've hoped. As... And then, of course, the idea of having some modules and examination of where does a particular feature belong? Next slide. Future statements were particularly problem for us of course, as group understands they complicate the implementation in some sense. And in this particular case, we had features in an our feature trip. Where some of those features like add bugs. Are key elements for us in the model. And implementing them as under a feature statement, of course, would be a problem So a decision had to be made in the sense of... Do we add and to keep add parts outside of the future statement. The idea of of course, is that ultimately, the augmentation of the the model itself should be in a way that sorry. The model had to be structured in a way that it could be augmented by new models. And we'll talk a little bit about what are some of our experience was in dealing with that. Next slide. So here, as I said, one of the asks scores, do we re enabling feature work. Are we in somebody way impacting some of the best group drafts that needed to augment the Bg state in particular like path attributes and address families did the base model allow for"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:38:02",
    "text": "those augmentation. Idea itself had some cool features. As I said in feature creep that we needed to add what is that possible not just in this model, but also in the future. And again, there are all these incremental extensions that community types. For things like route targets. Next slide. So with some of the work that we believe is ex we decided that the work that the model had to be delegated to know simply because after the need our... When we went to it the B model if two lines of change, it took us a full year to just rev that r is just to fix error or in some cases just to add an extension. So we decided to extend make some of the models sign modules for community types and formats. Simply because I think it's easier to update and extend the model. As the working group knows, the choice of versus identities is kind of clear. Where you want to use them as Jeff mentioned that the previous presentation kind of for you to particular But a format whereas identities give you the ex ability of defining them in augmentation models. We had particularly particular issues with extended communities day and usually our for shrink format but need some kind of regular expression to qualify them. And which, of course, will you'll see as a subsequent slide"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:40:00",
    "text": "cause some headaches for us. Next slide. What really helped us through the process and trying to make sure the changes were always working with examples. And real world examples with and once that were complete, that touch multiple models or actually try to touch as many of the models. Is what you really need to make sure that your changes of seen at the end of the day. And as our build process was it that made sure that those examples were validated with every comment. Next slide. So in the Piece, which is probably some of the of interest in this working group. We touched upon several modules that we worked at. Key chain to manage security securing the Bg session, routing forms basis. It's The call frame up for the model, Tcp are transport. B for live check. Network instance. And one thing that I forgot to mention a scheme amount. Testing integration with all these models found bugs in Bg, and also the corresponding models. Particularly B, Tcp and policy. And those we were able to address because they were not Rf. Was a different question. It had all it had already been shipped as an rf. Does this look is what has always been problematic, and that's The reason why we bring this presentation here Thank the doctor engine it's important. What would help is a package of modules. That we have been tested together and verified that they work."
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:42:01",
    "text": "I'll quickly run through I think I only have two more slides. We can skip this. Like in conclusion would have work and this look a show time frame health, absolutely. But even just getting the initial content in it's into the model was hard. And once you have done it, almost every subsequent review kind of this glaze and it was harder to find things that were missing. In chart we found that into work not only was important, but it needed to be tested to make sure it was working. Just a quick shout out to Martin and Mikhail for their support on the tooling site. Yeah. I I have to I really appreciate this. So I think it's important for the group to hear it. Unfortunately, we do not have time to discuss it, which I think of us would be very interested in doing. So please take your questions to the list. Thank you very much. And we're gonna move to the next Incident management. Trump? And also you're gonna have eight minutes. Don't everyone. I'm from powering. And introduced they magnum. The network Next grief. Motivation? Fundamental imagine is with the growth of new studies and so that come. A lot of information, including Alain, cathy and information. You to talk You can't heavy a workload And let the mentioned it to be for the. Bye. Then click Make the years,"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:44:00",
    "text": "You may without in in that with the identification. And I'm several alarms and maybe with but forward though It may some second, mentioned manager the However, we found that. False, also keeping some other type update. So it's a very difficult to activate. Atlanta and. Next, please it's ten away, solution card using the measurement, if it packages interruption from familiar it thirty. Degradation of quality Sap and I was safe, it's with T. Profile by several function first. Of in unified manner. And the step can be. Into incident studies second, identify the relationship between and surveys. And relationship can be a perfect configured define the you restore architecture right?"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:46:00",
    "text": "And Of course... They another shape although be dynamic? Third we'll provide some of is gotcha if deposit card, back office. Next Therefore fault, use case amendment you say one I used two, I'll reconfigure it the example. You can see some several alarms metrics yeah. And get the effect that they by the pre Do. And dynamic relationship I I I can be used to called identification. And so in imp and ninety states. Such as a kinda overall I need just saving I lot will be trigger one of these the united But you know I'm So some can be price with devices and if the incident amendment that detail. Pay of the alarms? I was I'm associated with this it's that andrew will be... You can load and last incident. We are not triggered. Next."
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:48:00",
    "text": "Let me I qualify that the relationship. Because didn't president and land performance. You can say in the have figure performance trigger part to my controller and controller. This you imagine well will be aggregated into and then again in the very repository and layer and like. So the what kind dividend they are. Next. There's a couple the queue. Did you wanna wait until the end to acknowledge people Why do we do them at the end if if you can wrap up so that you can take questions. Sure. Yeah. Okay. I would provide for it's it identify either the Id and for sure. Is the And and then we also some recruiting time that I to meng category and. Would cause events Next, please. What probably Apc called not isn't and I he used to find that to find out it cause possible detection unlock have extension. Next. We another obviously it resilient and after the the call kind of manage truth"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:50:12",
    "text": "other such the population function configuration function. And it's paging ticket. I'll accident. It's. Brother. Blush. So in the three t p, we had a very similar discussion between alarms and incidents And it was discuss that alarms can be the level alarms like one I don't know. When interface down, or they can be very high level alarms like half of the Network is down. And it is possible to generate alarms based on five arms and two count... Two dozen counters. So Just because it's on the higher level, we don't need a different instead of or beside alarms. If you can convince us that information content between the proposed incidents and the other arms is very different. Done. Yes, then we have to consider this. But just because there are more inputs to generate the incident or alarm and because it reports on bigger items, not a single little failure that doesn't mean, it's a new category. Thank you. Thank you. Robertson Sister, just to say, I don't know you're aware familiar with the saying architecture documents the big look gone through ops A g and then the rf said it's you now, I think it might be wrong us. But but in terms of slide, I'm looking at size eight was very similar in terms of"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:52:00",
    "text": "of what your proposed in terms aggregating things up and generating results. And there's sort of full life cycle management again seems very similar to what the same architecture is proposing and encouraging. So my question is how does this differ from what's already about your publisher on ceo or and if either had different requirements, could it maybe be done as augmentation on top of that model rather of than as a a entirely separate model system on side. So this a shin and supplies for the comments. Actually. Yeah. We... The we'll out way proposal I tried to align with actually, are we also having where three Vpn duties this. Have sent a concept of the proposal that inside management, I think better to alarm all of these work. Also I gonna clarify this incident actually. Different from a traditional alarm actually, they more focus on, you know service level and So this reilly actually company where he's Alarm managing worker and try to provide a more perception reduce on the high level layer managing system. So Yeah. Thank you. Benoit. So for me the biggest advantage of this work, this is actually because it tried to map two different worlds in the world of what at working, the one from T which is top down and the one from, which is bottom up. And we know that if you want to solve the working for the industry, we have to do that. This is one of the first attempt of doing this matching. I knew I had to get for some time. I'm always Thank you. push it. So thank you for this one. Okay. Thank you very much. We're gonna move on to Michael. Can you pass me the slide control by clicking on my name. To the right Thank you. Okay. So this is a bit of implementation report if you like, and I'll be very quick. I talked about it in anna"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:54:02",
    "text": "before a couple days ago, but I really really would like your feedback or at least you know, your awareness of what was happening. So We have this document Rf c eighty three sixty six. Which kent as a c author and created this thing called a voucher. And it was great. And we augmented it in eight nine nine five to create this voucher request And then a little while later, we created this constrained voucher and we did it again or hop probably wrong as an augment and we then did a whole bunch of sid stuff, and I think we are the first users do anything with Sid. And that's another discussion. So another group came along and said we'd like to make additional changes. We have this B in P mode. And they needed some other other fields in the fo and the voucher requests and they did it with augment. And we thought that was great at the time. And then we asked the question. Well, what if we wanted to mix some, like, with that work? And the answer is mostly, no. It does not because Augment actually essentially creates a copy of what you had before, let's refine it, but it digit an and when you try and mix the green and the blue into to the new lighter green you get two copies of pink. And Initially, it looked like it wasn't a problem because there were bugs and gang and it just happily over one with the other and we then discovered while we're allocating sid numbers. That in fact, there was a real big problem and in fact, it was revealed the whole problem. So I've tried to document this through a Sears experiment last summer, and I would love to have more feedback on if there's something stupid that I did there, and that's in some of the mailing lists. So what did we do? We step back and said, hang on first of all, yang"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:56:02",
    "text": "young data is, you know, no longer or cool. Let's let's let's do with s structure and and and see what happens. And maybe we should be doing it such that we actually create a bunch of of of little bits of cookie and we put them together. So imagine we we did this with created a pink and a red, and a green and a blue part. And we first start off by mixing some of them together that way. And then the obvious next step is you you put this P voucher request some green, and then we put the blue one in instead, that's really really great. And and then we say, okay, we're gonna mix them together. Put them all together. Okay. How does that work? Well, it's okay if we were starting from scratch. We had three problems really. The first is that it's not compatible with the original R c eighty three sixty six voucher. I don't have proof of this. Yang doesn't seem to even wanna run the examples from that anymore. And I don't really know how to to make that all work. But I I'd like... I'd like... I'd still like to validate this. This doesn't work. But specifically, we wind up with a different structure and it appears to serial out into Json in a different format, and that would make it a completely different thing. The other thing that we got is that it became obvious that actually, we've created new objects. We haven't done what we wanted, which was to extend the objects in much the way that most protocols or other things would do that where they would you know, have a A registry or something like this and do that. So that did not work out and actually every one of these things winds up with their own file if you do it correctly. And that's exactly what we did not want, which was new set of objects and new set of numbers. So what do we do? We removed all the ink from other documents and we wrapped it up into Rf c eighty three sixty this as a single yang module. And I think based on what I observe going through other working groups to send what everyone does is they put their yang in one file and one document. All their logic in another document."
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:58:02",
    "text": "And they just plan on revising the yang module and whenever necessary. And so that's essentially what we've done. If we were to start over again, I think we would try... We do all the Cd l. Rather than yang. And so that's maybe the feedback you don't wanna hear. And why would love to hear on the mailing list, probably not here. Was was there something else that we we missed that we should have done instead. You're allowed to go back and tell us we were stupid back in twenty seventeen, and that's okay. And... Or, you know, was this inevitably what what's gonna happen when you use ying data at. Structure. Thanks. Not he's not coming to the mic. Okay. Thank you. Thank you. Thank hunt silence. Either the group seems to have lost energy on this. But appreciate the feedback and So there is an example that there there is an example repo where I put all these three methods that we try together into a simplest simplest version And if you want that, I I should have put that in my slide, but I didn't. Because I thought it was dead. But it's all the mailing list several times. Well, if you can bump it to the top by sending it to the list again, that be not. Have a good day enjoy lunch. I appreciate that. So we've reached the end of our session at almost the end of the meeting, but so appreciate all of you who stayed to the end, and look forward to seeing you in the next meeting, maybe even in person. I'd really appreciate all those who we're here at odd times to participate remotely. Thank you all. Kent, do you want us say anything? Yes. Sorry. It takes so little bit for mike to turn on."
  },
  {
    "startTime": "02:00:03",
    "text": "On Michael's last presentation, there wasn't anyone that came. I think if we were months, but maybe we could pull for interest in interim. Wanna talk about this after? Sure if you wanna do a a poll, Okay. I'll try to do one fast? While you're doing it, I'm gonna ask it for a show of hands from those and oh, here we go. Here's the So if you're interested in talking more about the issues that Michael Raised, please join raise your hand. From my standpoint, even though it's not a lot of people saying, yes, so I think that's sufficient to warrant having more discussion on the topic. So good call on that. I think there's also interest in perhaps talking more learning more about Bg experiences. So stay tuned for a couple of interim. In addition to the adoption call we talked about earlier. Thank you all so much. And with that, we're closed."
  }
]
