[
  {
    "startTime": "00:00:04",
    "text": "oh good we won okay you could have a second type digger again this is just the first 45 minutes and then it\u0027s payload so no but anybody else no anybody else want a laptop all right finally but then I can\u0027t do the cover for yourself okay I\u0027m not something to be the debit card I see kragnes I see you\u0027ve turned the temperature oh yeah I\u0027m in the room but I also share every decor yeah we decided that still is still a meeting car um because it made the did life easier for the data tracker even though I kind of wanted to resurrect you know to resurrect the old abt group so that we could again be the oldest group in the idea but yes what oh you\u0027re presenting right so yeah so okay so you can\u0027t go take let\u0027s see um oh can I get you that\u0027s important Bernard you\u0027re in the front row okay or the yeah or the etherpad so so so buzzin get your pads so you don\u0027t know you just have to fix this typos that\u0027s probably easier than all right so it is 132 so we\u0027re already tube inside schedule so but we have no takers which is Bo and Bernard doing an ether pad and we have magnets on the job if your remote also if your on me Tico we have our fancy red button so if you want to participate remotely and actually talk to us using some of the protocols that we invented how exciting I\u0027m pretty sure then it\u0027s using floor control and it\u0027s using WebRTC so Jessi did an RTP which is this working groups protocol so so you do that if you can unless you know you haven\u0027t brushed your hair today or something in your embarrassed well you can do voice on the action also anyway but but if you need to say magnets also really all right this is the new note well it\u0027s not the same as the old mount well although it\u0027s "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:03:04",
    "text": "not very different as I understand it I think they mostly just added the additional like yeah I think harassment policies and things like that but I think they also I think there was also abyss of one of the relevant RFC\u0027s but don\u0027t ask me I\u0027m not a lair what I think privacy policy was added and I think one of the I think they just list the things might be s by BCP not RFC number so we don\u0027t need to update it when they Beth when they grab the BCP okay agenda start will start with the arm cat feedback message that column is doing that\u0027s for the for the condition control work coming out of our I\u0027m cat then Ronnie has his presentation about adding a frame priority header extension and then then we\u0027re done and move over to payload which I think if we finish early will let payload think over right away because we want because we\u0027ve got XR block after payload because we\u0027re basically resurrecting the old apt group we\u0027re just doing it you know with musical chairs literally so no new documents since last time under published RFC\u0027s our miss rafts continue multipath RDP has expired nothing has happened with that I think we with what with all the multi-purpose yeah other side what sure what you really I mean my suggestion last time is that we should what was to take multipath off the milestones and you know if somebody wants to bring it back they can I think I said last time somebody said no I might want it but there has nonetheless not bid a lot of attention to that so is there any objection at this point to taking multipath RTP off the milestones and we\u0027re not above Microsoft no objection because I don\u0027t think there\u0027s an alternative but I will say that multipath is likely to be deployed anyway in a non-interoperable way as well I mean if you want to do something about our interoperable we can\u0027t stop you yeah all right so I mean would you is it I someone you say it is yes mrs. Microsoft doing this would they rather multiple interoperable implementations and if so would they really devote are they willing to put effort into the spec because apparently right now I mean I\u0027m "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:06:06",
    "text": "happy to get us out reassigning a part of the issue is it\u0027s not just multipath RTP it\u0027s multipath ice so you know if the ITF isn\u0027t willing to get its hands around this problem you know it you can\u0027t just do one of those two things right : I mean these are presumably separable well there\u0027s they\u0027re separable parts but they\u0027re you need both I mean you need both of them clearly yeah but it is is there any benefit in in writing this bike for one part and getting interoperability I\u0027m at least everyone dings one part of it the same way even if they don\u0027t do the other purpose segment sure but if you\u0027re like as an organization the ITF takes on one kind of logical to do the other one yeah I\u0027m not saying it\u0027s bad to do I mean I think or that you should not do as an individual I think it would be very reasonable for you to bring a multipath ice to the ice working group or possibly dispatched but as a that is certainly not matter on the ITF the ITF takes on a task does a piece of it leaves large portions of it non-interoperable and we end up with stuff not working I mean this is this is the that\u0027s kind of how this organization works I\u0027m just just pointing it out again there\u0027s a been a very director IETF at the volunteer organization we can certainly work on that if people want to work on it it\u0027s just I\u0027m assuming that we don\u0027t have enough people that want to work on it or we\u0027d be doing it I work on it I mean actually write the draft and everything the way this actually works is when you don\u0027t charter the work to actually six make the thing successful right when we charter a piece but not the rest of it people look at this and go okay well the problem is body fat r2p predates ice right amazingly yeah so it\u0027s it\u0027s not just oh we should ask people to work out because people look at this to go oh yeah I could do this but it won\u0027t work anyway and you haven\u0027t charted the other work and there\u0027s nothing really happen would be bring multi-path ice to either ice or dispatch and then finish multipath RTP here working with that I have to go together though well I mean gathered up and I\u0027m not saying that\u0027s a I mean once we had multi bad ice we would rewrite my lease by 30 V to work with it could do that don\u0027t require all shorts it\u0027s a broader solution than just RTP you\u0027re kind of relate yeah as the area director I would have no objection to adding multipath ice to whichever Charter we think it belongs on so what is the upshot for this working group see if somebody actually does come up with body fat ice and time for Montreal and Park it for now it seems like the suggestion for "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:09:12",
    "text": "this working group is to drop it unless someone is willing to bring back a proposal to do her face as well does that burner mean take it drop of a star or does it mean the milestone because clearly no one is working on it right now and encourage people that if they\u0027re interested in this problem we know how to do it and involves two pieces of work okay I will so you\u0027ll send the email to the mailing list to that effect thing that were dropping the milestone but we encourage people who are interested in this work to bring the entirety of them you know them all the work necessary for a real solution the appropriate working groups all right [Music] multiplex tried guidelines where are we on that honey oh he\u0027s funny is nothing common Pugin so the multiplex guidelines stall in that a bunch of us started writing it and then sort of lost the will to live and give up and Ronnie decided it was important and would resurrect it but then I think it stalled again I\u0027m uncle unconvinced there is value in it but I\u0027m not objecting if someone else thinks it\u0027s valuable I volunteered to do it and we had someone do the actual editing from far away but he stopped you changed position so I will prop I said I\u0027ll continue is that I mean just to finish it so we\u0027ll have it but if people feel there\u0027s no real value I don\u0027t know but anyhow yeah it\u0027s slow slowly would say in substance but I I mean I we didn\u0027t update in the before last meeting and and here\u0027s some I think open issues etc which needs to do this more text needed and more editing needed so all right and then finally on frame working I think I think we have all you what ok yeah so yeah so we did it working with less call yeah I guess Ben mal conductor yeah Moses and we we had some comments that were all hours of the editorial I had a noodle bit about your comments about the tl0 pic index rapping on idea or not and the the use of the I bit when spatial layers don\u0027t refresh "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:12:14",
    "text": "but I didn\u0027t see a hard need to do anything different normatively for either one of those I think it\u0027s it\u0027s acceptable to let people do the handling whichever way they want for both those issues because I don\u0027t think there\u0027s going to be a major benefit to doing or specifying one certain way I think that as a receiver you need to know which way the sender is doing it you know whether that\u0027s not there\u0027s a normative language or what but there\u0027s they behave differently in terms of we can add some more clarification text around around the scenarios but I don\u0027t think we want to enforce anything normative leave either way either you know prohibit streams that do it one way or tell receivers that they can always count on it being this way I think you either were you know those would be a bad thing to put in spec but we\u0027re gonna have some clarification text around what the scenarios are and all the other comments were were largely tutorial and clarification as well remember what I said well so for the I bit it was do you want to prohibit layer structures where spatial layers do not refresh when base layers intro refresh and what\u0027s the meaning of the I but in that case I think it\u0027s as written i--but as per layer so it doesn\u0027t for anything to have a base layer with it I bit set doesn\u0027t mean that the spatial enhancement layers are going to also have their idea set so I think the current semantics work work okay but I\u0027ll have some clarifying text around around that and the other issue was the to0 pick index wrapping on on an intra picture or not and again I don\u0027t think we want to prohibit and that\u0027s that do or don\u0027t because there\u0027s we already have two big formats that do it differently right yeah so I mostly say that on our own entropy or epoch index was basically unspecified yeah so I think we can add some clarifying text about why it could be one way or the other depending on the payload format but we don\u0027t have anything normative about requiring it and the other thing is that we had a new IPR disclosure we already had one before but it was the terms were pretty permissive basically RF if you don\u0027t bug us but the new disclosure is just friend so you know possibly royalty bearing declaration there so everyone please take a look at that and and make your evaluations about it I try to get the new version out my name the month end of March okay great and if there were and I guess if you\u0027re making technical decisions on things respond to them you know I guess if you respond to like my email where there are actually technical questions not just editorial I\u0027ll try to braise them MLS to just so we could make sure that they\u0027re "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:15:14",
    "text": "called out and people can respond if they disagree with those decisions Ben Campbell can you make sure that the question about are there any problems with the IPR disclosure gets asked on the list okay we\u0027ll make sure of that that\u0027s please make sure that we know that\u0027s reflected so we won\u0027t do it probably I mean procedurally makes more sense for the chairs to do it I think yeah all right we haven\u0027t we haven\u0027t allocators ever get I don\u0027t think that it\u0027ll be one of it\u0027ll be the chair what you usually do that out that last call I guess I could do it earlier don\u0027t probably me at me anyway so whatever okay so that\u0027s it for okay yeah your house show makes like really relevant do it or what hey I\u0027m Colin Perkins I congratulate you in having this first room where I can actually read the monitor next slide please um I\u0027m here to talk about the TCP congestion feedback draft so we we\u0027ve been discussing this in our mcat for some number of months now and at the last meeting was a decision to adopt this as an AV T core document and we submitted the zero zero were heavy t car working group draft in October 2017 which was identical to the design team output from our MCAT and then just before this meeting we submitted a zero one update which is a much more substantial update the summary of the changes in the zero one update is on here we figured out the the values for the time stamps and the formatting of the time stamps and adjusted the arrival time stamp lock rate I made a bunch of clarifications on what gets reported in which packets and how to handle sequence number referendum that sort of thing and I\u0027ll talk about much more about that in a second we also just gave some new expanded the security considerations clarified the draft throughout cited the the CC feedback draft for the timing rules and so on and so on ok so looking at the technical changes in the previous version of the draft the report time stamp which indicates when this congestion control feedback was sent was very ill specified the draft said it should be should be derived from the same wall clock used to timestamp RTP packet arrivals suggested the applaud resolution of a bout of a tenth "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:18:15",
    "text": "of a millisecond made sense but didn\u0027t specify anything else so we would have needed some signaling to say what\u0027s clock rate was being used what the resolution was how the clock was derived and so on the draft didn\u0027t define any of that signaling what the the new version of that draft does is that you use the same clock used to generate the NTP timestamp in the sender report and the receiver report packets and you font it in the same way as the NTP timestamp in those packets and that gives you a one sixty five thousandth of a second clock resolution which is more accurate than that which was suggested before and has a sufficient range that it covers all the appropriate values and it\u0027s a clock you already have if you have an RCP implementation so it seemed easier to just mandate an existing clock sauce than to define some singing and make everyone go to the complexity of having different singling different versions and hang to agree on what was the right thing so it was the first change mcslade the the second change once we did that the arrival time offset fields which sure the difference for when the arrival time of the arrival time of an RTP packet relative to that timestamp field were previously specified in milliseconds they now specified in 1024 of a seconds because that gives an integer offset from the report time stamp with the new definition and it\u0027s a slightly different value but it fit again fits more neatly into the existing clocks and so on so I guess the question is does this make sense and I get the question for our MCAT is it doesn\u0027t make sense for the King the the congestion control algorithms I guess the group from the question for this group is does it make sense for an ICP usage point of view is this a sensible clock and formative in an appropriate way and if anyone has an objection to this proposal I something you\u0027d like to hear but I don\u0027t feel like standing up but you know in my main concern would be if you\u0027re you\u0027re obviously comparing these arrival times to you\u0027re sending times and if the arrival time is I mean there\u0027s probably your system your your operating system is not giving you these times in the other 24 second so you might end up with roundings yeah the open systems probably giving you microsecond microsecond right yeah or some arbitrary system plug hood you have to convert anyway yeah yeah I mean you\u0027re gonna get those roundings pretty much any way you specify thickness yeah yeah I tend to think that is probably unimportant for a level of accuracy we care about and it\u0027s its cleanest to specify it this way is I I\u0027m inclined to probably agree but but yeah there\u0027s certainly a rounding issue somewhere "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:21:15",
    "text": "yeah okay next slide all right um some of the other triggers we specified what happens if you don\u0027t get any packets from an SSRC in in a reporting interval and the recommendation here is if you don\u0027t get any packets you don\u0027t send a report and you should send a regular send a report or receive a report in that case and typically you\u0027ll be sending the congestion feedback as part of a compound packet which has one of those anyway but the suggestion is if you don\u0027t get a don\u0027t get any packets wish you would send congestion feedback on you send a a reception area code block that says the hi sequence number is unchanged so you know that nothing has been received I guess the alternative here will be concerned that a congestion feedback packet was just the beginning sequence equal to the end sequence equals the last sequence number you reported on which was also sure but there\u0027s nothing sent and we\u0027d have to specify what you do if you never got any packet looking we could work through that to me it doesn\u0027t seem worth the overhead but if people thought that was easier we could suddenly suggest that that was the other thing we did it was specify what sequence numbers you should include in each report and the previous version the draft didn\u0027t specify what seemeth number ranges were in each report the new one just says you report them on all the packets you got and the sequence number range in reports n starts one packet after the reporting that the range in packet n minus one so I just thought yeah they\u0027re just consecutive blocks it\u0027s doing the obvious thing it says the ranges should not overlap if they do overlap we specify that information sent in a later report updates that\u0027s in the earlier reports so if it says a packet arrived and didn\u0027t in the previous report that camps has arrived again it\u0027s individual and I\u0027m being so I was sending up so is that later in arrival time or later in like I mean you could in theory if it\u0027s if this is multiplex with SR you could get this sending time of the compound rtcp sure instead basically you know if the I\u0027m worried to fee if you have like rtcp reordering on the wire but you could actually infer the sending times with the rtcp I mean the reports have got and things like timestamp in so you know this hydro yeah so so that\u0027s right of course it\u0027s I don\u0027t think so but we based on me the port time so it\u0027s based on the report time step got arrival if a block with a later report time subject later in the sent me and played a report time step not later later arrival at the receiver yes I mean if a packet arrives late so it was it was not in a previous report and you you could send a new "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:24:18",
    "text": "report which which overlaps that range and say that you got that package I tend to think it\u0027s not worth it because it arrives too late to be useful for congestion control in pretty much every case anybody but yeah we had specify what would happen if you did it and in addition we put in some some discussion about handling sequence number wraparound and I put it some words about if you get a packet which is more than one quarter of the sequence number space ahead of behind you ignore it basically you start getting confusion whether it\u0027s a delayed a very delayed packet or something far ahead so it\u0027s just easier that way next slide I\u0027m just sorry I\u0027m just I\u0027m before you do that I\u0027m thinking about the the sequence number thing I\u0027m concerned about like cases where a you know if the source has been off for a long time and then comes back and now you\u0027re maybe you were well the sequence number should only go up by one in the short while depends on why it was off I mean if you had a you know a net split and then it came back or something like that yeah that\u0027s true so it\u0027s not like what you do at that point I think is I suspect it\u0027s ambiguous as to which it should be in yeah there and there\u0027s also only we need some words to yeah okay other than that we just made a bunch of clarifications essentially we fix the security considerations specified that\u0027s sequence numbers can wrap around and you have to handle that and delegate it to the errand cat draft for further guidance for how you configure our TCB so you get the appropriate amount of feedback and just did a bunch of editorial fixes okay that\u0027s what I have I had one other comment on the draft list you had a comment in there to the effect of you should send feedback for every source which is doing congestion control which seems like a very Wiggly statement how do you know which remote sources are doing a gesture control you I the draft doesn\u0027t specify yes I guess you have negotiated some parameters for that congestion control so it\u0027s yes where all these parameters were justified okay good question I would think that mr. to be in this draft in fact I mean we shouldn\u0027t maybe specify permit so that says you should you need to send this feedback right yeah well clearly clear well clearly we need to add STP saying hey guys support the see that message it\u0027s very minimal sure and then but if you hadn\u0027t has afraid that\u0027s probably all we need yeah well I mean it\u0027s it\u0027s your your wording there implied you might have like some of these sources or congestion controlled in some mark presumably the use case I think that was audio and "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:27:18",
    "text": "video or something like that but let me I was thinking that much but yeah yes if we had a case where somewhere in some are after some way of saying which are in my charge yeah yeah yeah I mean you\u0027re right we will need to specify some signaling to say send this feedback the rest the rest would be congestion control algorithms probably but I mean we I I mean I would not be inclined to have some way of saying some sources should get this feedback and some shouldn\u0027t because that doesn\u0027t feel like to be useful but if somebody thinks we should then we need to say personally or say um I couldn\u0027t I could imagine you know that some sources are not going to respond to this feedback I agreed that they should but they\u0027re not going to citizen it yeah so the other sources could potentially you know accommodate themselves if they\u0027re got five people anyway potentially but they\u0027re not necessarily showing a 5-2 points yeah but yeah I mean we can put the singling in as a not CCP thing and possibly as an SS se specific thing if we care yeah so yeah well we\u0027ll do the obvious thing okay something okay any other questions comments oh yeah he\u0027s cute review yes um well I will go a little further than please is can we have anybody who\u0027s willing to volunteer to review this Harold volunteers to review it and I\u0027m Bernard photographer ology review it so and Magnus so maybe the laundry review which is would be good if that all happened so please said you review the list I\u0027m hoping Magnus is review will be very short and he\u0027ll say we addressed all the comments from last time I suspect it won\u0027t be the case yeah just to inform make we have a good up that many internally maintained for the motors to interact but if you wanna do the review there as well that can you send him and you said he know about that what that get others to the list and yeah it\u0027s basically I\u0027m a private personal by that\u0027s fine I mean all technical comments should be on the list editorial stop and go to the yeah just pills just process when you say move forward to WG last call a tidy f12 and I hope you how considering to have it and what working you\u0027ve lost called before idea for home that would be good too if it\u0027s finished before they\u0027re basically working group last fall when when people think it\u0027s ready to go to work with a blast off yes yes the one or two was my aspiration for when I thought we would get to it but if if we happen to go faster than that that works for me guess we are very very efficient in this working group yes just look it I\u0027ll do that RDP yeah thank you all right and right "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:30:26",
    "text": "okay the friend priority marking for the extension to the priority marking that\u0027s now just revision for good luck on hopefully it\u0027s done so maybe we can discuss it in a separate document next slide so currently the frame marking just have for the non-scalable a bit it says that that there are drop up that this frame is droppable and by droppable it mean it\u0027s must be decodable because because of all that\u0027s what it says it doesn\u0027t provide any more information about it and the the problem is that I mean let\u0027s say we have a couple of free market is even though there are not no definition about which frames should be marked as droppable in the non-scalable one it doesn\u0027t even allow for a middle box to decide if there are some of them and a couple of them in it once just to go up some of them anyway to decide which one to drop it\u0027s arbitrary thing currently so we suggest him to add the priority value for the non-scalable tree in the optimal frame which would be applicable to a single RTP stream it\u0027s not to compare between different streams but inside the stream to say which one if you need to drop which one you should drop first in which one you should grow later so proposed some extension some extension to the car to the frame marking document and it allowed the middle box to discard part of all of the discardable frames is marked by the encoder it\u0027s this provides more options to the middle box to address things like congestion control by deciding how many frames it want how many frames it to drop part of the frame in some better way than just doing it arbitrarily it\u0027s a lot of differentiation between reference and known reference be frame to drop first the known reference be frame dropping frame and this is more like the proposal about how we are trying to we\u0027re currently testing how to to do that I out what if this priorities was to to differentiate between an orphans be frame and reference be frame and dropping P frame that are closer to the end of the group of GOP it\u0027s better than dropping one at the beginning can be marked this is droppable is Louis priority next slide so what we\u0027re suggesting is to adding to bid from therefore must be zero bits when zero zero is the highest priority and one one is the lowest so zero zero it still keeps the interoperability with the current document where when it\u0027s phone phone for the marking this works even if the priority is person but not a is supported by the middle box because the droppable will be one and then we have zero zero which will speed the same "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:33:27",
    "text": "as before it doesn\u0027t break any into a probability with the current frame marking proposal okay so it was a Hindu I hope to adopt that we are currently and like I said we are currently did some tests and we are testing it in our in the Wi-Fi routers where we use it in order to provide better quality in the Wi-Fi when we have to drop frame and it works provides good enough results what is the use cases use em as this like IPTV type of streaming or yes mostly mostly worst in the home network and of course it\u0027s for the non-scalable for skeletons [Music] Hey comparing so they have no objection to adopting the work I do think that the issue all along has been defining how you do the marking and now you do how you do the marking and how you decide which priority is spot on with which frequency and I haven\u0027t seen anything in the draft to consider that so basically I wrote some of the way that we are doing based on on the B frame and P frames but we can add it to the document if it\u0027s not there I mean to explain what what at least I mean again it\u0027s up to the encoder to decide which frames he wants to decide which one unless or higher priority and that\u0027s why I said it\u0027s not it\u0027s not for comparing between two different strain it\u0027s in a single stream to figure out if you want to drop which one you should better drop and which one should not I\u0027m not sure that works I think you need to define the marking how how the marking rates map on to drop probabilities if you want to have an inconsistent behavior from the middle boxes so more like to explain which one we are marking is different which priority okay that\u0027s part ways you have a middle box by one vendor and correct from another slide you don\u0027t know what rate at which the marking will happen so you don\u0027t know how he can be you drop the marks back but the middle box doesn\u0027t know I mean it\u0027s depends what the encoder will put inside there\u0027s nothing to do with what the middle box just see the priority and can decide accordingly but in order to make a sensible decision it needs to know the marking rates and the likelihood of marking noise you can\u0027t decide what fraction of packets so to know what how because it depends how we need one to drop it figure out which priorities it wants to draw you know 90% of the stream or 10% of the okay okay okay - Westland channeling Tom Peterson how will this "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:36:29",
    "text": "peck consider streams that may have or may have faked or should it explicitly declare it should not be first some FEC if done should I mean this speck considers dreams that may have Effie seen him or is it totally Odom forbid it markings again that this is I mean this is part of the way how you can receive it to address it whether it\u0027s FCF ECC for the correction or you have some other mechanism you talk about some error recovery on the receiver side I\u0027ve asked my interpreter interpreting the question in this case I would think is it can you use it to mark the FAC stream also probably probably yes but I don\u0027t think they did if he drops that there would a lot the ones who will try try to drop certain but they were but I mean the recovery on the receiver side can be multiple ways I mean DUP sixes are doing just the motion estimation or things like that in order to recover afterwards without any FEC or anything not about my son FEC is typically up by half right so the the conference unit would take it recover if it wants to but it\u0027s not gonna just forward the FEC it has to reconstruct so why would you use this for an FDC stream or an archaic stream that make any sense no okay but but with respect to the draft itself my suspicion is it\u0027s not likely to be that frequently implemented by the streaming video people I know the people who would use the B frames certainly if someone else has a different opinion they can speak up but it\u0027s at least good my sense yeah so at least this one I mean this is implemented in in our environment I mean the streaming video ecosystems rather different than but despite oh this is diving Mosin are just on the previous spec comments some frame marking is currently defined does not cannot be used for effects dreams it\u0027s for only video payload formats can be applied to audio or effect male extremes as if that\u0027s how I send the fuck misc a few interviews effect inside the stream then what I mean is you cannot attach a frame marking extension to this one we\u0027ll probably won\u0027t want to be like "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:39:32",
    "text": "okay so I so I guess the question is is this is there interest in this and I know it\u0027s always hard to get traction here for things in the IPTV space rather than the conferencing space I mean it\u0027s obviously not a big draft other than this question of you know is them you know is there enough information for the for the marker to do something the the important input I got is that it should provide some way to specify the percentage of yeah or either the percentages or yeah either either six mostly signal it or give guidance your middle box to monitor and gas or something like that yeah my suggestion might also be since since there is a way when signaling header extensions you can put parameters on the maybe this is a parameter saying I\u0027m doing this marking also which is also doing that okay because currently we don\u0027t have any signaling some parameter either to the signaling so mercenary I\u0027ll just echo the same comments I\u0027ve had for the last several sessions when this is brought up I don\u0027t have any objection to work but my my reservation about it is that you know it requires a certain amount of coupling between you know all system components senders and receivers need to have a certain level of understanding so the reason you bring at the ITF would be to standardize understanding but it seems to me pretty hard to actually standardize the level of understanding well enough so that so that senders and receivers you know have a good feel for what what the percentages and and and relative priorities are of these packets so um so I that\u0027s why I think if you if you already have coupling between your senders and receivers you only need ITF to do anything it\u0027s only if you want interoperable implementations of this that you need to standardize it in which case I\u0027m not sure that it\u0027s really clear to an arbitrary vendor receiver what an arbitrary vendor sender what Mark is from a receiver point of view it just you just say that instead of one bit from drop drop drop about frame it has basically three bits for distribution we talked about the distribution I think it\u0027s viable to find the world senator works personally saying hey I expect this stream to be you know ten percent mark zero and twenty five percent mark Twan and so on and so forth with that I mean I don\u0027t know if that\u0027s practical but if they were able to do that with that resolve your concern you mean it\u0027s some sort of like s des announcement or interests as or an SDP or something yeah if there was something to tell there\u0027s something to give guidance to a receiver then it may start to make sense but without something to know what the coupling between sender and receiver is I don\u0027t see how it could be interoperable okay confidence that "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:42:35",
    "text": "has to be something that\u0027s signal to the middle books is to see that\u0027s right yeah okay okay okay so I guess encourage Ronnie to look at that and so I would look and try to update the document and then we\u0027ll talk about whether it\u0027s make sense over okay so I believe that is the agenda of the agenda for AVT core unless anybody else has any comments otherwise we will get out of here and move on to hello [Music] Jonathan yeah is it do we need to change something here phille for to be Navy in payload instead of you "
  }
]