[
  {
    "startTime": "00:00:05",
    "text": "I know okay and folks it is that time this is UTA if you\u0027re here for something else and or get bored by TLS you know find something else there and I guess we have Alexi in the house so it means we can get started so um you\u0027ll notice that I\u0027m not here well by my lonesome today and that\u0027s because my co-chair couldn\u0027t make it here for a personal reasons so be gentle the blue sheets are going round and and I\u0027ll ask your help to keep an eye on the meet echo Q because you know a little bit about wide the wide angle of your work here so you\u0027ve all seen the note well you know what it means take care we have a pretty packed agenda today so we\u0027ll have to sort of speed up and keep to our times the I thought I actually would start with a quick look at see if I can do that a quick look at our document status even though it\u0027s sort of big let\u0027s see if that works all right something like that as you will know we\u0027ve published a few RFC\u0027s in this work working group we have a few active drafts in the email field and one of them is in working group last call the TLS reporting we\u0027re gonna do a quick for hopefully a quick discussion on the kV vs. Jason issue today and we\u0027re also gonna do run through a deep and let\u0027s see if I can get this back in full screen and we\u0027re also going to do a quick update on the Iroquois TLS draft as I stood up and said in Sag I think after we get the email work done and we can sort of see that on the horizon there isn\u0027t that much sort of obviously left without working up to do so if you in your various networks know about people who are thinking about bringing stuff to UK tell them it\u0027s time to do that right away certainly before Singapore all right um I haven\u0027t actually put any time in the agenda for discussion on TLS reporting because it isn\u0027t working your last call if you do have things there do send it to the menu list so with that I let\u0027s see do we have some of the people from the the TA MTA SDS draft they are on on mute echo so "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:03:09",
    "text": "guys would one of you like to step up to the remote queue and talk about the proposal that you guys put together for kV I\u0027m let\u0027s see if anybody is awake over there otherwise feel free to step up to the microphone and discuss this issue my hope and expectation is that we can have a consensus call in the next 15 to 20 minutes about this issue and this is the last issue that\u0027s holding up the SDS draft Chris Newman one point I want to make about the consensus call for kV vs. JSON is to make sure you ask the question of the people who don\u0027t care which of the two outcomes are chosen that\u0027s a good point thank you and just as a for formality sake I will note that the current draft says JSON which means that a change to kV and implies working group consensus which means that we if we don\u0027t have consensus we stay with JSON [Music] so I I was yes your name Martin artisan in CNL so I read the security considerations for the yes yes draft and I have a question about that I I get the feeling that there is a difference in the security you get if you use tofu between having a lot of mail and seeing a lot less mail and that\u0027s not the case for start Els Dane so it is it is a difference and the start of the document points to the Security section as the section which discusses all of the differences so I was wondering if there\u0027s interest including that because it might not be obvious to everyone deciding between these two protocols because that\u0027s basically it\u0027s a competitor right Alex immigrating text contributions are welcome send them to the main in this absolute okay and then you know if it\u0027s good text so rich can you is anybody awake over at the STS people on job or see if they can sort of if they have anything to say about this issue who\u0027s right now it seems like the right time to ask about it would be a right good time to ask who actually cares about this issue all right so there in the "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:06:13",
    "text": "absence of vigorous discussion here I\u0027m just gonna do a get a sense of the room about the KB vs. Jason issue so as you\u0027ve all seen the the draft authors proposed alternative text that had a a an alternative representation of the same data that goes in the current JSON format so you made a good point there Chris who in the current who here or on job role remote have like read both proposals a few I of those of you who have actually read this um you have a strong as anybody has a strong preference about either of these oh okay can you could you suggest that they channel through yabber instead and all that just have to do that we don\u0027t actually dependent on on meet echo here so there there doesn\u0027t seem to be strong preference either way all right since II maybe we should have done this towards the end of the session when people have had a chance to debug their environments again if you know people don\u0027t express like a strong opinion and argue the case on somebody\u0027s victor is stepping up excellences oh hi I just joined so I didn\u0027t hear the question even are you getting key value or something the quest yes the question on the table is given the proposal that is on the table for a key value representation you know people care strongly not at all so first that looks better to me all right so we have one yes I am NOT hearing strong consensus actually I\u0027ve got some private "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:09:19",
    "text": "complaints from Murray but he\u0027s not here so what will obviously confirm on the list right but I think this the sense in this room is that most people don\u0027t seem to care either way you know which is fine I think this is this is a better way it\u0027s not quite bike shed but it the format is unlikely to be extended unless people have examples so I think that the point about you know part of the decision to help us is how likely this is going to be extending and what kind of data we\u0027re going to see there right you know one question is does it have to have like values with utf-8 for example and no or not you know that might not affect the format very much but this sort of questions right all right so Victor for you and for everybody who might be joining late and it\u0027d be helpful if you would reflect the list on on the average so it is this is the time to speak up if you have strong opinions about this if you don\u0027t have any strong opinions either way then we can do whatever you know will do what the working of wants and right now that is to keep it as it is that\u0027s my interpretation of this [Music] well we may have to take this to the list if there isn\u0027t an absolute one question to ask is ask the reverse question who who will not implement this if this is X right that that\u0027s how I that\u0027s what I meant by saying strong feeling asking for people who have strong feelings about this I\u0027m assuming that if you feel strongly enough to say I will never implement a JSON value in JSON version that\u0027s having strong feelings about this all right so it doesn\u0027t seem like we can profitably sort of conclude this here but I to me it sounds like we don\u0027t have strong consensus to make a change will confirm that on the list that may change depending on who actually turns up for a discussion on the list all right I think that\u0027s all we can actually do here there is open mic later so if people want to get back to this we can do that so Keith let\u0027s see if we can get let\u0027s see if I can find your presentation among my windows here it is all right now for something completely "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:12:20",
    "text": "different okay so curious as to how many people have read - 0-7 at this document and okay so it\u0027s a pretty substantial rewrite a lot of text is borrowed from the previous version but it\u0027s fairly rearranged because of some feedback we got in Chicago that said that this should be a BCP so I tried to make it a BCP go ahead and change slides there we go so I tried to make it a BCP and I\u0027m not really sure I was successful because making a piece making the document of BCP pretty much meant taking out all the protocol bits and Chris argues and I think I agree with him that without I actually left some protocol bits in there but that\u0027s kind of a bit risky I think because things that are actually protocol should be on the standards track so that can be subject to interoperability tests and that kind of critical review but this was an attempt to rewrite the document as a BCP the biggest change is that the STS stuff has now been removed I did get a little feedback in private mail that said that they didn\u0027t the the person said you know our company is not likely to implement this because of the SES stuff it\u0027s just not enough value for us and I was wondering if a lot of this sort of pushback on that document was for the SES stuff which i think is useful but maybe not so much needed in the near term so anyway it\u0027s not in version 0 7 make sure didn\u0027t miss anything okay go ahead yeah so it\u0027s the same goal if anything I actually tried to make the statement a little bit clearer basically clear text for interactions between the mail user agent and the mail service provider should be considered obsolete in most cases there are some corner cases for which you\u0027ll still need to do it if you\u0027re if you\u0027re with legacy clients or appliances they can\u0027t be upgraded but I can\u0027t you know aside from those corner cases it seems like the best current practice really is you should encrypt this traffic you should encrypt it using TLS and we will argue further you should probably do this using implicit to us although if you start TLS that\u0027s still still okay and I guess the other bit is that there\u0027s still the text in there about for 465 as sort of the the best way forward to to use submission over TLS so there\u0027s still sort of a conflict over that port but the language hasn\u0027t changed so next slide so in summary the best current practices for mail service providers provide implicit unless "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:15:22",
    "text": "versions of the services also provides start TLS versions at least in the near term advertise these services using DNS server records advertise the TLS a records if they\u0027re signed by DNS SEC so that they can use Dane and deprecated in quotes clear text mail services as soon as practicable so if you\u0027re a mail service provider this is sort of saying you should we in your users off of clear text mail services but what that means is up to you it depends on your business and your business cases and transition users to TLS 1.1 or later as soon as practicable okay and for mail user agents you know support serve record discovery for discovering configurations except you should prefer TLS and on TLS you should try to set up a configuration which actually encrypts the traffic and this notion of a minimum level of confidentiality is still in there although it\u0027s a bit simplified from version 6 but basically you should you should if you\u0027re expecting confidentiality offer this mail account you should require at least TLS point 1.1 and have a valid certificate and if you\u0027ve got the mail account configure to require this confidentiality level then you shouldn\u0027t you know if you don\u0027t get those conditions you shouldn\u0027t try to read mail right there shall I finish or you won\u0027t yeah yeah it\u0027s kind of fun question from Jim what\u0027s the mode yeah what is the motivation for DNS server Eckerd\u0027s is there a security benefit for if you\u0027re doing Dane yes and that\u0027s I think that requirement is specific where you\u0027re encouraged to use the Ennis oh sorry you said DNS serve and I heard DNS sick sorry DNS server records is just a discovery mechanism for two so to help mail user agents find the right services to use for this particular mail service provider so I think it\u0027s useful and we want to encourage this use and it can help it can help you find the TLS versions of these services that\u0027s the benefit and then okay so back to where it was if you don\u0027t have if you\u0027re not requiring this minimum level of confidentiality on a mail account then you still encouraged to use opportunistic encryption and if you do if your mail user agent and you find that this this set of mail services provides TLS then you\u0027re sort of you\u0027re encouraged to offer the user a chance to upgrade to require that confidentiality rather than just do it opportunistically and I think that\u0027s it that\u0027s the that\u0027s the center that\u0027s the summary of the changes of course that you know the "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:18:22",
    "text": "document goes into more detail your on chef I haven\u0027t been following the list so I apologize in advance its and let me know if you\u0027ve beaten this horse to death TLS 1.1 is kind of strange are 7525 insists on TLS 1.2 in that browser world as early people doing TLS 1.1 people are you thrown 1.0 1.2 so here you had this discussion no I don\u0027t think we\u0027ve had the discussion and and it might be that just our information is just a little bit old if TLS 1.2 is being sort of aggressively recommended I think we\u0027d like to reflect that so yes so that\u0027s good me back okay Neil Jenkins just having quick look about the on the implicit TLS versus start TLS thing I agree we should recommend simplicity versus is better it was less chance that passwords and credentials get sent in clear text with regards to being able to do start TLS kind of for now I don\u0027t actually think IMAP or pop any clients who are doing start TLS with that it\u0027s only really SMTP where\u0027s the jar seems to be we found all three you don\u0027t think that yeah yeah okay it\u0027s sometimes it\u0027s hard to tell from the way the configuration options because they never say start TLS so it\u0027s like over the port one for three yeah then says one thing that happens okay yeah okay hang on Chris I\u0027m going to let Victor in on the same topic this is the company we\u0027ve spent about a decade and a half now at least in the Pacific\u0027s community training users to do submission and 587 I don\u0027t think it\u0027s anything will quickly be able to reverse so I\u0027m not seeing a rapid migration back to 465 is that even remotely plausible I think 587 is here to stay for a long time as for star TLS for IMAP it\u0027s used and supported it\u0027s out there 143 with start TLS works what supports it for example which I use so I don\u0027t know that we need to tell people that you just for 65 or 587 they can make up their own minds 587 works just as well as just an extra round trip but otherwise you can be secure if you actually configure it for Taylor if you "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:21:23",
    "text": "have to suggest text I\u0027d be happy yeah I I think you\u0027re right in that we\u0027re going to see a lot of use of both ports for TLS I agree 1.2 is fine these days there\u0027s very few clients that even support one Brooke one and don\u0027t support 1.2 it\u0027s just not that common so yeah just speaking to the star keyless thing if we want to like drill down I mean I think you know supporting start TLS on 587 is probably a good idea for for the near term particularly for servers for IMAP and POP I\u0027m not sure I\u0027m not sure servers should bother with start TLS in the future I mean if they don\u0027t already do it and why bother now what\u0027s deployed you know if you go look at the ISPs out there it surveyed the ISPs I\u0027m a pass and pop-ups are much more widely implemented than start start TLS on I\u0027m Evan pop so in for those two protocols if we wanted to drill down in the details we could say yo don\u0027t you know server should servers shouldn\u0027t bother doing this if they haven\u0027t already done yeah but for Assam dpi chromatic Victor\u0027s right that you know it\u0027s not gonna go away in the future all right well I think you were before James on our killer al-insana just a comment on the earlier comment with regard to the TLS version and the best back pass current practice document recommending tillis one point one point two is even from this working group so i think we should hear that i haven\u0027t read this document but because i\u0027ve been out of the loop from UTA for like the last six months but i\u0027ll do so and provide comment on the mailing list thanks yeah okay go ahead with regard to SRV records i certainly a fan of SRV records for service discovery and all that i just wonder if the requirement is a little bit misplaced in this draft since we\u0027re talking about practices for the use of TLS something that\u0027s primarily involved with service discovery seems like it\u0027s a little bit out of place here "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:24:27",
    "text": "I think my response would be well there\u0027s a published RFC that recommends this practice as a way to discover things and I don\u0027t know of a better way to do it although I think a number of mail client vendors have come up with their own sort of data basis for widely use services English Incans I think the idea as I understood it although maybe this is not fully expressed in the draft is that clients the Akoni set up on insecure connections could automatically detect that this domain has a secure option and then offer to upgrade it and without the auto\u0027 discovery or mechanism they would have to manually do that okay if the service vendor really tries hard but it\u0027s a lot more work concur okay okay the one other issue I wanted to raise about this is the the status of the document I really think this is a standard track document it\u0027s about one third standards track two thirds BCP but as a whole it\u0027s a very it\u0027s a it\u0027s a good document I actually think I do think removing the STS from the spec made it made it a better spec so good good job editing this way keep edited this this round of it but I think this is a standard track document yeah it\u0027s you know it\u0027s me it\u0027s register it you know it\u0027s registering a port it\u0027s it\u0027s prescribing rules for client certificates so that so that you have interoperability it you know it\u0027s it\u0027s got a bunch of protocol stuff in there and so I think it\u0027s I think it\u0027s standards track yeah I wanted to see if anybody if anybody had a strong feeling the other way and I\u0027ll say I concur with Chris I mean having tried to make it a BCP I really didn\u0027t feel like I could take out all the protocol bits and not lose some very important details so I feel like a standards track document can make recommendations in private about practice but a BCP can\u0027t really define protocol because then it\u0027s not subject the same process so the the substantive objections I had worked you the SES part and that part is removed so I really would like a kind of consensus called to see if the group is okay with making this a Sanders tract document all right does the because their ad have any opinions here or otherwise some prime is making that consensus : I think senator Kirk is fine I\u0027m not even sure that asking the question is very meaningful to be honest I mean maybe I\u0027m just I spent half an hour in the morning asking you know discussing another document about this experimental sander tracks or I mean I would like to speed up the "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:27:29",
    "text": "discussion a bit but if you want to ask a question that\u0027s fine I mean it can\u0027t hurt I don\u0027t think it hurts so hum for making the document the standards track document as opposed to a disappear or informational all right now if you do not believe we should make this a standard track document but should use another designation I pretty clear consensus all right III think that scare consensus right there oh I just want to point out it\u0027s already marked a standards track system a header at st. BCP no I guess I didn\u0027t change all the pieces but when I rewrote it I tried to rewrite it as a CP and I may have missed something but we we did actually have a we did actually have that this discussion and it wasn\u0027t peer from or the working group discussion whether we actually made a consensus called lost time to change it or not right so I think it was a good idea to confirm all right all right any other questions or discussions about this question from IG to authors do you think it\u0027s ready for working good plus cold I think yeah I think I\u0027ll make a quick read based on feedback here and maybe today and I\u0027d love to get this in working group last call like next week alright so Reb um and I think you\u0027re right I think we do have be working a passcode on this as soon as you read it all right okay good I think you know having all three documents and I zero you at the same time would be nice I mean it\u0027s not required but I think that all right Jim or you felt about it\u0027s about um deep I think the port\u0027s 465 issue is that an obstacle to go to law school well my response on the 465 issue is yo the text in there I think is clear and correct and you know it\u0027s basically you know if if the IHG just agrees with that text it it should go forward as is and if the isg hates that text then you know I that\u0027s why we have we\u0027ll have to go back and rework it that\u0027s why we have my eyes tear review and I definitely I mean this is something put it back you know what\u0027s there is what I think is right as long as the working group is fine with with it and so if you\u0027re making an objection on the content of it so in that case if you if you do have a process objection I don\u0027t think you actually we don\u0027t need to worry about that yeah and I think the "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:30:32",
    "text": "document is very clear that you know there is a potential problem there so it will probably will come up during what\u0027s called I\u0027m ITF last call anyway at least it will likely to come up during ginarte and secular reviews and voila whatever so we\u0027re a long road ahead so Jim or you are you ready to step up the mute echo Mike and yeah here we go good thank you I can seem on on mine all right I guess I\u0027ll just go I think a five minute slot so I\u0027m going to try fly through the fly through a few slides here going the next slide I just want to kind of review for everybody you know what required TLS is trying to do that basically this is addressing the opportunistic aspect of start TLS from the sender side as opposed to from the recipient domain policy side next slide and so the idea is that it\u0027s that it\u0027s fine-grain you specify it on a on a particular message and we have some some control over the way that you express some some requirements with respect to how certificates are verified and it\u0027s an MTA to MTA only sort of thing next slide and the approach is that there\u0027s a service extension called require TLS and you specify it you negotiate it like you do with other service extensions and if you have specific TLS requirements on a on a message then you attach the required TLS option to mail from it isn\u0027t policy based and the requirements follow the message next slide okay what\u0027s new about it really very little I haven\u0027t had time really since Chicago to do basically any work on require TLS but I consider that this solves an important problem and it\u0027s something that I that my commitments are changing and I I do intend to return to in terms of at least the document if not working with a couple of implementers that that we have next slide so what I here\u0027s here\u0027s my my ask basically is can we adopt this as a working group document I believe that it solves a different problem because it\u0027s sender side and and much more fine-grained we have a couple of implementations there is some maturity to the spec and I believe that it\u0027s consistent with the goals of the working group and that\u0027s really the the key slide for the for the "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:33:33",
    "text": "presentation I just wanted to kind of T it off with a little bit of background first so that\u0027s it unquestionably people in the room and remote who has read the draft see a couple of hands alright so I\u0027m gonna actually also do did you get a new hands on genre so still a lot not a huge number of reviews but I\u0027m gonna ask the adoption question anyway um I think this is actually in the work so Jim read it well extra so I\u0027m gonna do a hum now on working group adoption of particular strat now now if you believe that working loop through the doctor draft and now if you\u0027re opposed all right that\u0027s also very clear consensus so Jim why don\u0027t you give me a day or wonderful thank you very much the list and then we can you can resubmit a working your portion of the document all right now that is that\u0027s here in our agenda that is actually it we\u0027re at open mic now a couple of couple of points I didn\u0027t mention that we should be thinking about our sunset Sun setting this group we are heading towards working group law school for for most of our documents and we have required here less you know it will be me it will mean that we\u0027re around for one or two meetings more but maybe not that many and I mean or it discussed we could or should do next and with rot our feelers there is nothing obviously coming down the pipe so this is in free to Tammy mo Mark Fisher and Alex Bowman said since they in like dad with stable me doko they want to know if we can discuss JSON versus SES key values absolutely and and this is open like I go and I hang on so um Daniel just give give me a second burying noise very leave just for a "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:36:34",
    "text": "second back to Jim\u0027s document on how long you expect this to take my sense is that we ought to be able to put a milestone for this as September or you know maybe October so this isn\u0027t gonna extend exactly I agree alright so finally we have people on the music okay willing to talk Daniel I show you at the mic I\u0027m not hearing anything so Daniel do you mind if I sort of put you to the end of the queue and let Victor try this I so bad STS you\u0027ve heard my support for the kV already the main culprit for that arguments I\u0027m not gonna discuss that further for the moment I just want to point out that this one issue we also haven\u0027t quite closed on and perhaps I\u0027ve failed to explain it properly for everybody but it seems to me that there isn\u0027t currently a clean way to just continue an STS policy and I\u0027ve tried a number of times to motivate a special value of max age zero as signaling that the STS policy should be deleted from any cash that encounters a max age zero cleanly without lots of warnings about failing to connect with HTTP resource or not finding stuff there and various other ways of trying to flush it out that don\u0027t look nearly as robust to me so I think we should try and get closure around that now somehow it seems that Daniel and I\u0027ve been speaking different languages and neither of us understands what the point that the other one\u0027s making so I don\u0027t know how we closed it but we should try and get some sort of common understanding on this one as well right so I I actually I\u0027m gonna go back to my my go-to here and say the language sure I could probably write the thing that motivates having this thing and see if we can get the point across right make it make it a make it a specific text suggestion for the draft in in the context of the draft right so we we can sort of have a discussion about it okay Victor I\u0027m gonna yeah thank you Mark that\u0027s here you you\u0027ve got to turn up "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:39:34",
    "text": "the microphone volume or something at your end because we can barely hear you but yes oh okay maybe what you can channel through right rich homes alright we wrote up a key value option for SDS and would like to close this issue right now I don\u0027t know whether you guys heard me when we\u0027ve had this on the earlier in the meeting and I think at this point there is not clear consensus to make a change I think we\u0027ve heard Victor express a strong preference for at least a preference for the KD format very few people who are stepping up today to oppose that or to say other things or just we didn\u0027t support that and I think we need in order to change this and I\u0027m gonna say this one more time in order to change what the drought says now people actually have to express their opinions clearly and I would even prefer it as chair if you could those those people who prefer to stay with what we have could express that to it actually helps to form into judge consensus mark says we\u0027re pretty neutral on one hand KB\u0027s ready that requires custom parsers Jason is also ready and fires third-party parsers which is either a plus or minus we being the authors also aaron emphasized that he\u0027s been you know out of the loop for six months he\u0027ll come back read the doc and also express so I\u0027ll repeat another question I post earlier and see if it sticks does anybody care strongly about this to say I won\u0027t certainly in I will not implement either of the options and specifically directing this to two vendors and implementers in the room and otherwise actually it\u0027s important so in postfix at least if this is to be a standard feature that\u0027s shipped with the base release of the software I don\u0027t think I can include the adjacent dependency you know it could be an add-on people optionally compile you "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:42:35",
    "text": "know whatever but if it\u0027s to be provided as a standard part of the software I think Jason is not so good couple of weeks they\u0027re redoing it we\u0027re doing it with kV will slow us down somewhat but it\u0027s not a deal breaker we\u0027re just trying to play ball all right I think that\u0027s exactly where we were at the last meeting so we\u0027ll have to resolve this on the mailing list at least people want to stand up and make more arguments I think there was +1 for a key value pairs from somebody else on the mailing list but I think a lot of people just don\u0027t care yeah well I also happen to ask Chris and he actually privately said that he prefers Jason but he doesn\u0027t care enough so he can find it Chris Newman just for humor value I just did a word count on the key on the key value parser and the JSON parser library in my code base and the JSON parser it\u0027s smaller the key value but the key value parser handles a bunch of variant key value formats so that\u0027s why it\u0027s larger but anyway it\u0027s yo this is not a significant amount of code chris is there a specific kb parser you\u0027re endorsing both the json parser and kv parser in our product i wrote so you know ones like 500 something lines the other 600 lines and it\u0027s like yo it\u0027s a massive difference yeah yeah all right I don\u0027t see just making more progress in this meeting eighty opinion I suggest you have a one week all in the mailing list saying that there is no change unless a lot of people come up saying that they cannot yeah live with Jason yeah I think and I think it might be worth emphasizing that yeah actually you can implement Jason parse I mean as a you know reminder that you don\u0027t actually have to use third-party library all right I think that\u0027s exactly what we\u0027re gonna do alright because we really need to post this issue and get on with our lives a week it is but I\u0027ll send "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:45:36",
    "text": "that out and in those announcement on the list on that alright so that\u0027s that means we\u0027re at open mic and we actually had a request from your own do you wanna so to stand up and ask us about something related to start pinning I think exactly so Danielle amigo and I I\u0027m Ron Schara published a draft called ticket pinning which uses something similar to tearless such an resumption tickets to pin the server\u0027s identity well think of it as certificate pinning with some twist two twists actually one and this is easier to automate and then HP KP HTTP is an RFC on certificate pinning that has not seen wide wide adoption to say the least and the other twist is this is that the TLS level as opposed to HP KP so it may be appropriate for other protocols there are not HTTP like IMAP SMTP or whatever you guys are working on so if people aren\u0027t interested please talk to us I will send out email with the details of the draft and ever word with Daniel and me thank you thank you I\u0027m I think where we might get a presentation on on this on future on for here pinning all right sorry this is barely maybe I missed the follow up to it but I Victor proposed using a max age of 0 on MTA STS to cancel the STS and I didn\u0027t hear a result of that oh there is almost that the victor agreed to produce tech for insects okay although because I support that it\u0027s consistent with what HTTP STS does and for that so all right good so Victor don\u0027t forget to send that text all right that means that will probably be a couple of more months before we can working group last last call this document per but or maybe a month all right anything else or you will get maybe 10 minutes back 11 12 minutes maybe all right thank you all for coming I suppose I\u0027ll see some of you or all of you in Singapore if somebody didn\u0027t sign "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:48:46",
    "text": "the blue sheet please do so "
  }
]