[
  {
    "startTime": "00:00:07",
    "text": "yes sir rock and roll had to disappear soon mike is really close to there is this normal and there should be a thing outside it really is not fond of you either in or out alright let\u0027s get started okay everyone this is tram Christine alright so we\u0027ll art with usual chairs update next well next we need a minute taker well thank you if we can have a diaper scribe that would be nice although is tricked Thank You Jonathan and as usual the meeting materials slides and everything are at this URL and work happens on the mailing list at this URL and you can subscribe their necks so the agenda is we\u0027ll do our update and then we have a presentation by mark about Sundays he will try to get all the open issues resolved and get this working last call and then we I would like to have a working a group discussion about turn this to make sure that we are aligned with the latest changes in Sunday\u0027s and then the meeting ends so there\u0027s nothing extracurricular on the agenda next so think of the tram since Berlin things have been moving fast aboard the tram and it doesn\u0027t you know if you just look at the Middle East wing\u0027s may seem to be dormant but you know we\u0027ve done work so "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:03:10",
    "text": "we have two newer seas yay server discovery there were a lot of revisions lots of discussions and the discusses have been addressed and the draft is now in the RFC that\u0027s our cue yay stun path MTU discovery has been revised there\u0027s been a working group last call and the draft will be will be sent to a ESG shortly we just need to do the work and then stunned this has been revised three times there are quite a few change I wouldn\u0027t say major changes but you know medium changes medium impact changes and we want to close the discussion today we want to finish this and send is the working class call and turn this has been refreshed this was a minor refresh and works don\u0027t need to be done to review the stunned is diff and think if needed you don\u0027t actually know if any work is needed but I see nodding heads so what additional work might be needed there to sync was done this I think this is it for the chairs update so with that mark yeah any agenda bash you have to turn it on I turn it off we wish a test for you yeah it\u0027s a bit unstable oh yeah it works hello again next slide please all right so last time we presented stunned this was back in Delhi I thought there was a lot of command well not a lot of comment but some some comments were made and we with my cursor gonzalo with just started walking and then we found yet another egg and then another burger and then adult work and then I said okay we need to stop to stop there was something wrong and I need to take a bit more time to do complete analysis was on 80 cm long term credential mechanism which is one of the thing which which lounge a lot in studies so unfortunately it was just right in the middle of my move back to California and a new job so it took a little bit at the bit of time and I skipped sale so finally I did an ADIZ it was not an LED son\u0027s dundas it wasn\u0027t LEDs on start "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:06:11",
    "text": "on ever see 50 389 and I found a bunch of public much I some minor of some less so we talked her talk with food return which we want to dunk again for his help on all the surveying some and then we send a proposal for ELISA was somewhere I can forcibly put the modification in size as early story police also so modification so I will go through quickly we there was some we said delaesh you when packet was drugged because of an unattached so instead of having a timeout in this case we cannot read wanted a new signal to the upper layer that said well you are under attack which got me to close a production a little bit quicker we made something explicit I mean you could deduce how it works and for the people implemented the white where but it was not explicitly stated how to to walk about 400 without authentication my experience is that usually need to explain all the step carefully so we did that we found some of the should we did not make sense at all in the document in exam most and some place we make some small in ink improvement even ants and the password of warms and we are we are trying to peek over into exchange into the oxygens instead of three chosen we so small modification which is I think some case an improvement in security which is when you have some dings announced or we\u0027re changing the password if you still out the nonce from the previous time we are still the bus throughout from the previous time then you can use it to sign the response instead of sending naked or respond so it\u0027s nice so you do it or you don\u0027t do it but if you do it obviously there is a little bit more security than you can add you cannot before okay so one of the thing was that and only that it was 401 unauthorized which is kind of incorrect this is not an authorized this is an authenticated so which one user text turn is doing user separate response Cody for an authorized different beginner and there were some tags i said you can add an in my message integrity "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:09:14",
    "text": "and some rest months were clearly there was no no possibility at all to do this so we remove the possibility so this was the first aid with the bishop that was probably dash 0 9 so next like this then after fixing like we could at last come back to the issue that that were presented in darlina so we did at so go suck on the wound up modification on dash ten so we remove some silly things like the other preserve the 0 in the security orchestrated make sense because this is a bit sets obviously the horses of meeting in a bit set except that no be following the recommendation of the working group we said that the minimum potential size for ni 256 is 16 bytes we also change the location of the rattle you have you have two choice which was from the right of from the left so we align with exist text which I don\u0027t remember what is but this is allowing with what other is doing so is not surprised too much developer on we added the visitor section in area 53 89 learning and instant base that list what all the stern usage should say in the respective FC point so we add other the fact that not from now astern users should state explicitly is a use truncation on the track we this was silly we remove the truncation from the message integrity this is an old stuff we don\u0027t need to care about this this is going out all over the world missing recommendation from well Jonathan we added a link to the secret out of white subs are cut out two tubes also this is a COC guess thanks so yes I think it\u0027s an important because it\u0027s not easy to find and finally this was a response from an email from early during their lean one of the beginning is that only sent and we replace the restaurant storage here 2018 360 125 and we are dated the text accordingly to explain how to verify the domain name from the certificate on and to verify hit against the the Monday "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:12:14",
    "text": "next slide please and then we did yet another update which is dash 11 which is a last one so I went back for all these things and I am I fixed a little bit more stuff so first one is kind of abuse is to say that we should use same type of ash marking the subsequent collection that are used but again we really need to spell it out these things clearly and the last one dress one is a little bit more it\u0027s a little bit as it was from a suggestion from someone I don\u0027t remember if you think it was in darling so add to this version we used what we call the nonce cookie only when we needed it so the nonce cookies are small cookie that we had in front of the nonce to say we have some additional security properties that you want we want to use and there was one at the beginning which was a possibility to change the password algorithm and then we added a subtle one which was to be able to ash username alright so the problem now is that you have an exponential number and increase of the number of cookie with the itu-r for possibility you need for cookies well exactly because you don\u0027t use this year so instead of doing this on what we did we did is that we added for which four characters to the coquito between the cookie and the non sir we are the fuck out there which is 24 bits when it\u0027s connected from base64 which gives us 24 bits of additional security properties that you can choose in in the future we created the registry for that and we allocated the first to date so those bitches for and if you want to use password algorithm and also long dick is if you want to use user hush you want to wash your username so the next step was well why don\u0027t we send always the nonce cookie even before zero value in the bit set to signal that we support and mi to is that we support the new ashmac based on the night sure 250 six so now you always send the nonce cook cook cook and so you know immediately understand this client knows immediately that the server is also austin disk Ryan and do not have to send both the message integrity and the message integrity 256 to the server so "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:15:14",
    "text": "we the first the first step is a little bit simpler for both the client and the server but now if you don\u0027t use any of the security properties then you just send a bit set that contain all the other side this is why we remove it also konser register so that was always done and this is occur on the current set so are we are so there is still too small I don\u0027t know they will tell me things that we need to fix and so if you come up the next type is alright so we talked about this we talked a lot about this and we decide that something I would like one last time so get yourself mark before you go on we would like really to close these issues right so let\u0027s focus on closely not just going through and as you know it happens in many working groups so so please you know each of the issues let\u0027s give it a thought and we will only postpone it if there\u0027s really need to happen something else like more information otherwise we would like to really make the decisions today so some something bad happened with shower is just recently which kind of make me not coping I as I skipping that we are doing the right things I am or we had a long dist description the computer or neither and we think that the ing maybe not completely at ease with the things we are doing so and I was thinking about this because I know if some of you went to the security tutorial on Sunday which by the way was very interesting and that was one slide that said to do not do exactly what we are doing so well so so they said use agility do not use a disc changer sagittis so I do not use agility for algorithm do not use a beef shank the algorithm which is using a protocol which made exams so the thing is that i went back to the mailing list and everybody more or less a great such as was the right thing to do keep it simple for what we are doing all right now it will go off in front of the AV the aeg we said okay we said not okay i don\u0027t know i just wanted to our last preemptive question which is do we still want to do this or not and i would like to add one small thing so this thing was "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:18:17",
    "text": "difficult to design and to do and the reason is that i could not find a lot of guidance so those be done attack prevention saturated by at the IETF a nice Arabs also the literature Windsor I mean I i went to a jcm library and Google\u0027s crust and there is not people talk about this but that will explain kind of farm work how together Madonna attack so please do to me that\u0027s not an area which is really well explained on my lands in any way we like to put this questioning in front of you would we continue this this way do we want to charge another thing that make mending things about this so just after the shower attacking the project which is part is the biggest user of shower ashes and the people engaged after to say well thought we should do something I and they are jumping directly from sherwin to shark week they will be doing shaft 32 62-56 we are doing shots ooh 256 so are we doing the right thing where do you want me to go on up to the end when we we talk about this or we be open so um let\u0027s see fixing one inch at a time i think so i would like to hear from you what you do your mother stood so mark i mean in because the idea is to get a solution if you put forward a proposal i think that would work better my proposal is to do nothing and to keep what we have okay what we are is that we are moving in this draft to shut 256 and we will do an extra after this in six months that will assign no longer use shawan which was a plan which was originally in FSC 53 889 sol gonzalo so the reason that i think that this is an issue is that we\u0027ve made this decision before right I mean we decided that we would stick with shall one so no church I hope not not we stick you shall on your students which site was shut it but the idea here though is do we need to revisit that decision simply to be essentially to prevent with what we think we\u0027re anticipating from the iesg Brandon Williams thump I I recall the meeting where we came to the conclusion that we should stick with this my recollection is I was in a very very small minority I\u0027m the group at the time "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:21:19",
    "text": "that that said we should deal with a bit down stop and deal with forward agility but if the argument has it changed if it\u0027s really just you know that seems okay and I think the argument at the time was well it\u0027s just as much work to add another option type to the stun registry as it is to add another hash type to some other registry that you would set up and let\u0027s wear a be able to piggyback easily on a registry that already exists so if fundamentally it might just be a question of you know registry management overhead at least I think that\u0027s what the opinion was at the time my opinion hasn\u0027t changed i still think we should build it into the protocol but I recognize them in a minority there and I\u0027m not going to you know push that I won\u0027t be surprised if security review from out of the iesg enclosed is it and ok morrow so strong clinics I mean so the first thing I mean for what we\u0027re using its board for HVAC the end of Shah one that\u0027s not on us not one it\u0027s not broken for a snack so I\u0027d also for shot to I don\u0027t think anybody is saying and nobody thanks lucky that the care of this one desktop read is a very different design so it gives more you know it\u0027s you\u0027re less likely to have a break that his belt in the same time um I feel like um I think actually are bits our half agility right now it\u0027s pretty good I mean maybe I need to review it at I mean I would have worked through all of this to sort of say okay this is all right until and we have some of the most absurdly to the long-term some of the cookies and we\u0027re so remember we have a jelly key for the password I go so right we have this idea Doug protection for this we don\u0027t have activity for the message integrity SH which is integrity of the message itself act and there is ignoble I mean I think that why we chose the name of the new thing yeah its integrity shot it would be six by saying he could have message integrity and he has already want instead of the finder and for us yes yeah yeah yeah you got the geo jenny teased by genetic diversity by defining a new ticket and I feel like this I don\u0027t see what we would gain by saying we\u0027re going to put those additional bit of sake what Hatcher algorithm it is in the message integrity into a mess integrity active so just you know get another registry and get another n bits field that\u0027s take those space and messages okay I think you want to get to "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:24:22",
    "text": "use the mic Marquis but does it put us in a situation where so now on stun turf whatever the fourth provision is where the next place ok now we\u0027re going to do shop great this is all right I might find it actually this is X is the purpose of Sun there was a really nice what we are was your extra questions so we doesn\u0027t put us in a situation where now we have to come up with a fourth revision that\u0027s going to be okay now we want to do chalkley and do essentially we do what well but why is so again I\u0027m trying to see what\u0027s the how is that different from saying we\u0027re going to define a patch ability by putting it in putting big you\u0027re still good happy to find hey use this algorithm whatever this is this is the registry for that mean I mean maybe I mean if you want to say okay here\u0027s a lighter-weight template for defining you know message integrity and it message integrity your hash algorithm here you know as you know a you know a cut-and-paste register aveeno Sun attribute registration and this has the special property that the message integrity towards the end you know Dorothy Africa de yada yada maybe having a somewhat more general description of how I message integrity whatever it\u0027s worth that\u0027s fine but it doesn\u0027t i think that everyone changed how they look on the wire this team so it\u0027s documented and makes the work for defining a new message integrity shot three or whatever slightly less harm and that\u0027s not unreasonable I think that would have had that more emphasized in the document is their version of \u0027deck exactly and and I I got to say exactly what Jonathan got to it in the end that if either this is our approach for hash agility that the thing that name is missing from the document is a clear statement of this in our approach and when you want to add another one this is what it looks like to get there that may be what\u0027s necessary to convince those the quantity a hash agility approach that we actually have that covered ya gonna do an eligible that\u0027s a tumor good good way to do this yeah so we have a GD t by doing a new document which happened to be a decent Adam day it\u0027s all I I think that documentation may need to cover the half negotiation and wear it down as a lot yes as well yeah so the idea is how do you turn this to our vertex we were already other sections six security consideration that explicitly explained how to move to the next level so we have to modify this to explain now on but how would we fix why did you it seems reasonable to me my mind will be quick "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:27:26",
    "text": "I\u0027m Spencer darkens the responsible yd somebody invoke the name of the is she doing doing with you perhaps sector like any director that I think will accept requests for early review if you all want to go to short-circuit long conversation at IHG evaluation time that may be a good thing to do report okay so so this is because it has a guillotine plan in the document right now yes i will remove the highlighting yeah so I feel like for what we\u0027ve lost the edge of you so sorry yeah yeah yeah this is yeah let me yeah I don\u0027t know they this was it showing so weird actually postal your bookmarks I partner yeah maybe Larry okay okay i\u0027ll bug right now no it is that ok they were done yeah I feel like yeah I think that\u0027s reason alone we also will hopefully to make sure that the language run how you prevent this down for a my 76 is it\u0027s also submission in general for you know why you would read bit down for future a shock where this as well yes question I\u0027m like suggestion because she\u0027s a very album right so you go bugs away understand it is that this draft as it is doesn\u0027t prevent bit down at all and the way to prevent bit down is with a later draft or later RFC that would say do not use sha-1 anymore and then you just go into your server configuration or what whatever if you refuse to use it I i think this this one get given the mechanism as its described here I I think protection against pitt downs does require that you have an orderly process of I\u0027ve got you now I deprecated one then I add another one and you can move forward that way but if you have a multiplicity that are allowed it just gets more and more complicated to make sure that you\u0027ve got everything covered yes Jonathan Ive tonight I think and but there\u0027s no I\u0027m II nice big down as I understand it is the case where you know both sides want to use the new hash algorithm but some attacker in the middle is forcing the good undo it all right so it by the size doesn\u0027t want to use the new one it\u0027s not a bit down shift back peplum sew as I think that we for mi 56 / say we have "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:30:28",
    "text": "a pretty good story for long-term production of positive of your confidential I\u0027m not sure how well it currently generalized I think some of it is do you have the binocs cookie and whatnot because you don\u0027t have your short hair so will I need to look at that again so for stroke them what would you say that the eyes people use csdp to explain you have a nice tubular styling that you have either SBP or a guest on attorney or I next time I\u0027m signaling we\u0027re so you know Cleveland obviously then these are tickling opponent receptionist part of the Denver luigi\u0027s which is not normally longer Mahama so the I think those my phone off I will you know commits you enough means chair sleep dragged me to review this for understanding have a bit done works look at that I think the long term is really good so many support basin for come unless enough Brandon Williams again um isn\u0027t am I remembering correctly that with the Shah 12 sha-256 the thing that protects against bit down is the the what are we calling it the nonce cookie and once we\u0027ve gone beyond one and everything is delivering the nonce cookie what will protect against bit down for 256 to sha sha 22 shot three or whatever if everything is it\u0027s a really good fun probably a new cookie so probs we need north of cookie bit soft top cause the additional security so yep first we can use a big way yeah it\u0027s a good idea yes you can use a bit which is where the stunts Terrell all right way to think of you so I just don\u0027t like this is some terrific neck system Quattro behold two everything I don\u0027t know any Latin that so and as yeah but it so I think I think you can have a bit in the field which means you know hey I support trial three yeah you know and if your agenda I support sorry I expect we expected this carrier chaudhary if you see it something that\u0027s not Joffrey in here we unhappy yeah but again that\u0027s only that\u0027s that\u0027s the not so that\u0027s only about okay no no it\u0027s only long-term Lorenzo short term can be only protected by an external things because you don\u0027t have time to learn leadership things right which I mean that basically have a total debt forever so protecting the russian dressing only that meaning I hey "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:33:29",
    "text": "I expect you know I support the Sasha already got to this algorithm here so we probably need to explain a little bit more in this section how this will work for future reference so we need to expand as it a Whizzer not taker or okay and we will need to have the oh yeah i think the concerns you see that yeah okay so concentrate is that why i cannot call the consumption a little bit but this game summarized here and the beginning of the discussion my understanding is that we keep things as they are so we keep our pseudo activity by letting people write a new specification that will define a new attribute and which sounds the text in the Russia Tiki plan to explain how this will be there and yet and we can define all different we will probably define a new bit in incidents but registry for this and though everyone should be okay and and I would include in that understanding Spencer\u0027s good comment of passing yeah whatever we document their past sector for early review before we get to the point we certainly want to make all the modification we can this time before the end of this meeting and send everything to clear or view at the AG and tutor working group okay then then we will wait for you to rewrite the dress and before asking for any early review okay so everyone opposed to these way forward please hum ok so then yeah you can move forward with that by the way when when mark doesn\u0027t remember what we have discussed and he goes to the recordings everything that you guys are saying outside the mic you know it would not be captured so I think that would be useful to to try to use the mic okay so on let me go to the next slide alright this is the last one so but it\u0027s ah so [Laughter] so but back in Berlin some things have better not naturally this was a only saw the email which was well you need to do something about a key I didn\u0027t call it stone body so um we were we didn\u0027t know exactly what to do but I see did an "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:36:31",
    "text": "analysis of all the case I know what we do I adopt so lunch with that we gave us some rice and we talked with her Jonathan yesterday I think about this so the problem is that the analytics thing is not the stunting is the stern usage all right it\u0027s not really stunned by itself not the mechanism it\u0027s how you use them that start to have issues when when you reserve the man named you receive one or more ipv4 advice and one or more ipv6 advice smart so I found three cases so the first one is more or less everything which is related to it so I IPA board doesn\u0027t really make sense when it\u0027s used with ice or where its use with sea and the reason for this is that but let\u0027s start with eyes with eyes we already have a mechanism which is us to select between an ipv6 and ipv4 address why this is what among other things ice is about you prioritize ipv6 before I ipv4 you check the connectivity automatically give give you what is a current best path so using this and you don\u0027t really have inside eyes when you are well you can get done and I will explain but it\u0027s kind of difficult to do two of two different algorithm all right if we do at IPL eyeballs and we have the first selection which is done by eyes and then you have a second algorithm which shows what is the connection to use underneath so it\u0027s kind of a complex fix but all these thing comes from one thing which is that when you look at the sea liner or when you look at the conical line you can put an IP address an ipv4 and ipv6 advice and I piggies 10 advice maybe but you can also put a domain name all right its authorized not by Isis authorized by the PTSD plc to put a domain name here not a lot of people use this but it\u0027s still here so what we would like proposed and we cannot do this in this place but there is a friend in ice beasts that are revising eyes and "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:39:31",
    "text": "one solution that a lot of people we talked to the thing with business based solutions to to use the fact that we have ice to to say when don\u0027t do this you cannot use a domain name inside the Salina and inside the candidate when you are doing ice because your idea the mechanism to deuces so in this case it would solve or public and we can do this in nice too because it is a new protocol yes you wanted to say something called marketing and we do some hacks when we wanna and after HTTP practice where we actually using the URL of England ice can write but we can get back to that then Schwartz google so similar to an HTTP proxy in the in the context of return there\u0027s also where where you\u0027re using turn services proxy there\u0027s also a situation where it\u0027s it can be logical to use a domain name as your endpoint identifier and I I tried and failed to get a draft through that would create a an explicit mode for turn to allocate to allocate a remote endpoint based on a domain name and I\u0027d like to be able to try that again so I hopefully it won\u0027t get cut out entirely um shot life and I work say is how I said I mean how ice behaviors not something that is not this working this problem ah so I mean and I think this and I think you can come up with even if you want to leave the main name is a you know you know your local candidate cetera type so parative be for a dress you looked up for of your be four candidates or the v6 letters he looks ugly racist and eggs or whatever it\u0027s really more complicated mess it\u0027s more nice but you know I think that could be probably dealt with effectively treated as multiple remote candidates but that nice a problem then so I think doesn\u0027t resolve it no um I like this so the other case is the seat keeper I which is much inside ice but I think this is not an issue because I already know what kind of motor car what cannot transport the youth so it is not an issue so your proposal would be led the ice people deal with it which by the waist Semin so we left for town but we will get to this thing\u0027s also here um if we do that I mean I figured they\u0027re "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:42:31",
    "text": "released need to be some text here around what ice is going to do so if ice does nothing or they screw it up or what I mean what impact does that have does here we don\u0027t really have to say anything because the ice is H are not defined in system processes it\u0027s we the only usage we are busy busy edges out of here it\u0027s a bidder yes we have to say something for this but no we don\u0027t really have to say anything for eyes I think yeah oh yeah there\u0027s ice craft although I steal back Tenace which actually started out as ice ok I have two eyeballs fries and yeah I\u0027m not that I\u0027m not sure whatever that covers this problem but it does so I didn\u0027t after it doesn\u0027t but follow this problem is not drunk lesser it\u0027s not actually that hard then if we know it i think it is Isis problem with a solvable problem I think you know maybe just hate to say Musa just need to explain how they do yeah you know we need to be 12 adding the users stun usage list of things to do and tell us exactly added yes names for any reason Klingon you do you know models are exposed so do we agree to let the ice people figure out and we don\u0027t say anything but what Jonathan said so anyone opposed to that way forward and noe Gonzalez okay no not opposed at all but we should have some sort of important to make sure that we circle back with the ice Cubs that they actually do something oh yes i agree is very solvable time she gets off so we were synchronizing with show us to present to do to say the same thing in the music on south bay i think so we will have to talk before which so as to say Chandrakala mine well i think Jonathan I mean even if you\u0027d like I said either people wanna keep with domain names it\u0027s solvable problems but I think there\u0027s a mic the other person who the object is chris here because it\u0027s easy s do work to adequately i stuck but i don\u0027t feel good actually okay so then i think the other thing we would need to sort of be like again is to make sure that the use of the music requirements mention mrs. list ok so there\u0027s let\u0027s make sure we keep crystal in the dark "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:45:33",
    "text": "actually make sure that three steps and total area as well so that they can actually you know get the feedback from the iseries working group okay gonzalo one of the things that realizes though I think the discussion had with sue house for the changes for iced stp or no longer valid I mean based on what ends know that something like yes I will topics with okay all right so the second line is what we have to do anyway because this is the stern usage well one of these is described inside this up there I see and the other one exactly the same so it\u0027s relatively simple there with I audio from the place where to charge it the right thing with not discovery that we use binding binding is an miss it what it impotent required transaction which means we can send as many as we want we are not breaking anything and we have some use case at Jonathan explain to us it gets yesterday so it will be 0 actively a simple walk to add to towards the text to the soul is certainly do the booze Arctic unless there is question or people a question on discussed I mean c\u0027mon technically you should make sure the colorful sorry director might be headin to make sure to point out that just as you\u0027re standing on before doesn\u0027t mean you won\u0027t get a v6 as your as your discovered address or vice versa so because you might be blind a 46 enters it for them but yeah I think it\u0027s certainly framing the ice cases the terminal allocated your candidates for all your interfaces and then let some before in some be six so you send to the v4 stunts address from before it it\u0027ll be nice to them address in 36 and that\u0027s easy and you even want you need to set it from all your interfaces anyway ok I will not take a way to deal with you talk with you so but so it remember to do and so the last one the difficult one is the point because the problem is that another case in turn is not a dedenne potent collections HW send navigation requests and you can receive a pot and and it could be or not an issue I am i I don\u0027t know so it\u0027s a nice progression to the next discussion and we think that this is a term of them and they should think I\u0027ll to fix this thing i I don\u0027t know there is some year before some with Simon but we think that this is anywhere Transfiguration and with the text other to the Stanley\u0027s are saying "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:48:33",
    "text": "yeah you need to talk about this and we are covered is there any comment on the term use edge or if inglot we should be what is the proposal exactly he can summarize it is to do nothing I stood just updated the stern usage saying any usage from now say something about API Bible and then we add this to the list of things to do zombies okay but yeah let\u0027s still think about what would go and turn this there\u0027s never come so Allen\u0027s and people from yeah so uh I have to I ideas on well so first thing is that they can design an extensions which is an identifier which is command the to request and then there is only one allegation on the other side and the one which is not use you can can adjust all those projects on and so located only one time also the discussion and firm this comes right up okay and it was this is your last light so let\u0027s wrap this up and we\u0027re anything else on Sunday yeah the last thing is so i think that the summary point of this whole slide is based on allies email do we want to take on so here this is essentially summary of what work is involved in making this happy eyeballs friend is this something we want to do take on okay Simon as a participant yeah I think it totally makes sense for this to be dependent on the actual usage because done can be used at the IP layer to discover IP layer properties or it can be used as a communication protocol for example when talking to turn server you don\u0027t really care about the family of IP that you\u0027re using so it depends on the under usage everybody\u0027s happy with that what the main question is like you guys have all the information you need to go off and revise the trap I think we have everything and we can do it before the end of the week and center okay we we all refers to want to a sister you know i understand i want to make sure you you are comfortable with that perfect so moving on to the next one which is turn-based actually yeah we could date applies actually so so yeah given to all right okay i was looking at so Simon as a participant again I was looking at section 6.2 in chambers which explains what the server does when it receives an alligator request and how it detects retransmissions and so it uses transaction ID and the five tuple so one "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:51:36",
    "text": "option would be to remove the five people from the check if you receive the same transaction ID on a different five tuple possibly from somebody else it\u0027s the same transaction so keep in mind there 96 bits of randomness they\u0027re lost authentication yeah so yes but authentication is part of the retransmission detection yeah I sort of think I like that because we also have problems because clients needs to but if they go down enough they can\u0027t reuse their original local part because of this problem because to get the same binding in math and then just makes allocate requests which generate a 401 or item butters okay a view all your first allocate requests should always generated for a while yeah Kimmy elaborate basically you send an allocate request with no authentication information to both the forest except versus you\u0027ll get a 401 response from one or the other or both at which point you send the one with your dedication fish awesome unless somebody figured a print server to not movies with medication in Todd restless expect with sometimes people do it\u0027s mandatory internal um actually no we\u0027re changing that for that that\u0027s because we\u0027re jaitley it was mad at her in turn but I think we\u0027re changing it for the biggest topologically equivalent outs on proxy basically if you can enforce this important to educate offers eight and through you know network topology or whatever they don\u0027t have to have ok so then suppose that an enterprise network sets up any caste ranges for both ipv6 and ipv4 and they turn off the communication because they manage the network and you get to allocations it\u0027s not a big problem either you just kill one yeah and that was my second proposal document that you need two kills one yeah and if you don\u0027t keep it alive if you just forget about it it\u0027ll die by itself you actually there is a supposed to kill that\u0027s a serious yes yes refresh with zero right yes what we refresh with zero references there so I think yes there is you know so i think between those things and then the only of course reflecting over over tcp you can do the standard tcp happy items just whatever one ability to be connectors who extremely happy term goals we have three different answers for how you how you furball so a sort of "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:54:39",
    "text": "in order part works yep okay Jonathan can you volunteer to send texts to the list summarizing this we learned here thank you yes so note taker do you get that but so the fact that he volunteered okay okay um yeah more things about term base um mark do you have anything else so I still have on my list to do a review for us and to do all of you for a term of the point of view worst undies so I suffered with Eterna wanna and this is big spec and I I stopped avoiding to develop ER times to be starts oh yeah I finish what I will get back to take from yeah i will restart my my review and i will send or use the next so to be clear you will review turn this from the point of view of the new standards of the story because that\u0027s exactly what we are concerned about so you will be sending basically am a complete or view but x only from the point of view escondido excellent because that\u0027s exactly what we need okay perfect that\u0027s great but while we\u0027re all in the room is there anything you can think of that would merit discussion well so I found one thing which I didn\u0027t like is a new term base and the problem is that\u0027s why turn on a few months somewhere oh man I didn\u0027t take it with me so and I don\u0027t remember because this was few months ago I didn\u0027t find anything very important studies part so but it\u0027s normal stuff this is this is aligning the way they are doing things to the way we are we\u0027ll fix a unique and now you need to use charcoal develops not small yeah I mean I\u0027m sorry I should have taken this with me okay how do you sort of vision and ebook to take electronic notes just kidding thanks a lot for everyone and you know I mean we are looking forward to receiving it Alan and Peter couldn\u0027t be here unfortunately that\u0027s why I mean it\u0027s a bit difficult to drag the discussions but anyway I think this input this is what they need actually okay so anything anything else well I mean just to be clear like you were mentioning before like you know getting more drugs through and stuff I mean to be clear we are trying to close this working group so in that sense if "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:57:40",
    "text": "somebody wants you know to publish more drugs or things that we should be doing more work I mean now it would be but now I mean drop us an email or on the mailing list so that we analyze that because I mean to be honest at the level of energy is not the best so so we want to avoid just you know adding staff and generating drugs that they take you know years to complete so so that\u0027s where we are if you don\u0027t agree please I mean talk to us so that we can understand if there\u0027s something that that realistic Lee makes sense to to do German oh yeah something then another word a number of suggestions are the working group of potential extensions and that time is now let\u0027s get the visions of the first sex up first but I think there was sort of some thought that you might go back to those things afterwards there\u0027s usually I feel like there\u0027s often more energy for you know a queuing new things and getting old things working well commercially if there\u0027s somebody okay yeah it could be not my concern is exactly i mean energy so so what I would like to avoid these like the chairs now we go and try to generate some energy I mean this would be actually people that are ready to spend cycles and if they are I mean we are more than happy and I mean we would need to talk to Spencer of course but yeah we would be more than happy food to working on the extensions that we were talking about but but not just artificially where there\u0027s no real interest so that I think we are all in the same page regarding that yes that\u0027s where it\u0027s google we have we have working groups for we have our to see well still it seems like we have size so my as long as as long as it\u0027s made clear that the work can continue that basically improvements to turn can happen and that there is a place for them it doesn\u0027t it\u0027s not important to me which working group they happen in but I have at least felt maybe I\u0027m wrong that sometimes a working group closes and and people just say well that\u0027s it this standard can no longer be modified unless you go through the whole working group formation process so to be clear I don\u0027t care either I mean let\u0027s focus on doing the right thing if it\u0027s you know ad sponsor is a different working group is to keep this alive it doesn\u0027t matter so just concentrate on my point on is their energy and once there\u0027s energy we will do the magic admin support so that it happens so exactly these more about whether this something that needs to be done and we will decide you know how and what and when for example if suppose that could decides to use stunned as a substrate will keep the working group alive yeah it\u0027s having real implementations going to add energy you think because we have a few things we do with stunning we would like to document and send to the working good you haven\u0027t we have done that in in the Sun trace regard where we use ICMP messages and "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:00:41",
    "text": "get Kiba and we have working implementation and getting feedback from that that we would like to share with you good problem is that getting that into browsers telescopes really I mean right and that\u0027s why we\u0027re in the idea because this is kind of networking paradise in that sense you can talk to people from browsers you can talk so it\u0027s not really talking to us we can help obviously but the idea is to form a community that you know decides that this is important so so yeah that\u0027s why we are here we as everybody it\u0027s all about demonstrating you know enthusiasm and community and you know critical mass and right now we\u0027re in closer mode and as you can see from you the level of activity both in email list and in the room you know clothing mode is what you should be in yeah and I will yep so the message is if there\u0027s something you believe it\u0027s important please let us know create traction around it and then we will we will take it okay yeah at summarizing okay anything else any other business before we wrap up okay so thank you for coming the meeting is adjourned [Music] she\u0027s my age 95 usually I just like to try this that\u0027s right "
  }
]