[
  {
    "startTime": "00:00:09",
    "text": "this is 1610 are you all right good evening this is the DC working group if you\u0027re in the wrong room you\u0027re welcome to stay if you\u0027re in the right room please do stay as with all ITF meetings and working group sessions please note the note well the blue sheets are going around please make sure you fill that out if there\u0027s anybody willing to be a jabber scribe we\u0027d love to have you do it as well as etherpad no takers would be greatly appreciated to help with the minutes I am one of the co-chairs Bernie volts and I am Pelican middle girls team and we have kind of a short agenda this evening we\u0027re doing the administer of you which should take just a few more minutes then we want to talk about the future of the working group and reach our Turing and then we\u0027ll have chakra anon the yang model and then two other sessions presentations by srivasa srivasa that are on one is already a working group document the other is a a individual submission at the current time I do want to point out that there are our IP our statements with those last two documents and Elliott do you have something about the agenda you\u0027d like to bash yes Thank You Bernie Eliot leer I would just ask that we move number two to the bottom if it\u0027s okay with others move number two to one to the bottom all right put that towards the end I like to hear because I think that will have bearing on the other things will have bearing on that well I think we I think we\u0027ll leave it alone because it\u0027s you know it we have some strong work items that we still have to do and things like that so okay okay and those things that do we are going to discuss today are not the only items we have fun for the working group okay just a quick summary of what happens is less ITF there is one RC published to our CSR currently in the "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:03:10",
    "text": "publication requested q1 is the DHCP relay port which will be being reviewed by the IAS G later this month on their Telesat and yeah there is 3315 biz with suresh\u0027s working through and hopes to move along in a couple of weeks I think you said right and there are two other working group drafts that are currently active and this was written a little before it the the yang model was republished so there\u0027s actually three and all of those are on the the sorry that sorry there are only two it\u0027s the yang model was already there I misspoke so we have the those two documents the LW m2m bootstrap options and the yang model that are two active documents and currently on the agenda and we have one related draft which is also the on the agenda okay okay so Bernie and I talked with our ID about the future of the working group and our current chapter and we thought that it\u0027s now a good time to to look at how the working group done in the in the last couple years and what\u0027s ahead of us so I thought that feels we could start with a quick look at our current track charter so I skipped the preface because the Charter is slightly longer but basically the preface is a text that explains that the HC is about the HTTP protocol and but but the the most important part are the items that are here on the slide so the first item was to develop specific extensions to the HP v6 infrastructure and the Charter was very specific so we listed a number of things that we wanted to achieve I think there was nine or ten of them and as you can see they are now color coded the green the green one has are done the red ones are either felt or abandoned and so in the current form the Charter is basically done at least according to this point so there are other items namely item number three its issue updated versions of the of the base specifications this work technically it\u0027s not done but it\u0027s almost done so it\u0027s now it is G so it it should be done in the next couple months so we thought that we definitely need to update the "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:06:10",
    "text": "Charter so and here\u0027s the proposed charter so this is the preamble that\u0027s almost exactly copied from from the previous one so there are no changes if you want to read through it I can give you a couple minutes there\u0027s just a small several small wording changes in here like I think the last sentence in the second paragraph is new and there\u0027s a few other little things that I cleaned up but for all intensive purposes it\u0027s the same as the existing [Music] so I see that most people finished reading so we can move on and this is updated part of the core of the Charter so Bernie and I think that the working group should have four objectives the first one is to issue updated version of the DTV six by specification and after its published we should wait some time and once there is a significant deployment base we should work on promoting this this RFC to full internet standard so this is our first goal then the second one is to develop documents that help explain operational considerations for the wider community if and as needed so sometimes we write documents that explains that explaining various aspects of how DSP should and shouldn\u0027t be used so this is something that that we could write and I talked about trees to assist other working groups and independent submissions in defining options that follow the option guidelines and to assure operational considerations are properly documented so and so in principle we don\u0027t want to do options work if so and this this has been true "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:09:14",
    "text": "for quite a while now and - we definitely want to continue in that direction that if there is an option and the option should be designed and standardized in dedicated working group however sometimes there are cases when some people coming in and say that hi there\u0027s not really working group appropriate for this kind of work and in their case there should be an exception clause that we talk with our ID and if we\u0027re in agreement that it\u0027s okay to I had to adopt this work then could be done in THC the work that we\u0027ve been talking about and you know trying to reinvigorate I guess number two is where the least worst fit here is but it\u0027s not exactly a good fit for that because it is an operational document but it\u0027s not it\u0027s not explaining an operational consideration it\u0027s it\u0027s standardizing your yang model for operation and maintenance that would fall under additional topics cuz we\u0027ve already had that you know it\u0027s already a working Joe Biden this is all word looking as to what new things so you\u0027re happy to just have four as a catch-all for anything that we forgot the kind of thing yeah and we didn\u0027t want to you know numerate the things we\u0027re currently working on so because that can change you know and and when things get finished we have to you know so and we will fix the typo in number one there\u0027s advance the to full Internet standard needs to be fixed that should be ejected okay but you know and we\u0027ll wordsmith it I mean you know we\u0027re willing to take suggestions that people have if you want to add a number five here because or we\u0027ve number them you know add something else or whatever and you know obviously it\u0027s gonna we haven\u0027t shown this to Suresh so he\u0027s gonna go through it and the iesg may have comments as well during the whole retargeting process so we\u0027re not ready to send us in yet and we\u0027ll well I mean it it\u0027s been most of this text has been available for a while on the wiki page that we have for this particular mania I have 100 meeting but I\u0027m not sure how many people looked at it and what so we will send us out to the mailing list and get some discussion going and hopefully you know wordsmith it and things so I mean I\u0027m just reading the text of four again and that specifically says additional topics and option work with agreement from the responsible area director I mean we know this work is coming does this mean we need to get agreement for with the area director or you know can we say that we already have that so it should be it\u0027s not captured by four it should be under one two three which so you say your point about the additional topics with approval from the area director yeah so I mean it isn\u0027t this "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:12:14",
    "text": "chartering a process of it gives us you know is basically will go before the area director of making to say well this is what we\u0027re thinking of doing we know the yang work is in there so couldn\u0027t we enumerated somewhere else so would you prefer to extend item number two to it in a sense that\u0027s an aspect of operational consideration because this you know explaining operational considerations is not the same as you know developing star basic standards around operating the management and so if it had something like that in there then I think that would that would cover it quite honestly let\u0027s use suresh has counted on that point yeah so a couple of things so the first thing is like a few years away right like so 15 30 15 bits just came out so I would say like let\u0027s say five years in the future we need to revisit that right like the internet standard thing and for like for itself it really doesn\u0027t need to be said right like because like you know if something is not in the Charter like you usually are each other to do it right so out like Tolley break this down into few things I\u0027ll say like the option definition work anything that needs to get done needs to like get area director approval and be done with it so that\u0027s just a milestone and just leave all the other thing the additional topics for each other and just leave it out because that\u0027s standard right like you know anything that\u0027s not on the chart it needs to have at each other so yeah I think yeah the number one we could remove the issue the updated versions really be bringing it to full standard that we would you know what to do but write the full standard like we need to like get a whole bunch of implementations at least to interrupt review implementation and like you know some amount of time in the field so it\u0027s like few years away so um I won\u0027t put it like not at number one so I\u0027ll put like other things like you know before this I can just keep it as an item somewhere and so I would say like two three and four and then I don\u0027t mind like adding like specifically the operational considerations and and I\u0027ll call it like data models or information models or something and then that should cover it okay Danny Moses I want to give you some feedback on an experience that I had trying to write a DHCP option I wrote an option in the DMM working group and I was advised by Suresh and Sri to come and present it here I presented it here last ITF and I got some very good feedback and comments to fix and from my experience it\u0027ll be very difficult to "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:15:14",
    "text": "assume that people can add options to DHCP without coming and getting feedback from a professional working group so if I understood what he had in the last slide assuming that people can add options without getting some kind of a feedback or approval from this working group I\u0027m not sure that I\u0027m not sure that will work so so that I mean that\u0027s really number three to assist other working groups here like to do work here this is for this working group right so option three explains what DHC is going to do for other working groups that are doing DAC options okay they will still have to come here and present the options well there\u0027s no they\u0027re encouraged to come here there\u0027s no hard requirement now there is another gate that does exist and that is that when options when I anti gets the option requests they actually send email to Ted lemon Tomic and myself as expert reviewers okay and so you know that that\u0027s the way the registry is Oh is updated anyway and so we always will be you know involved in sort of policing the the options and we would certainly kick something back if we felt that there was a problem with it that\u0027s okay so that\u0027s sort of the final gate if if a working group or an individual submission doesn\u0027t come to us okay all right so what we\u0027ll do Tomic and I will update the Charter text based on some of this the proposed charter text and circulated to the working group for further discussion and edits okay and I just wanted to believe mention what are the current items that seems to be having interest of the working group so obviously we need to wrap up the bees work there\u0027s the real a part that it\u0027s also mostly done we have young models so currently you see only one of them on our working group page because before it\u0027s expired but this doesn\u0027t mean that it\u0027s that it\u0027s simply waiting for the v6 to continue and then the plan is to copy over almost we\u0027re back into two before we also have two drafts with IOT both of them are later presented there\u0027s also one topic that that Bernie and I are "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:18:15",
    "text": "currently working on this is a mechanism for Marc address assignment that is needed in a couple of environments in IOT and also in massive virtualization environment when you have a hypervisor that sense responds many VMs okay so this is basically what buddy had said that the proposed next steps is to update the Charter as needed publish this this proposal on the mailing list so other people who are not in your own are also able to see think about this and possibly post some comments and then we will charter and with the 2015 piece we\u0027ll just wait until we feel that there is a substantial adoption then we\u0027ll start the procedure to promote it to antenna standard any nemi time we will continue our work in to talk about the yang model if you want the hello so I\u0027m me and Farrah from Deutsche Telekom talking about the DHCP six yang model that we\u0027ve been working with for a couple of years now right so um the draft has been fairly dormant for some time I think it\u0027s nearly a year since the last update sound due to well basically a lot of the authors moving on to other things and other commitments from the people who are remaining so we published after it got adopted as a workgroup item we had a couple of updates fairly small ones in o2 and o3 which were you know very very slight changes to namings and various leaf nodes and sorting out a few tiny bugs we made a request about for ATF\u0027s ago I think for some young doctor review and also some implementers reviews which we did receive fairly extensive and there\u0027s a lot of good stuff in there but it was never really acted on until we kind of tried to wipe the thing up again in in version zero for which is the one that got published just before the cutoff data a few weeks ago fully aware that the update was really more of a sort of keep alive to a statement of interest rather than a comprehensive implementation of all of the comments that we\u0027ve got but you know we are starting to work on it again so a comment from Marcin was around the DUID "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:21:15",
    "text": "construction and you know going back and his comments completely justified it was nothing like what\u0027s in 33:15 so that got very much reworked and I think looks a lot better now it certainly matches so you know what what the capabilities are you know how they\u0027re defined in 1933 15 much better we had some enable nodes in errors and sort of on/off switch for various bits and pieces that comment from the yang doctor review was that there\u0027s not really any point in that so those have gone and the this was a comment from far away\u0027s review I think the reserved address and prefix at the level they sit in the hierarchy of the model if you\u0027re if you looked at the model that would make more sense you but if you haven\u0027t I strongly recommend you do yeah this is one of the running themes that we\u0027ve got you know that we\u0027re seeing with this and when I opened the document up again notes um it\u0027s it\u0027s terrifying in its size I mean we\u0027re trying to model you know the entirety of the protocol really as it stands at the moment and this is making for a a very very unwieldy model so in one of the review comments was to divide it into three separate modules by the functional element that they\u0027re configuring so relay server client that will definitely improve things I think we can go further though and I\u0027ll talk about that in the middle in a minute yeah the description fields that we have are minimalist to say the least it\u0027s not a hard job to do it just takes a long time to go through and you know update all of the description fields in in a way that makes sense without them becoming too verbose we currently explicitly model every option on it the way back are they\u0027re probably nearly 2 years ago we had this about how you go about describing options how do you go about filling those with the relevant content that\u0027s going to go get distributed to clients in the server model a comment we got back from a review was if we were to make the option definitions and define those each under the yang features statement then it would make it quite easy for a server implementation to be able to indicate I support this feature I don\u0027t support this feature with the use of the yang iya feature function so I haven\u0027t really been through that one in detail but on the face of it it certainly sounds like it makes sense we also incorporated the 72 27 generic types option types on the advice of the workgroup they\u0027re in there they could be better and many many other small fix ups that need to be done so one of the things that when I when I open this up again to look at it I mean it is horrendous dividing into three chunks as for the by function makes some sense I think what would also make sense is to come up with a just separate out the "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:24:16",
    "text": "model definite the option definitions into a separate model and then reference them because I think that would lead to having a much more readable server model client model and relay model and then we just reference and pull in the other options I also think there\u0027s a lot that around the maintainability of the structure that would when when you want to add new options for as they get defined in the future then we only have to touch one part of it the main server cut a portion doesn\u0027t need to be touched which may make it a little bit more maintainable the option definitions that we\u0027ve got ie did a bit of a compare and contrast against the original RFC\u0027s that they come from and in many cases they\u0027re way off so there needs to be some some good diligence kind of going through and actually reading what\u0027s in the original draft or original RFC\u0027s that these options come from and modeling them more accurately in yang that leads onto the whether you\u0027ve got a single tune or a multi option we need to put things into lists some contain as if they\u0027re Maltese and not within lists if there are singleton options we need to look at how other IETF models are which other existing IETF molds we have it may well be that we need to apply these functions to ingress interfaces in the server or or whatever I\u0027m not I\u0027m not sure at that stage how that\u0027s going to work exactly or if it needs doing but I think it\u0027s worth looking into I think we need some text in there about extensibility because as it stands at the moment you know it\u0027s a constantly evolving protocol and you know if we have something that is goes out of date the minute that it\u0027s published it would be good to write it you know make it as easy as it possible for new option developers to be able to say and here\u0027s the yang to be able to do this so that things can be updated or they can just write that and extend it internally in their own implementations if that\u0027s what they want to do I also am thinking that you know given how big this is it would be useful if we could start an issue tracker to start collating all of the problems that we\u0027ve come up with and you know that seem to work quite well with a 3315 work and given the sizes as well so what\u0027s next basically we need some help that\u0027s what it comes down so we need people to spend some time on this I think Tomic put something out on the list earlier on today asking if anyone would step forward I would say at this stage you know even no knowledge or or minimal knowledge of Yang may not need to be a barrier if you are keen and enthusiastic hi I\u0027m the man in the middle I\u0027m here to help hello so this is Elliott first of all thank you for taking this on this is "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:27:16",
    "text": "interesting work from seven different from several different dimensions first of which is of course people want to manage their large-scale DHCP infrastructure mechanism and that\u0027s what people had in mind I think when they first developed this out I don\u0027t know if you were to an original co-author this were you I might have come on the second version ah right so I I mean I really appreciate you stepping up and I appreciate the work of the earlier co-authors I\u0027m first of all I\u0027m happy to contribute I\u0027m happy to review on this work but for a very different purpose which is I see an opportunity here for us to evolve our thinking along DHCP in the longer term and in particular if we can determine how to have a protected communication for stuff that is configure e stuff if you\u0027ll pardon use the term but not necessarily you know needed to bring up that first ability to send packets right such that you could separate out just you know maybe the that little thing you need to get the packets out like you know what\u0027s your prefix would you know what IP address using what\u0027s your maybe what\u0027s your next hop router and things like that depending on all right before v6 what-have-you and then there\u0027s this other stuff that we have a ton of options for which is nice to know like what\u0027s my printer what\u0027s my NTP server what\u0027s this that in the other write that you don\u0027t necessarily need for that first bring up to send packets but you might very reasonably want to know that stuff we may be in a position you know given that we\u0027ve done yen right for all of this well then you can serialize it and if you can serialize it in something like OSI bore or JSON or what-have-you at that point you can protect it over Oh co-op ass or something like that we can begin to think about how we might want to protect this stuff now I don\u0027t expect this to be a thing that happens in the next you know it\u0027s it\u0027s not something that people are going to dump their entire DHCP infrastructure next year but you know five six seven years out you begin to think well we can probably think about this architectural separation and and see how well we go so that\u0027s why I\u0027m interested in this aspect so I mean you\u0027re talking about essentially taking the definitions that are used within the yang models here and repurposing them for something outside of DHCP well could be yes so for instance you know it could be that we have a DHCP V 3 V 2 V the N right which looks an awful like a restful interface rate as opposed to you know it\u0027s been comes in yeah right so when we structure the model what this has model structure implications right and now Suresh is probably gonna tell you Eliot you\u0027ve just boiled the ocean here thank you so much but when we we don\u0027t have to do all the work at once what we have to start in terms of thinking about this is structuring the data the the the node definitions such that yes the we want to "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:30:16",
    "text": "make sure that we separate out the only absolute necessary things in terms of options from the other things which may not be necessary for the bring up but can it but our reasonably good choices for initial protection so I mean in the suggestion I had of saying what if we took the options and split them out then if you were to use them for whatever purpose you had then that won\u0027t preach me and they might we might want to groups of options as what I\u0027m saying two groups of options right those things that you know you probably can\u0027t protect because you don\u0027t you don\u0027t have enough you\u0027re not up enough to establish that protection and we this is a thing where we could argue back and forth that individual options right but they\u0027re mostly the ones that are mandatory right in terms of v4 and and you know the you know things with the M date set for for v4 v6 maybe right I\u0027m a hazard a guess as to what the you know where that line exactly is we don\u0027t have to do that now I think let me just interject here I think that when I mean you\u0027re talking more about the sort of protocol core options versus the other configuration options and I think yeah I think you know I mean that\u0027s an interesting question that I think we have to look at and even this you know it dividing it out for the work that that in had specified of separating out the options it\u0027s it\u0027s an interesting question about you know I was thinking that we were really just dividing out the other configuration options and sort of the core protocol things would probably still be in the base spec right but that\u0027s that was just my I mean I\u0027m not sure that\u0027s the right answer this breaks down I think to the stateful and the stateless options that\u0027s right in there maybe that\u0027s a chiral great definition because they did the state the state full options are never going to be a part of your option said these are to do with you know ocean and prefix and whatever else so and I think that would be your needs because then those options are we could we could begin to talk have that discussion I think and so I think that that\u0027s one so so when it comes to how you divide these two documents you go back to your previous slide I think it is then you know in terms of how you divide whether is this one document or two documents I I do think that is a really good question and I don\u0027t have a really good answer because maybe that the document is is I think a bit of a monster at this point and I do like that that it they did all this work you guys did all this work it\u0027s great stuff and maybe we can get it all done really quickly I don\u0027t know I mean I I don\u0027t know I with with yang models and you know this is not the only one I\u0027m working on what I what I see you know that the RFC is kind of you know it\u0027s just a vessel for container what people are interested in is the model itself and I I think you know there\u0027s not really any there\u0027s not much logic in having multiple RFC\u0027s to define "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:33:16",
    "text": "this it\u0027s that it\u0027s the dividing of the modules and you know those by function that\u0027s what people use and you know they need to be self-contained so like I understand what you\u0027re saying Elliott right like you said it\u0027s probably trying to boil the ocean thing a little bit but I don\u0027t mind if you start thinking about this like future stuff but on the security side there\u0027s like a couple of things there so you talked about like you know something like you know a score or something like that I like you know something to secure it but there\u0027s a couple of pieces in the in the DHD security so one of them is the object security like you\u0027re talking about there\u0027s like also the the secure of the transport which we need to talk about and the third thing I think is like pretty important for DHC is the trust right like so we still have to establish the trust towards somebody does it so so I think like there\u0027s like many dimensions and it makes my head hurt because it\u0027s Thursday evening but I think it\u0027s really worth looking at at some point like to see if there\u0027s something we can do and also another thing I wanted to point out to you is like there\u0027s some work going on in interior like the provisioning domain work right and they have some kind of things like more like metadata are not really configuration stuff that\u0027s like JSON so like you know you get something and then you pull off a bunch of things in JSON so maybe like for lack of a better term if I call something like you know if the configuration things are information elements we can probably map them into multiple in codings to send them out right like could be DHCP could be one of them and then like you know like seaboard would be another one so I think it\u0027s good to keep that in mind and the yang stuff goes on but yeah it\u0027s like a longer-term project yeah there\u0027s a question about you know the evolution of the model cuz I think the you know by putting the options in a separate document right that one may evolve quickly but the base client server really model kind of stays the same right I mean so that that\u0027s an advantage but there\u0027s also the question about you know would future option definition documents maybe just so to say here\u0027s the you know additional part of the yang model that you need to do it I mean that may be a way so you don\u0027t have to you know we don\u0027t have to read the the option document very often it\u0027s it\u0027s they are sees that define the new options that sort of add that part of the model there\u0027s no reason why you couldn\u0027t do that I mean you can augment put an awkward statement in there and there\u0027s no reason why 7277 for you know the yang that surrounds everything could just say fill in your field names here basically it wouldn\u0027t need to be any more complicated than that so you know we can make it so it\u0027s just you know just as easy to do as not to though right and then I mean we could still republish the the core document of the options periodically to suck all those in so yeah there\u0027s one place you can go or whatever but I mean if we can you know make it so the maintenance is easy so I was just gonna add this Elliott again that I think that one as we go "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:36:18",
    "text": "forward and we\u0027re thinking about the revision model for all of this then I think that\u0027s one where we do want I hate to say this because it drives me batty but we do want to be very careful to consult with the yang doctors yeah and just make sure that we\u0027re that they have a view on this okay so is is there anybody that\u0027s interested in in helping out so I have an email from someone else\u0027s so what is it so we got Elliot we\u0027ve got Tim myself did we get everybody all right so you\u0027ve got you\u0027ve got people to help out might be good to have you know maybe there\u0027s a set up a conference call or something for trying to figure out how does divvy up the work and what to do or something I don\u0027t know what the next step well you\u0027ve got the names there do we have contact details for everyone that\u0027s on there and no so maybe the center send maybe the thing we should all do that is send Ian well there was a guy\u0027s provide your contact information you know or email or something and then we\u0027ll we\u0027ll get in touch okay thank you all right thanks okay Sreenivasan there\u0027s the hey my name is Srinivas from erikson okay this is a draft to propose some options required to enable lwm team services on in IOT scenarios and this draft is to set some context this draft is presented in Prague IIT of nineteen nine and it\u0027s of course after that it is it was adapted by the working group and there\u0027s some comments I received from working group and there\u0027s some comments outside working group also first the comments important comments of course keeping the editorials aside one comment from Francis about the certificates that we can encode as part of options that\u0027s I mean I didn\u0027t mention very clearly in the previous questions so I added a section obviously it\u0027s taken from the RFC seven to nine six the data is taken from that and that section explains now how what type of certificates can be "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:39:18",
    "text": "encoded and there\u0027s some comments from vernier also obviously it\u0027s again on the same section because I I think I missed I plot I added such we get types wrongly because I picked it from draw different document and I am which is not correct and that\u0027s also corrected now and there is some comment on length which is valid and in fact I corrected that one and of course there are few editorials that\u0027s what I handed and apart from these I have received two comments mostly reads from baton yesterday which I still need to take care probably the next revision and in the last meeting when I presented remotely there was I mean working group insisted that this should be reviewed by some i/o TX but also because we here are not experts in lwm diem so that\u0027s why I I was trying to find people and things to think are G\u0027s research book is the place where I went and the chair of the Atari car man assigned to the US for that aha nice and Caston and of course I got one generic comment from honest about security and this is something okay his question is how do we prevent that an attack of such Sapodilla server and points is the device to the his rail WM Tim server and take control of it that\u0027s his question of course the question is valid obviously but this is not the problem introduced by this option alone because that\u0027s what can happen to any option which we have today they it\u0027s like other aqua DNS itself may be anything whatever options so I try to explain a few ways which I know how the problem is solved today of course there is no protocol solving the problem but the network deployment that is solving the problem so one is by introducing the snooping function which is generally used today making sure that you have a firewall and the DHCP methods are going to only a trusted for towards your DHCP server and the second thing is having a relation of proxy where the broadcast is converted to unicast and make sure that your server got that unicast address so this is what I try to explain and these are the things which I saw as implementations in different products today and yeah in spite of that there is further communication with Hanus e is probably looking for a solution where device can protect itself we are trying to say that you deploy your network switch that device is protected and there is still some coming some discussion going on and yeah it\u0027s not closed I also want to understand if some working group comments on this particular thing now is the this expert "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:42:18",
    "text": "review is on like the IOT Directorate you know where is this email exchange sort of public or is it on some replied saying that - these two are assigned after that I am not sure if people have copied or not yeah I don\u0027t remember that may obtain another 100k yeah it\u0027d be good to try to put some of it up there or summarize it or if it\u0027s on I don\u0027t know if there\u0027s an IO teacher you know mailing list or something that it could be on or something just so that there is a good record of it okay fine I love added to the working group mail Jake okay see and this needs to be still closed okay the next step but this is okay as I said working group opinion on this particular comment and of course I have to discuss further with the expert he did not say no to the document as of now but he said he\u0027ll think about this and get back and eat some time that\u0027s what he\u0027s saying so that\u0027s the next steps of course any further review reviews comments I welcome okay so and you hope to get that discussion closed fairly soon an issue an updated documentary yeah I hope it will be soon I\u0027ll be able to get some conclusion on that and also the comments which he\u0027ll provide that yesterday mostly I will take care of that and put the next weekend some of the security issues that you talked about are basically where you know the 3315 biz document that\u0027s also sort of what we concluded about the security model because of you know using the HTTP six card and things like that that that most networks already provide fairly decent security at the lower levels and therefore you know that\u0027s one of the reasons we\u0027ve the ban and the SE dhcpv6 work stuff yeah so okay regarding the specific comment related to the malicious DHCP servers I just need to seek some information from working group is there any other solution other than what I was mentioning which came across in any of the discussions that\u0027s one point I want to bring out yeah if something is known as Suresh said DHCP it\u0027s all about trusting the DHCP server yeah so I was trying to explain the same to the expert but that\u0027s where there is some lock yeah I mean I guess you know when once you download what you get from the URL or whatever you know you could maybe there\u0027s some certificate validation or something that can happen there but yeah who knows you know okay okay fine I\u0027ll father continued discussions and maybe I\u0027ll bring it to closure so yeah yeah one one thing and I forgot to mention "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:45:18",
    "text": "that too in suresh\u0027s pinged both Tomek and i to update the milestones on the documents that we currently had and so you know one of the things for since both you guys are authors is to to you know think about that and send us some stuff otherwise Tomac and I will make up some stuff for you okay yeah that\u0027s about this draft yeah okay yeah okay this draft is which is somewhat similar to what we were talking already but it\u0027s different use case and different protocol I could not think of it when I was submitting the previous one so I thought it I can bring it to the working group so okay the context for this draft again it\u0027s use cases or I were to use cases and MQTT Message Queuing telemetry transport this is a protocol which is quite old but it\u0027s regaining popularity in los five six years again because of I was related scenarios so there is need to enable there is need for a few options to enable MQTT services on devices in better way that\u0027s what this draft is going to talk about so just to set the context about mqtt protocol just one slide so this is a protocol from oasis standards body and it runs on TCP and this is a publisher and subscriber Moodle protocol where one publisher or multiple publishers publish that data and there is some intermediate node called broker who replicates it to other people who are interested or who are subscribed so this publication of data happens for topics topics can be anything you can just take it as a string for example any string then history okay the topic looks like this it\u0027s generally hierarchical string to understand it better hierarchy it\u0027s like the temperature of your home ground floor living room you can just say that in hierarchical way that\u0027s how it looks like so what is a problem actually here the problem is again it\u0027s similar to what we discussed in previous Roth of course the how client can reach to mqtt broker there is no dynamic way today it\u0027s hard-coded it\u0027s it\u0027s manually configured and there is a need for dynamically getting that URL of the broker that\u0027s one problem I see and the second problem is if you go back to the topic topics looks like a string hierarchical string separated by a special character these topic there is there are no guidelines to manage this "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:48:19",
    "text": "topic as of now this is also something like if I want to publish data for a specific topic the topic again manually configure that they by saying that okay if you want to publish temperature use this string as topic for publishing the temperature this is a manual configuration today which is error-prone and there is no centralized control for this topic space which is causing problems in the network to different clients to different publishers publishing data to same topic which is finally causing lot of problems data clash so I see a need to centralize how some mechanism to manage this topic space centralized way and also to dynamically allocate this some part of the topic may be I will call it as a prefix of the topic which will make sure that the topic is uniquely as I into every client so I see need for these options of course I am considering v4 also as I said earlier it\u0027s not so important it\u0027s more for v6 but I\u0027m considering for me for also as of now so these are the four thing of course broker URI for both v4 and v6 and the topic prefix for v4 and v6 okay this is how the options looks like as copied from the truck of course that first line there is some alignment issue I think in the picture so of course it\u0027s as for the guidelines options guidelines we have I think I need not explain they are just drinks this is for me for okay yeah this is no it\u0027s independent submission so I just wanted to get the sense of the working group and any comments does it make sense to adopt robber naggy deep dive networking look I understand the popularity of it coming back to me and all that other people get up and speak this certainly Falls as a not a option itself but it we already have mechanisms for this with vendor define so okay to me this doesn\u0027t tie up an option number on its own but that\u0027s just my thoughts I mean we have mechanisms to do this today and what those are not using DHCP though right no still an option well it\u0027s big v4 we can definitely put this order in vendor to vendor option 43 and we have ways to do this all right and like I was saying Suresh we we define all these options for things that then get limited use come in and out of fashion and then we can\u0027t get our option lists updated would type because one person might still be using it so while it\u0027s great today "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:51:20",
    "text": "does this warrant us having the stuck in our list forever as we know we are so to me this should use the mechanisms we have for things that aren\u0027t quite full-time yeah I mean that\u0027s always a good question is whether somebody like you know if you say I think he said Oasis is doing this and you know that standards organization may already have an enterprise number ID number and if they don\u0027t they can always get one and they could do this all under the vendor option space and it\u0027s all within their control and so you know that that\u0027s a question that I think it should always be asked about whether that\u0027s a better solution and we have that both for B 4 and B 6 right yeah so that\u0027s kind of my point as well like so vendor option because like I\u0027m not sure if this cross is do use for this right so if there is me maybe that\u0027s probably something you can motivate like in the traffic I cross this do work right is there somebody outside mmm that\u0027s no one because the protocol as I said is from Anders obviously just like other draft we need to go for some review what this also right makes sense and that\u0027s one thing in the second thing is MQTT is not like IDF protocol - right like so that\u0027s also another thing to consider so it\u0027s going straight against coop really so that\u0027s just think about it like I am it\u0027s not like I\u0027m worried about like you know option space getting exhausted but the question is like you know it\u0027s is it off use like to standardize this and I\u0027d yes that\u0027s really something that you can probably look at okay my point of view here easiest vendor specific options but the question is interoperability I mean we con tag let\u0027s say one broker to one specific vendor that\u0027s my point of view here well well again it\u0027s sort of like what cable labs did you know cable labs has a whole bunch of options that are done through the vendor options and it\u0027s cable as as a standard organization maintains that directory it\u0027s not it\u0027s not to say that you know IOT vendor X\u0026Y which are both doing this MQTT what is yeah are you know we don\u0027t want those vendors to do the option we want Oh a sis as the standards organization that is responsible for mqtt to get a vendor to use their enterprise ID vendor option space to define these options okay and they they have a whole you know then before they have 256 options they can do well they can do any number because they can define whatever one they want for the the actual data within their enterprise space but usually we would recommend they be sub options and so you\u0027ve got 256 or for v6 you have 65,000 and you can manage our oasis can manage that themselves that\u0027s what CableLabs did they have an enterprise ID number they manage a "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:54:21",
    "text": "directory of options for how cable modems are supposed to and the cmts are communicating and so you know it\u0027s not it\u0027s not cisco cmts or error cmts that\u0027s using their private vendor space it\u0027s actually the table Labs standards organizations under space right yeah exactly yeah so vendor specific it\u0027s not vendor specific it\u0027s really it\u0027s very clear but yeah so the it\u0027s 3gpp has done similar things BBF has done similar things so it\u0027s the SDM that will take the space so and so you don\u0027t have to worry about like you know one vendor specifically so also a side comment atif other organization like classes takes over and this window space and they have issues which define a few options I suppose this is not in our proposed charter but to provide review of the proposed options but if they show up and ask for a review we we could provide it so they want to say otherwise thank you and we\u0027ll save maybe you know what we\u0027re will be sending out the agenda requests fairly soon for London and we\u0027ll see what happens you know it\u0027s possible we may go dormant if we have no topics for permitting but we\u0027ll see what happens hopefully we\u0027ll have some good progress on the yang model to discuss and yeah if you haven\u0027t signed a blue sheet please do so [Music] all right thank you let\u0027s see six people yeah we had the other the other sheet is somewhere you "
  }
]