[
  {
    "startTime": "00:01:13",
    "text": "Good morning all. We're we're getting set up, and I'm muting my computer so that we're not listening to things twice. Alright. I'll put up some we have to do the refresh."
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:02:27",
    "text": "I thought I did the refresh I don't have the chairs slides. Okay. I mean, they're there. No. If any of the mid people can kick the tools so that the slides reload, that would be much appreciated. I tried that. And we need a Oh, yes. Do we have someone who is willing to described in be or prepared for us. Anybody in the room Scribe, please. Mike thank you."
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:04:00",
    "text": "Everybody is now required to buy Mike S John's a beer Well, I will share the screen then to Yeah. I know paul slide c. Oh, well, I haven't checked to see if the newest ones are. So let me share screen. Share screen. See what shows up. Share this one window. Like it. Alright. Are you ready to get going or five minutes past the hour or half hour? Welcome to Rs g. We are meant to note well So even though this is not an etf activity per s, we do follow guidelines particularly with regard to"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:06:01",
    "text": "Ip policy and other policies that you must take note of before participating in this group. In particular note that the patent policy applies in this room. That you acknowledge that things are going to be recorded. And that you are sharing a certain personal information and that you agree to work respectfully with folks. Here is a nice list of different documents that document the policies and procedures that we use here. By this time, everybody in this room should be aware of these. Questions The agenda we posted earlier, we're going to jump right in Let me see if I can get the correct slides up I have to stop sharing my screen first and then res share Which one are we doing first paul? As is I think we've got this right Let's see if it's gonna happen available Okay. You have the floor gentleman."
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:08:09",
    "text": "It really does take an Iot guy to know, like, things like switch it on and such like that. So for those of you aren't following carefully or actually, it looks like I recognize everyone in the room so you probably are. But so the draft John had originated that I then joined in on is now a actual working group draft for those of you forgotten. We are in fact, a working group where it's not a group in the It we're in the editorial stream. So it is draft Rs s w g, meaning that it's not draft I f. Rs w g It's draft Rs w because there isn't actually a naming style yet for the editorial stream. So we picked this one. And We posted the draft while ago out of zero one there's only a few changes. We'll talk about those on the next slide. So we believe that this is extremely close if not exact, but probably not exact. To what the Xml R code is currently doing. That's why this is as implemented. There are some diff and those will become probably problematic, but we will keep discussing them. So we think that it's now ready to decide to do with this document which ec just did ten minutes ago. If you're reading the mailing list. As you're watching the slides. Next slide. I can do these because I actually sort of caused them. So there were someone noticed that in the zero zero, there were some see reps being called out, like, if you look at the Html, that turned out to be a tooling artifact that Julian rusty fixed for us. There just some things in the current x R"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:10:00",
    "text": "where if you do something that doesn't really recognize, it makes it into a block quote or sea reference something like that. That got fixed, so nothing that you all would see but these... Yeah. Yep. Good the way this document is produced is extremely complicated. It uses. Yeah. It it uses some rather complicated software that only Julian understands. Basically takes takes the existing draft compares it to the to the xml grammar and then basically updates the document to add boiler plate sections where grammar approved. Basically make sure the document match back just the grammar. So that's that's where the c problem came from. There's also some... That also explains some of the other kind of war where as I was handed it yeah, I didn't always get them exactly in sync. Oh, I think we got them pretty much in sync in the zero zero. So the only difference is now is that with the tooling changes we blew. And one of the tooling changes is second bullet, which is that we added the xml template for stream. Stream said text goes here. But if you looked at the actual grammar, it said it must be one of these choices and so that the current draft now says it must be one of these choices. And then the last thing we did was there was a change log at the end draft, it wasn't really accurate. It was getting longer longer all the time we just moved it. Next. Okay. So this slide is now out of date by fifteen minutes. No. No. No. No. No pete is fine. I'm saying, I'm saying, I wasn't going to try to read after doc, you know, message and then stick them into the slide. So at this point, please discuss actually becomes becker. Right. So to summarize, I thought I'd been clear, but obvious I failed the pro discussion of what the plan is that we're gonna have one unified document for three point one and as is, with and gradually, we we to migrate"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:12:01",
    "text": "the... We're going to migrate the things that are in as is we decide not to do into an appendix, and we're gonna and and we're gonna take the changes that we like that we're about one of the and you'd be able to reconstruct for this document, both versions of I think at the same time. And so what what on the wait wait. Say that against slow. You're gonna broke the tooling. We can start from this document No, actually, I think the tooling can handle that. If not, I'm sure we can ask you only. Yeah. Basically, splitting splitting stuff in the grammar the different part of the document, I believe that believe that works. But if it doesn't work we can fix it. You did you just that you actually will want the eventual document to have two C's one for where we are today and one for where we're going. That is that is the working state. We have no new decision with the final rs applications that will be. Okay. You You you've broken the tooling, but I believe it's fixable and we just have figure out if Julian wants to. Okay. Sounds great. If not, we will do some. So but the idea is that the pin is being incomplete. Right? It benz will just be clauses. Yes. Okay. Fantastic. So the... What what people need do going forward on is file issues against the document. Either the either in ways you think that like it something is wrong and to be fixed or something is incorrect much need to be repaired. Gonna be using github for this, but as it's as ancestors extent beforehand, all substantive issues have to be discussed in the mailing list. So it'll be appreciated if you file, you you can complain by just emailing mailing list, but if you appreciate if you follow issues, bright if you don't. We will be following the mailing list looking for a matching and github issue. And you're relying on us. To actually interpret what you said correctly. Correct. Precisely. And so basically the... The plan here is just to keep fighting through these issues until we have no issues and then we'll we done we'll hope publication. And so"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:14:04",
    "text": "At that point, are you expecting the main body of the text. To be reflecting what we want. Yes. For the future. So it's no longer as implemented. It's as will be implemented once we yes So that affects the Rpc because they... You know, like, don't know if they're gonna look at this as sort of running task list that might change over time or if they're going to wait. But at the point, let's say we're all done. It's not as implemented anymore. It's as is going to about to be implemented So we shouldn't publish at that point until we're pretty... That sounds reasonable to me. Robert. I think robert has review on this. My hand may mean not show up in you Robert Sparks. I'm struggling where in this is documentation of the Rc we've already published? The... As implemented is the stuff... Basically, every doc... Every document we published is valid under the current as implemented. But he's asking if we're gonna be changing that I think I'm sorry. I think you're asking. Yes. And and I have that very question. Yes. Are we going to document what? The grammar that between whatever eight thousand twenty year or whatever the started this. How are we going? So to the the plan that and maybe I'll screwed up. The idea was supposed to be that you could take the by the document and apply the appendix and that was the as implemented. And the main body itself was the thing we want... Was the thing that we're going forward with sensors. Yeah. No. I... Not. Yeah. Yeah. It's an issue of that you can... The document will contain as implemented. That that the"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:16:01",
    "text": "but the resulting document overall will also be very clear about what is as implemented that we think we want to continue doing going forward and what is as implemented that was as implemented, but we're just not doing any more because we think it's a bad idea. So all of these states will be dr from the document and and making it clear in the document that this is part of what as policy we're going forward with this is not that's going to be an important formatting and structure question but the the document will have all of that information here. So that formatting and instruct conversation, I think is what is starting now. I I agree. I think we had an idea that we had sort of settled in on at least the the outline of what that would look like on the list but we obviously have not conveyed that in a way that everybody is convinced, we've got it right. So we will continue that conversation on the list. There is Yeah. There is a question I've been asking for a year and a half now, which is if the final route the final version be fully backward compatible. And if not, what are we gonna do about? That you know... And the two the two choices are either do it one time fix to the Xml. Is my preferred thing or else, basically say there's a there's a flag day and we have all that about a new xml. But we have to do one if if If we don't make everything fully backward compatible, which I think we probably want. We gotta do one of those. Martin. Yeah. We can we can burn that particular bridge when we get that the... And I I suspect we're gonna get that relatively quickly so let's... Well, everyone keep up. That quickly when John and I do... Like, we will do a trivial dash o two with something in it to look like what we think"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:18:01",
    "text": "will happen and then people will will actually see the format actually, the chairs will see the format. The the ones who are sort of like seeing stuff. So I suspect we're gonna have to do a few rounds. Yeah. Going robin. Yeah You. I I had a separate point to my go Alright. John's abandoned me, so that's cool. I was just gonna ask a a a very sort of pragmatic question Are you setting up Oh, right. Oh, yeah. Robert fox. No I'm not interested. Are you gonna set up Ci for the for the draft. So when we're back would you like to help us? I can certainly try. Yeah. I I suspect it won't work. That is that the... If you look in the make file, which I believe is in the repo, you will find a lot of strange and wonderful thing. The reason I say that is if if if Julian built this byzantine system that is completely ins sc and once. Robert, is waving you. Exactly... So it suitable is instead of So it it is documented. However. I I don't I I can put in a thing that says you have a bare Ubuntu or or Deb vm. Here's how to here's here are the steps you need to do. In order to make make make. Yeah. That's why I wanna do. Yep. I would like to volunteer to work and get other people to work to un team that makes system and make it github friendly as part of getting this thing into a working group repo. So github actions can work on it. Well. Okay. I know nothing of Github action. So I'm fine with that. And again, it it takes a couple of extra things. That are bit magic, but we know what they are. Yeah. Is okay. So the the reason I say that is I I think that people being able to contribute to the draft is is gonna be"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:20:00",
    "text": "important. Oh, of course. I mean, they can contribute the question is then do they can they then run make locally and see if their contribution came out That's why I want Ci. So at least you have a backstop on that sort of. Okay. So yeah. So that's all that... That's even more magic to me. And if I hear a couple volunteers. That's great. I did you go to the Mike, John? Yeah. Yeah. John Levine. One of the things I've been trying to avoid doing, but unavoidable And and I've I have avoided doing So... Yeah. Okay. So So we unavoidable and and we will make it possible for the people who know how to do this. To help or to give up. You know Yeah I... Yeah. I think that that we can rei the useful parts somewhat with somewhat less complication than we have now because we're not making big I already did a round of that with Julie in about four or five years ago so I I believe we are at the simplest that we need. But that doesn't mean it can't be done on Github. So the question is, once we say, this is how we're doing it off Github. Can the github smart people do it on Github. We'll see. Jay Daily, I I'd like to go back to Echo plan if okay. I the first bit about getting consensus on whether we keep some of the changes since Rf seven whatever. I think could take quite some time because some of those things in there from my understanding of them have got some real depth about discussions. And that would therefore mean that the appendix, you know, and the whole thing is gonna to take some time to reduce. Now I don't object to that. I just think we all to be clear that we're possibly setting ourselves up for a one maybe longer year process until we get to that that's all. That that was my expectation. You know, I think we heard a lot of Well we have a lot of sentiment. I'm a list of people do not want to publish an R just of the current as implemented. Until I told the was results I send this document, and the idea was to have these be"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:22:02",
    "text": "feature and deliver them and time what stop continuing to have. Sound documentation of the current of play. So that was this is intended what that difference. Okay. So Jay, if your concern was that we would be breaking the ability for someone to look at the current draft. And know what the Rpc is doing now. We won't do that. We will make sure that the current draft and somebody just saying, whereas the grammar currently being used is doable right then for however, long it takes. Jake Again No. I'm I'm not too worried about that provided that we can keep the authors dot f dot org site up to date. Because that to me should be the primary place that people do is the reference rather than this draft because this is like slightly esoteric, you know, draft in order. Yeah a place of people to find it. But no. If if we accept the timetable, I'll I have no problem with without much a little clear about thanks. Carson. Constant woman. I apologize for not having follow the discussion yet. What is the thing documenting? I, publishing format? Well, I accidentally offering for. Publishing format. So and and to follow up on on that... You don't have to stand for this, but I had some really interesting discussions yesterday with the Rpc. About the whole thing of for author, you know, what authors are expected to do and such and my view is we've totally lost discussion with the authors. You know, saying to the authors, you must do this before it is turned in is lovely, but it's not what's really happened. And the Rpc takes whatever the draft they get and makes it correct for how it comes out. So we can do more with saying to authors. If you do it like this,"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:24:00",
    "text": "you're going to see the few Xml related surprises during off forty eight. But saying authors must. Has not worked real well so far. Especially because they don't have to do anything in no, they can still turn in the plain text and make or or whatever and and and So the focus now is what is the publishing format? And then we can later go back to what do we want to try to convince people to do because really the only thing we're trying to do is prevent surprises. Not trying to restrict them. Someone put cost and queue again. Yeah. One he's getting up there. I think Jay's wonderfully naive even optimistic expert expectations about time of acute. One of the things I think we probably need to think about here is how we how we manage. The difference between what we've documented and agreed in this group. And what has been implemented in xml to. Know because I bringing at moment. At that specific point in time, because I I know that like, changes there been excellent and they been keeping up very, very well. But at some point, we're gonna ask for something that's difficult. And Yes. Authors will need to know. Xml Tomorrow is That's on the next slide. at this particular revision of the draft or or or something like that, and we have some sort of clear wife of managing that one. And to me, the answer to that is that the timing of when do the tools change comes from the Rpc? It it is announced fairly well and then that announcement somehow gets, you know, especially if it happened in multiple times. Gets wound into the draft so that somebody who's following by date. I think it's gonna get really complicated. Four, they're just gonna say, we aren't doing anything until you're done. And then we're doing it all at once. But that... That's no that's that's not gonna work. Okay. Yeah. Okay. Well, then then we we will have"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:26:03",
    "text": "live track We're going need to track what's happening here it's at some pace. With the development. Otherwise, it's gonna be like this epic event at the end of the process. Yeah. Robert says waterfall is bad and I I agree waterfall bad, but but I I don't believe that tracking will be sensible to a reader unless And unless we figure out a way to make it sense well, it might be that we have a couple drafts going know you described these date things wrong, try again. And we're okay with that. I don't mind if this is a dash thirty by the time I I think it probably will be. But that the the point that John made earlier, I think is critical here. At the point that we make a decision that has compatibility implications. We're gonna have to have a long discussion about what it means for the current operation of the tooling. And that'll be part of the discussion we need to to have there. Part of that discussion needs to be. We make a snapshot of the draft now, so that xml r, so can peg to that one some period of time while we work out the kinks. Sure. Right. Those sorts of things will will have to be part of that discussion. And I I just think that that's normal by engineering like we did the three particles protocols. We we know how to do this. Right. So let's not get to just a chair and interrupt to get my head around what the issue here is. To if there is a change that we undertake here. Yes. That we say this is this needs to change the tool in effect. That's not going to be in the section of the document that says implemented because it's not yet as implemented. Right? Right. So this there's gotta be effectively... Well, gonna have to be a state in the document of we expect this to be implemented real soon now. And and then I take it there will be some discussion between the tools folks in this group. I don't about after night. I don't think we need to capture those. We need to maintain the two states. Need. Let me"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:28:03",
    "text": "Let me put my position down You can put your position down. The I think we need to document what we want. And what the state was. Right. And when and when those two things are incompatible we need to have some documentation of the differences and whatnot. But what I think we wanna do is have x multiplier say very clearly identify what version of the draft that's implementing. And for it to be very clear through authors dot all those sorts of things. Where things are so that people aren't confused by know the the draft says this, but it it it doesn't work. And although those sorts a lot of things that the the government. Great. Okay. Robert, since it's on this topic unless it Lars So let's all try to... Go first. You know, I think that... What Martin is what I'm hearing Martin envisioning. Is we're going to have the draft same coming soon xml l r c seven dot fifty nine dot one you know, for each of the things, where there's a section and that Xml c itself will start polluting Output put of the Xml l with a little bit more information about what version it is. Ram. That created that that thing. I I'm okay for you guys to c the mic here and and and sort this because I wanna get an idea of you know, that everybody's is on the same page with this. I'm thinking this more of more of a model that we've used for protocol development in the past. Right? So you we have a discussion here. And we agree that draft o four is gonna be implemented in a particular way and and that it would be a good thing for Xml to irc to move to draft four and at some point Xml to rf says, I implement draft o four. That's really the the sort of"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:30:03",
    "text": "level of coordination at. Not a bidirectional communication just we continue to advance our understanding of consensus forward, we timestamp stamp those thing we we stamp a version of it when when when when we think it's ready, and then the implementations catch up a short time afterwards. So... And I agree with you except that there is value in capturing the version that ran. For the Rpc. Oh, yes. Every with these documents. Yes. Yeah. Yes. Okay. Good. If the chairs in some way need to coordinate those kinds of occurrences glad to do so if that's something that the Rpc can just manage on their own, that's fine, but just let us know how you need what assistance you need in managing that but I think more of it's gonna be the it needs to be coordinated with the document off. Absolutely. Before we do a draft. Like like, looking in the repo. Look at the draft like, we want everyone to say, when you publish the next draft, it will be correct about all of these states. Yeah. Just Fyi. I mean, every If you look in the rendered H html versions of every Rf, it shall... It has a complete list of what software was use to was used to generate it. So it's fine for I think there's something like that in the Pdf. There's nothing like that in the text because there's no place to put it. Thank do it in control characters. I'm sorry. Never I think Lars you were next in the queue. Right stop being a queue a long time ago. Yes. That that's fine. Last Vegas guess so I think Martin and and Robert sort of hashtag out most gonna say about this this model that we're using in quick and other working groups that we're gonna stamp a particular version of a draft implemented has worked well, and it it can work here. The the one wrinkle that occurred there, which might also carry her here. It's turns out that, you know, if tool starts implementing a particular vision"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:32:01",
    "text": "There might be some things in that are a heavier lift than others And so you might have not business situation where you have, like this is zero four except this. Which we could probably handle informally, but I... It's it's not quite as clean as... That's why I was arguing for three states. I think that is Let's clean another way more complicated. I think it's this is not gonna be some super common occurrence, but it it can happen that you know when you've been new start coding, you you realize it's actually more work and we can't, like ship it on the timeline when we thought. But I think we can handle those one offs. I just wanna make point out, there will be some of those one offs. Gonna probably gonna be okay. The the other thing that that popped into my head before we're talking is that if if really, you know, tools and and implementations is what matters here. Maybe we need to flip this thing around. That you know, it's really up to what what the tools can ship. You can put in the draft, but that would be very unusual for working group to operate on end. So I think this stamped the draft thing is probably gonna be the middle ground that that's gonna work best. Go ahead. I mean, my thought is to continue with Martin's metaphor metaphors. This is a bridge we can burn when we get to it. But if it's convenient. Yeah if it's convenient for this group to for the tools team to say, can you roll a draft that describes this. I I don't think that's a problem. You know, that if the tools drives our draft output to say we we need a draft which describes. This is done. This is not yet done. This is not going to be done. I I think that's fine. This is not an usual working group to begin with. Course then. Customer moving again. Hello? Yeah. You're fine. Just closer."
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:34:00",
    "text": "Okay. Very. Oh, this time it's not constant one it's customer moving Okay. Great. Normally I'm transcribed this constant woman. For in your answer to my question, you had me unsure you said we want to avoid surprises. In at forty eight. Yeah. Okay. Because except of thirty eight all work in the happens in the format. And we have a sophisticated Ci chains to make sure that What's in the draft actually works and actually pausing examples and generated keys and You may remember the patch disaster where where something happened during all forty eight that broke What was in in the document? And we didn't find it because we do had different settings when looking at the approximate much. So, yeah, I think it's to work on the surprises in in other parts of the process. As well and that's why I'm insisting at some point we actually look at the offering. That's fine. What I don't want is a lot of the stuff in seven nine nine zero seven nine nine one. Says authors will do this. I don't that that's we aren't enforcing yet. And therefore I don't think we should. I think what we want to do is to explain to them if you do this you're going to get this. But for example, and and I'm making this up, but I I think this will be an example of the Rpc people will say they've seen. Some authors will follow the Xml grammar. But in a way that is not going to appear in the final rc because they did creative things with you know, indentation and stuff like that. Legally, but"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:36:01",
    "text": "that's not the way it's gonna be published. So even though the grammar says that's that's legitimate. That doesn't mean... I I don't want them to be surprised at the end and say, Well, just because your input pass the Xml tests. The Rpc is going to put it out that way, they're only gonna touch words. They will be touching some some tags as well. Okay. So I remaining question that for off topic, right now it's we're are we going to look that other approach. That's a good question. I would be happy to do that with you. Since you... You touch the author side, much more when people start with with, you know, crammed down, and then wonder what's coming out. I'd I'd be happy to do... And that should be a completely separate document. I I'd be happy to do that with you. With the Rpc folks helping because they're the ones to see it when it comes yeah you know But, yeah. No. I I I think that that's a reasonable thing and let's let's just do that. Paul, I'm getting some comments from some remote people that they can't hear you. Oh, That's really interesting. Okay. I I I felt bad being the only person in the room without a mask So thank you. And it's even one of the Masks. So okay. I make just just need to get closer to the michael right. Yep. Okay. So I think we've done this and I think the result is we're gonna find out in the next draft or two how close we are to the model And I'm volunteering John and I to rev drafts as quickly as needed if we put out a draft that we think was correct. And doesn't actually match the expectations of the group. And it's like, no. No. No. We thought there would be an appendix here or whatever. We just do another one. We don't have to, like, wait long periods of time. I also like the model though of that there are plenty of reviewers. For in the"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:38:02",
    "text": "the Github repo. So we can say we think this looks like what the next draft will look like please, you know, and and there'll be a text output output version whatever there as well. Please check this and let us know and especially Martin, I'm looking at you. That I would want that I would want a visual sanity check on some of that. Before we put it out. And if we don't don't get all the reviews and it's taking too much fine. We'll put out a draft. Does that sound reasonable to you folks? And it we just might end up revving drafts for sort of formatting reason. Okay. Great. Okay. Well, then we have the next slide. Dewey It's the one I just sent you. Well, now maybe let's see if I'm gonna do a reload magic Did you accept the Yeah. You do yelled did you struggling with this tool? But yeah. Yeah. Okay. And Robert hinted as to how I can fix this problem and we're gonna I can now do so. How come you can hear pete with a mask on much further from the mic than me. I don't get this. Yeah. Not pointing towards the arrangement like here and and and I have an outside voice. We like your outside boys. Thank you. It is really funny to be standing up here and the only being the only person to room without a mask because I'm I one of the people who masked constantly, you know, I'm one of the twenty percent in in the supermarket and such. So Oh, okay. It's Which one is it gonna be? Yes. That's true be tough. I think has an outside voice. He actually just doesn't feel much."
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:40:02",
    "text": "We just call that branch we got. There we go. Okay. Thank you. So John, you get to come back. So this is a non exhaustive list of the current proposed changes that we know of And I say it's not exhausted because there are probably some other parts that are small and such. But these are the big ones that have appeared either as their own thread on the list or just in mentioning of Well, we need to think about so so. So postal. Yes. Thank you. Patrick. I should add a doc name. But anyway, Yeah. Put for the benefit of anybody who hasn't heard code about this the last forty seven times mean I mentioned that the Postal element has a whole bunch a very complicated set of sub elements like address in city and state stuff. But it depends on what... It depends on formatting that depends on a library that was abandoned years ago. I found they don't github, but it's got, like eight years of of ignored port pull requests. And beyond that, the I have never entirely understood what the point of complicated format was even though the guy who added it tried to explain it to me. So my proposal has been that we basically back out postal and we... And there was there's a separate thing called post online. A postal address would simply be be a series of post lines which with with the country at the end. And we And the way we would fix this in existing Rf would be to run them all through the library. One last time of because by sheer good luck, all the addresses we've used so far happen to work. Turn them into post lines and then get rid of all the complicated stuff. And the alternative to this is that the hope library doesn't get too much more broken because I've already been At this point, the places that don't work are places like Guadalupe, but, you know, someday we will So someday we will get an author from a place where the formatting ninety doesn't work and who knows how we're gonna have to work around it."
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:42:01",
    "text": "Martin, did you have something on postal? I will put you in a balance j. Jay Daily. Thank you for that, John. I'm just explain it a little bit better if you don't mind. The intent, the view that Henri had was that the way that a address is structured. For each country is very, very country specific and we had to have the data put into a format would broke it down. And then have this library then reconstruct in the right thing for that country. The review that John has that I have that numbers have is that the author knows how to do this, and we simply allow the author to do it. And they just put it in postal line in the structure the line that however, they think is appropriate for their country, and we don't need to double guest the author. And that to me is the crux of the issue here, and that's why, you know, I completely your group with John's get it going away from this a post line is the better way to do it rather than thinking that we need that you know, tool to do something that authors can do perfectly well quite. Yeah. And just railroad comment is the one element I I I propose to leave country at the end because Robert says that we do collect concrete statistics And pretty sure we do not collect house member statistics. So that edit that element can go. Exactly. Thank you. Cars was actually in the Q next, but he is deferring to gene. Jean. Go ahead. Jim Mah, some comments on post and how it's been used and published rf. So there is a bug with how the library renders. Country when it's the Netherlands. And so we've had to be Yeah. So we in order for this to work, we've actually had to strip"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:44:03",
    "text": "off the Netherlands. So, yes. Authors will submit their addresses, the Netherlands in order for this to to to work, we've had to strip the out we've published like that. So changing things to to post line. Are all that we say we're we'll keep country and just pointing out there's But that changes content of the or. Well. The the goal is that the text won't change only the fourth. Only the coding will change. With if that makes people feel better. Just Very tiny detail. We're keeping handy. We're not keeping the library process country. We just rendered whatever bits. How this be live line country. And it's that's gonna just render that way. Yes. But we've Yeah it would have been nice that we could have, you know, it it would Sorry. I'm frustrated with this because we did have to change the country name to make it work. With the netherlands. So we don't get that fixed. When we make those change. And I guess the other thing is that sometimes ordering is just gonna change. Because the the postal elements in that library, you can change the ordering of the elements, the the street the postal codes and what have you and postal will that library would have put it in a a certain order that it thought it was correct. Anyway, the if we were to render using postal line, those things would switch. Well, no like my proposal is that we run basically, we we run the through the stuff to the Library one last time. It creates the postal lines for us in the correct order."
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:46:01",
    "text": "To replace the the complicated elements we have now. Okay. So we the conversion would look at the rendered one in the current Rf c's. Enter turn those those points. Okay. In effect. Yeah. It's it would... Looks Yeah. everyone the lender really to get the same effect. But yeah. Okay. Okay. I know you've had other product like for like, Fedex, which is a weird of your French thing yet. We had a couple of figuring out how he make those render too. Like it's just just is way more than his work. Okay. Can... I I just wanted to or other people have come into sun? So Okay. So why don't we do these three at. Yeah. So I'm just going to be a little bit so Let me just like, ask him dumb questions. So the interior push line is just frequent long tax. Right? Yeah. Good. Okay. So you just... You say you said that couple times library one last time. Right? Does that involve proposal to Does that change the xml? Con Voicemail. Yeah. My my... Yeah. My proposal is to change the Xml keep the text the same. I don't josh that I'm trying to clarify where we are. And and I see what I see John, why you... While you're making this point earlier? We have to deal with this very very soon. The final thing I was gonna ask is is country a problem. For political reasons. And do we want to address that point? I know there's a finance. Just wanna sure answer yes and no. So far the answer has been no in that the So all often working for I can who has this problem, all the freaking time. Yeah. I have noticed things in the author blocks in Rf c's that would cause day long meetings at I."
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:48:03",
    "text": "Mh. So I believe the answer is no. It's not a problem. We just go ahead and do it. Right. I so I think we might create a new problem later, but I I I I have seen things that just go through that seem fine at this point. Is what goes in the country as proposed the the two letter codes. It's an a. It's a it's a string. Right. It's it's it's it's a string. You know. And yeah. Currently, this string is limited by what that library will will accept the plan is the string is whatever the author says on the assumption that he that she knows where she lives. I mean, so And I think I think it's fine in the I don't think I I'm sure I always Objections to having, you know, Zealand land in the country in the country in the rendered rc. But those seem modest. I think my I expired. My question is, is it a problem to have Land in the country and they feel it says country in Xml. Is that a problem answer... And I'm using deliberately. It's avoid any funds, But if everybody's call with some call with it got. I mean remember the the postal address is completely optional. You know, Some people some people some of our authors appear to live only the in Cyber face, which seems to be okay. Yeah jean you wanna click Yeah. No. Just to to comment on country names, like say Sea land. So practically, if an author's address can be used to address an envelope, and that envelope gets to that author It's legit address. So if you could send a postcard to Zealand, Then, yeah. The other can be C land. The I went looking at Hours scribe had interrupt so basically"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:50:01",
    "text": "Well no. Would be the universal postal union, but I I think the answer in practice is yes. Because that the that they they control what international mail is delivered. Deliver. And we actually checked country names against an Iso country codes. Database. So... But to comment on politically sensitive country names one of my observations and based on data is that authors living in those countries tend to just provide email addresses they don't tend to, you know, just an observation. You don't have a lot of authors assert, no. I'm, you know, in this country that's not really a country yet. I'd like to make an up here. Let's drop this discussion because it has nothing to do with syntax. Pardon. Martin Thompson, we're not gonna test that this address works. I just asked let's let's go out. Let's press this drop. We're just gonna let people what this is this is a style guide. Issue, not a format issue. Right. It is currently because we don't have a restriction in the syntax saying it has to be to a deliverable country. But it might... Yeah. But it is a style guide issue, and I want to defer it all style night. That's that's a policy decision that you're proposing we make. Right? I think it's probably yeah. I mean, the the current the the current coat, you know, if you put in your address is one two, three, Humming Lane, you know, any at town in Alabama. Mean, it'll accept that even though the address is nonsense. So it's like we're not we're not making a semantic change here. We're just we're just stripping on this syntax. So so so the reason that I'm saying is not just style issue is because one resolution be change the name the field. Right Too."
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:52:00",
    "text": "Right? So so I mean, the the the considering expressing is is the it for sorting the as a country putting in a country field. And so when we fixed out would we by changing the name of the field and that's why it's not just a style shoe. I if I thought somebody cared, I might agree, but... Yeah. Okay care Yeah. Let's move on. So regarding running the tool one more time, We don't need to. Got the output already. Yep. It's just not sure why you wanna run one more. I park. Oh, they're. It's not it much much less of a hassle Just gonna get the Well, I mean, I've got... I've been thinking about how I would do this. I gotta snip out the post I got... I got basically, I have to find the postal stuff so I know what I'm replacing. Yeah. says. Backing that up with the text output is probably harder than Well I just I running the library again. But we... Like, that's a we can worry about later. Yeah. I I think we're gonna run into two issues with people self identifying countries, but that I think will will be a problem to we can deal with it the sort of... think deal with doing Again, I don't it's a style guide issue. So but your suggestion is pull the current text out of the current text. And however it's done, it doesn't really matter. It's not here. Any rule we set up will be wrong. Mean, for example, you can you can you can put Scotland is the country and the deliverable address in the United States and it will work. Even though it's not a cut... Even though the Iso... It's not in the iso list or anything else right. And I'm sure air works. Just perfectly fine. Even though they haven't changed it yet. Yep. The the question that I have, I think it's a deeper one John, you're saying this is just a one off. Just this one time. And that... I mean, the the change changing the canonical xml"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:54:00",
    "text": "is not a decision that we should be making lightweight. And we should not be just saying oh, just this one time. We should be making sure that is a deliberate choice with with some sort of principal basis for under which we we can decide that these sorts of changes are acceptable. Oh, yeah. I mean, We we can talk later, but I've I've given some thought to this also mean like soon in total change it and and document me. This there's there's a bunch of these things that we'll the same thing changing the xml amount we need to make sure that that the rendered version is this similar. I I think we need to have a discussion about the principles under which we we need to be making... We we can make these changes if we can make these changes. And I would rather not have us bury that decision underneath some discussion about countries and what they're called. Yep. So yeah churn interrupt to... Yeah. I'm I I agree this is saying off... Is the top have to cover I think it lexus actually raise this an email us. So we will try to foster discussion on the list. About this exact topic of how we it. And so maybe we can put a candidate it for now, but we will the chairs. What we'll we'll get think you conversation my west. So I have I have a question related exactly to that is once that decision is made, should that the decision and, you know, how we did it. Appear in this document Thank you. Okay. Martin Martin is shaking his head no. I think there's should be a separate document about changing existing Xml and that that should have the rules and maybe even it could be a running document that says, and we did it on this date for this reason. Oh and we thought we had them all, but we did it later on this day for this reason. So great. I think we're in the agreement all. Yep Edgar just entered that into his tracker. Thank you. Jean, I I take it you are in the queue accidentally. Jay. Jay Daily. I think we should generally consider dropping postal addresses entirely. We know that people don't use them."
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:56:01",
    "text": "And because they don't use them, they need to make those accurate drops off, the likelihood that people do silly things with them increases. I'm including the country code as well on that while the country gives us useful statistics. I don't believe that it's the the right way for us to attempt to go to have country based sort of, you know, points almost against this. And we should generally consider losing the post address in in it done. You know, we are an organization, people just deal with it. Internet, and this problem then just disappears. A result of. At Sandy. Can I get you come to the mic on this one? Either way Jay, I I'd suggest propose that very directly either as github issue on the list or both that would be appreciated. Oh, my phone's ringing just throw it on the floor to it breaks. Sandy, would you consider that proposal to be a style guide issue because is there something in the style guide that says you know, postal addresses will be there. I'm I'm trying to be really careful here. Currently optional. What it's optional. Okay. And so jay you're you're making them non optional in the negative. Okay. Great. I just wanted to double check that. I I... I'm I'm trying to be really sensitive to us doing something in a format spec. That in fact changes the style guide. I I want the style guide issues to come from the Rpc itself. Yep. So great. Okay. Let's talk about you. Let's talk about me Shall we... Oh, no. I'm sorry. Someone wanted talk to me on the phone. So the the Ut tag was added to the grammar after seventy nine seven ninety nine was adopted, that's the most polite way I can put that bullet. And it was not using any published ours. Not true. Just looked weeks ago, it is not true."
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:58:01",
    "text": "I show you No. No no. I'm not questioning you. I'm questioning my ability to do reg x's. Okay. But Okay. It has actually so should just look for... So ignore the second bullet, which is easy now since we don't have anything on the screen I lost activity. Yes. Okay. Give. So it has appeared And therefore, I will change that second bullet to we need to figure out whether we strip it out of when we're doing the changing the Xml and stuff. It I suspect it was not implemented it that it was not done consistently. No. It is. You're making a conclusion that I don't understand. You want to take out for you element. Step what I'm hearing. That's what yeah. I I think for a while, as you know to your great pain, the only way to sneak non ascii text was to hide it in a ul You know, we I believe we have change that so now you can put non ascii text any place It's reasonable about what is so something we're gonna discuss later. So I think at this point, it actually would make sense to allow the u element to to stay in the cases where you're using the characteristics as an example. Okay. And the one issue there is speaking of of libraries that thing it renders the ul and it pulls out, the the the character name, but I guess we can we can assume that the unit code consortium will be around long enough that that that list will continue to be available. Now. But there's is a minor discussion whether you want to have the original name or the correct thing. That's really something you to Yeah take on the this. Right? Yeah. Right. But I think the the element has turned how to be useful has a very limited area of application, but we're you can use it it actually helps the order. So I wouldn't want to use it for your ordering. Then you say where you feel it is useful? I mean, it it goes in there, but what what what is the value"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:00:00",
    "text": "when you're calling out code points as examples. You can do that in running text. And that's what we'll do. The author has to make sure that the the components they put in, actually are ones that the text the provide have. So you they have to run another line of Ci to actually check these things. I'm not I'm not understanding. I'm sorry, Carson. Can you. Okay. I put an f zero in my Yep. Talk. Now, unfortunately, there are two different lift characters. And which of the ones did I actually mean? Wouldn't you say you plus and then... Yes. And the due us that for me? Oh, it does it... You you want this to do it for you automatically as compared to you type area. I just wanted to use the automation that that is Okay. So... Okay. We let's discuss this on list because I think that trusting a tool is less good. Well, I I I I... But I I think we have already found bugs where the actual character in the in the document is the wrong one even though there is if is correct. Yeah. And and the tool should fix that mic difficult points. Yeah sometimes it's the same. Sometimes it's almost the same. Well, mean yes. One on... Yeah. The simplest example here are ...Yeah. The simple example are the three... The the three things that look like the letter o. So let's take this to the list. And I'm sorry. I I said it was not used. It that was absolutely my error because I I searched for it and I failed. Okay. Series info, which is something that I take unfortunately, some credit for having put in in seven nine nine zero and it turned out that it's just totally a mess and that we started shoving too much stuff in it. So we need to discuss"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:02:02",
    "text": "how we really want all of that information in and this again would probably cause re rendering of the Xml. So you're not talking about the series info element per? Is very useful in references. But you're talking about the attempt through to stash some of the metadata for the document itself. Yes. Serious info. That was misguided and we should be. Sorry. So series info at the top of the of the top of it. Not in the references. Yep. So anyway, again, we're not gonna come to any decisions today but these are things that have come up as stuff that's in the current one that we might want to change and we can see why. In terms and I think there's been some discussion about a number of things that Not on slide. Sure. Yeah. Yeah. I I was gonna do doc, but go ahead. I said that. I would like to talk about the stuff the prep tool adds because we've been talking about that at something point. Oh, yes. Yeah. That's interesting So but we do it here But I agree. Let's not do it here Okay. But yeah. That... Yeah. No. This is this was just a short list of the ones that you know, to to get things going. And in fact, some of it's wrong. So Yep. Okay. Alright. Maybe later. Yeah. Well, in what I zero value to us doing them verbally as compared to seeing examples on I think there's there's a number of questions or principles that yeah really helpful to I don't have any concern about using some agenda time. Oh no. I wasn't this. It was just where getting our cost. I don't want it to get lost. Yet. My Mike's a good scribe. That series info at the. What we're talking about here is"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:04:01",
    "text": "is the series info at the top of the Rf. Has gotten very muddled. I don't think we we... And we're gonna that Yes. Yes. So surgeons was addressed as going to be discussed on the list. Mh. With with with specific proposals. And and Martin would now like to bring up a new topic, which is prep tool, which is why I waited. So actually, we don't have to stand here. Why don't you come up and do that. Wait because you've got a full one you can do it from the floor you're you're welcome all sit down gentlemen. Thank you. So the prep tool does a number of things. And these these are wonderful things. That it does, But specifying what they do is a burden on us and the tools both. Because in the transformation from the, the authoring format, the publication format it it produces personally croft. Which is the addition of default values on every element that has default value, some of which concrete just noise. So there's some element attributes on x elements that concrete I'm not used on under these circumstances and and it's just a consequence of the way the grandma written the the the tool adds and back in again. That one I think we've gone back and forth on in a number of ways, but I think we came to some reasonable agreement on the list about the the expectations with respect to to what defaults would be. And I to get the exact way that that that conclusion was framed. But I I think I'll have to find that before I continue, but then there is things like the table of contents. I think that one's a real problem. And we shouldn't be adding it, but I think other people"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:06:00",
    "text": "disagree. Further, there is things like, I believe. Certain elements get identifier attached to them in different ways. Is that true? Tar numbers and and section numbers and and all those sorts of other things. Which I think concrete may be a useful thing in the sense that we go from the xml format to other formats, and and we potentially need stable means of identifying those things. You know, in for instance the Html. Robert it. I'm gonna the thirty year on this one now. So fundamentally, I think a use case that hasn't really been exposed in the conversation not for lack of trying. Is re rendering what was rendered at the time. Right? Right? So I'm going to describe a ludicrous situation that's ludicrous to Crystal purpose. So right right along with me on We decide that we don't want in the future. To make our sections one two three four, one dot one, one dot two one dot three that we go to one case I universally across the series. We want to render an old R It's an o c we'd like to render the table of contents the same way it was rendered at the time even though the tool now if it were go to render it would make the outline completely different. That's why those big massive bits are landing out there in the prep tool."
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:08:02",
    "text": "You wanna read that piece? Because I like wow yeah. I think that's You're ahead. So I mean, I understand that, but, like, that is broadening the present with a giant amount of burden to avoid some virgin burden in the future that could be solved by having the tool this So I I think that is a good decision. I was I was gonna agree with kirk. If you wanna make such a change, we we might as well regard that so thing is a breaking change and treated accordingly by yeah, having a having an attribute on on the R that says, now using the new numbering screen. And if that attribute is not set, then the present scheme applies. A lot of these things can can be dealt with in in that way, I think. And and that I think goes to a lot of things. Along the lines that we're talking about here. I do think that's the there is value and having An. Generated by the publication process because the anchors then give you an ability to have an an ambiguous was unique identifier for the thing that you're talking about. As opposed to going. Well, he's a a bit of x path or something like that. Being able to go hash section seven. With with a predefined and and clearly understood format views is a useful thing think we probably need to specify that a little bit more clearly, but That's the on thing that I concrete understand the prep to be doing aside from the x include stuff. Right. Which I think is essential. J, you're in the queue. Jay Ey. So going back to defaults. I think we need to look at on an individual"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:10:02",
    "text": "basis about the defaults. We all know that I think that section format doesn't need to be. Filled in default, someone did a calculation of ours seeing it appeared four hundred times for example in just one. There are one or two defaults, I think that actually are meaningful, and I think we agreed on list that we were trying to avoid meaningful defaults that you would have to specify one way or the other and not have a default around it. One thing that it is interesting to note is that our chosen scheme and language relax n doesn't have defaults. Other sc of languages do have defaults. And so we can't rely on the sc for telling people what types of defaults are about things. So those... You know, I think we need to look at it on individual base really to understand that. I agree that we ought to if possible aim for removing defaults. And I think somebody suggested at some point that we try to find a way of inserting a, like a something like default spacing equals at the top and then not have to put it in everywhere, you know, the the spacing of this is something like know however, so that we could avoid having so much of it but still in coats and default somewhere in the document. So I think that was the summary of our discussion around that, and I think it should be possible to significantly reduce those things. Robert. Quick follow up on Martin kind mentioned in a side that the the prep tool has an x include function that's an important thing to keep yes. Good. I think in the near future that's going to be pushed further towards the authoring side on the tool chain. And it should become something that this group does not need to talk about."
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:12:02",
    "text": "Yeah. And I'll just say that as Jay was talking, I was as chair going through my head on what is a policy issue as far as that goes or just it's an Rpc instant of how they happen to operate. And and I c Martin that, you know, you're making a good distinction here, but I think we're gonna have to write it up very clearly whether it you know, what pieces of that prep tool are instant versus policy. Yeah. So I I think for for us here, if we do not document x include at all, we would achieve the goal that we set out. To do, which is to document the publication format that. However, there may be some some value in having something in appendix that says, well, here's a bunch of things that you might use. You might do for an authoring process that allows you to use the same format essentially. But, you know, throwing x includes and processing instructions of the following form because they will be interpreted by tools. That will help authors generate things that are very close to the final publication format. One of the reasons I think we need to push on... I I think push making the publication format a little closer to what people experience from the authoring side is that the forty eight process is a little challenging in the sense that we often deal with the Rpc sending us documents that are essentially in the authoring format. Still because of the that's how we won't like to deal with it. Right? We don't wanna have all the noise of added defaults and all the other order generated identifier and all of all of that business. And and so the more the publication format resembles, what it is that people submitted in the first place, the easier that process is."
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:14:01",
    "text": "For everyone involved. Because as much as I hate to say it, the xml format is terrible and no one looks at it. And I I know some people do and I went through in detail the difference between what it is that I I submitted and what it is that the Rpc returned on on a number of documents and it's It's even more tedious when you you have these there's other layers of things added on on top, we need to make sure that every single thing that we're asking people to do there is justified. And I I just can't justify most of the most of the stuff the Prep does. Thing is. I don't wanna have us really bogged down and specifying the details of is essentially an internal process on location end. Jake. Jay. I I don't think are entirely correct martin. The prep tool is run after the all forty eight process. And so it doesn't interfere or I have anything to do with all forty eight an entirely separate thing off it was. Yeah. This this is kinda Yep. So so this this is a bad thing. And we've had a number of people complain about this specifically because the thing that you approve is not the thing that's published. And so if the prep tool is making changes that have consequence maybe because there's a cell error or something like that. You you approve a document. That's not what ultimately gets published. Try again. I think though that we're all agreed that there is one element of the prep tool that cannot be removed, and that is inserting section numbering. Because that has to be the final step after"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:16:00",
    "text": "the ordering of the sections is finally finalized through what our editing process. Okay. Section numbers entirely level from the document pressure. So no. I don't agree that. That's right. It's dr from the document structure therefore fort not keeping in the document. Yeah. I mean, just the fundamental governance public here. Which is well asserted the the canonical format the one that represents. Whatever canonical means represents the the official formula of this document is Xml. And you have to all those are asked to approve something thing. Does not reflect the thing that we claim is the final version. Not actually acceptable government's practice. So we have to minimize the capturing those two. Zero Paul hoffman. And just to be clear, looking in the prep two document, we never meant it to be final tool. It's called prep tool because you could run it at any time. If you run it, you get section numbers you run it again. It will it will obliterate and redo. It really was for preparation and not for finalizing. Yes. So I think I think we should come back to this question of section numbers because I think it if if Jay is you... You so, this is the only thing. Having an only thing is much worse than having no things that that distinguish the the publication format and the thing that that someone someone offers. So though it may require that we back away a little bit from the hypothetical that Robert suggested. I would suggest that because you can derive from the document structure a a means of identifying every single element and numbering them? Or not. It would require that we document a process very precisely for generating those those identifies. And then those identifier has become part of the output formats."
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:18:03",
    "text": "And not the the publication format. I think that's achievable. I think the process that we have right now, it could be simply documented and we'd be done. And then you would you would have a means of numbering paragraphs. Sections and whatever other things made numbering. And they would be an ambiguous Clear should be relatively simple. And then the output formats would be able to consistently identify the semantic elements. As needed, and we wouldn't necessarily have to grapple over with this question of having a separation between what is approved and what is published. Could you report the mic? So... Yeah. So the the question is Is there something particular that happens during this process that I don't like. But table contents is added. Section numbers are added. Defaults are added for for most of the attributes on elements. I think that's the bulk of the ones and that just generates vast amounts of noise in the document. And it's unnecessary. I'm I'm gonna say it's unnecessary. I know some people are like, oh, I like the table of contents, but I'll I'll give you piece of software and you can kick him run it. Yeah. Custom moments we all know the the difference inferior practices that there is no difference in theory, but there is practice. And I think it's really valuable to have whatever bugs the tool had at the time the protruding was done. In the public document? You may not be a aware of any such bugs, but that maybe because"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:20:00",
    "text": "you haven't really looked at the exact process that is being used and in the end it doesn't matter how sections are not. But it's just important that six number rings, stays the same. But I came here for a different point which is Whatever we decide in this room it's going to be the offering language, not going to be the language the office. Because they have Ci processes generate examples. Verify examples, compute results generate crypto stuff and all this stuff. So they offering something different. And There one. Stage we need to achieve. Which is whatever we get at the start of off forty eight can be translated back to the source that the the people who are writing the document are actually using. That may be expensive. I mean, work, like, day. But after that the remaining incremental changes, that happened during our thirty eight are fully automated. So whenever the he come back with another change. You authors can integrate this again, this will be a little bit of work. Tracing back to the source What what made the mistake? Whatever. But after the the whole process goes through automatically. So we can make sure that this is see I things that that happened during documentary generation. If you generate the thing. At the end. And so so any idea of authors actually working in Xml. During of forty eight. That's a transit state that's a bug we need to fix. Now I know it's not easy, but I think that's where we need to go. Robert."
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:22:04",
    "text": "Two slightly related observations continuing in the conversation about they're not the the two leaves in the Publication format is noise or not. I think I will start this by pointing out that the larger community that we have organizations like stock exchange wikipedia large numbers of contributors in those places that don't pay attention to what we're going to be talking about in this room really what we are doing is we're developing standards point into them. And they have a format that they expect to be able to point into them with and when we change that, it hurts. Moving the tools dot t f dot org domain away, call this a great amount of cons at the two organizations that I just mentioned, you know, back great about of customization. It turned into, you know, several emails and people got stuff. Fixed, but we're had to be done. Things were broken. Because we made some changes to go domain. We get into the situation when we start changing how you talk about a paragraph what the Id that it ends up in the Html. We need to be cognizant that we're going to have this downstream effect on users that are not here to contribute to discussion about whether or not, we should change them. Even if we don't change them, if we don't capture them,"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:24:01",
    "text": "in the xml then we put a burden back on the author that wants use the xml it may not have to edit the xml in the future. Somebody is using the paragraph numbers that were rendered into the Html to say, this is where the change was. The others not going to have to go through a level of indirect through the h email version to figure out what that text was to go find it in the xml to work on it in the Xml l. Instead of just being able to search for this section directly in the Xml. So Okay. I'm glad. I got up to that one. So that's a problem I have today all the time because a as a draft daughter, I continuously get in section four point seven, you have the following text. And it's wrong. And then I'm like, well there's no four point seven anywhere in the source. So I that's a problem that we have always. And your... The idea that you might include the section numbers in the document. Would just make that problem worse because then you put four point seven on that text and you just added four point six previously, and now it's four point eight and it's gone. It's rotten. Right? So there's no good solution to that other than just finding the text and I've resigned to that as a as just a a consequence of the way that these things work. So I don't think that's a problem. What I'm actually proposing here is that we we standardize on the reference format. So that in this document. People who who who implement are obligated to produce the section reference in a very specific format that people can then rely on because it's in a standard or it's in an Rf. And so think that"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:26:01",
    "text": "that does a lot more. In terms of offering a service, then the current system, which essentially relies on whatever internal processing that Xml to does, to generate those section references. I think what they do currently can simply be copied and paste across and turned into into norma language and a specification relatively easily because it's a a sensible scheme that we have. But what we have right now is is not giving the people on wikipedia, the sort of reliability that they should come to expect and and we can do better. Hoffman. I just want to note that this last whole discussion is actually opening up that that what we're talking about is changing the prep tool document. And so that's fine. I just wanna make it clear that that in fact, we're not talking about just the format output here. The the the the syntax of the current one, we're talking about how prep work as well. Yeah. I actually wanna just share an option here. We're now... I believe So three few minutes go and we still have one more topic. I'm happy to burn through these issues because they're more important. But I'm wondering if the I wondering if the question might be better take to a small design team and maybe there other topics martin would like to complain about it, it was not the proctor and then we hit those in the table and figure forward. Yeah. Please. A short response that. I think a goal should be that we remove the concept of prep tool from what we published as a standard that there may be some formatting things like what part Martin was talking about that could become a different document But the the modifying prep tool don't say that. So d deprecating prep tool, you know, having the two"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:28:00",
    "text": "Tooling becomes tooling, we talk about format here. Makes. Oh, very quickly for me for Early just to correct something I said earlier. The way we use on X, the compact thing, we use an extension that notation extension that does allow defaults to be in place Sorry. I'll got that wrong. So we can therefore rely on those. And if we leave a pointer in the Rf to the version fee scheme of used at the time. Mike, you were in the queue let you jump up and get in there. You're welcome to come back when when you retrieve it. Yes. Mike just got it. Okay. Oh, okay. Oh, jeez. There you go. Martin's comment about section numbers all that. Is interesting the problem is that the references our things, people who are reading the documents in their post rendered state are gonna have to be using. So most of the references are a section number and a section header. If you could program the people to give the section header as the reference you might be fine. Either that or we just take off those numbers because they're just too easy for people to use. I don't know. I don't think that's a good choice. So we gotta come up with something else. I I put myself in the queue here and because I'm not sure whether this is a chair thing or a a participant thing. But a lot of this discussion seems to me honing in on the definition of the word canonical. And I think we're going have to have that discussion at some point"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:30:00",
    "text": "and whether what it means to be canonical for the output format, what it means be canonical for any other number of reasons. But all of this seems to be centering around that I don't know precisely how to start to have that discussion. I'm fine with it starting from d the prep tool and and and then we get to that somehow, but think we're gonna have to have the discussion at some point. Martin, did you wanna put any other big topics on the list here right now or should we go on to another slide deck. I'm sure we could talk at length about x express. But I don't think that's really I'm not prepared to talk about it. Let's let's do the other one. Okay. What else did we... Oh, is non last thing on our list. Okay. I will get that. And of course, I have two versions of that. Let's see which one is which. It's there's one of those. I think good. We'll find out if they're if we've got the wrong one, but go ahead and start with yes. Actually send the to last slide. The last slide go. That's last slide. Yes. Okay. Fine. And now go back to. You you you did get the latest this Good. So Yeah. You can't like technology. Yes. Mask off Mike on. So this might work this time. Okay. So we've had discussion on the list so far Next slide. Just so we can get into it. To be really clear, this is still an individual draft the working group has not adopted it if the working group adopt it"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:32:01",
    "text": "I probably will still continue to be editor, but there are plenty of things in here that are open for discussion. And what I don't want to do is have people say, I don't like something in there, Therefore it shouldn't be a working group document. It seems like there's a lot of interest in dealing with this topic. We don't have consensus, but it is it is still an active discussion, and I think it should be inactive discussion actually in the working group. So what the document about is the seven nine nine seven is the policies used by the by the Rpc. To include non ascii characters in Rf overseas. This best document simplifies a bunch of the rules it was based on... I tried to keep as much of the text there as I could But now it actually is sounding funny with that. It might we might just burn some of it. But the idea of this document is we had said, you know, at the time that we did all of the other format here's what we're going to allow. And here are the exact rules and such and we we messed up in a bunch of places, and we should get it we should get this correct so that an author when they're writing an Internet draft will have a feeling for whether This non ascii character that they want in the draft to be in the final Rf c will actually make it into the final Ro Before Sun Carson are you getting up to talk right now. Okay, Fine. Okay. Great. Next slide. So I've got four slides at this point or four slides for in the current draft, what are the proposed changes. Not... And again, this is not a working group document so people might say don't make that change or make more changes whatever this is just where I've got now. The biggest one is that the art the Rc stream approval body and the Rpc"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:34:02",
    "text": "are the people who decide for this individual Rf, which non ascii characters can be there. Whereas seven nine nine seven said it was the Rf editor And, you know, now that we have nine two eight o, we needed to clarify that. One of the things that came up on list is who, how will the Rpc know what to do? And so the draft says that they have questions, they will ask the stream improving body. You know, Like, like, this draft assumes that there are intelligent humans working at the Rpc and I did push back actually sort hard in the list on somebody who indicated oh they'll never figure out who to ask. That's silly. Next slide? The draft I'm sorry. Seven nine nine seven was thought it was being definitive about how you mark non ascii characters except it changed the rules in the middle of it. So the current draft says it it does not require marking the characters it allows it and one of the things where seven nine ninety seven got really confusing was There were different rules for latin characters in author names. So got rid of that you know, like Latin is just as non ascii as everything else is. And seven nine nine seven said, when you use any non ascii character, you should spell out its name. That has turned out to not be very fall and it doesn't really mean much to anyone who isn't looking at the names if you have the, you know, the u notation. Are you want talk to this me to go through and finish the rest of the now or you want Actually Martin did you"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:36:01",
    "text": "Okay. Okay. So Martin will defer to Ga. Okay. So Why are we doing this? Why are we changing the rules from seven line nine seven? Why are we even talking about this? So at the time I you wanted an answer. Go ahead. I want be the. So at the time, ten years ago, We were the parents ahead could was going through the start using this new finger think bicycle. And we were very, very concerned said well, you can only use this bicycle these and these weights because we couldn't imagine it. Ticket it would be using the bicycle in different way. And we now have ten years of experience we would want to do with that? And I think we need to go back to the beginning. And ask why did we want to put in some will here in the first place. And the other new thing is a nice example because The point here was that we are assuming that an R reader is able to read characters. So there is no point in trans let characters. In orphanage. I mean, names are difficult to pronounce in particular french or something. For german or german or whatever. So that's a completely different motivation. For putting on restrictions then the one that that shines through most of seventy seven nine nine seven, which was that Something might go wrong in the path from the offer to the reader"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:38:01",
    "text": "The reader might not understand the character that was intended by the offer. And might be writing cold in their protocol implementation. That now won't work because they didn't interpret the right. Now that's an interesting concern. And and I have a lot of sympathy for that. But if I'm writing a document in the about quantum networks. I mean, I I really don't care whether people know what what the broad and notation and sense so on and I just assumed it. And I'll explained that in the document. But I want to use the notation And there there's no point in in having any of this discussion. So I would like us... Wait why is there no point to revising it. This there's an about revising seven nine nine seven. Yes. What what I'm trying to say here is that seven nine seven k to exactly one Potential disaster scenario, that we parents were concerned of And in reality, there are a lot of disaster scenarios some of them are much less of a disaster than we thought. They would be... We really have to go back to the roots. And try to find find out what damage were we actually trying to prevent And what three of was your comment we treat names like everything is because that's completely the wrong direction. The right direction is to look edge the specific problem we are trying to avoid and we are not going to get people to corrected pronounced. That's not the tentative goal. And apart from that we are. Names if they are not in the writing system that the main document uses. Which let"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:40:04",
    "text": "So I think we have to do this this kind of thinking first. Before we go back to to making words Okay. So mike I guess I have a strong comment, which is you just totally mis quoted me. I didn't say author. Are going to be treated the same way as everything else in the document. Good Yep. So I... I'm still not sure why you're why you're here now because we're talking about revising this. If you're saying we shouldn't be looking at any of these proposed changes and we should start from scratch that's just fine. Propose a document that starts from scratch. And I think actually, that that is what I'm hearing is that we shouldn't be looking at this as a revision of the original document. We should start over from base principles and and do something I believe... I don't know if you've read the current draft but I believe the current draft is pretty much like that. Okay. Okay. So you haven't read the current traffic. Got it. Okay. Cool. Thank you. So Mountain thompson I I I believe the contract draft it claims far to closely to seven nine nine seven. I to I do two. And and so I think to Cal point, we've used a number of we've learned a number of things about how different characters might be used. It might help to sort of sit back and say if you're describing a c point for the purposes of examples and documents or for the purposes of interoperability and documents the element exists and we should probably encourage people to use that. It does. If you're talking about the names of people, right, the contact element exists and you should probably be using that Those those are the things I think we we can probably agree on. If you're doing math, just do it, Yep. And says that as well. Was getting to that robert. If you're doing typo, we need to make a decision. Can we use an M dash? Can we use Yeah proper quotes as opposed to the"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:42:01",
    "text": "stupid thing. Right. So what that happens I can the slides on this, though because I actually cover those. Okay. Good. Let's do that. Okay. Sorry. But there's someone else in the queue now. But would love to get through the slides before we have John I discussion. Yep. I'm actually I... I'm having have you on talk, but I'm just remember people that we haven't adopted this draft. The key question we have to answer is we wanna work on this? Right like a bot. Do we wanna work on this? We we can't work on this this good starting point. Keep that in mind in this discussion. And is that's the question when you're asking, you know, in in eight or nine minutes. Right. So Thank you. Yeah. Yeah. Answer is, yes, we should work on this I think we need clearer thought. I think the right question is don't tell where can we use allow uni right questions where do we need to restrict to? I think that is... I don't think I think the question of what can be allowed not the similar to a lot of other... What is clear to the read there in that say doing all the time. Okay. You. So Are we good? Martin, you're still in the queue or not? Okay. Great. So Okay. Go ahead. Good. Well, I need the next slide then. Okay. So I'm being a little bit frustrated because I sort of assumed people would have read the draft. Understand. This... But this is this isn't the idea of dream. This is the editorial stream. Editorial makes it... Oh sorry. Okay. So then the current draft says it suggests that the character should be in enough see that will be contentious The second bullet here is hue towards the requirements in seven nine nine seven I'm perfectly willing to nuke those because"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:44:00",
    "text": "that was done out of a great deal of concern, which was un unproven at the time. And then the last bullet says I changed it from rules to use of because aren't consistent rules. Next slide. And then this is sort trivial. There was all stuff. Oh, we will... You know, it was future tense. And now we're, you know, now it's in the past and in the present. And So... And then I just greatly realized. So again, if we decide we want to deal with the issue, I'm sorry, there's another slide, but If we decide we want to deal with the issues, but we don't wanna start with seven nine nine seven that'll make things a lot easier There are certain people on the list who I know will who were very invested in seven nine nine seven. So I wanted to start from there. But the current draft doesn't feel like seven nine nine seven at all. Next slide. So I proposed we either adopt this as working with document or something else is a working group document. If we adopt this is working group document, meaning it's seven nine nine seven bi we should look at each change and make sure there's consensus on it. If we go the other way and just start from scratch, then that's gonna be the normal process. And then it goes through working group and Last calls and gets published. So that's it. I am perfectly happy to drop this draft and start a fresh. I believe there are people on the list who will scream bloody murder about that. So we problem It is. It is it is. So So now in whatever time is left, does anyone have any questions on the draft as it stands? Yeah. Go ahead, Martin. Color Martin. Okay. My name is Martin"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:46:00",
    "text": "boost to not be confused with another martin Right? Although you do spell it different ways. You my first canonical example of why we should have you with a oo out. But anyway, I wanted to say a few things The first thing is that I support adoption of this document Second thing is that one of the reasons for this is that it's probably a good thing to work on to to get the feel for what we have to do in the working group and what this office is off and so on. The second reason is that I was quite surprised and is a g What is it? I Series? Yep. Or Or. Sorry. It's a b attempt. Okay. Came out with a statement that said whatever Rc c seven nine nine seven doesn't explicitly forbid is out was very split into two when I saw that statement because on one hand, and very much for being on the label and using uni code where it makes sense and so on. And was when when that thing was worked on, on the other hand the Way I remember the discussion when that was worked on, Was that there were a lot of people very much concerned. And it was carefully done so that It was only there the things that everybody could kinda again. So I think it's good that"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:48:01",
    "text": "this is revisited And then another point is that all to Now it's start back, what's what you call it smart quote and so on. And the use of mathematics which start with variable names and maybe I an sign on on. Was mentioned And I think we should be in this document be explicit about both of these issues or maybe they're splitting more And then And even that being explicit might include saying small quotes and other fine type issues are an issue of the style guide I think thank you. See is pc is dealing the stat that's one way to Say it. But not just leave it open and then Some people say I it aligns everything, so I want my smart quotes, and some other people saying now, no it's it's the same for everybody. So make sure that these issues are split explicitly this asked in the document Mh. Even if it's deferred Maybe for the moment, maybe for whatever, to somebody else. Right. So martin a question because you started with that you were in favor of adopting this document and I wanted to clarify Are you in favor of adopting this particular document or so for instance, there have been some people who say let's clear the decks and start over with a different kind of document, but we we want document just not this format anymore or you and. Okay. I would personally say we have this"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:50:02",
    "text": "Why don't we take it and take it wherever it we we go. If somebody else Thanks Steve. This. They should write their own draft Okay. Then we can still... We open the disk. That that's helpful. Thank you. Okay. John La levine were up next. I'm john Levin levine up I think we should adopt it. Although I think it also needs a lot of work. And one thing I I think we... Is underappreciated is the extent to which every time you add a new... Basically, every time you add a character a new block stuff breaks. And it's a final example, if you simply look at the Pdf versions of your draft, they're missing what's characters that don't happen to be that our because whatever... Whatever tooling rendered stuff in the data tracker, doesn't render... That doesn't render like, the Cherokee character and in your example. Well, we're even the the young characters. Yeah. No. Got the end here didn't get the euro. Why know like the the Pdf and in in the meeting materials broken, but the Pdf in the data tracker is differently broken. Yep. Yeah. So I think that In principle, I agree with the idea that the Rpc has latitude to to say here's where we're what we're going to accept. But I think it would probably be a good idea to have a have a process. For every time they accept something new and make sure, you know, to make sure that we'll actually up in the documents when they're published, So they don't have to go back and them in fix. Yep. I think that'd be excellent. Jay are up to bat. Thank you, Jay Daily. So paul, just check you would be happy with Martin's suggestion of extending the document to deal with type of traffic stuff and to deal with. Oh Math yeah. So no. I'm sorry. Two things. Typo of graph no because I think that that's part of the style guide. Matt so would you be willing to then the document to say that. Yes. Oh, absolutely. No. I I think a document an Rf c that says, here are a bunch of things"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:52:01",
    "text": "that people might think are equivalent but they're not This one's a style guide. This one is a general stuff. I think that would be. And and something similar about mass symbols to. Yeah. Yeah. Exactly right. Lovely. Thank you. And the cat symbol quite frankly. I've been waiting on that document for a while, which is not a match I mean, quite frankly, it's a physics symbol. Right. Customer moment, I came up here to say that the question standard as a staggered question. Which from me is an offer is this kind of I mean, who do I have to talk to get the fixed? Mh. And I would expect that in the is also happy helping. Getting things like that fixed. Could be could be the correct but that is a policy question in the Rpc. The that the Rs g, I think can answer. Yes. Yep. So I think at some point, I want to stop being insulted by my own documents. And that's why I'm I'm pretty active on this. Right? Right. Okay. But And I don't know whether that that policy should be in here document is gonna tickle all that policy more than anything else. But I think we could have a policy document also saying Style guide comes from the Rpc. Here are the things that that aren't currently in it that might be in such like that. So... Okay. Great Yes. I I very much understand that question is kinda concerned about good typo and I know many people who really want that, maybe not too many here in in hour circles. The the problem is just that when you"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:54:04",
    "text": "go to a publisher to publish your books. It's the publisher who decides how the quotes a look, and so And and so we can say it the office can decide or we can say... We can say we'll do that in a separate document because that will maybe take more time And we also have to talk to the officer I I talked to them there or two ago and they were not to enthusiastic about that, but I mean, that's We don't expect enthusiasm on any of this. But Yes. So Okay. Great. And by the way, just to make this even when people are starting to talk about good typo and such like that, many publishers will take the first letter of the first word in a new chapter and we're in a new section and make it a larger font. We don't want that. So jean just to follow up on the discussion on style guides and the choice of smart quotes or not. So Right now our style guide says ask equivalents. For punctuation marks. Mh. That's what we currently have. And we are happy to hear feedback on whether this should change, but this will impact our dueling. Because g, Xml has whole bunch of quotes in it and or tool will have to be clever. About ensuring, but quotes within t's are you know, perhaps more and not mess with or what have you? But"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:56:01",
    "text": "it just went to say that you know, we're happy to get feedback on our style guide. But yeah. We're not ready yet to change this aspect. We'll have to look at tools. Right. And there'll be multiple tools. It's not just the tools for the output. Tools for on input as well. You know, where you're saying, Oh, no. We're not gonna allow that thing in for that reason. That's another tooling that would would need to be updated. K. So just one quick clarification I was not talking about good typo. Things like ke and and all this stuff. Yep. I was talking about standard Just don't want orange to look substandard. That's And yet substandard is sort of the standard for some organizations. Such like that and and not for others. Yep. Thank you Sorry. Turn on my microphone. Here's the hand raising exercise I want to do and I'd ask people who are remote to please type your choice into. I'm not gonna use the hand tool because it only has the yes no feature. Basically, what I want to understand is choice one, I would like to adopt this document as an... The document paul has published. Choice two is I would like to adopt a document on this topic, just not this one, I want a whole new thing. And you may choose to raise your hand both times if you are ambivalent and about that. And and choice three is I don't care. I simply do not have a a desire one way or the other on that. If there are more choices, you can bring them up to the microphone after our little hand raising exercise. So if people who would like to adopt Paul's document,"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:58:01",
    "text": "as the document, please raise your hand Alright. So a good two thirds of the room had their hand up. And I will look to the to the chat in a bit for people who would like to adopt a document not Paul's document new document. Please raise your hand. And and so we have a couple of hands up including those of some Yeah. And one joker who actually might have a pen in his hand. Don't care either way. Eight a hand. And again, I'll check the online people do people have opinions that are not one of those three. Want to mention them at the mic. That's helpful information. Thank you. And we'll obviously put a call out on the list about this. And we'll see I think. And nothing in the room exciting looking. Right. Good. Other business that we need to attend to in the next thirty six seconds? Excellent. This has been quite helpful. Thank you. And we will get this summarized. Thank you, Mike for using your fingers for good. And we will continue the discussion on list Lars. Did you have an interrupt I don't have an interrupt. I just wanna sort of speak for a moment from the Rs app. Right Which is not meeting this week. Because we didn't get anything from the working group and so we decided let's not meet if there's nothing to to meet about, and I think. Speaking personally with... And without having checked with the other rf set members. I think that is sort of the way we will go forward, But is we don't need the rs to meet and sit around the need food without anything being to discuss and the stuff that we should be discussing will come from this working group. So whenever you guys send something"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "02:00:02",
    "text": "way, we will have a meeting and be open and all of that. But don't be worried. You didn't see an rs meeting and you might not see one for a while. We'll basically just reacting to what happening here. That's the setup. Right? Thanks So Paul hop. I want to possibly disagree with what you just said because one of the things in this document that was objected to by some people on the mailing list was the that the streams actually get to choose by stream, which characters they're allowing and such. So even before this document gets sent to you there may be reason for you to discuss the current state. Of the document. So Correct. So it would be I guess helpful if if the the the group could indicate strongly that it would once they rs to discuss this. On that particular topic, I think you could make an argument either way Right? If there's a strong reason why different streams need different differences here that can certainly be discussed. I I'm Initially now, un convinced that I can see is strong argument for why that would be necessary, especially if default is very lenient to what it allows, but yes, we could discuss it Yeah. Thank you. And thank you John and Paul for didn't want to sir here? So far. I did see you I didn't see you kinda got it. Alright. See you on the list."
  },
  {
    "startTime": "02:02:05",
    "text": "Madam"
  }
]
