[
  {
    "startTime": "00:00:44",
    "text": "you know instead what we are trying to do [Music] okay so for the slight delay we had some last-minute slight changes if you don\u0027t load it this side set download it again user not in there yet users are not in there yet they may be okay welcome to the not this workshop sorry that\u0027s this green background on my second desktop right now so it has turned out to be useful until you forget changing it so welcome to the core meeting we assume people have read the drafts it\u0027s Friday so I probably don\u0027t have to remind anyone of the IPR principles but just in case I do and we have only 90 minutes today so we are going to rush through a number of items here generally most of the items are "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:03:45",
    "text": "things that are kind of almost done but we have this last t2 stroke and in the last I 2 dot and we need to get some decisions out of that of course all these sessions will be verified on the minis and in the previous meeting in the LP one meeting actually an item came up that occasionally has been coming up before so I would hope we have a little bit space at the end of the meeting before we reach 13 20 to discuss how a co-op correspondent note that is talking through a number of proxies to some node that is in a very constrained environment might be informed about the timing characteristics of that correspondent so that\u0027s something right now we don\u0027t have a mechanism for and we may want to invent a mechanism for for the ap1 environment where we often have milli bitch sustained raids so you may get a pic at once every hour and it\u0027s that\u0027s something that probably the the other side should be informed about okay so let\u0027s hope that we have time at the end are there any other things which would should change in the agenda so I\u0027m trying to find slides in the meanwhile kind of someone volunteered to help on the etherpad not everybody huh it works this time yeah they fix it and one Java scribe as well maybe Ari no doesn\u0027t work all right but is Mattias will you be taking the minutes as well all right and when Jabbar works may be added you can do the job or not ah all right okay Krister how about no all right yeah we take notes can someone do the job Michael thank you I know he\u0027s about alright then I\u0027ll get out of the Jabbar party thank you okay quick update on the sentiment and a couple of open issues so we actually ramped up our five versions between class two idea last idea and this one key updates there now the base values can be repeated that was something cause all it part of the earlier crafts then we took it away cuz we didn\u0027t see much value for the complexity then we realized actually it is a very useful thing to have and finally we had a long discussion on the mailing list and we had a call with with the author asana and and few others Michael was there Christian was there and we decided okay that actually makes a lot of sense for variety of reasons and now it\u0027s back "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:06:45",
    "text": "in the draft also that decision we had in the last IETF that we can now support most Anderson fields and they will be any with the underscore that\u0027s part of the current draft then there was one inconsistency in the draft a lot of the examples were using forward to us but that was actually not in the normative part of the allowed character set so it was a discussed and okay is the whole character that is relatively restricted in order to have it safe for example in database keys and such but the forward slash is highly useful as this was already used in the cleric examples and also in a lot of use case of sin ml it made a lot of sense to have it in the allowed character set so that\u0027s now also in the normative text a use of terminology alignment we were discussing with cinnamon attributional tax so we all unified those the new term called cinema field a couple of new units that were proposed the no-brainer and bunch of small editorial tweaks so then we had the big last call we got very good review comments from Christian and Peter some things that we are now adding post last call is clarifying the rest really character character set what\u0027s the reason for it with more justification especially that it\u0027s used in database keys and that\u0027s one of the reasons and also that not all URIs can be used as names cause you our eyes actually allow a wider character set than the names do so bit more text on that then Salma can only be is not only used for sensor measurements medical calls are used for activation or configuring parameters that was slightly under specified perhaps and we did add more text to it in the person that is currently posted but what Peter was asking also a couple of examples and how would you know if a resource is accepting send ml as a as an actuation so we\u0027ll add that and also those some discussed in both mesh networks how you should use small packets so we\u0027ll do a bit of editorial adjustment on that basically saying okay you want to go for small packet sizes that\u0027s what we pull off all these tricks in CML and this is good for for example 15.4 and Ellora networks then a couple of issues to be discussed first of all the registration policy for units currently we have their eye on a registry for all the units that you can have in Sen ml currently policy is expert review or iesg approval so the comment we got from Peter was that do we really need to creates a bit of confusion what was to be had it there I guess if we want to have the expert review want to have it low overhead as to register new things but uses the iesc approval is good escape hatch if something goes funny with the expert review so that\u0027s what we have currently but do we want to clarify that and custom born without a head general we have we had a good experience with keeping several doors open here and I don\u0027t think it actually will confuse "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:09:45",
    "text": "anyone so I think it\u0027s a good idea to do this kind of policy even if may seem a little bit duplicitous Alexei Melnikov this has caused some confusion and other registries in the past sometimes one thing I would say is that expert review because experts are assigned by is G is G is always in the appeal path so if you\u0027re not very happy with the expert you can always go to hg n do it there anyway and if there is is G approval as a choice sometimes people might want to bypass the process and submit it directly to HG at which point is like well who draw the Stags but anyway so not a strong preference but I suggest you just do expert review and point out that you know appeals can be handled in the usual way okay any more views on that so as chair would decide here hi man okay look I think one more round of the mailing list on this but so I guess the hard ones both ways but no one feeling very strong either way yeah I\u0027ll read it visible okay let\u0027s move on links extension so this was something that was mentioned in the group last call when we initiated it that then with the material graphics were very mature stable but does one piece this link extension that is currently in the appendix that way maybe was not at the same level of maturity as the rest of the document and maybe it\u0027s better that we take it as a separate document spend some time looking to it properly see how we want to do it the main reason for having it here was that he would get the Seaport tag and they would you could actually say one byte but maybe links in general are quite long so saving one byte per link maybe it\u0027s not worth the effort of doing it you know let\u0027s say to expedite it way with this draft so what we would suggest here that we take the links extension as a separate document and just start it right away and make sure we get it right I see people nodding they\u0027ve given comes up micro nothing no one objecting so okay let\u0027s do that we\u0027ll remove the links extension from here and start a new document and then two more issues one that was actually discovered just today when we\u0027re discussing the rest reading character set in their names currently the names don\u0027t allow "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:12:45",
    "text": "semicolon and there are some URI schemes for example ni that uses semicolon to as the separator between the hash of something and they\u0027re all written that the hash was used to generate so it could be useful to be able to use that kind of URI so rather URI schemes that use semicolon as a sentinel name but the key question here is is semicolon a safe character and and say it in a sense that you would be dumping it safely through various database keys for example so that\u0027s the reason why for example we don\u0027t allow backslash Co specialist has very special meaning a lot of these places and you don\u0027t know but you don\u0027t know be escaping and doing too many safeguards on those so is semicolon a safe character in that sense like would you dump it in your in your databases and as such without worrying too much would you have to check every single time they do something special treatment for that carry I\u0027m just gonna have a comment on alt after I hear about it possibly sure you can stay in the line for well that\u0027s fit that\u0027s case this point and that\u0027s that\u0027s the last point we have so we had eight then so I haven\u0027t read this draft in a while I need to go back and reread it but I\u0027m taking flight lessons right an altitude is actually described in two ways for pilots one is above MSL which is the mean sea level the other is above ground level so I guess my advice here would be to have some sort of a reference for your altitude definition yeah I guess that\u0027s the discuss in them coordinates are much more complicated than we think and right now we have very basic model for coordinates I\u0027m thinking we need a separate Sen ml document just for coordinates eventually to get like to the core of it there\u0027s gonna be like relative coordinates and absolute and different systems etc so maybe that would be part of that document Christa Homer I don\u0027t know anything about this but just a generic comment having worked with a number of different URI schemes etc is that this semicolon normal it does have a special meaning so in URI schemes yes no in other worries more about databases big data as such where you would use it as a key so definitely the URI schemes it has a special me now okay but that that should not be an issue what is more like if you would use this on your big data database and such systems if there is an issue if we could just moment if we could sort characters into a different temperatures semicolon is probably it\u0027s about 80 degree Celsius because it will hurt touching them but probably the the damage might not be very big so semicolon is is a dangerous factor if you start feeding these things to the shell the UNIX shell environments like that so what we might want to discuss is "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:15:49",
    "text": "the likelihood of people putting out senator Mayer\u0027s names unprotected into a UNIX shell commands I think anybody who does that no further comment now on the all thing one confusion that that we consistently have is this the confusion between units and quantities so for instance if you have a pressure you might have an absolute pressure or you might have a relative pressure compared to the the environmental pressure and traditional engineers who use kitchen units have made up different unit names for this so there is something called psi gauge and and PSI absolute and so on but that\u0027s not the way SI units work in SI you actually have units and then you have quantities and quantities those define what you\u0027re actually measuring and the unit is only telling you what unit is being used for doing that measuring so one mistake we may have made in doing Sen ml is not having a quantity field so you don\u0027t know when something is there that is expressed in meters we don\u0027t know whether it\u0027s the height of the operator or the size of the operator or the size of their left arm or the altitude in the pressure altitude or altitude compared to a wgs84 contextual information you also need knowing that it\u0027s in meters or even knowing that it\u0027s an entity it\u0027s not sufficient in order to get real semantics and triology you need more information anyway so I think we are better off for this units registry which currently actually mostly contains units plus some backwards compatibility gang we should stick with the unit and the unit for altitude is usually meters so I think we are done with that one but we may want to think about the the other aspect about I mean if I have three [Music] sensor readings which are all in meters are all in kaeleen or whatever I need to know what what they need and okay one is the outside temperature one is the inside temperature and I need to name label them in some way to get that semantic information so I think that\u0027s a separate item and we were short work on it separately yeah yeah I think we already a few ideas ago we decided to have that intact for metadata or something along those lines for expressing more metadata record so that\u0027s something we need to be working on and maybe the other registry is also part of that tastier I really like Thurston suggestion and it occurs to me that by that definition Celsius "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:18:50",
    "text": "and Kelvin is the same units so you don\u0027t need two different unit values drug bill shield origin I\u0027m bringing the discussion back to the first point about the semicolon did you explore alternatives to semicolons and not not really cuz I mean the semicolon was part of for example in a URI specification so I mean either you use the such or you do something else and then if you do something else yeah you can change with a colon and but if you want to avoid that kind of tweaks and tricks that was the reason okay maybe you want to add that okay and a related question was that do you have any reserved key words should not be used in the chip in the character\u0027s head the rest so the stuff that is not allowed I mean everything else next what is explicit defined allowed it\u0027s not allowed okay so yes we could be later defining new ones that but then you have to have the use of challenges of extensions I mean III my point was that it might make sense to put in the in the character set but I believe that the usage should be a lot more than just one URI format like me oh yeah yeah I mean this is this not only crane I I mean I was as an example that has that semicolon because that was out what Peter st. Andre pointed out for example in I you our eyes don\u0027t work that was like and in lie you are seeing very useful for able to do the hash paste like this yes I was like okay that seems like an easy thing to fix then there was the tag URI switch have the add sign um that could be going a bit more risky territory okay so what I\u0027m but we have to check the semicolon also on the list and especially with Colin because Cohen gonna come here and color has been very strict on what kind of characters that we have there because he has most experience of the database side so let\u0027s let\u0027s confirm that on the list not what I heard so far no one has been objecting that so it seems like a good idea objecting adding semicolon so adding semicolon seems okay but let\u0027s check it on the list and recording the alt I guess we cannot we will not what I heard now we would not add it here but we will do the separate document which explores the whole idea of coordinates and cetera more detail separate document the out barkos yeah we already have the mirror which which is for our current purpose i guess close enough and then we\u0027ll do that proper job in a separate document one question um have you thought about using communits for we are we are running the separate document apart from the current offers you get expertise from other organizations that maybe have yes I mean definite like in double Tweety there\u0027s "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:21:50",
    "text": "one group looking into this stuff so that would be let\u0027s a prerequisite or that I would have all the competence to do that so definitely be needed okay yeah so I think the author\u0027s one of which I am will after answering these questions will consider the working group last holder humans processed and then it\u0027s up to the remaining chair yeah same basically we will continue in the Middle East and let\u0027s see how if we can finish it I mean the target will be Singapore perhaps earlier even all right I was hoping you were going to push the button already for what you know blows calm no just finished working class yeah yes so yeah so those are the comments we got and this how can i address them so we cannot consider it concluded right excellent and yes we will do an update ASAP and be done with it by Singapore the reason we are discussing this today is that it finished on on Wednesday right oh it finishes today so you still have time to put in having is you bye bye Singapore I am being dumped by them yes take Taylor that sounds good although there was actually an implied question and in my comment which I just realized right now the document as is does list Celsius and Kelvin as two separate units values if we think we\u0027re going to go in the direction of character I was saying you may want to remove one of those right so there are several units in the table which are marked with a star which means this is not really what you should be using but we know that this is widely being used and temperature is one of these weird cases where where people somehow are emotionally attached to the unit of Celsius which I don\u0027t understand but they don\u0027t know that that\u0027s about that\u0027s a bug that\u0027s a bug that\u0027s about we so there are some some five units in there that really don\u0027t belong there because they\u0027re not SI units but even the people who wrote I saw eighty thousand recognizes us as a unit that is in such a wide use that they cannot really put it into an appendix but it\u0027s actually and as I recognized unit even though "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:24:50",
    "text": "it\u0027s really weird because you really only have to subject 270 315 and and then you are there good okay so I think we are done with that I turn what was that okay so quickly jump through the old slide so that the next item on the agenda is the resource directory and we are going to do this in two and a half steps so we now have two drafts so let\u0027s talk about two drafts and we start with the first one I think Martha wants to present that then I have my half step and then then we go to the other so in the interim since Chicago I think even maybe before Chicago we\u0027ve added a new editor to the draft Christian um Zeus to take the role of dotting all the i\u0027s and crossing all the t\u0027s and spending the time necessary to to make it a good product and get it get it finished and we\u0027ve been having regular teleconferences about once a month or sometimes a little more frequently to discuss issues and resolve things and one of the things that we realized was that there was a lot of ambiguity about what different things meant in resource directories so one of the one of the things that Peter created a an entity relationship diagram to represent what Rd is and we\u0027re planning on using we use that as a as a good tool to discuss things and to make make choices we improve some of the text and and you know addressed a lot of comments that we got fix some things up made some decisions on these remaining issues and clarified through the ER diagram you know what the deep domain parameter really means which was one of the one of the questions we kept getting so there\u0027s also to talk about resource directory is sort of a shadow of well-known core so the ER model includes well-known core this is what Willam core has basically I don\u0027t don\u0027t pay too much attention to thing because that\u0027s really just any any any item I didn\u0027t know whether they call it a device or a you know an end it\u0027s not an endpoint a node whatever its it\u0027s a node on the network it\u0027s a thing that has a scheme Authority import\u0027 and it "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:27:52",
    "text": "has a well known core with links in it resource resource directory as sort of has the same basic pieces in it but it has a number of shadows of these these are registrations and the registrations have additional parameters on them they contain links and also resource directory can have groups and groups are associated with multicast address and groups are composed of registrations so you can put a number of these red stations which is the shadow of the stuff that comes from one thing into a group and then talked to them through a multicast address so this is for things like putting a bunch of lights together in a room and actuated them all together registration parameters side each one has a location that\u0027s assigned when it\u0027s registered that you can use to reference that information an endpoint name an endpoint type a lifetime and domain so domain is really just a registration attribute that\u0027s gets used in a number of different ways and we don\u0027t put a lot of constraints on it about what it means Dave Taylor I\u0027m not responding to what you said but since you pause because I gave you a word Lucas because I realize you have a terminology error on the slide which may be in the document which is the port is part of the authority component not something that comes oh okay okay thanks yeah good point I was confused that was that was that\u0027s that\u0027s that\u0027s my that\u0027s my mistake okay thanks waffle fix that I\u0027m used to saying scheme Authority ports so I guess I should get used to not saying that scheme Authority is really the way to say that okay hosting hosting port so scheme hosting port is okay so that\u0027s that okay original origin or which constitutes an or a way of origin or an internet origin yes okay so next steps we\u0027re gonna make those make sure the specification is consistent with the model which you know is mostly that way now but let\u0027s let\u0027s make sure we\u0027re not saying anything that\u0027s different from what our abstract model is well we\u0027ll put a representation of the model in the documents and fun ASCII art simplify the section about finding an RD that\u0027s the remaining comment we get is that is this about discovery of an Rd or things in an Rd so finding an Rd means stood okay sorry oh great great so there\u0027s some more stuff about how did that happen go back to your pod and I do the other side okay so so someone\u0027s been working more on that that\u0027s great okay so how to find an RD is we need to work on that there\u0027s a few more issues to clean up like we want to "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:30:53",
    "text": "make sure we have all of our uri templates expressed correctly in this sort of thing and then we\u0027re hoping to do working group last call over the mailing list and have that in process before singapore do you want to come back to the thing you just show yeah the other items on your side so we have discussed about ways node that comes up and wants to make itself known in the resource directory how dead finds its research res directories so we have that problem in a million other places in the ITF where things come up and and have to find the entity that provides a specific service for them and typically the the device that comes up can be specifically configured for something and often we also try to define what happens if the device is not specifically configured so you just bothered at Walmart and and take it out of the bad web and try to switch it on now about 26 years ago a working group was started called DHT which provided a way to have the network provide information to devices that come up on on that networking now whether that is applicable or not is dependent on your security model so that\u0027s a complicated thing not not for the resource right for each resolve but the assumption is it actually does make sense to also say what should happen if the the network is trying to provide information for the device where to find a resource directory then the third branch is one where the device comes up doesn\u0027t find anything it\u0027s in its own configuration that would help habit nor finds anything at the network configuration level and the question is what should the device do well one answer to that might be keep silent pretend it doesn\u0027t exist or something like that now so this is really the complexity of the section right now we have three different branches we have to address and and this branching is not written tower it\u0027s in the head of the person reading that so let\u0027s talk about this first branch the device is specifically configured it might be configured with an IP address it might be configured with a DNS name plus an R type to use with that DNS names or that needs to know whether it\u0027s looking up the a or a quad a record or maybe looks up the service record we don\u0027t know that it might use em DNS to find in our the service in mdns so that "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:33:54",
    "text": "it then uses to do a resource directory registration which probably has Carey would say in a moment will then be copied over back through the mdns or it might be a user using another discovery mechanism for instance UPnP so these are kinds of situations in in the case the device is specifically specifically configured to use some mechanism that is not default and the second case is the device is not specifically configured so this is the case that is described in the document so the others would be mentioned but this is really described in the document that\u0027s why it\u0027s yellow on this slide and here we really want to limit the choices because we have gotten a lot of feedback that we are offering too many choices and it looks like we are not going to solve this leg versus the HP bar today so let\u0027s just put both in I note that the DHCP option doesn\u0027t exist so in practice this might for a while be an easy choice but unless until it\u0027s someone defines that the HDP option and the third branch then where we probably still have to write up something there but it can only be a suggestion I don\u0027t think we want to actually define a default behavior here and right now true sources we identify is any Rd NSF information in a slag or a bra information that we find in a six token ng document both point to places that are rather likely to actually support some form of resource directory functionality so a device that finds itself out there in the desert might want to try those so these are also called out explicitly but more in the sense of being a list of suggestions so this is my my proposal for how we structure the section we identify the branches and we we provide cases for the case that the device is not specifically configured and the Kaiser case where the device is specifically specifically configured of course is covered by that specific configuration Stewart Stewart Cheshire Apple I\u0027m a bit puzzled with how that the options are even framed here that branch Warren is devices specifically configured now I understand a specific IP address unless it\u0027s an anycast address is a specific configuration the second option is use mdns I want one term naughty nitpick if we better say DNS service discovery because M DNS is just one way of doing so yeah it was specifically talking about Indianism another difference okay well I would broaden it if you\u0027re on a mesh network that doesn\u0027t support mdns you would still use DNS service "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:36:54",
    "text": "discovery anyhow audicence how what should I write there the device just comes up the word I would use who was used DNS St is other words you would use by the name of reference or 6lowpan or something like that so it\u0027s not used for the guidance people behind me are saying yes it is oh let\u0027s not rattle on that but it seems that the way this is split seems very odd to me because on on your if you\u0027ve got a Mac you go into printer settings and hit plus and you will see terminal rim printer with air print on your iPhone and your Mac was not specifically configured with the ietf terminal rim printer before you came here you brought it here and they discovered it so that really ought to be listed and your third choice use other search discovery mechanism such as UPnP I assume by you pimpy you mean SSDP not like european penises but could you find those making it yes is that you pimp is like saying use I Triple E is that it\u0027s a very broad term that\u0027s what you you mean one specific of the hundreds order right before you settle for I think you main use SSDP but but those I would put those under the not specifically configured because that is what you use when you come into environment and you know nothing can you ask the environment help tell me something so that that seems like an odd choice to call those the specifically configured ones yeah and dave has some other comments on education so to actually use something like mdns I I have to become active and use it and you keep I think mdns and I keep saying it\u0027s not emptiness when when you\u0027re here at the IETF meeting discovering the IETF Terminal room printer and you\u0027re not in the terminal room on that network you\u0027re not using multicast DNS you\u0027re using wide area DNS serves discovery and on a mesh network like 15.4 that\u0027s what you would use not multicast David so yeah I actually agree with everything that Stuart said this time I I often do I\u0027m saying this time to yeah so the if you have a DNS server so I\u0027m just going to echo Stuart\u0027s going why we were saying yes it is if you have a DNS server even over a 15-4 network you\u0027re just doing do necessity over a DNS instead of over m DNS and so that\u0027s why it\u0027s not just M yes so part of Stuart\u0027s point was just if you can just a DNS server cost you 15 for Network DNS st is defined already and it works fine yes and so that\u0027s why I saying broaden MB and SSD and SSD because there\u0027s two ways whether you do it multicast or whether you do it unicast or just two different ways of doing DNS st so I think that that\u0027s why we were saying yes it is but when when Stuart was talking what I got up here to talk about was the part that\u0027s highlighted now that there\u0027s anything wrong with the part that\u0027s highlighted but because it\u0027s more "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:39:55",
    "text": "complicated than that yes of welcome to the Internet area the so when I got up here to say is it\u0027s a lot like getting your DNS server address so you can take one of two approaches right you can either get your Rd address the same way as you\u0027ve got your DNS server address okay which is one it\u0027s a branch that much of the internet area often goes down another branch is the one that Stuart is talking about which is you use the DNS server address to get the other addresses okay and so that\u0027s the DNS st approach right and so at a high level what you\u0027re trying to accomplish in the highlighted branch of you know that the two a 1 and 2 a 2 is to say well I think I kind of want to get the Rd address the same way as I got in the DNS server address okay and if you said that as the principal that\u0027s actually more understandable to internet area people and I say that because these are not just the only two things it internet area people are talking about so for example and I don\u0027t want to do up a meeting I\u0027m just giving you why it\u0027s more complicated than this and limiting the choices is something that\u0027s more of an internet area discussion because there\u0027s discussion about something called provisioning domains and I don\u0027t want to have to define it here but my point is even this week in the 6-man group those discussions about another way of getting things it has on a per per fishing domain basis because you might want to have a different answer because your router is multi-home to two different networks each of which has a different answer and so I can\u0027t just put it in the RA because that\u0027s ambiguous or something right and so they\u0027re defying these other ways and whatever that\u0027s doing an HTTP request getting back on JSON blob or whatever it is right and so if you say the principle is that you get this the same way as you get the DNS server address and that tells anybody that\u0027s defining a new mechanism that this is just one of the things that has to come back and that blob right and so that\u0027s one branch either that or you take the approach that says you just use DNS to resolve it and that\u0027s your branch one okay that Stewart was talking about which is you use DNS SD so that\u0027s how I would phrase it in principle and then whether you define a DHCP option or something is just you know people want to use that and that\u0027s a way of following the principle so yes so the point here that we are trying to avoid is to make DNS a requirement for using resource directory okay well what I wanted to say was just oh by Dave but a little I did some work with service location protocol many years ago and he was useful to make a distinction between service discovery and service lookups so their service discovery meant that there was an active process already available in that book and your device goes there and it\u0027s configured just listening for the disciplines and you can solicit and service lookups are specifically when when you actually have to configure the device to do something so that\u0027s that\u0027s one thing and I think that would that would help a lot to separate how to come the resource directory the second the second thing that I wanted to say was "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:42:55",
    "text": "that yeah let\u0027s be consistent how you find this resource discover should be the same way is how you do your resolution to find a DNS service and so on but just sort of experience I was just wanted to say that for especially for energy constrained devices multicast traffic is it\u0027s a big power drain and we realized that when we did some experiments you look at power consumption patterns so for a simple device that is trying to use just a co-op to communicate and that has listened to mdns the the amount of traffic on mdns was so heavy that was actually consuming more power than the it was using for core communication so I think that means fitting into account you\u0027re talking about mdns Dave Robin um I also want to pick apart how these branches are broken up a little bit here it seems to be branch one bullet one is consistent you know in other words I I know for some reason I know a DNS name or an IP address of my server and I just go ask for it I\u0027ve been configured to do that the second bullets though I don\u0027t think follow under specifically configured because they really fall under branch two because if I\u0027m using a circus says use MDS or @dn SSD as was pointed out to find a service not a particular name of a server so if I\u0027m just saying find a service I\u0027m doing that either through UPnP the service discovery there or mdns or dns SD anything I\u0027m still need to know what I\u0027m asking for a service name and my point for coming to the mic is that\u0027s exactly the same as looking for a DHCP option with a particular name I don\u0027t see those as being any different I have to it branch to is not I\u0027m completely clueless I don\u0027t know what to do if you it\u0027s lying there in your DHCP message with an option name or number but if I don\u0027t know to look for it then I still am helpless this bits where you want to have it in the spec yes I know I I and look for yes and so on but I\u0027m saying that the second two bullet points of looking for something are part of branch two you have to know what you\u0027re looking for it\u0027s either a service name or an option number or whatever you still are that level of configuration but not a location configuration not a specific server in mind hi this is honest so I think constant you you started this presentation because you were wondering of what should actually be done in the ADI document I guess and it seems that the in the area has standardized so many different mechanisms that it would be pretty much impossible to get any form of interoperability here so I\u0027m wondering what are the most obvious approaches to half the Rd document just be punt on that issue be silent on it and maybe work on a separate document that lays out the different options whatever the "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:45:55",
    "text": "classification is because there are many options and then presumably some other organizations to go and then pick a subset but or select one or two there preferred mechanism in there will just be it would just be in practice difficult to have devices working with each other and finding the stuff because there would be like too many choice too many choices I is that is that so why you\u0027re heading or are you that\u0027s not what I would suggest I would suggest to deliver resource discovery Ruth butter is included and King in you want to have the resource-rich a survey discovery in there Rd document yes that\u0027s what that is what I would suggest so people who implement a resource directory on the client-side have a default way to actually find one but okay it seems typical to come up with a default way right it sounds unlike from this list and from discussion it sounds like there lots of options and different preferences yes and I would like us to decide on yes that\u0027s my nature Stewart Cheshire again I find the whole discussion very strange because it seems like you\u0027re really bending over backwards to avoid using the solution that already exists you have an entity on the network called the resource directory you talk to it by exchanging packets it\u0027s a service you want to discover it we\u0027ve been through this process we have had lots of debates with published RFC\u0027s we have code running on Apple products Android Windows 10 now has its own native API for DNS service discovery and you are really going through contortions to find out reasons to not use the existing solution and I do not understand any of those arguments yeah I agree that for Windows 10 it\u0027s probably actually a good idea to always it\u0027s also on raspberry heart 3 now it\u0027s on microchip development kits it\u0027s like having become the ubiquitous way of saying giving self discovery and you have a service you want to discover it\u0027s like how you could possibly fail to see the solution right in front of you is absolutely bizarre well I don\u0027t fail to see it I just don\u0027t reuse it why you have such a strong objection to using the solution right in front of you okay so you see it and still refuse to use if it\u0027s even more bizarre Alexander Pro here just a question I mean we are talking a lot about the night constraints of devices but there are networks that are constrained and there are places that we don\u0027t want for a multicast and that things don\u0027t work like with so I mean maybe this is not the only question but it\u0027s like I just don\u0027t want to get over okay microcontroller this and this they\u0027re the networks already that we don\u0027t want to - I feel like it should be a "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:48:59",
    "text": "schoolteacher with a whip with the ruler in my hand and wrap everybody\u0027s knuckles when they say the word multicast there are few rfcs 67 62 defines multicast dns 67-63 which was very deliberately and intentionally a separate RFC defined service discovery which does not have to use multicast and I just gave the example here at the IETF meeting going to print a set up and set up a printer you are not using multicast so anytime somebody uses the argument about multicast they\u0027re talking at the wrong RFC so Eric not Marc so maybe maybe there\u0027s some different assumptions from different people in the room what it means to work with constrained devices and constrained networks I know what a Raspberry Pi is I call those things IOT super computers because 25 years ago they were super computers every gig of ram right it\u0027s very different to think about that and then we have the milli packets per second networks that cars to the coin I think that\u0027s very hard turbo the people that defect that people are building networks that can deliver 13 byte frames a few times a day is very different than the environment that arrests be by exhibits so so I think that there\u0027s a disconnect when you talk about constrained devices here and I think that that\u0027s why there\u0027s some tension here saying do we have to have 17 different ways of doing this stuff that needs to pull in service discovery mechanisms that might trigger the DMS include UTP and do all of these things the fact that they fit on a Raspberry Pi irrelevant well if that\u0027s their constraint and I think the constraint ought to be written down about what is the code space what is the packet size what is the processing I gave an example earlier this week from one about developer workshops we had at Apple fifteen years ago product is still on the market it\u0027s called the site player telnet neat little box that you can plug into things with serial ports unless you tell that to them over the network that device 15 years ago had 16k a flash memory 9k of that was the HTML source for its web-based UI and in the remaining 7k the guy had all the software for ethernet driver serial port driver web UI DHCP client and yeah if they think back that is the latest an important point by the is relevant to surf discovery my point is he had 700 bytes of free code space and was able to implement DNS service covering 700,000 tation for this must use less than 700 so let\u0027s actually write that down as a filter that\u0027s applied uniformly to all the proposals that it must be less than seven hundreds of code space yeah I think yes 72 28 right so basically I "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:52:00",
    "text": "think that there is a non-negligible group of people who would want to avoid the coop ecosystem to become dependent on DNS and I happen to be a member of that group and I don\u0027t think we want to make hype independent of IP so I believe that relying on neighbor discovery or for those people will I get the HTTP is the right way to solve this bootstrapping problem and from then on we know how to cooperate and we also know how to to interface that with the NSS T and then carriers next take it to the list I mean this is not something we can decide I guess I\u0027ll uh I\u0027ll make a microphone point to the last to the last slide and that is that I\u0027m guessing that the resource directory is going to be fairly resourceful if you go on by a printer today you find that that printer supports a variety of discovery schemes a variety of printing protocols and so forth so um I think the optionality is from the standpoint of the clients they don\u0027t necessarily need to we don\u0027t need necessarily specify a method for the clients to find the Rd but the Rd should be fairly resourceful and be able to support a variety of discovery methods okay I sort of wish that I had come before the the DNS SD debate I have to feel like I have to sort of justify now why we\u0027re doing this as an historical note when Corps was first chartered discovery service or a resource or otherwise was not in the Charter and one of the items that we were responsible for was explaining how we would interface with say existing discovery mechanisms like DNS SD that was in the original Charter I worked a lot with Peter van der stock at the outset explaining how we might use DNS SD to do resource discovery or service discovery more properly in this environment we this work here on on mapping was sort of a result of that because ultimately core came up with a way of doing discovery using Co app and and and as a further efficiency the resource directory was posited as a way of you know collecting all that information in one place and eliminating the need to do multicast for discovery and so our fallback at that point was to at least say well let\u0027s at least describe how to translate between one naming system and the other so the the motivation is really about "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:55:00",
    "text": "for example supporting heterogeneous environments where because we have these things called cross proxies we potentially enable HDTV clients to talk to co-op servers and those might more naturally use a DNS SD discovering mechanism I think that what I\u0027m going to try to do is make the case that there are certain types of resources namely restful api entry points that are virtually indistinguishable from what dns SD calls a service and so that\u0027s what we\u0027re going to be talking about is mapping at that level of granularity it really doesn\u0027t make sense to map every single resource in the resource directory into DNS SD but at least at the level of what are variously called function sets or command classes or objects which are defined by SDOs that have you know sort of a collection of you know functionality it all belongs in one unit the the link that gives you the entry point into there is proper probably the proper granularity to map between Rd and it\u0027s a DNS st so one of the reasons that back to historical note we worked with Zack Shelby on on the mapping it was decided several years ago that we would roll this in to the Rd draft but as we\u0027re trying to mature the Rd draft a couple things happen first nobody could really remember the context in which this stuff was done in the first place so I\u0027m here to sort of resocialize it and secondly we felt that the resource directory draft would get to the finish line faster if we remove this and put it back into an individual draft it was a why actually it was at originally an individual submission but it because it was in the Rd which was a working group document and then pulled out this draft has basically gone to working group - working group draft immediately so I just want to describe briefly DNS based service discovery for anybody who might be unfamiliar with it what it really is is a conventional use of existing DNS infrastructure namely the resource records and the protocol elements so we have things like hosts which could be described as a or quad-a records the pointer record is actually used to do a lookup on a service type so essentially you\u0027re looking for a class it\u0027s a way of discovering a class of things like printers what you get back in return is a set of instances which then can be used to name SRV and text records which always come in pairs the SRV is used to give you the host and port so you know you\u0027re not bound to a well-known port the original use of SRV was to basically get us out of the tyranny of well-known ports and then text records can come back and contain "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:58:01",
    "text": "arbitrary key value pairs that can give you attributes on that resource or on that service so as I said earlier this proposal was but essentially equates one type of resource in particular which is a restful api entry point with the concept of service so in terms of mapping let me just pop forward here the proposal talks about some new link target attributes and requires that some existing definitions be there I\u0027m not sure we have a term for exporting these things is optional but if you do export them then you have to do it in a certain in a certain way certain things will be mandatory if you decide that you want to export you know your resource into the DNS SD so exp is a target attribute that\u0027s kind of a hint that can drive an automated mapping tool to say I want this API entry point to be exported to DNS or you know potentially we could define this to be exp equals and then actually define the other name system that we wished that we wish to map into for now it\u0027s just a boolean and DNS st is the default instance is essentially a unique identifier within a within the context of the domain in which this thing will be registered that allows you to distinguish this one from all the others in DNS SD the instance name is intended to be human readable so it\u0027s it\u0027s basically in web normal utf-8 format we will require you to specify your resource type there\u0027s an opportunity I think here to go back and look at the RTE registry which we essentially have expert control over and right now I think it\u0027s a structured namespace I think we have the opportunity to make it a federated namespace if we choose to do so which would help to you know keep different application definition separate and then finally if\u0027 is a semantic tag or a link to the interface description the core link RFC basically sort of anticipated this might be for example a link off to a schema or something like that or a waddle so here\u0027s a quick example the color codes are sort of shown there to show what gets mapped to what so let\u0027s say you formulate a query we\u0027re sort of thinking that these queries would be directed at resource resource directories themselves rather than rather than multicast but you know just bear with me here you basically do a look-up on things that "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:01:02",
    "text": "have the exp attribute set and here\u0027s an example of getting back something which is it\u0027s got a path there in red it\u0027s got a context type the resource type is defined by the ocf in this case if we go along with this federated namespace idea the first part of that oh I see becomes the resource type that or the service type that we register down below we see the resulting resource records we have to basically create a hostname if one doesn\u0027t already exist we register this thing as being of type oh I see and everything under oh I see is actually owned by that Sto so it\u0027s the subtype is the temperature sensor and and down below the everything that\u0027s that\u0027s left over such as the path and the interface definition basically go into the text record as key value pairs so that\u0027s the proposal but we presented this in DNS SD on Wednesday and I think although the draft is here I think it would be important to have input from from both working groups so any questions comments hey Tim hey Carrie thanks Tim Carrie nokia I do have a - two comments really one is because I\u0027ve we\u0027ve had some of this problems before some other SDOs and trying to map things if you will to the instance numbers and stuff and so a lot of it was particularly like certain tools and stuff like that but in the standard have you made sure that the formatting you know you got oh I see dot r dot temperature sensor actually can valid actually turns into an appropriate in terms of the syntax an appropriate instanceid where you have you know because you got you know special characters and and that all translates through I think that\u0027s something to make sure that you look at as as we go through this to make sure that you can get it into the appropriate syntax for an instance piece I just want to back up here again I mentioned that our service type in this case yeah it\u0027s it\u0027s it\u0027s not required that you export your api\u0027s but if you do then the the values of these attributes have to be in a form the the burden is on the client to basically put these in a form that can be directly exported into DN SSD so in terms of instance names for example what DNS SD accepts is actually pretty wide periods for example are totally permissible so one other thing to point "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:04:02",
    "text": "out yeah but starting something with a period I think is but my my only point was is that if there are some restrictions that you have on these DNS D elements right I think we ought to at least compare those to those elements that we want to translate from as I was saying it because we ran into a couple of gotchas when we were doing some implementations I think the thing that I\u0027m the point I\u0027m trying to make is that what DNS SD will accept as an instance name is fairly broad so if an organization wants to say well we require our identifiers to be like this then I think there might be a lot of flexibility there as to what you can import insure it and then we also ran into some sizing right now because it\u0027s like 1663 bytes you know it\u0027s one of those we ran into trouble bit my point was is that as you go across that it might be and it may be very well just guidance you know of some mapping guidance it\u0027s like watch out here watch out there we are about 15 minutes of our schedules or we could keep as brief yes Stewart Cheshire I\u0027ll just briefly answer that question for instance names the character set is completely unrestricted there are no reserved characters that the way characters are encoded and mapped is defined rigorously so there are no dangerous characters you can\u0027t use any valid Unicode character can be used there is a length limit of sixty three octets of normalization form Cayce utf-8 to text that gives you the length limit and that is for the user visible instance names which are intentionally rich text uppercase lowercase e spaces punctuation whatever you would write in normal human communication the service types are machine readable information they are never normally seen by humans unless you\u0027re looking in Wireshark and they don\u0027t need to be as expressive for coding convenience they\u0027re limited to 15 characters of letters digits and hyphens so those are the two character set constraints to be aware of I think one thing that we do need to take to the list is this notion of potential having a you know federated namespace just maybe a happy accident that the Artie directory already has sort of these these pre these pre labels like oh I see and Co re and that sort of thing but an important point is that the service type does have to be registered with IANA so one thing that a federated namespace would afford is that an organization would only have to go and register this label and then they would own everything under that label DNS SD only afford is really two dimensions of search capability or filtering capability the type and the subtype dave dave taylor i just wanted to comment on a different topic which is the underscore UDP and its relationship with the presentation that I gave I think in order to talk about this in awe right "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:07:02",
    "text": "now and it\u0027s Joe mr. strapp zero zero right so I\u0027m saying future work please talk about how you cover each of the different URI schemes it\u0027s in there you know it\u0027s how you distinguish between coop and co-op s and how you would handle the coop plus WS schemes for which service names are not legal so you need to cover those in order to have a complete solution so good work so far keep it up I look forward to draft oh one which covers a more complete solution thank you all right thanks thank you very short middle Java Rajan I hope you can find some way to map the lifetime values when you register to the resource directory with the TTL of the resource records well DNS by default has a TTL so I mean are you saying you would professor SRV records have TTL and priorities and weights so I just didn\u0027t see them the example so that\u0027s why I just mentioned that because if your lifetime is expired in the Rd then you need to know what to do with it you\u0027re saying that\u0027s something that you potentially would like to be signaled with a target attribute potentially but um there is a there\u0027s a there\u0027s a default TTL and but it\u0027s it\u0027s not a default value in the in the resource directory you can adjust that value so okay so I think that what they\u0027ve said there this is a good thought and it needs a little bit of work but it\u0027s not exactly rocket science maybe either so let\u0027s try to go through a few more examples and make sure all these examples work right and and to get this done next item Michael pops up and if you could do this in - eight minutes - I yes this draft seems to be going along pretty well we\u0027ve made no substantial changes to what it does since working group adoption it\u0027s mostly been about clarifying things at one point we put some stuff in that we thought was useful but we took it back out we\u0027re basically the philosophy is keeps of protocol simple we\u0027re you know not trying to do queuing and we\u0027re just doing simple notification we have ways to enhance it later with with other functionality we\u0027ll we\u0027ll touch on here but you can go find out more offline we\u0027ve addressed a substantial set of comments that are going to be feeding into the next update it\u0027s really really good set of comments from Jim shod and for reliable notification well basically what we\u0027re looking at - - for the more involved "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:10:03",
    "text": "protocol where people want you know some notion of quality of service and queuing and some other things we\u0027re looking at a thing subscriber managed subscriber manage queues basically so you can subscribe and create a queue and I\u0027ve got a little write-up in the github issues if you want to know more about what the proposal looks like for that but that would be done as a separate draft to add on to this we think this draft is best if it just describes simple the simple notification system so the roadmap where we\u0027re going to finish you know addressing all the outstanding comments to the next drafts of all the ones that we\u0027ve already addressed and then any more that we receive there are a few substantial decisions that that would impact things a little bit in terms of like I guess sort of corner cases special cases of what happens when you do this and this isn\u0027t just describing what happens when you do something that\u0027s not been expected or not been accounted for we need to rework the normative language there was a suggestion that we think about how you would test one and evaluate the normative language based on having to write test cases and that\u0027s an excellent suggestion I\u0027ve learned that in my work and other SDOs that that\u0027s a really good way to go about it so we\u0027ll do that we need to put some guidance in the security considerations that\u0027s been suggested for all drafts and and this can be beefed up a little bit and so we\u0027ll work with OS co-op our profile for pub/sub and talk a little bit more about what we mean by access control even though there\u0027s no really good access control policy ACL kind of thing that we know of that\u0027s kind of standardized and this isn\u0027t the place to do it but maybe that\u0027s some future work and we want to target the working group last call for the Singapore time frame I don\u0027t know if we\u0027ll get to it on the list ahead of time but we think we can resolve everything and and get a new a new one so there\u0027ll be a new update if the draft and about end of August I think we\u0027re targeting for that and we should be able to progress it further close enough to working group last call by Singapore so for that drafted that comes up at the end of August it would be really good to I have some people who know that that they\u0027re going to review that and so so I would check to us who has read any version of the pub/sub document Oh quite a few people wait so who would be willing to to review the next version that that comes out in August Jim already did the previous one honest Michelle Carrie Peter bill I think thank you "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:13:04",
    "text": "thank you for doing this so quickly so the next item is Oscar and it would be great if you would leave a couple of minutes at the end okay so I\u0027m gonna talk about those coop this should have been Francesca standing here but just a cold and their voice almost lost her voice so I\u0027ll try to be your voice Francesca and give your slides mm-hmm and if I say something wrong please yell or maybe a slave okay so the draft last submitted version of the draft is version of four which was no major change from version oh three mainly including the use of the request sag which is this option defined in the draft presented on on Tuesday and it\u0027s all already using the replay those are the repeated tag which is also summarizing this new using this new draft so coming into this meeting there were quite a few issues left on the issue tracker but we spent a good deal of this meeting actually closing off a lot of these issues so I think there are four issues left at the moment and some of them the issues mentioned here are are closed so we have simplified the observe option processing and we have taken out all Scone from the document because that needs more thinking and we think we should do that in a separate craft we don\u0027t know where that would end up there are some minor edits to replay window so it\u0027s a question of what kind of replay windows are being being used and whether it could be different replay windows on the different end points as they change roles that\u0027s taken care of test vectors is still to to be done but that\u0027s we have results from the testing which we can use and we discussed this morning exactly what type of test vectors we should have so and there is also another issue which we discussed this week and which is on a separate slide and it\u0027s looking at the end-to-end security from from a co-op endpoint to an HTTP endpoint and that\u0027s a separate slide on that so there\u0027s been a number of interrupt tests this year for different tests there are six implementations tested too constrained see implementations one in kontiki on an open wsn between python one in Java one in c-sharp and I learned at this meeting there are two more planned implementations and one would be using "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:16:10",
    "text": "riot so a lot of a lot of people good thing here a lot of people have implemented read the same draft and after a few bug fixes they actually managed to interoperate and and proceed through the test cases we also benefited a lot during this meeting sitting around the table closing the issues with discussion among the implementer was the best way to do this so for example the resolution of the observe option which was a really simple solution much simpler than we could have found out I was given by one of those in one of those discussions so in particular Christian armed Sue\u0027s and Jim short has been very helpful here and not doing a really good well I mean they are doing a large part of this work actually so we didn\u0027t see any major issues we think we will complete the remaining issues in the next update of the draft and we like to hear you if you have any views about what what is missing in the draft or any comments and questions Goran jim carrey nokia so when we looked at the draft we had a couple questions and I don\u0027t know if you\u0027re addressing him in the dress I don\u0027t think I\u0027ve looked at it since maybe Oh - right there was some there were some concerns that we had with you know we were doing end-to-end security and we were able to do object security all the way through but we still had headers and that weren\u0027t integrity protected or confidential so we had some privacy concerns where those are those issues addressed or are they going to be addressed so I don\u0027t recall exactly our discussion I don\u0027t recall exactly which headers we were discussing there there are and not if you look at there\u0027s a table on which which options are protected most protect most are encrypted some are only integrity protected because of coop proxy needs to read them and so I\u0027m watching the draft today I think is what what we think it needs to be protected so there was some that we were still I guess probably because it\u0027s going through a proxy you don\u0027t have a choice in but we had some privacy concerns with some of the integrity protected headers yeah maybe you could remind me offline or nothing exactly through it it\u0027ll look right thank you which raises the the general question once we have this update again we need reviewers and I would be very happy if people would look very closely at the privacy considerations you do we have a privacy response section yeah but maybe we want to make sure that that you\u0027re expanded so comment I\u0027m sorry I haven\u0027t looked at this in a while both before "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:19:11",
    "text": "during this review so do you have a plan with this there is some vacation coming up so I can\u0027t say exactly when but we may be able to conclude during next week with some of these so I\u0027m inside the next three chords or it\u0027s later basically so in August I hear someone people wants August so let\u0027s stat same for August okay so the the question would be that version that comes up in August who would be willing to review that they\u0027ve Kerry Michael Tim thank you that girl don\u0027t don\u0027t leave back when I\u0027m asking questions like that okay that\u0027s a few people so who in this room cares about privacy so Frances so for it is getting some more implementers for instance the right people to actually you that draft send us a review of that draft that would be really useful don\u0027t know if any of you can volunteer doing that well maybe we catch you at the way out in terms that you leave before you agree okay actually we didn\u0027t cover do slides yes but you want to take it I can do that okay thank you so one thing that that came up in a home where discussion was that the the current appendix a which were probably moving into a body into the body of the recommend in the next version that defines the the HTTP mapping as where we have a document defining the HCV mapping for coop RFC 1875 and that document says any extension to carb is supposed to also do you find the HTTP mapping so we had had an appendix I would have a section in the main document that defines that mapping and we discussed about one point here because there is a little bit of a change from 1875 8075 assumed that the fact that coop response codes and and HTTP response codes are similar but not entirely alike isn\u0027t really a big problem because it can be mapped best effort and we usually come out right now "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:22:12",
    "text": "that\u0027s great until you add security because for security you have to make sure that you get exactly the right way you add otherwise you can\u0027t verify it so the situation has changed a little bit and the solution that Appendix A provides is adding in an HTTP header field this would say had a field not worried about that called something like quiet code which transports the the coop code through HTTP segments on the way the requested responds go and to it so this is not really an s-curve thing I mean other uses of HTTP co-op cross boxes could use this so looks like the best way to handle this is to just make this a very short separate draft that defines that head of here we had a lovely lunch between the HTV with chairs and and the contrast yesterday so we have agreed that we want to really make sure we solve problems like this together so this would be a shorter human we can give them and say this is what we we try to do are there any problems for that so this is the proposal how to handle any cons on that coordination where they should feed this is good separate document much better than putting into the same want I agree potential comments take into account that other document is in the case where it is so exactly the same meaning other than the other than the period that\u0027s in there and that was 201 goes to and maybe it\u0027s only necessary to put it in there when it\u0027s not sort of exactly equal to the same code number practice so that means you wouldn\u0027t need it in most cases needed you know protection only the special cases you\u0027re alluding to so that\u0027s something to take into account when writing that document to say you wouldn\u0027t necessarily expect this to be in every single packet but it might be in a couple yell error cases and so on they\u0027ll be necessary so so we would exactly define the cases in which the way you can be in front yeah register you can compress it out of the HTTP case because you don\u0027t actually need it yeah very good cool okay with that we are done with this point and we actually did manage to and five minutes early so we have a lot okay thank you so I\u0027m very impressed because we talked about this this morning and I am in coral just right now to just explain you a problem we are feature we have with LP one radio so we have devices that can sleep for example one hour send a message sleep again if I can sleep one day and then send a message so if we want to secure the transmission with acknowledgement then we we have longer "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:25:15",
    "text": "time that what has been defined in in in coop right now for the server the server has to maintain them to a list of message ID for a certain period of time so here we may have a big diversity of client sometimes that can be very reactive and client that can sleep a lot of time so we have we have to say to the server keep this number longer than the usual things so that\u0027s why we propose to add to add an option in coop but say for example a time squirrel on this time Chris quell Sabre this clients sleep all the time for one day uncle receive only an acknowledgment after this this day so I don\u0027t know if I was very clear but in fact it\u0027s to maintain the message-id for a long period of time into the server because the retransmission might only come after an hour yes as because device weapon so Tim Carini okay so the inference here is and as a server right you\u0027re asking me to keep it right is that on a per client basis I have to keep some state information about the client while we\u0027re talking usually yes that\u0027s that\u0027s the case right now but you keep it for five minutes and if you keep and if you lose this state after five minute and you\u0027ll get to retransmission then you will process again the packet and that\u0027s that\u0027s the permit and you want me to just sort of hold off for an hour until you wake back up there\u0027s a client right so that can get pretty complex when you\u0027re talking about multiple networks and stuff like that so we just got to be careful is I think it\u0027s more than just a timer right because how I communicate with that that client can be across different networks right but we\u0027re talking about the end client point that\u0027s that\u0027s sleeping and we\u0027re not talking about how I can progress through a network I\u0027m just sorting I\u0027m sorry I\u0027m just sorting through it right so so it\u0027s probably it\u0027s probably just a single set of things that you have to know in order to talk to that thing but you still got what do you do with the the information you want to give right that\u0027s the thing that you\u0027ve got a queue all that stuff up and keep it that could be a bit problematic when you start talking about you know what\u0027s fresh what\u0027s stale some to consider yeah so it\u0027s clear that this is a requires a little bit of thinking those who have been here for a long time we remember an option called patience that we discussed here and then at some point decided we did need it and this may be "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:28:15",
    "text": "resurrecting the patience option so maybe you want to look for an old draft card Corp misc that we find that patient option but yes there are lots of considerations that have to be made when you start walking the timescales in an implementation and I will probably have to go through this as a co working group and and see where do we see the the leverage for this option and we are where maybe nothing changes so this is mostly a heads up for that work needing to be done [Music] yeah Eric Nam right so the example he gave its honor like there\u0027s only one message or two the number of message whatever IDs you have to track is one per client but is there does this come with a limit on that as well so that you don\u0027t have to store you know a thousand of these things because someone said it 24 hours but we\u0027re sending a lot more all right if you can limit that it might be a loss of a name is our yeah yeah yeah generally we try to avoid giving someone a it\u0027s a handle on the amount of resources that that I need to keep up so that is certainly a consideration on the other hand a note that is prepared to talk to to and believe it Network know that that has to take some some special measures so gube would be interested to work with lava on defining this option I\u0027m seeing okay yeah Alex any any other collab experts that step in Mattias is only slightly shaking his head so at least we will implicate Mattias okay thank you we just reached the end of the meeting thank you all see you all in Singapore yeah it\u0027s not [Music] "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:31:25",
    "text": "[Music] [Music] [Music] "
  }
]