[
  {
    "startTime": "00:00:04",
    "text": "and we have a couple people that want to go early because of time commitments so Karen are you around yep right there we\u0027ll start off with you and please remember were no more than three minutes if you can finish in less than three minutes that\u0027s fantastic when you\u0027re judging keep in mind whether people stayed within three minutes or not and that they didn\u0027t okay I promised in 30 seconds I don\u0027t know if I can make that but they\u0027ll be pretty gun close this is the network time security team we can those of you been around the IHF awhile we\u0027ve been working on network time security for a while our plan specifically was to improve the status of the implementations and particularly we\u0027re looking for a current draft - 12 we have a draft - Snorri in - yes which we were also looking at which is provide providing some suggested changes and we were looking at some interoperability we had sort of a we did a really good job of remote this time actually we had a we had G mem which was Martin and his implementation in Germany we had Daniel\u0027s Python implementation which was here we had a team in Sweden that was working on an implementation that\u0027s in hardware and then we had some folks from the network time foundation here and then finally we had a gentleman who showed up and wanted to work on the open ntpd implementation which was very exciting so on the left is the various team members that we had and on the right is their various pieces both the documents that we were looking at and also some of it code that was used um these are our three teams and the pieces that we had scattered in various places this is basically what we got done so you see the draft that it currently is referencing the language that we were used and some of the notes associated with it and finally this is a chart of what you know basically kind of what we learned and so across the top or some of the server implementations that we have down the bottom is the down the access the vertical access are the clients these are some of the pieces that worked and didn\u0027t work the bottom line is that interoperability tests are really important I guess we all know that the NOC is very helpful we actually turned into the problem child for the NOC yesterday which is generally not my objective and that wire shock really helps so that\u0027s about it it\u0027s network time security I know it\u0027s not the newest and greatest but it is really important we would love to have some additional help in the future [Applause] "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:03:07",
    "text": "okay thank you very much Mahesh weep you\u0027re here to talk to us about nothing yeah all right so our plan coming into learner tool was to continue the work we had started in 101 in London we worked on align services and so coming into this we our ideas to work on Elance services that met declines in their document 6.2 and 10.3 the challenge for us was to keep the project as simple as possible and focus on the implementation of the service itself and not get bogged down into the network implementation so to do that we essentially took four switches in a switch network we connected them up so that we could realize the land service rather than trying to do this with either an MPLS or anything circle so in trying to implement we got some headway into getting at least the all port baseline service going here this is the EP lancers now with EVP lan we had some challenges and I\u0027ll get into it in a minute the latest set of code that is there will be updated in this particular github location let\u0027s find it together from an architecture perspective it was trying to move from a point-to-point service to a month not a point-to-multipoint service and our decision was to try to replicate that it packets it blows us to the PV node as possible and links of test results in the demo will be posted later so the challenge that I was talking about with configuring a VLAN based plan services about that yang has no way to yang allows you to set a value it doesn\u0027t allow you to set a range of values or a set of values VLANs can be defined in either of one of those formats so we need a way to be able to specify a range or set of values but have to say that from a yang "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:06:07",
    "text": "perspective it\u0027s a nice to have I don\u0027t know how open that idea would be to reduce and you know just for that from programmatically you can always have multiple iterations so here\u0027s a list of team members that worked on it most of the team members for remote this time and the absalom except some pointers to that specifications that we use Thanks so just start going from the top so I to NSF hello this is a team photo from Tulane University the i-20 sf4 framework project if your pieces are tips time and I kept the person project this project is for we want to bec verify the frame over by to NSF and interfaces based on young Jeremy them like this and also this time also this is a student of project seven great student changing band to grad student from Chilton oh yeah and also sleep professors and researchers and Korea and Japan so this is a poster for this as well but this time are we approved three things the first one is a neck comm supported for restoration interface for I to NSF framework based on latest the capability young parameter the second one is I to NSF scripted policy translation so translation is very important because however a policy translated into more about skill follows automatically another one is automatic policy provisioning keepin a low level policy we match into that ability of functions to certify out required the lot about Curie policy so this is a first future racial age interface you can see the holla policy given to skillet controller it request are the higher the NSF and then the development team on the system in in bulk and then registered into "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:09:08",
    "text": "spirit policy and then we can help certify holiday policy using appropriate retrospective our functions so this is a theorem level and also the second one is the security of policy translation so using this box this is a translator so high-level policy is in terms of our audit automatization over user that one is a translated ease of procedure and their low level school policy needs to translate to the righties so whatever policy is given this one is a decomposing into NSF for our by work and the second one is an asset for Victor so we can match our wait a lot ever ask a policy into appropriate to NSF conscience so this is dr. comparation we use the mini nap so in the middle we have we can say security controller for RIT to another framework and that we have se a network and we have a pact with NSF so this part we have a to application what is a malicious our website the filtering the second one is knowledge as the email to trade so we use the open source so we unloaded the frame of source coding book it up so you can access and download our project code and also we uploaded our cancer temptation a video into YouTube you can access and then we can check it out so are we learned during this hackathon we proved the youngbae\u0027s registration interface a working world to provide automatic security our legislation and also the second one is security policy translation very important for I to NSF demo so we prove using our custom project so also we showed a based on pure applesauce we can make iTunes sfm oh thank you for your listening thank you and seekers up max hey how about us other one is a microphone for weight and "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:12:10",
    "text": "today I want to present Jackson projects cast okay our motivation is to pull wide it\u0027s at this new protocol which we defined in the as following links it can works real and it can validate and performance to satisfy that operators requirement it can\u0027t build it separating the MJ\u0027s architectures and we want to of here with the bun to benchmark wanting to want to verify that the king children can communicate to the interpreting students what was its new Kotoko\u0027s another a is one who verifies as some new some basic functions that sequential playing concentran atomizer centralized management discipline sauce and a decant dynamic is an IP address field to the user penguin a new user dyad after two days had walked away have got some good leads out and our remote team helped us to set her arraignment of the separate PNG and the way hackathons experiment with gather food feedback and the way have got to benchmark as described a group here as following this resident that most porridge II and right here is and basic configuration and the session information and also way is a test her to simulated the user data and it\u0027ll show here it can look real to lose it that the wheel and this centralized future pink and distributed user user so it is what we land satisfied and the perfect at the nuclear codes worked feel and we believe eight maybe ten Dreiser operators with Carmen and immediate need need to send Rodrik okay here and once you send our team we have very large and emergency teams who are hard work and very I\u0027m killed some Bella building in Hilton contributions and especially I want to sensory the remote participation team who help us to assimilate eight who have a set has a very very rare mention and also I want to mention here is that intranet violate not the still online just photons support us even Zell today\u0027s workout the finals but they don\u0027t heed us don\u0027t see it magic say condoms photos as I\u0027d like to sense it were much okay I also I want "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:15:11",
    "text": "to remember that if we will show our demo in tomorrow Jackson happy hour and if you have interested in this topic please to join us thank you great thank you for the presentation and thanks for the reminder about yeah the happy hour thing tomorrow anyone can participate that you do have to sign up there\u0027s the link on the wiki so you can sign up make sure you do that before noon tomorrow if you want to purchase it ok lurk hi my name is Sanjay and I will be talking about the earth project which we started at the last IETF hackathon in London so just wanted to give an update from where we were to where we are today just to recap what lark is trying to do is to address two key areas one is basically protecting the security credentials of the security service and how by isolating the operations that are associated with the credentials by breaking down to specific cryptographic services now in terms of where we can apply Laura be looking to apply this into a specifically scenario where we can enable the delegation of video sessions such that a commercial CDN can delegate the content to the last mile such as the ISPs that may be hosting caches where they can download at the same time securely without sharing the private keys and these are the relevant RFC\u0027s that are that we are working on now in this ITF hackathon what did we achieve so we have two running implementations insular and pilar we\u0027ve also realized that we want to go through the formal verification of that protocol so we\u0027re doing that also the link to the github on different key servers in the pilot in the sealer implementation what else we did we also were able to do this a CDHP implement implementation in dialogue and also some updates to the draft such as disabling the non secure configurations what else what did we learn here one of the key things that we\u0027re looking to do is to be able to integrate with the nginx OpenSSL and "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:18:11",
    "text": "also look looking for the trusted environment as well implementation there we also look to implement work extensions for TLS 1.2 full implementation and also future plans include for us in the next hackathon we\u0027re looking to do formal verification for the TLS for the extension for the extension concealer TLS 1.3 these are the members that have contributed to the project and also little flow through a diagram step diagram and also the use case that you can look at thank you [Laughter] that\u0027s next so about so wrecked finding some color so what would you do we did something called drift which was the first time we had actually hecatomb is relatively new things would work much better than expected we go much harder actually who was here about five people were hacking code we know the three radical probably the most a couple of people have challenges no cookies in the company and so what is rift so rift is a new specialized routing protocol just for IP fabrics especially data centers it\u0027s a mixture of links that in distance vector protocol if it means anything it\u0027s a fairly novel it\u0027s completely schema based which is kind of you know radical purakh in protocol in idea what did we try to intend to build in this hackathon we try to get the Python implementation the first piece which is basically adjacency formation which is quite complicated in Python to interoperate with something which is already available from a vendor though basically two packages packages having run into no an interoperable test and bring up in adjacency ah and then see where we can get further so this is basically the output of the adjacency we got up from the Python site and the interesting things went to three-way which means when tore the whole finite set machine and exchanged lot of information and and you know arrived where we wanted it to be and there\u0027s a lot of gory details involved like all kind of multicast "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:21:11",
    "text": "director addresses in VC physics multicast you know all kind of ports means exchange and so on so yeah we have two suggestion to within three hours one because you know Brune already need a good amount of work upfront a second because we found that all this schema based modeling is actually saving like 80 percent protocol work that is being done normally like know writing parsers and all kind of quirky code which is all hand woven and the only problem we really found so the specs seems to have held up pretty well the only problem found that we were joining multicast basically on different interfaces no on the laptop so we didn\u0027t see each other at the moment we joined the same interface and stuff just came up so we ran out of scope of three hours so then we attack the next finite state machine which is far more complicated and it\u0027s basically the finite state machine which allows a complete zero touch provisioning so this IP fabrics of this specific property that it is highly desirable that there\u0027s simply no configuration whatsoever maybe have to be there albeit there are proper doing proper IP forwarding to be there behaving like switches so you do know before our v6 and all the stuff is included and they have to exchange a lot of information to find where are they are to follow G wise in the fabric and there we basically wrote a lot of code being not too distracted by you know the ongoing soccer game I think that completely killed our productivity for a while and we ended up you know with very serious amount of comments on the models you know certain quirks where the model wasn\u0027t completely orthogonal where it wasn\u0027t clearly specified some finance and machine bands being better no specified rough procedures I mean the spec is like 70 pages and growing it\u0027s a food routing protocols it\u0027s quite quite a sizable thing yes actually we got much more out of the circuit on that we did we expected you know yeah and about spin okay so this is presentation of the spin so for those who don\u0027t know there\u0027s been bit it\u0027s a post mechanism that will allow passive observer to do measurements of round-trip time of quick clothes by observing in the middle using a single paper for me so yep the "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:24:15",
    "text": "relevant drafts are basically all quick drafts so what we\u0027ve been focusing on in this hackathon is if we can use heuristics to get more robust measurements using this single bit only because we have observed problems when there is a lot of packet loss and reordering so we\u0027ll see can we can we make this middle box that observes this little bit more robust make the code more viable so what got done was that we took a crappy mailbox that we had started implementing last time and included so we could handle multiple parallel connections we couldn\u0027t we implemented new heuristics to reject bad art these samples and we also improved our met measurement system so we couldn\u0027t include a sequence of Nathan links where we could apply different impairments and different latencies especially looking at delay and reordering so we could try a lot of different conditions so we learn a couple of interesting things here that the network impairments have totally different effects on the sort of quality of spinet measurements depending on where on the path they occur so if if impairments occur below the point of measurement then they have virtually no effect on the how well they spin bit works if they\u0027re above the aspect is been bitten there\u0027s where we need to apply our heuristics we also looked at the effect of the the sample frequency comparing the this spin bit sample frequency which is just one spur RTT with with the sample frequency that the server has which is basically for every AK we could see that it had basically no effect on on the estimate the arti it\u0027s just some little result we got here is this is an example of the results we got this is measuring a 5 percent reordering happening above the spin bit it\u0027s been that measurement point we track here there are TT as observed by the spin bit of server and the server at full frequency where the RTT is collected for every AK and the server collecting the RTT measurements at the same frequency as the spin bit and we see that the the spin measurements here track track the track the RTT very well so we\u0027re really happy with these results so yeah we learned that the spin bit box going back to get some late additions here so wishy we have folks from that team here okay great "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:27:38",
    "text": "hi so in case you don\u0027t know what which is about this is about light pipes and we are trying to work on IOT semantics hypermedia interoperability and what that means is we have done a lot of work in the last decade creating an IETF stack and that is being used by a lot of people now this is used by a lot of people now and they all have added their own application layer to it and now we have the next level of interval a problem so how do we build a global IOT out of all these parts and there are already several stos out there that have found out that maybe they want to be the glue that binds all the other stos together and so we decided we are going to be the solvent the sooner that goes into all that group so this is essentially what we are trying to do so there are lots of existing data models like lightweight m2m and so and ocf and so on and there are also Semantic Web technologies that actually turn out to be useful this time and so we don\u0027t have several forms of self description once defined here in the ITF like RFC 66 90 or the thing description that is being done by w3c where are things and we have various forms of directories where self description information can be stalled and by now we actually have lots of code but the point is we need to get all this come together and so what we did this time was lots of infrastructure work so one of us closed about 40 issues in the node watch implementation will fix the resource directory we integrated with IKEA lights and made finger aqueous accessible on the cloud did lightweight m2 finca scription generators what\u0027s variant it\u0027s on these are all it\u0027s all a bit super if you are not familiar with the technology so I\u0027m not going to read all of that so in the end what we learned is one and a half days is too short to send all that glue so we probably will do more echelons in online form since we\u0027re at the application layer we can easily do that on the other hand lots of things are now coming together so when when every one of these lights goes on in our table usually you have about five different stos working together to make that happen this is now happening and starting to work on the "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:30:40",
    "text": "other hand we also identified you given that we are research group we have happy to have identified a number of research topics that will need work to get a more comprehensive solution if you are interested in that you can come to the themes of the research group meeting on first thank you okay you and the next up should be yep are you there all right who here loves video conferences whoa who here hates surveillance yeah so we can almost give you one of those without the other all right we have extreme privacy in this presentation yeah well what\u0027s fine on the screen let\u0027s see if we dislike it so it doesn\u0027t like done improvised like this so you may or may not know whenever you make a video call voice video call through blue jeans or WebEx or jitsi or whatever the conference exists music conferencing provider can see everything you\u0027re doing and deliver it\u0027s whatever intelligence service it\u0027s collaborating with data services its selling off your metadata - and all that stuff not very private at all so we\u0027ve had this working group called perk to add some privacy to that so you can have these conferences without the conferencing provider being able to see all that stuff and so the idea of our hackathon group today was to take some of the drafts that came out of that group if these three were listed here and hack them into a bunch of open-source product so live SRTP is very widely used for protecting real-time media and SS is a library it\u0027s used for DTLS and a bunch of key management stuff Firefox I assume you\u0027ve all heard of and then we hacked up a media distributor and a key distributor interest and the infrastructure bits one and go and one in C++ graphing and SS so the short answer for what we accomplished here is we made this like whole crazy key dance work this actually does tell the story of Park if you sit and stare at it for a while and you\u0027re not colorblind sorry about that inclusion point of view but basically there\u0027s this whole dance that you go through involving DTLS and SRTP and some extensions to those "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:33:40",
    "text": "and passing a bunch of keys and parts of keys around and encrypting things and decrypting things that allow the media distributor this conferencing server to do the little bit of modification it needs to do without also getting to see the contents of the packets the up show that is you know you get the the conferencing experience you\u0027re used to without the need for the conferencing server to see they see the media so you can be the actual audio and video exchanging so we got most of this done we I think have audio working we have you can do audio conferences through this now with full privacy there\u0027s just something in the operating system it\u0027s fragmenting your video packets of positivity so video is not quite working but work we got kind of you know audio working and it proved out this this new architecture lessons learned were pretty much things work as specified we\u0027ve done a bunch of clarifications as you as you can might gather from that previous slide there\u0027s a bunch of complicated slicing and dicing in this key and this have to keep that happy as long as you keep all those balls in the air and you have them in the right place at the right time works fine but we need to clarify these guys how did you all that I\u0027ve done a couple minor bugs about which happy news where and this is all thanks to it\u0027s a team between Cisco and Missoula folks bunch of people contributing different expertise this crypto folks media folks that need all come together and let\u0027s see where were we so maybe a DNS I don\u0027t know if we have more than one but this DNS yes oops thank you okay thank you so as usual we have quite a few projects on the go simultaneously in the DNS team they fell into two real types of categories one where we were trying to look at real operational issues that are happening the DNS and some newer work based around Dennis privacy so one of the projects that we had quite a large team on was a multi provider Dana spec project so today you can do multi provide the DNS which is great for defending it against DDoS attacks or you can do dinner sack which is great for integrity of your data but you cannot do today operational readiness is both together so there\u0027s a draft that proposes how you can do this and the idea behind the draft is that each of the vendors independently sign the zone there are two models proposed "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:36:40",
    "text": "and they differ in the way that they manage the keys the work that was done here this weekend was that both of those models were deployed and validated interesting the first thing that popped up is that some of the diagnostic tools couldn\u0027t handle this because it just went expecting these configurations we had though they did develop a minimal API so the two vendors can synchronize a zone the keys that I come between each other and some brand new tools to develop so it could check the consistency of the zones that are signed by the separate vendors it really nice piece of work one of the other big operational issues we have in the dynast at the moment is the fact that there is no standard way to have a cname from parent or the apex per zone I\u0027ve been having a huge fun fighting against opt lists about how we solve this properly you really need a base so Andre Suri has a draft that he\u0027s proposing a part of what we did is to actually test and what happens today when you put a cname and Adi name close at the parent and at the apex and what you basically found is you put it at parent it mostly works you put it at the apex it mostly breaks so here\u0027s Cole I said the information of all the possible issues that you see in both of these cases and this is going to be really valuable information to be directly back into dearness off to figure out throughout how we move forward with a solution to this problem one of the other projects I\u0027ve got worked on is oblivious DNS if you haven\u0027t come across this it\u0027s a privacy technique that changes the communication path between a stub client and the recursive resolver by inserting an oblivious tin a stub in between them the idea here is that by inserting syrup neither the stub nor the recursive can see both the client IP address and the content of the query so no one entity can correlate the two and there was a draft an existing go line prototype what happened here was that an en I\u0027ll let lab folk started working on porting that into CE and the first things that came out of that was a huge amount of feedback to the authors of the draft into how they could change how they\u0027re doing it in DNS all the better to make it work better the protocol and also the implementers were very impressed with the crypto that was defined in the paper so this was a really really nice collaboration between the academic authors of the draft and the implementers who actually want to get this out there well small piece of work was looking at doe myself with reviews from a whole bunch of people too many to put on here I started looking at trying to defined and I\u0027m an anonymity profile to use with those so that clients who want to use that can look very standard not stand out and to help us understand whether this will work or not we developed a a very lightweight proxy that you can point a doe client at and I\u0027ll expose the headers that are being sent out on top of the dough requests and blast side is that it\u0027s also a piece of work to take a rather old patch and pull it to the latest version of NSD and this therefore puts the capability to be DNS ever tear less into an authoritative server and this "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:39:43",
    "text": "worked it got tested we\u0027ve got some performance numbers it no real surprises is just it just seems to work and lastly there was also work on implementing a a draft to which it\u0027s based around zone digests for integrity we had a bunch of people and kept tunic we\u0027ve also gotten to them next ah yes and I all right hello everyone so for those of you who may or may not know sni privacy problem isn\u0027t something a flake tales for a very long time now we always just send this particular piece of information in the clear basically revealing to the entire world where we\u0027re going and so we\u0027ve wanted for a very long time to encrypt this and so this particular idea for a draft and set up to actually do so the approach is pretty simple just shove some keys or some key charity feeling key shares and TNS fetch them privately over dough mix them with your client hello key share and use that to drive through keys to encrypt yes and I am and send that knew an extension to the server and so our plan was to simply implement that and test and make sure that it worked this was along with some various other people fastly CloudFlare Mozilla and Apple and various TS libraries particularly Pico to us and SS and Bourne SSL and the results were pretty good we got complete interrupt between all supporting clients and servers there are two servers they have up right now that support this that have you know fixed records containing these sni keys we managed to get into Firefox so you know ain\u0027t branch somewhere in Firefox you can actually go through this particularly domains and connect with us and I ain\u0027t getting served the right certificate and we\u0027re working on finishing up experimentation good Safari as well okay DNS St "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:42:55",
    "text": "we did some work this weekend on dinner service discovery probably half the people in this room have heard of DNS service discovery and you think you may think that\u0027s the thing too is multicast DNS that\u0027s link-local multicast and that\u0027s part of what it does now for a long time it\u0027s also run over unicast and in fact that\u0027s what we\u0027re doing here at the ITF if you tap the AirPrint button on your iPhone or your iPad you to the terminal room for into show up that is doing a serve discovery but you\u0027re not in the terminal room that\u0027s the other side of the building up a couple of floors so that works but it requires the experienced ITF network operators to know the right records to put in the DNS server to configure that manually so the DNS SD working group has been working on automating that process this is important these days because there are wireless mesh networks where multicast is not very efficient Enterprise Wi-Fi networks frequently disable multicast for the same reason that multicast is very wasteful on Wi-Fi and home networks getting more complicated so it\u0027s becoming more common to have more than a single network segment in the home now these the documents were looking at 67-63 is the base service discovery specification that defines how to client does the queries are beginning after DNS what we\u0027re adding is automating populating the namespace Ted Landman has been working on a relay which is analogous to a dhcp bootp relay at home you may have DHCP server on the network but in an enterprise it\u0027s common to have the DHCP server in the data center and lots of little bootp relay Agron\u0027s scattered around all the links in that enterprise so taking that inspiration ted has been working on a similar thing for service discovery where you can have a discovery proxy in the data center and it in effect has remote virtual interfaces on various links around the organization and I Ted now how\u0027s that running on open wrt and some raspberry pie boxes he has it running on one of his boxes at home so even though he is a long way from home his Mac can still see his upstairs Canon printer even though it\u0027s not remotely connected to his home network Pompeu cetera has been working on the discovery proxy and that this weekend at the hackathon he was working on adding the new Service registration protocol which is how instead of passively observing services or networked to the using multicast services can actively register with the directory and we had a new person joining us this time Tim Wattenberg and he implemented the client "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:45:58",
    "text": "side of the service recreation protocol which airs derived from the DNS update protocol so this is not a greenfield development he implemented that in Python tested that against bind 9 with DNS update enabled and his code is now in github little screenshot there is showing I was looking on my web browser this was in fact a remote screen sharing connection to my house in Santa Cruz in California you may be able to see there I\u0027ve got four of my access network security cameras are showing up when Tim used the registration protocol to advertise another web service that fifth one appeared on the list at my house in California so that\u0027s what we\u0027ve been doing this weekend these are the people who are working on it and it is Tim\u0027s second time with night yet meeting and first time they\u0027ve had thank much for that next up I believe this geeks I\u0027m right yes hello my name is Vivek I am tell me about the work we did in the ACE product so ace is for authentication and authorization constrained environments so what we are trying to do in the working group is define profile of all that is usable on devices and networks that have real resource constraints and we\u0027re now at the stage where we can try and have codes talk to each other and that\u0027s what we basically plan to do so we had different implementations of these two drafts and we wanted to get them to talk to each other we had a interrupt test specification which I wrote and thought was really really really really detailed turns out you can never be detailed enough it\u0027s like you can always get the key identifier wrong or whatever else you can find to shoot yourself in the foot I\u0027m going to get that that\u0027s what we did was we got our implementations talk to each other you can see various repositories from our implementations that we have in place actually all the SDI ones are the same implementation but they split it up in different registers for different functions so in the course of the interrupt we did a number of "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:49:00",
    "text": "updates to discipline tations because we discovered a lot of problems in the code luckily we didn\u0027t discover new problems in the protocols so looking good we had some questions though mainly about key identifier and how they are supposed to be handled what we learned is yeah we can get the basic protocol interactions to work you can get the different implementations to talk to each other on unconstraint devices dan here is still battling with the constraint implementation which is magnitude more difficult to get running so we were all not envying him for that task but he\u0027s getting forward so we hoping to be able to get the same protocol running on the constraint device soon as well and another thing we learned in general actually is it would be nice if someone or a ITF or whoever with gather material on how you do a successful interim and perhaps have like a document with recommendations or tools or a template like this is how you you do a good interrupt specification like how you specify different test cases and this is typical errors people make so if anyone feels like the need to do an extra good thing for ITF I think starting this kind of work would be immensely helpful for future hackathons and people trying to do interrupt some new protocol drafts so team members we had Jim shot this lewis sebastian and sherea and unclimbed in I hope I\u0027m not mangling your names too much I should have asked before and myself Jim and I we have been at several IDF\u0027s this is my second well one and a half hackathon grace as a person and Dan are visiting the first hackathon ever and passing and I\u0027m obviously the first idea welcome thank you for joining us okay don\u0027t be wham coming up and we\u0027ll go back and get the J map one next "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:52:25",
    "text": "good afternoon so this is about chic the static context header compression for LP one this is I think the third time for the hackathon on this topic so our goals where our in general to provide an open source implementation of sheet and the draft is listed here and right now the the draft is in version - 16 some changes have been made recently the draft is entering its second working group task oh and so our goal was to advance the state of the code to reflect that - the 16 version so mostly by reading sharing our understanding of the draft the last changes and coding making sure the code reflects at last version so what got done we had actually two newcomers at our table at this time so we educating them on what chic was about and little devices were interested in the constrains and the cost of transmitting which Yvette\u0027s goes to the prospect of computing and in turn and return to provided us with a fresh read and fresh video of the draft which is always welcome because we get so much used for reading our own glass so this resulted in the battle doesn\u0027t notes on improving the draft was the editorial stuffs that we left from previous versions that were inconsistent but also one which was actually functional and something we forgot to specify also we have dated a few contributors on the recent advances of the draft because then followed they all the details of the discussions so we updated the Sheik has two parts one is a compression the compression one is augmentation recently so we take the fragmentation code as a retro and hit her and also we take it the compression part and especially in completely network side which one is between end device implement improves the net website - in communication what we had learned last time at the 101 with that it takes a long time to get all these little devices and the nor one network working in this room and we can easily waste a full day having ever to be working with lovely devices so we knew that so and now we decided to have three versions - three targets one being a full Python free implementation which means my computer server side one is the pie "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:55:26",
    "text": "crumbs microfiber implementation and one in between which eases the transition between the two is the Linux based thought of microfiber which allows anybody in the world with a computer get acquainted with microfiber which we didn\u0027t have before so as a wrapper we had six people locally around the table contributing one remotely in Japan with 11 hours time difference so stay awake until 4:00 a.m. local time to group and to among those were newcomers to the ITF end and so we got the code advanced but that is the finish that will probably carry on working this week thank you okay we\u0027re gonna go back and get the the J map one and when you got the one slide here we were a group of people kind of all working on our ending the Gemma project is a replacement protocol for IMAP and for email and so we have a category that we\u0027re working on a client and PHP for PHP web mail systems we had a group working on the gemma Chester which the tests wait for server implementations I was working on the Gemma pearl proxy which proxies from Joe map - I\u0027m at Kelvin I\u0027ve have servers so that you can run your existing servers then from Jim up on top of it and we also did some work on the terrace IMAP server and found some inconsistencies in the spec which we have pushed some change requests back for we\u0027re meeting tomorrow afternoon if you want to come along and find out about it and we\u0027ll all right very efficient presentation okay so next MLS "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:58:35",
    "text": "hi everyone so message layer security is a new working group with the ITF about essentially secure group key exchange for asynchronous messaging these drafts are very early on disclaimer for the whole rest of the presentation here so we wanted to basically get a common understanding of what these drafts in the body there\u0027s two different key exchange mechanisms one music diffie-hellman one using a public key mechanism and we just wanted to figure out can we compute the same trees can we compute the same stuff the effect my group is back there still hacking away and they just achieved a couple common views of of the same thing as using a bunch of different implementations we have some new implementations everyone is sort of comfortable using different things and they sort of want to use these in different applications down the line so there\u0027s a C implementation there\u0027s a J\u0027s node one there\u0027s a most of these people ported Richard Barnes\u0027s code code to whatever they wanted John didn\u0027t because what got done a whole lot of just whiteboarding and just trying to figure out if we all have this common understanding of what the heck this stuff is and how it works there are two sets of code here that are achieving some notion of a common view of the tree there\u0027s a couple of trivial pull requests to MLS drafts we have live what do we learn and it\u0027s hard to describe we kind of better understand this stuff the drafts are in the early state or in a better state to contribute to this kind of conversation actually can you prove some of this code I do think we I\u0027m not sure how to work this I\u0027m not an expert in this stuff it sounds like we found a some sort of sharing of the super key that shouldn\u0027t happen I think we\u0027ve modified that by adding a nonce or something somewhere anyway so very early stuff come talk to us you\u0027ve been working on this stuff I know there\u0027s a lot of draft here\u0027s the folks that were involved one new ITF hackathon attending Vicky right it\u0027s great to see the code coming in very early in the process all right "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:01:36",
    "text": "so hello we\u0027ve been working on the coming project for which is you know the lingual yang for constrained devices for for this hackathon and so yeah just a position where we are well it is an addition to the to the yang family so we have that count and unrest conf and come on you can say that it is a set of technologies so there is a way so bringing the idiot the aim to ecosystem to constraint devices so we have a technology to turn app coming to Seaborn so efficient a payload representation and then we have how to use actually how do we have the bindings to a co-op to the co-op protocol and something that we can call like a compressed IDs but they\u0027re not really compressed its structured identifiers so like your numbers so that we can we are actually able to send these identifiers so very very very constrained links so that\u0027s on what we have been working on what exists well we have couple of drafts that are working with items and that have been stable for some time now we have running example registry for these numbers that is out there so you can go and you can play with your own yang modules if you wish and there has been an implementation so I\u0027m saying example of implementation but it\u0027s released full implementation of the content server over the F interrupt platform so in case you would like to do interrupt testing we would strongly advise you to actually approach the F interrupt guys it\u0027s really something very very interesting very powerful that allows you to learn all kind of interpretive interoperability tests so this is the existing and what we wanted to achieve during this hackathon is actually to provide some open source code and we wanted to help people bootstrap their implementations so provide examples of how to actually interact with with the F interrupt implementation that is out there and we wanted also to to start the implementation for who python-based open-source combine clients and you know in the future come my server so the plan that we had is well first of all getting started with we type interrupt you know describe how actually you run on that interrupt session how we actually run an app into our obsession with comma and the basic the baseline of interactions with with with these implementations so anyone can actually say okay well I\u0027m interested in in Python implementation or a C or C++ or other well I can do this to validate actually that it\u0027s actually working and then move on to automatic automated code generation based on YT k so ydk is hearing augment kit so it\u0027s basically a "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:04:37",
    "text": "way for people to develop their applications based on Ian it\u0027s open source so what got done well we developed base examples on various operating systems Linux and Mac and particularly part about this one back to this one foundation and we actually clarify to read this helped us also dive into the how do you develop a car my client and server by the way so basically it boils down to developing independently the yang to see formatting and the coop bindings which is actually pretty great thing because this is this allows you to split your work and you know there are no big they are not interdependent specifics and that\u0027s actually a process that is compatible with commercial and even open source net compress converse servers and clients so you can get your existing net compress con server and you can add come out pretty easily and we actually identified also the steps necessary to do this and we started our ydk based common limitation what we\u0027ve learned is that it is not really the big leader waiting to to have over sport events of course the the normal difficulties when you mix up Python with different versions with Mac with a 36 and we chose library several times where a very good pointer is to virtualize your hackathon environment if you can use docker or stuff like this and also why the case user-friendly for the users but you know for people that try to extend it a little bit less so and I\u0027d like to thank our participants so this is our first hackathon actually that we started but we had a person that was a remote participant who had a first-timer and we had also a cross participation with the Quarian group so that we really had very good discussions about this and you have the docs that are on the ether pad and you have some code on github Thanks hi hello everyone Kahneman JISC accommodations yeah okay talk about the update of thousands of adoptability 50 he\u0027s a hawk complan thought it the details of a great "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:07:38",
    "text": "shooting it is for a standardization of shooting for DDoS protection actually are we attending the pakistan from IETF 99 our concept TV dinner at a time there was only one implementation but this time now we have mainly to implementation and then we did first the channel interrupted phenomena so what was on TV there are a lot to implementations vaneeta code switches are always running on AWS from my side then on the other side from implementation from in secret which is running on the production anti-ddos box then our adult gray on top of each other talk over this you know channel on the italian affected data channel if the first time interoperability easting each other then on the each other we do the help helping function to the DDoS mitigation like iteration of gaia of dry anthony shield and also capability is cover your company then are either interrupt result you may see that green cells are company\u0027s accomplishment in the IETF 101 and blues has accomplished complete accomplishment in the i\u0027ii taik to them you may see that the test space is enhanced significantly and others did date each other it\u0027s a saucepan but the lowest idea is the testing over the data each other and all of this was successful and found issues we will report you to the working group and also we did the soon interrupts with the latest draft of Junichiro draft they\u0027re not here to take away the cost education of dots is now major enough so we did a successful internal testing in several issues fun but that is not so significant on total will be reported to the party group so a documentation of a needs Oasis and one is proprietary and also more implementations are welcome and at the reference implementation or it is code is available on github so fitting read and use these horses the profit are John Charles Armitage good at LEDs hackathon remotely from London I\u0027ve updated it on Dottie thank you very much "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:11:05",
    "text": "doesn\u0027t so we worked on firmware updates for IOT devices as a continuation of the hackathon we did in London and we also had one in Berlin roughly one and a half months ago this time one of my co-workers worked on a hardware dedicated for our interoperability and hackathons which you can see on the left hand side the mighty microcontroller board with separate flash and secure element and we try to get this the code working on this new board the goal was to generate this manifest which is the metadata for the firmware cluster security wrapper encoded in Seaborg sign it with cosy and then verify it on the IOT device and so for the generation we use Python but of course on the IOT device we used on this board we used C this is our group actually over there we had a couple of people who were the first time participants of the of the suit hackathon we also had first-timers in the ITF in red and and for this me and pay me what did we do since we had a couple of new folks working on this topic we spent some time on setting up the development environment for this for the board getting distributing the ports and getting getting everything working we use to embed OS as a operating system for the for the device we successfully generated the manifest encoded it sine-theta turned it all the keying stuff and also wrote the parser for the verification of it under on the device we also produced a detailed write-up like last time so we can actually memorize things till the next event and which can be found here on this link a couple of items we learned during the activities we managed to break a couple of the boards that\u0027s obviously we need to work on that we also would be nicer to have a way to set up everything in a in a much faster way for first-timers because there are lots of tools involved in in the imperative development in setting those up appropriately for different operating systems it\u0027s a hassle using IDs for debugging specifically if it\u0027s more complicated crypto would also be nice but requires some work and in we obviously struggled a little bit with the implementation in this this time with SIBO our last time with cosy so we "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:14:06",
    "text": "managed to deal with that in between the Alana ITF meeting in this meeting but now we are the issues with cozy libraries and there\u0027s also some feedback for that for that for the draft work yeah and finally um getting everything back together in a reasonable size for a boot loader is still going to be a challenge but let\u0027s sort of let the same exercise for for future hackathons and future work and that\u0027s it thank you right now we have remote presentation Colleen from Mauritius are you guys out there can you hear me say something a little job for you yes we hear you it\u0027s a little later than I see that okay I\u0027ll advance the slides for you but yeah we are getting some feedback so I\u0027m up you need that beep away from a mic a little better so hello everybody thanks for the idea 902 hackathon focused on two paths application integration and the other is in probability first can you just move ones like that nice so all that\u0027s that\u0027s forgivable different motions and the application integration that we had work on the implementation of both 28 and upstream open-source projects and vampire in the case of PHP it is not possible to specify in LS 1 and 3 connection and we using the PHP client library so we have to make a PHP trail again with Els one hand free compatible and test it using PHP code itself as regards to the interplay we do there are some challenges to make Els mailboxes more compatible with Railway deployment we have the changes to make sure that all unit tests work accordingly so the application concern a little smoother and slide so we have HP continuously did not have its care functions of all 50 RS 120 so if we invest were sent to PHP which is a 2d measuring work for humans will be percent and happy "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:17:06",
    "text": "to measure we will machine metrics work around it with a website to the microwave enemies so cacnea center developer and it\u0027s where box contactable we still as 1.3 support but we can use eval you may have Magus proteins and we already merge so ever in websites we have been able to accomplish several envelopes tasks we serve all TLS features such as full handshake resumption and zero article there are dysfunctional open SSL growing as a self yella slide - Angie SSL an NFS well is very important as different implementations can interact with each other thanks to well shop which helped us enough so here are our fancy pants this sweats times a half as the time with him or in this move one knows life so we also have our first time that spends in the IDF TLS welcome to happen I remember sweat sweat is actually 15 years old so everywhere and with us wonderfully except the issue and anyhoo made an amazing nothing an HTTP program so I do pictures always use idea family to happen that\u0027s us and they will just when you that\u0027s emotions I use artifacts needs women and the TLS weapon feeder team where NZ and everyone comes in with security Charles and very frustrating the hackathon and we also diversified routed users so thank you everyone and you people over the next item [Applause] hey are there any presentations that I miss anyone without slides that had something to say about their project link right all right so there\u0027s the link again for for voting will give you maybe what time is it now 3:30 so we\u0027ll give you maybe 10 minutes to get your votes in again please don\u0027t vote for your own project out of your peers which other project best accomplished what you think we\u0027re here to accomplish and and I\u0027ll just shut up now for about 10 minutes we\u0027ll let that sink in and get your "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:20:07",
    "text": "votes in you see anything that\u0027s all I\u0027ll leave that up on the screen for those of you who need to get the link just one more reminder of a couple of things we have the the code lounge that will be going on all week Monday through Friday I encourage you to use that space if it\u0027s helpful you don\u0027t have to sign up there is a sign-up sheet signing up is really just to help you coordinate with other people so you can kind of put your name down your project and then everyone knows that you\u0027re planning to be there at specific times now for the happy hour that the hack demo have the hour that you do need to register because we need to know how many people were aren\u0027t going to how many teams are going to be there so we get the right number of tables the right number of signs and all of that so I just see a show of hands how many teams you have one person from your team raise your hand if you\u0027re planning on demoing something tomorrow at the happy hour one two anymore okay three yeah so okay before so yeah again it\u0027s just it\u0027s a way for you to share what you\u0027ve done get some more feedback on what you\u0027ve done share it with more people it would be great to see some of some of these teams you showing other people what you\u0027ve done it\u0027s it\u0027s also a real good way just to get the word out about the hackathon in general and what\u0027s going on here it\u0027s really nice to see so many of you here but there\u0027s obviously a lot more people who maybe have been intimidated or didn\u0027t quite understand the spirit of it and you know showing your project there it\u0027s a good way to get that word out alright so how many of you think the hackathon is really useful I\u0027m fun and accomplishes a lot wow wow how many of you think Charles does a great job running this thanks Charles well thank you thanks very and and thank you to uh to Barry as well for all he does with the hacksaw okay and we look forward to seeing how this experiment if you guys voting goes and we\u0027ll give you a few more minutes to do that "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:31:43",
    "text": "okay we\u0027re ready for results here the the votes have stopped coming in so I think we\u0027re ready to to do results thanks everybody for doing this participating this way I think this was a fun way to do it I like I like the way it\u0027s worked out we have a clear clear sorting out here the number one group is the DNS DNS SEC DNS privacy group that\u0027s got the most votes and tied for second we have perc and suit so you guys come up here and collect your prizes and thanks again for participating Krupa [Applause] "
  }
]