[
  {
    "startTime": "00:00:52",
    "text": "so this is the lp1 interim working group and as usual we leave a little bit of time for the Lagos to to join and effectively we are missing one chair for now talking too fast hello everyone Hello Alex do we have a scribe for today no if we we um yes I'll be going fast crime and I'll do some scribing as well on my site but yes if somebody um can help uh taking minutes you know the"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:02:02",
    "text": "the not taking tools nots.atf.org that we are using please join and um help the Keynotes and The Usual Suspects usually Anna and Dominic help but Dominique won't be with us today or it will be partially with us because he's attending to meetings at the same time so I'll be taking notes and if someone can help please be my guest and help us and then as usual you know you're always welcome to to help as well I'm lazy can you share the link let's go door okay so it's in the minute but I will avoid I try it all right go to find it no um so that's I think it's on the Nestle anyway but I will copy a link effectively anyway on the media code if you talk about the icons on the top right this is the third one starting from the left the one true but if you pick it from there um you you have to share your your screen so there are pros and cons let me just copy the link on the sheet so you can do it that way thank you thank you thank you Pascal and uh today with me uh I have a new itfer Mikhail it's his first ITF meeting so uh he still has not set up his you know uh iqf ID and all that but I'll add him to the uh uh to the blue sheets"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:04:01",
    "text": "as a presenter to the let me okay and I guess so we are going to start when I see it at Dominica has joined so thank you Dominic for being even partially with us um so this is uh Knight Jeff meeting so as you the not well visual apply so if you're aware of any IPR that was not disclosed in in what we'll be discussing today please let us know our refrain from mentioning that IPR and the anti-arrassment and code of conduct best practices also apply as all of the BCPS listed here so if if if you see some bad behavior please contact the chairs and the ombuds team the ombuds team link is given on this page but that's the people who will help you figure out uh what the situation is and if there is effectively an harassment situation that we need to deal with um so this meeting is recorded minutes are taken on notes.itf.org go DMD um the presence is logged automatically by the"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:06:00",
    "text": "the mitigo tool and actually the minutes link is wrong it's online we are meeting online so please use online instead of four seven on the link that you can see here so agenda for today so we'll go through tell this trivia as usual and we will have a little bit on the Reach Out train so asking mostly people to think about what the rich offering items are or could be and and start discussing on the mailing list then lahron will tell us about the the data model reviews so there are a good number of ASG reviews already on the data bundle and Laura has questions to answer so so we will explain that then uh we'll talk about the NBA iot draft and I just submitted a new version and there are comments from Eric and also discussion um about the relationship with 5gl on this well with 3gbp on this draft so whether it's a normative draft or if it's just informational depending on how we deal with 3gbp um then we love the LT1 convergence research work by Sergio Sergio would like to share with us some of his work and and results about converging uh using Shake then we will have a brief status on the sigma draft as you know there is one which is shipped by Anna and one by Alexander so we will basically see where we are with those drafts and uh then if time permits will discuss a little bit more on which offer the hands very slow please uh yes I think we should also talk about the architecture because the graph has expired and we need it the architecture draft has expired I first once some time ago okay let me look at the line but"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:08:03",
    "text": "the the the well a number of recent changes on the architecture where we we hinted how we deal with um the the device versus application side depending on how you you you start the shake of our food so and and I think that was that's pretty recent I mean was is was that already six months okay but what else would you like to discuss about the architecture do we have more topics that you want to fit in oh would you like to to to put new items I think uh one point I identify uh last time during the last ATF meeting is how we will identify the the node I will name it so through an rrier eye or something else so I think it's something important when we want to generalize the Chic model okay so we need to have a slide on the mailing list what what what I do when I did the architecture is I I kind of see a consensus on the mailing list and once we see we seem to agree on something then I write it down um so this was not really discussed on the mailing list yet so please you can drop an email let's read over it and then yes we will update the architecture with it thank you um so the action items that we had we had two actions items uh basically about two drafts so one is the Chicago Fox and the other one is the the compound hack um so Sergio has to publish a new Shakira seek Fox and that was done actually three of them since we took the action item 10 11 and 12. and uh so 12 addresses the ship out"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:10:01",
    "text": "review by Anna um to the top so it's why do I have start working quickly so the what group let's go was done already right or not unconscious now no it was not that and now please go ahead yes uh now we have not done the working group let's go and I think that's one of the things I will add in the presentation of the shepherd is that for me it's already for the last call Okay so we can see that later but we will see it now we can start the last call for this draft uh for six bucks for for my part okay so we will discuss more at the end but at least we have your point that when the draft is ready for work okay and then there was the compound act that was to be a round trip between Dominic and Sergio and that number of front trip I've effectively happened last I saw was Dominic saying if I read you well we are in agreement and I didn't see Sergio saying yes but I expect that that means that you effectively are in the agreement um which means that the ball would be in your in your hands Alexander for the shepherd review and send yes so I started my the of course the I started the review it's not yet complete but I will finalize it by the next intern I will publish it by the next interim which is in two weeks time and I mean it looks good so I I expect no problem no no issues okay so we we know where the ball is and so we're cool um so what group status nothing much so we"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:12:01",
    "text": "yes we are I would say we are a bit late versus the the Chicago Fox but then again we know where we are so we'll have one year off basically and the Milestone about the ping and the way up that one we have not started work so we'll have to Def to decide probably by next iitf or so if we keep this Milestone or if we drop it and then the current work there is only one draft which is pending one personal submission that's the mesh thing the whole that you you discussed last time um the documents that we have are well Advanced so the architecture uh is is not uh obsolete but I mean I'm cool to to update it so I was kind of surprised that you said it was but no because we have a dated it on in June end of June um and that's that's when fetv we discussed this this Prime of with the device side and OSD application side for instance when you start a connection like a PPP connection the starter would be the device by definition something like that when you have a happens box situation like a Bluetooth then the Hub would be the application side we kind of derive it from from the environment unless there is some external signaling um compound act which has disgusted will present to us but basically we we have a review by Eric that's we are in the ad evaluation right now um young data model we are going through the ASG and as you can see there are a number of of reviews and there are there is already one green which is which is good and now we have um to to write including young vectors I"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:14:01",
    "text": "don't know why it's not clear but the law will explain and um then as I said we I would like to discuss with chartering so basically just to to give a hint of where we are we discussed two main subjects one of them is she cover full here and the other one is protocol extension and the one that stands out is SEC so initially it was the next half or next letter uh and then we realized that this doesn't fit in in here but Robert has spotted it and the document is being adopted right now uh so so the next set of value is is not our business but the fact technique as another fragmentation or reliability method would be very interesting for us and probably that one is Within chapter by the way and that's it for this and how do you want to to get the ball and and share your slides let me remember I can also share them okay I do it yes Okay so okay so I I will uh present those uh the review we got from uh isg so next slide so uh"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:16:01",
    "text": "it are almost all the comment has been done and you have a file now in uh repository that tells you the status of all the commands so there is some that are not uh close but most of them are are closed so I send two weeks ago a message on the walking and we're working again and the mailing list to get comments and I don't get any answer so I will want to take the opportunity of this presentation to start discussion on some points that are not for me very easy to solve so just to give you an update so now we have a draft 17 and a new Young data model with the date that is shown on the on the slide so as you say it's not catastrophic we we have a lot of green or almost green and we have only two two red and to discuss so that's what I would like to to do now is to discuss what cannot be solved easily at least for me so the first comment was about giving some example at the end of the document in NX so it's something that is not too difficult to do if I take some data from open cheek for example Eau what I can add to the uh to the document is for example these rules that are represent that kind the three rules we type of rules we have in Chic and in very very small Tire typo here you you have the the"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:18:01",
    "text": "young data model in other data in the young data model in Json so I can add this and maybe do some editing because it's a little bit long but this weight helps developer to to work on the data model so do you agree on this it looks I'm just confused by the but what do you mean by six slash three uh where it's the rule so you have the rule ID 6 and the rule length is three bits okay so in fact in uh open cheek you see you have the rule here and then you have the binary representation on the left hand side which is one one zero and and by the way usually the example in the RAC are done not in Json but in XML just more confusion to it right at least you get thousands of pages for free yeah but I I need to put it in XML or we can keep it in Jesus I don't will object if you do it in Json but if for you we just take half an hour more to to find the right tools I would do it in XML okay because uh in fact XML is uh I think is useless because what we want is to go to the cone for a presentation and the core confermentation is closer to to Jason so I think for a developer it will be more helpful to to see the decent one but I can try to do it in XML"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:20:05",
    "text": "okay so uh V over point though is about sensitive and sensible and so it cost me already a bottle of Susan about about that and it it was not correct in the document but I I did it and now and so we have the for the 2015 we have some comment and now for draft 17 uh uh so there is a question what be the impact of attacker reading the module uh so that's something that for me it's very difficult to to talk about Security in this document because what we are doing right now is just to put what was written in 8724 into a young data model and the security part and how we will access to the rule and all these things are not yet defined and will be defined in the architecture draft so that's something that I think we we don't have to wait for the arcade to architecture drive to to publish the this young data model otherwise we will delay a lot of things so we have to find a nuclear Brahma on that and for me it's not very easy to to do that so if you have some idea to to help me to write some good thing on the security point it would be very useful on this one based on other things there is indeed the Wiki page there right where you can copy and paste the text I don't remember okay you did it"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:22:00",
    "text": "already and there is nothing so okay and there is nothing wrong to write yes if you have read access to the rules and the configuration then you can decode the traffic for instance and so on basically okay the secretary consideration can say if you have access to the channel everything is broken I mean that's not nice but it's good enough to approve the RSC right what Raman wants to say is not a bulletproof claiming yeah we fix all the problem no you need to provide Roman and The Others a list of depending issue and there could be a long list don't need to address them security issue I mean right okay fine so we do it basically so here it's what I say uh and that's why I say that the architecture grasters expired it was a before June uh sorry for for that uh the other thing we we have and that's the same sorry uh but I said don't do it again uh so we the other thing is that we uh we have to talk about uh we expect to follow on Nancy neck M and uh Associated so here for me it's uh almost uh Chinese even if it's if it's young uh and I think we something these things should be uh defined in the architecture document so we have to see uh as you say we can say that there is no access with this document doesn't look that access and"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:24:00",
    "text": "the control of access has to be will be defined in the architecture document and I think on this specific one on the previous slide it's also covered into the template the wiki template right for young models okay so here we have over command that are not so critic uh so yes the first one was to say that we Define a lot of identifier in the young model and it says that you can use a feature to uh to separate to make them not available are useful are to put it in other modules so for me I I don't think it's really an implementation issue because what we will have is just numbers are identifier and if the young mother or the implementation using this young model doesn't recognize any Notifier it will generate an error so it's not because you have things in the young data model that it leads to to have an implementation with uh with it so that's something or so we we have to to discuss so originally we had two files one was with the identifier and the other was with the containers and we we merge them and uh it's difficult then to say which filter will be uh useful or not because our goal also is to if we use all this identifier is 2x augment the the young data model and for example if someone"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:26:01",
    "text": "wants to do mqtt compression then you will write his own things and this is out of horoscope so for me I I would say that we keep it like this so just one question here so the way I understand it is that they uh the reviewer here proposes that we had like a feature IPv6 and then beneath it all the fields I call the the and then feature Co-op and then all the fields and so forth yes but I think it's it becomes very heavy to to have this we have already two feature one is compression and fragmentation and it has a sense because we if you do seek at the application layer you will not have fragmentation and if we look at uh the Ericsson document about uh how to send a long document in using fragmentation we don't have compression so here it's two flavor of chic ear identifier are just number so I don't see why we we need to to put it as feature so I I understand your point and and I mean this is the first time I see this type of reasoning and actually for me it makes some sense to say well you know I have a device and it supports compression and it only supports IPv6 so I have the feature compression and the feature IPv6 uh I think that in Practical terms it doesn't change anything because but from for from a young perspective maybe it changes like because if uh the then the Yang some Yang engine"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:28:00",
    "text": "can automatically determine that hey well someone is sending let's say a field ID that belongs to co-op but the device doesn't support Co-op at all so then you can have this type of uh validation done based on only on the Yang module so I I mean for me it it's it's it would make sense to have this type of like a feature fpv6 and then the fields of iPhone 6 that are within that feature uh but after that we don't use it it means that we have a field ID on the field ideas the the base entry so it say that it's a fill ID but it doesn't say it's a field ID for IPv6 uh it has it's a field ID for for Co-Op you just use the the more generic type but say it's just fill ID so if we do that we we just uh avoid and I don't think that it changed a lot because we when we would generate the seeds and we have the identifier and when we originate the seed we don't care about features yeah yeah so so this is this is this is where I say that it doesn't yeah so so 100 agree with you and this is why it doesn't change anything from that perspective uh then again when you create the configuration let's say for a device you can say well the feature compression is present and the feature uh IPv6 is present so uh I mean so here maybe if maybe we can you can ask so this is my my personal feeling is that you can ask hey well do you feel strongly about this features thing and if the reviewer comes back with uh yes I mean that that some that's something that would really make it more clear from Young perspective than I mean I I I I I see from a personal"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:30:01",
    "text": "point of view there will be almost no difference right and uh yeah I I like it in some way like I like it in some way you can say that every traditional protocol is a Feature Feature protocol name and then you have the fields we need and it's you know but I have no strong feelings about this but I understand the logic behind the command so uh uh so yeah I mean uh we are behind we need to move on okay so I go quickly so here we have this something that is quite linked it's that uh we don't in the young data model we don't make a test on the field ID and say for example if you have a feeder field ID IPv6 version and we don't allow for example the the length to be token length so for me it's become very heavy to to do that and I'm not sure what we when we augment the model and we say for example uh token length is just use for this kind of things if someone augmented then this augmentation will be refused through that test so I I don't know if it's very useful to to do that so we didn't go that far in in testing into the young data model so maybe we can discuss that on on the list uh so we have a point is uh yes we we talk about negotiation of uh the compression mechanism but the fragmentation mechanism but in fact we"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:32:02",
    "text": "we don't need it because we will not say our rule will be first fragmentation and then we'll be uh will be will be equal ways and then we'll be at an error we don't do that we can change parameter inside the rule to send out all your tidelines with that but we don't change the behavior of the rules so I don't think it's useful to to have a set of operative State Define uh so here okay I skip it's not important uh here something I will do that's a good point is that now we have no test for example when we are the command is not uh totally true here but in fact it's when we have uh uh for example uh ignore or LSB or uh our matching list we need to have something in the Target value and for the moment we don't have this kind of test and I will add it to the younger tablet and here is just the sentence is not important so I will not I will skip it and I will do it and I think that's almost done I don't see this side yes the important thing is that we have this reference to the architecture so the question is do we keep the reference to the architecture because if we do it it means that we will delay a lot the publication of the young data model so for me we have to remove it is it a normative reference or informational we can select or we"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:34:00",
    "text": "we just think the same thing as me you you say it better okay um we cannot select whether it's informative or normative whether we want delay or not delay I think an architecture is is informational right so it's very difficult to put a normative reference into the data model to something which is informative or like an architecture is typically informative reference an architecture document it's something that's useful to read and that's it and I guess at that point of time that's maybe because it was expired right hmm yes you don't your document will not wait for the architecture to be published if yes I think so okay so but if I keep it informational if we can keep a draft in the reference so we have to wait for an RFC you can have a draft you can never draft informative no problem okay okay perfect and the last point I think is that's so important or it's the same issue uh koreana I it's white okay it was a an area is just the details that we have two choice that downloads use but for me they are important just because if someone want to augment noack or Uncle Waze he has an anchor to do it and will not invent his own representation so that's why I think it's it's better to to keep it in the model even if it's empty and it costs nothing in in term of representation what's up"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:36:03",
    "text": "so there is nothing really bad right I mean you seem to have answers to pretty much everything is is that true and with Eric's help on the security with what Eric said you need to have answers to your questions right yeah I hope so yeah I hope so yeah if I understand things so thank you very much I guess we need to move on oh that's the next is the advice I remember when I will give you the ball okay thank you [Music] so we received a review from Eric and okay next slide where I put it there there okay um thank you Eric for your input and and we have four points to discuss with you today so the first one is about the status of the document I think we have already discussed a little bit some in terms ago but uh now the question is about uh do we leave it a standard track or we change it to informational and maybe it's depending on how 3gpp will take this document a little more there are three years right so two are basically for the infrastructure of three gpp so we can be information not"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:38:02",
    "text": "only there because we cannot dictate all the around the network but on the application layer what you call end to end yeah we can be standards there because 3gpp issues as a transport right so we don't hear what we are doing below um my understanding at least so we may want to do go for strand abstract or post standards and be very clear in the the sections annoying by five one and five two I think that you talk about using Chic inside the 3gpp network you say for informational only right and then when you go to five four if not mistaken when you took the end to end or the application stuff you say normative between after the title and you are very clear there and you may want to play in a few things where you describe the three use case you say this document will be informative for this use case this document will be informative for the Second Use case and for this one end to end this is document is um a normative uh and then then the global document I live in the standard correct yes okay so we see how it goes on the next version and the second point was in the abstract uh so perhaps I have to change it but I only add that 3gpp and nbiut will improve can be approved with cheek but perhaps here's I can also add that some parts are informative and information and some part are no no and I will not go into any detail in the abstract must be short except there is in the middle and the new text May adopt and not know may adapt I don't know right it's adopt most probably human yeah sorry I make a mistake then okay yes um okay I will look I will change the abstract too and then here is the what"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:40:03",
    "text": "you are telling and we have three uses cases the first two use case are using really Chic in the 3gpp architecture so in the radio link and in the north success stratum so they are more informative and then here the question is about the name or the title of the third user's case where we are for the 3gpp network is transparent and we are using cheek over there so do do you prefer to call it end-to-end compression as it's today or we rename it by um application compression or for the if we put in more in the 3gpp language will be use of cheek over the non-ip data delivery or no I mean on this one typically you do whatever you want right I mean this is really up to the working group because end to end when you have Network on top of other network you don't know where the end is really yeah that's my issue with the intern you can leave it like this but this is kind of confusing and it's it's not really clear I mean the two first one I know very clear they are normative right they are for 3gpp this one is uh normative for use by application or whatever um I think this will open to the working group to decide on this one okay I like she cover need you're very very specific and well you just check okay if if for a ETF it's understandable the need is application because need is a 3gpp camera your document shows the pictures and everything so you're very clear on what media is so okay it's self-contained"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:42:04",
    "text": "good so I can it's time for me as well obviously right okay great so then the last part is for the popular foreign so yes it's a capillary Gateway and I put the definition just after uh the use of capillary Gateway I don't know if that's more clear or you prefer that to I Define capillary Gateway inside the paragraph there is a section about terminology if I'm not mistaken right so I think it's the best place to defect okay I can live there okay so I eliminate here Wi-Fi is written Y dash 5. okay so I changed that um that was all the slide I have thank you Anna so um I will publish next as soon I have this modification I publish version 11. um and the question is uh how does we are going to work with the 3gpp or sir yeah so that's the good question right so for 3dpp we have a liaison manager uh which is Gonzalo from Ericsson yeah Edgar I don't know whether you are in the call today yeah he's not able to come I was about to ask if there is anybody working for Ericsson uh you can contact Gonzalo Maybe by some uh chat or Internet chat to see whether he's ready to go uh because normally we should go through him now if he does not reply or whatever uh then it's up to the chair so Pascal and Alexander to send an email"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:44:02",
    "text": "putting a Gonzalo in in CC putting a statement at iitf.org in CC and now we need to find a destination person in 3gpp to send it that's the reason why Gonzalo input will be very nice and basically in this email we simply tell a 3gpp in better wording of course a2dpp the atfs work on this we are in ietf last call if you want please comment and that's it right okay um I can ask Edgar if he can contact Gonzalo yeah just of being right Gonzalo can you have a look at this and or would you suggest to move I send an email to you right Anna and Gonzalo yes you can forward this to to Edgar maybe okay good thank you no thank you Anna you are doing the job that was my last uh Eric just uh just one one minor question what was the name of the the mailing list to put a copy at the itf.org I'm from if you look about I think it's statement at the ATM um I I can double check if you look anyways liaison uh you will find the address thank you thank you very much and the next will be the Sergio Society you won't have that much time so it's up to you do you want to to go straight to the sick Fox draft and present the convergence next time or do you want like you have a bit more than five minutes if you want"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:46:00",
    "text": "them now Sergio yes can you hear me yes uh I can present a little bit of the conversion so you can get an idea and we can continue discussing the the draft also we already have so some idea about the chican the component of a draft as we discussed earlier so I will just I give you the ball straight away since we don't have that much time please please go ahead okay so this is what I have been doing some research about um in this case well the problem is that you don't have one iot technology that fills all the the use cases I will go uh really fast that that's a problem mostly for iot applications and developers that they are really tied up to L2 specifications mostly because energy optimization uh because of that we have also Chic and IP version 6 to do all these convergence at the application Level uh and you have actually two options on how to to do these convergence I mean convergence using the same application on several Networks uh one option is to use cheat cover a specific lp1 as Sig folks Laura one or narrowbande iot in this case is depending on the layer two or we can use a tick overall that is actually independently of the layer 2. we have uh in these two sides if the packets if I check packet for example is sent over a specific lp1 you must begin and end sending this packet in that specific lp1 when you have nowadays multiple rearing balance system you will require multiple implementations of the seek fermentation reassemblies of layer and if you have in the back end you will also have multiple implementations if we use that's the"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:48:02",
    "text": "same Chic overall independently of the layer two you can have uh you can actually send different tiles in different lp1 networks or different networks even and because well the difference is in that in the number of tiles properly and the receiver sending logic and you probably will have a small adaptation but you can use the same code in the in the backend in that sense as more technologies have been implemented adopted or implemented they want to use cheek so we will be having more and more documents of cheek over specific Technologies and we will probably have a compatible standard that is incompatible at the fragment layer you cannot resemble a packet if it comes from different lp1 Technologies so with some applications we can actually Orient this to have the same header uh this is I will go really fast in two minutes this is the actual what we have right now that we have several implementations in different places uh the idea is to have the same implementation so you can have the same to your assembly uh fermentation reassembly as you have the same compression decompression you will need some logic to select which is the network and the number of tiles that you will need and you will probably we need some logic to to obtain the Json file from the cheek fragment uh I actually compared this this uh fermentation modes the act the opling I could never to see what they have in common and what are the differences between the three of them because obviously we can use what we already have going going into these two actually we see that they have a lot in common I I will move really fast you can see there that we have actually the same tile size that there is a huge advantage and the same uh sides of the headers uh so we can actually Define uh and"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:50:03",
    "text": "check over Alexander that is based on what we have now differently as the Laura one standard and the sigfox is a number of tiles per window in this case the proposition is to use more windows because now with the compound knife we can actually have more windows that there is a question by Lauren she is yes Lauren I can't wait yet but just a Precision it's you want to send all the fragments on the same technology or you want to share the fragments and different Technologies I want to send the fragments in different Technologies actually the example that I have I will go through is this one where you actually fragment uh the the packet sorry and then you are actually able to to send it one fragment in in each of the different Technologies and you are able to reassemble the packet and actually send an act in any network and you are actually sending the the the data to the to the application well this is good for multi-radio devices as you can have a single code base and actually you make a bit more transparent what is the L2 layer and actually yeah you can have some cheek fragmentation reassembly modes out of the box that you can use in other Technologies if you need them and you can converge a fragmentation reassembly layer uh and well I also think this is possible thanks to the compound act that actually helped control the the excise I'm sorry I went so fast but I really wanted to share this with you all so well any questions or you're trying to to define the profile that will work everywhere right kind of"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:52:00",
    "text": "a Prof star profile yeah exactly I think then that before this was not we were not able to see this because we were actually working in Fair technology but now with all the work that we've been done we can see that actually these profiles are not a difference in the fragmentation level in the fragment header level and that we can actually do something to converge them and actually reduce the amount of code in the device and actually allow to transmit you that you can transmit in different networks the tiles and actually converge in the application server in the Chic Network server and reassembly all the packets so you mentioned weister and I I guess why some was white sun right that's the smart grid started he talked about um 15 4G and so they they don't really have any constraints in in size and we are looking at Chicora PPP same thing I mean the we would not use the price of 10 bytes right so you should just look at two it's a nice exercise but us as we uh we reach out to do Shake of a real food and the foods will probably have very different matte layers and and the adaptation of shapes of sheet are really to adapt to the material constraints so so that will be much wider than it is today yeah well actually here you can send messages by Wi-Fi you can send tiles by any other technology because you are converging the fragment at the fragment level that's actually just just one one point here and then I I feel so long coming um at some point early on in the working group we were discussing about the idea of having a default rule it's giving some kind of a default Focus that would be able I bet we can use for bootstrap"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:54:01",
    "text": "maybe and then extend with additional rules eventually so I find your work really interesting in that aspect because it's basically at that point in time we decided that no we cannot have these default profile because the Technologies are so different and now several years later we come up with and I find your work really interesting uh uh very interesting that we come up with something that's very close among the different Technologies uh exactly and so so I find that that that's interesting on its own and and then uh I think that something that could be interesting and maybe related to the fact operation or not at all would we to have uh to send the fragments over different radio Technologies but like send the same fragments so we send the same fragment to our lower one NC fox or or mbiot and like for uh for our addendums right yeah that should be I was talking about I could never but you can have a similar thing for no work and actually a call always in London foreign thank you that's uh I receive it that's very interesting so thank you for raising that uh just to answer to Pascal I think that if we have the same ties Ties on all the technology so we have something that can be compatible then we may have different timers for different technology to resend well maybe here it's uh it will be very complex to manage but otherwise that's a very very interesting to investigate that and you can give an airport well thank you thank you very much so thank you as well Sergio it's really neat that you you started this DC Fort and she wanted"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:56:02",
    "text": "to publish it as a personal submission you know what where you are I mean it's always interesting and that that remains as a paper that we can access so that that would be very interesting um with this we are pretty we are close to to the end of the hour so we were supposed to discuss a little bit about recharing so I gave you a hint of the two major directions but if you have another Riders on things we could ask in the next chartering round please post to the mailing list and and we'll consider it and discuss it on the mailing list um so with this do we have any other business did we say it's all about the sheet draft I mean Alexander I remember that you pretty much set your point and now must be as well right did you did you have anything else to say about the shake versus no the only thing the only thing that we can say is that we will have the problem that the six foot draft calls the compound act draft so I was thinking about the working group last call I don't know again if we have a problem of uh because here is really uh formative standard so they cannot put a a reference to a draft I don't know good to see you you can you can always I mean the point is if you have a normative reference then your document will go through review but it will be stuck at the uh RFC editor uh in the state where it is waiting for the other document to be RFC as well but it's only when you have a normative reference so for instance it's not impacting LOL uh who wants to reference informatively the"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:58:01",
    "text": "architecture but in this case it would be normative reference to campanak and yes you the the two documents will go RFC together but it doesn't matter we can we can push them together or one after the other uh anyway the the editor the RFC editor will hold the permutation until both are already okay now for me we can we can go with the last call if Sergio is okay so I write in the to those launch or group let's go for she covers okay and you just you have to do is well known it's it's the review that Alexander has promised before next uh text intro okay yes so with this we are all set in the other business I'm hearing none so I thank you all for uh your participation and that was effectively a great meeting I will uh all the little bits uh on the minutes before I publish them so if you want to look at them and uh do a quick edit on something that was said I will pick the the Kodi MD file in in an hour or so so please please look at the the notes that we took and and fix them if we did Rock thank you thank you very much and talk to you next time thank you Pascal thank you everyone bye thank you bye bye bye thanks"
  }
]
