[
  {
    "startTime": "00:00:08",
    "text": "We'll check I don't know if you're just a second year and I haven't seen. Thank you Well, Thank you One of us can't be able to help. I have a lot of it I was doing I was a bit of a little bit too feel a little bit self-conscious about having my own screen It's a lot is all right Thank you very much. You know, you just have it to open. What? I'm going to go around Thank you"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:02:02",
    "text": "Thank you Thank you I think you'd be I'm just wondering what the transcript is picking up someone being very thankful, I think I don't know You guys, I'm going to look at it that's doing it an extra Okay, let's get the show on the road You're now trapped by for one hour into a seriously obscure corner of making sure that everything the IETF has ever done continues to work, namely medium map, media type registrations and uh welcome So my fellow app on the screen there is our new co-chair E.G. Stein, you want to say hello? Hello Hello And he's been very good so far about making sure that if I promised things, happens rather than being forgotten"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:04:02",
    "text": "So let's hope that continues So we have a couple of slides to go through until that my pronouncing of slides is not quite American But anyway note well you've been here all day, you've seen this If you have read them all, you're better at speed reading than I am But you should Note really well, be nice And we have umbils ombudspersons who will take the company if you're not What they will then do is it's going to be interesting but I see the on board's person laughing in the back Well, that was so This session is being recorded You are supposed to sign in with the onsite tool which I've forgotten. But I sign in with an online tool, so that's good. That works works I don't think it crashed them, but I'm sure someone else try. Yeah try true. And remember that even if you're in the room, lining up at the mic doesn't help if you don't press the hand button on the tool tool So, agenda, Meetecho technical assistance all that And now we have the universal pause Who will volunteer for scribe?"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:06:11",
    "text": "I mean, you get to decide what has been actually been this decided Johnson, can I twist your arm? So he already been twisted Let's say has balanceded volunteered We got past that point Now we're here got past that point. Now we're, it's time for the again the bash Do you want to change, want me to change the again again? got past that point. Now we're, it's time for the agenda bash. Do you want to change, want me to change the again now or just? be it later? I'm taking silence as consent waiting that. We go on with this again then So we have four medium and documents one that we have consensus to adopt and I think we promised to issue a working group last call on it after Brisbane, but didn't We'll do better now that we have a"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:08:02",
    "text": "co-share with memory Top level and haptics are in RC editors queue Both of them are in edit state, which means that the RFC edits doesn't see any blockers except that haptics has a reference to top levels so that obviously top level will get the lower RFC number and suffixes is our main topic for today That's what I sense said And Iiana has signed up on okay on both documents which means that we didn't screw it up this time I was so happy. I mean, I was seriously unhappy with myself after getting the IS3 review on top level because there were a number of issues that I should have caught that. Review should have caught that but well they're approved now Let's do better next time so standards three there's a refresh We have the discussion at the two previous meetings. Anyone know what? to say anything more about it? The being known let's go for a working group last call this time And I think the consensus was that last time was that we would approve this in a working group and then hold for RFC update because we have decided previously that we should roll the changes into an RFC 3838"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:10:02",
    "text": "38bis so we need an editor for that So I think we had a volunteer in Brisbane, but the name is escaped me So please sign up They're not published Another mistake mistake So I found the, I asked the RFC editor for the XML for the document. It's written in XML but of course the definition of XML has changed since that was published so that's the revision needed Anyway, we'll get there And then we go to the main topic of the meeting which is Manu Let me see Let's share the different Schledek Multiple suffixes suffixes Manu. Hi, can you hear me? Yes Wonderful, thank you um all right so we've been trying for a while to figure out what to do with suffixes with multiple plus signs in it This time, I think we're going to attempt to bury it in a pit and never talk about it again So that is what the rest of the deck is about Next slide, please So there's a new draft um the only change in this draft is it effectively deletes all the language that we've been working on around multiple plus signs"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:12:02",
    "text": "in structured suffixes and instead says that multiple plus signs in suffixes are no longer allowed So that removed a good chunk of the content in the document. It's much simpler now you know has objected to that so far The other thing that we got in was Zayana requested that we up update some instructions to them in their design review I'll include those in the next draft. They only came in a couple of days ago And then everything else in the document remains the same If folks will remember, there is some guidance that we had in the around new security consideration We are trying to clean up the structure suffix syntax registry so that it's no longer a dumping ground for a whole bunch of copy paste content So now the registration criteria basically says, please refer to a spec if you have guidance on fragment identifiers for example And then we've got some, you know, minor commentary on registration but that's largely it If we go to the next slide, the rationale here is that we have tried multiple times and failed to achieve consensus on multiple plus signs Every time we added text, it led to more debate, more refinements, more complexity People didn't like that And finally, the working groups, at least at W3 that were pursuing multiple plus signs needed to move on and have registered media types that don't use multiple plus signs or structured suffixes as a result, which is fine. I think those"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:14:02",
    "text": "groups seem to be happy with you know, where things are There is still one request out there for multiple plus signs I have not been able to talk with the individual I can't remember exactly what it was, but I thought like it had something to do with like SVG or something like that But that's the only outstanding request for multiple plus signs and it seems like, and they don't really need to use them Okay, so that's it That's the new approach. It's clean Some people feel a bit uneasy about it, but at the same time I don't think they're objecting And that's where we are Now, I don't know how many people have looked at the new draft it just removes content. If we go to the next slide, we have had multiple people review the draft before all the existing content that's left in theirs has had multiple reviews before. If we can jump to the next slide those are the folks that have taken a look at it and as Harold mentioned, we need to figure out if this is what we want to do or if there's another path we want to take That's it Questions, comments, concerns? One check question. Who has read? slash dash 8? One, two, three, four Yeah. Not too bad And let's go to the queue Daryl has entered the queue queue"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:16:02",
    "text": "It was kind of accidental because I was trying to raise my hand virtually to raise my hand But whilst I'm off mute there was just one bit of a weird net in that we talk about the left most plus sign, but then say you can't have more than one plus sign. It seems kind of redundant to talk about leftmost plus sign if you can only have one That is if I could respond real quick There was a, there is a request to specify what the subtype was and that's how we kind of refer to the leftmost subtype. I'm totally happy to change the language to whatever folks would prefer. That's the only reason we said leftmost plus sign is because to the left of the left most plus sign is the subtype That's it I can't find my case display display You're on that back. Yeah just turn my head. That works Anyway, so we have people who have read the drafts On my read-through, I noticed a couple of places where I found the language needing tweaking tweaking And there were a couple of places where I was unsure whether they were saying the right thing And so I would very much like to see some volunteers to review the draft carefully before working group last call given the lack of debate"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:18:02",
    "text": "I think we have rough consensus that this is a possible path forward but I would not like to repeat my experience of missing all the bad points of the documents Mark just entered and looks carefully at the mic without entering the queue I don't trust digital devices any anymore. You have to put me in the queue mark nottingham Cryptographically, no I just fought in so I could have missed something, but I don't agree with the characterization I just heard Manu put a draft up that was effectively an editor's proposal I don't think it reflects consensus. What proposal? Editors. Editors a person who edits Editor's proposal. Yes, there was a much more varied discussion before that draft appeared, and it did not reflect much of the content of that discussion Mike Parak here I did not get my hand up in time to say yes, I've read it, but I have read it I did note there was one case where some of the language feels a little inconsistent in this current draft there's a use of not recommended and then you know, corresponding though earlier in the draft that says must not right? So there's some possibly conflicting language. So I think, you know, definitely let's get some of that stuff cleaned up. So yeah. So, mana? Yeah, I'm happy to clean that stuff up I guess, Mark, I'm one"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:20:02",
    "text": "wondering what you feel weak could add that could achieve consensus I know there was a lot of discussion You know, there was stuff around like, let's get rid of suffixes completely. I didn't feel like we would be able to achieve that so I'm, I'd i didn't feel like we would be able to achieve that um uh so i'm i don't know what else to do to the document that would add text that would achieve consensus if you've got you know specific things we can add, sure, you know, we should talk about it But yeah. Mark, response. Thank you. Mark nottingham. Yeah, I don't necessarily think that you need to change it. It's just that it was stated that the document has consensus and I don't think we're in that state. There hasn't been discussed Sorry? I heard words So okay. So I think we have I think what I'm hearing is consent to, to disallow multiple suffixes That's the core decision decision A proposal was made by the editors and there's been absolute silence since. I don't know if that's consensus. That's up to you as others personally I interpret that as exhaustion. Well, you might be correct that's unfortunately often the way consensus has achieved I'm going to see three alternatives here and it's a decide to disallow suffix suffixes"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:22:02",
    "text": "suffixes and decide to adopt and go forward with 07 which allowed multiple suffixes, or can not decide and continued discussion with the last being the least palatable alternative. Brian? Did a somewhat casual observer it does seem unlikely that consensus even rough consensus, has been achieved on a document that only very recently completely reversed course on its entire premise of existence I think from explaining how such a thing could be achieved in a theoretically secure and interoperable fashion to outright prohibiting them And I think I concur with Marks potential analysis of the situation as one being having come about from exhaustion on the topic in general rather than than consensus I don't know where to go with that, but is there also the possibility that? another option there that this documents not? needed? we another option there that this document's not needed? We, we We have a registration document that does not either or deny multiple suffixes Understood"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:24:02",
    "text": "So, I think the document is needed pete resnick let me ask the question a slightly different way The document was first produced to allow explicitly for multiple suffixes And it sounds to me like Manu is now convinced that there is no consensus in the room for that and there looks to be no need for it over in W3 which is where the thing started But the other piece of the discussion that happened is this room for quite some time was maybe we want to eliminate suffixes full stop, right? So the question is, is this document needed? to say something that's not being used? and to explicitly disallow it if W3C needs? us to say that out loud and needs us to say it quickly, maybe this is the best path to do that If W3C no longer needs us to say that explicitly because everybody's been talked out of it anyway, but this community wants to get rid of suffering full stop, maybe we do that instead and we don't need this document And I am completely ambivalent on the point, but we should make a decision about what it is we want to do So we do have a backwards compatibility problem if we want to outlaw suffixes Absolutely. And I did float another proposal, another idea in Bispin, which was that we should simply add the plan character to the set of allowed characters in the subtype and let the let the pluses fall with a me. But that one way of eliminating suffixes"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:26:02",
    "text": "So I'm going to fire up a pole just to see if we have an I'm not completely happy with my command of the pulling tool, but yeah, Mano your first in the queue again. Yeah to to to to kind of respond to the do we need this document Remember, this all started many years ago at this point because there was guidance that we should register or it was possible to register something with multiple plus signs in the suffix. And then when a group of us went to do that, the response was, we don't know what that means which was totally fine, right? But that was the review from the designated experts because the spec is not clear on what it means or how to process them or any of that stuff So we ended up writing a document that explained how that could make sense I think logically it's stuck together However, there were more and more concerns and corner cases and things of nature to the point where it just didn't see like a good idea anymore, meaning that initially the suggestion, right now it's unclear. And if we don't publish it, it will remain unclear and some poor working group in the future will try to do this again and they'll hit the same issue again, right? If we don't publish something if we at least disallow it there's something that the designated experts can point to and say we've gone through this through many"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:28:00",
    "text": "years before, just don't do it again, it's gonna say save everybody a whole bunch of pain and effort and there'll be a statement that says that So I think at the very least we need to say that Going and on top of that while we were looking at the multiple structured stuff, registry, we found multiple issues with it Like, for example, it's been operating as specification required, but that's not what the registry says There are a whole bunch of copy and paste entries in the multiple suffixes registry, and we wanted to clean that up. Those, that's stuff remains in this document which is supposed to be rolled into success wanted to clean that up those that stuff remains in this document which is supposed to be rolled into 68 38 38 that is work that's worth doing right It just makes the registry cleaner, it makes registration cleaner and all that kind of stuff. So for all of those re- reasons there is text in this document that needs to go in right, into the BIS version of 68. So that's kind of a why we are where we are I didn't propose going any far farther, like getting rid of suffixes or anything more drastic because it did not seem like we would be able to get consensus for that. If we do that in this group all of a sudden, I would expect people to come out of the woodwork and be really upset that all of a sudden all their suffix stuff is confusing or doesn't make sense or we just have to explain it to everyone that has a media type with a suffix in it, which is a non-trivolent amount of media types So this really seemed like the best middle ground that would allow us to not repeat what's happened over the past four years, clean up the structured suffix registry, but not go so far as do so"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:30:02",
    "text": "something that could potentially generate an enormous amount of uncertainty and an annoyance with those that have used multiple suffix So I do like the proposal at my Mike Pro Rock put in the chat of let's just run a poll and see which one of these things we want to do I do think that we have it exhausted the possibilities but if folks don't feel that, then, you know please feel free to propose something and then we can poll to see if that, we think that that has a chance of consensus. That's it Michael Hey, Mike Jones, I just wanted to go on record for the minutes as saying that I think we would be trying to cross a bridge too far if we were tried to eliminate the use of suffixes in the future, among other things. I'll cite one specific example that contradict the recommendation in the JSON web token BCP RFC 8725, or BCP T25, which recommends that people use media types of the form application slash example plus jot, where example is your app application application application application about getting rid of multiple suffixes I ambevolent about getting rid of multiple suffixes. I am adamantly against getting you Mark"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:32:05",
    "text": "Vince. brent zundel, Chair of the Verifabwe Credentials Working Group. We have read registered application slash VC and application slash V Working Group. We have registered application slash VC and application slash VP. We are no longer seeking registration of multiple structured suffixes at this time. So my working group at this point does not need this Murray? I want to echo what Manu said about we need this document in the sense that the media type review all of whom are on this call or in this room need some kind of thing they can refer to to say yes, no, and here why. They don't have that now. That was what got this started and they can't say that policy on their own. Now, the alternative is that we don't produce this and it falls to the IESG to make a policy decision about this and the community really hates the idea about the IESG making policy decisions these days So I would much rather see this document come out of here Mark? and I have full already after you Well, I don't know if a poll is the right way to solve this, but anyway, especially when people are exhausted I agree we need a document here for all the reasons stated I agree that getting rid of suffixes entirely is a fool's errand We should not kid ourselves that if we say something in a document people will magically stop using suffixes They'll just stop registering them and that'll be great To me, the key about multiple suffixes, I think that Manu's approach that he proposed, I just, I really did want to see that as a proposal of the group rather than as assumed consensus was, I think it's viable if the pressure to register multiple suffixes is appropriate"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:34:02",
    "text": "lower than we saw it last year let's face it, two years ago, because we've been doing this for a long time now. And it sounds like from what Brett said, that that's the case at least from the W3 side. I know there were a couple of other use cases talking about multiple sides But I think the line should be Mniew's approach is entirely workable if we believe that it'll stick. If there's going to be pressure in a year or two years or whenever that people are like, well, we really want to use multiple suffixes because look these things make sense together. We're going to be in the same position we were before because remember suffixes originally emerged behavior that we codified. And we're going to end up codifying that in a couple of years anyway, and it's going to be even messier than it is now So that's where my lack of confidence is. But I think it up codifying that in a couple of years anyway. And it's going to be even messier than it is now. So that's where my lack of confidence is. But I think I'm very heartened by the news from the W3C. I think that's maybe changed the game here. What I do think is less is we discovered during all of investigations that the semantics of the existing suffixes are extremely poorly defined. And I think that should be a work item that the group considers is tightening those up. And that way, if we do have to codify multiple suffixes down the road, maybe it'll be a little more sane than it is now So let's, before let before going on i'd like to run So we're 24 people here and people who are voting for no opinion will be taken as eye well, having stated that they have no opinion at this time Can I ask, do we have any more data? about whether other people want, that's kind of trying to ask? for me, but didn't ask explicitly, you know, are there other use?"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:36:02",
    "text": "cases out there that we know of or are we pretty confident? I don't know if I did data. It was an SVG Yeah, that's what I put myself on the queue for so Mark I I have talked with every W I put myself on the queue for. So, Mark, I have talked with every W3C working group that I know of in the they're willing to back off on multiple suffix meaning like not ever registered them in the future as far as I know. The only groups that I know that were in that boat were the Jason LD working group the did working group and the BC work group. So I don't think any of them want to do that anymore The other data was something that Harold mentioned, which was the browsers in Clown any of them want to do that anymore. The other data was something that Harold mentioned, which was the browsers and clients that we know of don't utilize just a the suffix alone to do things meaning that for many years now we've had this option of software has had the option of acting on just plus JSON or plus just plus XML or just plus whatever and they don't seem to do that we didn't find any any broad use of that feature, which was one of the bases of you know we're having this processing model around multiple plus signs. So the only use case that I know of that's left is that one that people said they wanted to try and register, that floated out there like six months ago and had to do with like it's the it's I don't know if it's SVG but it was it was multiple plus signs but even I looked at that and I was kind of like eh I don't know if they really need that right so if we really want to"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:38:00",
    "text": "we can try and you know find that email and close the loop with them, but I haven't seen them pop up in the discussion lately. So out of all of the research that we have done i believe there's only one remaining that we may have to talk to That's it. Can I just say that that's a big change in an impressive effort, so I think you've done a real service there by convincing all those folks Hi Am I in the queue number one? Yeah? Because Manuel is so upset So this is on Syrac, so I have a potential use case, even with the risk of being, I don't know removed here from the mic and but i'm actually not even also a hundred percent sure if it's in scope. So I shortly mentioned that in Brisbane already because one use of the media types is also in desktop systems, right? So you can have the register of the operating system, which basically determines which application to open here and already with existing suffixes, at least in Linux, there is a hierarchical lookup. So if you have something like, XML open documents, something like that, you know, Libral Office might start when opening that If Libel Office is not installed, it might fall back to regular XML editor for whatever sense And there might be another case, for instance, in case of Jason LD, if you have a specific type of JSON LD with specific information inside, let's say, a specific type for a flight reservation or something like that. So there is, for instance a Linux application called KDE itinerary where you can import this kind of flight reservation stuff inside So in that particular use case, it would indeed probably be helpful to be able to register that on an operating system level So I'm not sure if I didn't yet do the whole research on if that is, if this usage of the media types in general in operating"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:40:00",
    "text": "systems for this very purpose is actually even in the scope of what we are talking here because, you know, media types are used for various purposes and various protocols and so on but yeah i just wanted to mention it thanks So, Mauna. It is in Skype and we did look into it and we did not find that at least the light research we did that the operating systems acted in that way The other thing that we found is that the operator well, anyway, so that's kind of where we are. I get the whole like Linux you know, could do hierarchical, you know, opening of things, but all other operating systems don't do that. And so it's not kind of a universal behavior. The Jason LD thing, we have spoken with the chairs there and the implementers and I think what we are planning to do, there is clawback the LD plus Jason registration and just do a JSON-L-D suffix And if anybody wants some more specific type, they can do like application slash foo plus jason dash ld and that was how they would address your last use case So we have considered both of those use cases, I believe we have clear paths through or rather there was no enough demonstration of usage on the operating system side of it, you know, after many, many years of this being around and for the JSON LD case, I think that community is just going to go a different direction based on the experience with trying to see standardize multiple plus signs in a in a suffix that's it okay thanks so now it the numbers in the poll seems that have been stabilized. Oh, there's a poll on"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:42:02",
    "text": "poll. Well, that's what happened on the screen spring the screen. So the numbers at the moment are Sorry, what's What do I click? Oh, there's a hand. Oh, no I know. Lexi there's a hand. On this one of the charts. Lexi. This thing supposed to be there We see that certain people have problems actually finding the polling button on the tool Oh, wait, that's an image tool Oh, wait, that's a new message. Oh, yeah We'll give it one more minute to let people find the button Okay, I'm closing it now So we have 14 people saying yes, jon peterson saying no and three people have a no opinion So I think that's the basis for saying that in this meeting and three people have a no opinion. So I think that's the basis for saying that in this work, in this meeting, the majority opinion seems clear majority opinion seems to be we should disallow registration multiple suffixes and then I i'm back to"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:44:02",
    "text": "then I, this of course, needs verification on a mailing list as usual but then I'm back to the my previous question Can I get someone to volunteer? to actually read through the door? documents in the detail and file issues as appropriate? mark thomas volunteered anymore? somebody. Alexei? Okay once those two people say that they have reviewed the document, and file issues with them, we'll go on the mail list to take if issues have been sufficient addressed. And once they have been addressed, we will send out the working group last call Can you remind us of what? the plan for this is? Is this going to be an RFC on its own or is this going to be folded into an update? or both? Yes, both Both. Okay, so it's a standalone RFC right now to get it out there and then get your work later. I think we need the my my understanding is that we need a permanent record and we need to have it on a shorter time frame than our time frame for for the for the document let me see if i can let me see Media Man One thing I did yesterday in inspired by a certain discussion in in Dend Dispatch was to look"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:46:02",
    "text": "at our milestones, you remember the thing called milestones? Yeah, they're around your neck and they drag you down Let me see if I can make this work I have to stop slides and then share screen I accept what I did what I did was to update some numbers and add a new milestone milestone so I'm still an optimist so I think we could manage to get the suffixes document to the IESG in October I found a milestone I'd completely forgotten about called publish a reviewers checklist about security considerations media type applications Someone want to do something? about that? And then we have a another milestone that I just pushed off until after the next meeting called Deliver and Recommendations about future registration and Q management I think that recommendation should be, that milestone should be deleted but I think we might consult our idea about that because there's a new milestone saying deliver an updated media type registration procedures rc and in a while fit of optimism, I put July 2025 on that one so I'd like to open the floor for discussion if anyone think that this is"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:48:02",
    "text": "Murray. I remember let me refresh my memory again future registration in Q-Man management, I think that that was at least in part, some of your idea that this could be managed not through a private queue but through GitHub or something Oh, is that what that? It might have done the genesis of that one Oh, that might, that's probably, probably it I forgot. Yeah, yeah, that's just, I think that's with the Genesis Thank you. So don't delete it yet And then we'll ask Mark to put ask Mark to help with putting that on the agenda for the next meeting Any milestones you set? beyond March are not my problem anyway, so great Okay Brian. I'm a pretty nice person, so I'm going to ask a naive question, but you just mentioned the urgency of publishing the multiple surface pieces document. And as a somewhat casual observer around this, what is the urgency? It sounds like there was quite a need expressed from some working groups in the W3C to do something about this that need has gone away or they've elected to do other things So, and there's one area that maybe is open, I don't know the SVG format has been heard from what it's unclear to me that there is a pressing need for it because the need has the people that were asking for multiple psychosis that are also"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:50:02",
    "text": "i think authors on the document about multiple suffixes are no longer asking for them or are they related and so I again, I'm naive, but what's the what's the urgency? Well, my personal opinion is that it's urgent to cap or are they related? And so, again, I'm naive, but what's the, what's the urgency? Well, my personal opinion is that it's urgent to capture the consensus of the of the concern so that we stop talking about it. Stop talking about it so have finished something it's good to tie it up with a bow and leave a permanent record of what we decided Of course, everything in the IETF is open for, is open for being reopened if there's a need for it. But I like finished finished. So that's fair. Mark is in the Kuna Kuna now. Yeah, Mark, you can, you can disagree with me if you want to. I find Brian very persuasive especially considering the overhead to publish in RFC that we still suffer under in time and effort and attention and money per page I think we can establish consensus and record it and social it without publishing RFC if we're going to july 2025 maybe ambitious, but I think it's possible and I think that calls in the question if there is no urgency or little urgency, why we aren't doing the same for for example, the community registration process which I think we were supposed to have a working group last call on several months ago, and I don't think we have yet"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:52:00",
    "text": "So yeah, I'd don't find it compelling to publish a separate RC for this now Pete, I'll just say that what we don't want to have happen is have another flood of requests which is what happened in this particular case come in and have the expert reviewers stumped So I don't care whether we produce guidance in the form of a wiki page or a web page or an RFC It does need to be said somewhere RFCs seem to be the way that we publish these things. So I think we should probably just push it out the door as expected So I have another poll ready to go that I leave. Oh, that will disappear again so let's uh this is just an opinion poll And I'm not going to take this as a as the end, the end time We should publish suffixes as an RFC yes or no You mean a second card. Yes Well, I don't think I think everyone found the button more quickly now"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:54:02",
    "text": "and we have a solid no consensus Okay, so we'll take that to the list. We still have to review it and last call it because that's what we have to do in order to make sure that we actually agree on what we agreed But let's see if we need to publish it or not And with that I've got a clarifying question there Is the alternative to publish it in the BIS? or put the guidance in the BIS or to not just not publish it ever? It would go into the BIS so the the proposal is let's not publish it as an RFC now. Let's roll the text in the BIS So, let's close this meeting. We managed to use that almost all the time which is remarkably good for us And we reach some conclusions So action items, we have two people have said that they would review the suffice documents carefully I think the chairs will also do so So Harold, I think that the question of whether we I think the question of whether we're going to publish it as an RFC makes a difference to our review If we're going to publish it as a separate RFC, I'm going to review it as if it's going to be published as an RFC as a standalone document Whereas if we're not, I'll review it with the assumption that the text is probably going to be editorially changed quite a bit as it's incorporated And it's almost, you know, I think we understand the intent of the document I don't know if we need to do a heavy review at all if we're not going to publish this"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:56:00",
    "text": "as it's incorporated. And it's almost, you know, I think we understand the intent of the document. I don't know if we need to do a heavy review at all if we're not going to publish it as a separate RFC. Do you know what I mean? I know what you mean. And I really well, what I worry about is that the text has a number of places where I don't think it expresses what it needs what is trying to say in an adequate way And I don't know how to get to better text without the review as if it was going to be perfect adequate way. And I don't know how to get to better text without a review as if it was going to be published. I mean, if it's not going to be published, we will, we will review as if it was going to be published. I mean, if it's not going to be published, we will make some kind of us or other going to be published. I mean, if it's not going to be published, we will make some kind of, or ask the IESG to make a statement that we accept this as guidance for this draft as guidance for the expert until such time as the text as the thing is updated which means that we're giving guidance based on a non-permanent reference except that ideas are permanent anyway So yes, I would like to see review as if it was published even if it's not. I'll give a medium review, how's that? I mean, I don't want to create expectation that the words that appear in this draft are going to appear in this verbatim because I want to give the eventual editor of that document the license to you know, make it fit better I'll take any review you can give me Okay, then we have follow up on Markstaff Anything else need? to say before the end of the meeting?"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:58:05",
    "text": "Chat, chat, chat, chat, chat Also, no, I'm here to be the best gentleman ever rahul gupta would like to raise a minor issue that I'd rate the main list So Rahul Yes. Do you have my idea? Yes okay so i had asked a question in the mailing list regarding RFC 822 being referred in RFC 2046 and whether we should use that or use RFC 53 and you had answered with five us you should use 532 and said that the registrations need to be updated so while I was looking into this, what I found was all the media types that are described in RFC 2046, have do not have IANA registrations at all I don't know if this is a deliberate or it's an oversight because these are ancient documents So maybe you could give us some guidance on what needs to be done here That's an excellent question I mean, the registration entry is all there I think So the entries are there, but the registration documents themselves are missing It just has an empty cell there So I think that's an issue"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:00:02",
    "text": "that we need to raise and need to look in and I'm not prepared to do off the cuff there. So can we raise that as an issue? in the admin? We are working with Amanda on that particular issue and there has been a proposal to create for the registration entries that don't have a template 2.2 a file to a file that says this was registered before there were a template templates So we are looking to resolve the issue with the image slash JPEG and image slash gift at the moment Yeah, and we do have a genetic problem with updates procedures and that's when specs get obsoleted or updated or revised and the MAM type regulations for that point of the specs don't get updated That's a generic problem I think and we should think about that Okay So that's an issue that we need to follow up Now we are overtime by a whole minutes Any other business? Hearing silence Thank you very much for showing up and having a strong opinion See you next time"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:02:02",
    "text": "Thank you"
  }
]
