[
  {
    "startTime": "00:00:09",
    "text": "okay I guess we're at the official top of the hour so good afternoon in this time zone and welcome this is basically not a kind of big formal meeting but just a sync up to try and tea up uh the session at ITF 1119 uh nonetheless I guess the not well has being displayed so you should note that well even if the date on the slide is from last year still appli um I think we have our session scheduled for Wednesday first morning session on which I think is 2330 UTC um and something 30 horrible for for dkg and people in this time zone um I guess we'll send out a called for agenda items to the list after this call um and the M but the main agenda item will be the post Quantum work I guess um that correct ukg yep and I guess we just wanted to have a chat to see where we're at in terms of the the threads on that discussion on the list and just try and tee up um anything we need to to organize for the session in a few weeks time uh I will be physically present dkg will not uh I'm assuming most other people will not uh if you are going to be present physically that'll be great um anybody here who is today I don't think we need to to do the queuing too much people can just jump in I guess if it gets too too crowded we can do queuing but otherwise just jump in and speak as you as you think you want to um so who who else will be physically in uh Brisbane"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:02:00",
    "text": "I'm assuming not many but if you are maybe mentioned in the chat or just say on audio in particular if you're like liable to be presenting something so Michael is going to be physically there any likely presenters will be there physically no I will not be there physically only remotely okay so my sympathy for your evening exploits of time uh I think because of that um we'll probably try and make sure we get slides a bit ahead of time and if in particular if if it's going to be me that's there and something breaks and I have to present if you uh can make your slides a bit more verbose than normal that probably is is a good plan um any other ideas for how to make this work a bit better DK no I don't I'm not even sure excuse me I have like a frog in my throat um I'm not even sure if the more of both slides are going to be helpful I mean if you're present if if things break like you don't have any remote presentator presenters or participants uh it might just be you and Michael in the room um so there is that but yeah I mean I guess the other possibility that somebody's alarm doesn't go off and one of the one of the presentations is the only one that's effective right um right yeah that's a concern that's a concern um yeah I don't I think we need to I do think we want slides early I think it's a um that would be a good thing so you know folks who are here who are thinking about um the issues that we talk about today might want to um if if something comes up or you think this is something that we particularly want to have the full group discussion I think it would be useful to go ahead and and pass us a a smallish slide deck please don't feel like Steven's request for making them"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:04:00",
    "text": "more propose means take more time on the slides uh getting the slides earlier as placeholders is probably better but I think we do have time because we got reig I think we have a two-hour slot now so right no I'm saying don't don't take a long time to get us the slides so oh yeah sorry pardon the deck can be the deck can take a while if you if you need it to get through to get through a complex topic but um don't delay giving us the heads up and you can we can always revise your slides U if you decide you want to change later so earlier is better okay and I'm guessing that the um so the main the main agenda item is is post Quantum work we haven't adopted draft uh we have some threads on the mailing list I'm assuming the agenda will more or less map to the kind of set of threads that we had on the email list um does that make sense to people again jump in if you have any thoughts don't need to Quee just say so our milestones suggest that we might want to be thinking about adopting a second uh topic um around now so that might come up as well okay so we should so that means that implies we should when we send out a call for agenda items we should have you know postquantum as the first thing and what next is another agenda item I think that's right fair enough and people can discuss that on the list meantime and then on the postquantum thing I think it's I'm assuming that the the breakdown is like you know which algorithms for cams that just that kind of discussion then for signatures combiners and then combiners somehow I think we should do I think we should do chem combiners uh next to which algorithms for chem because I think those discussions are going to get merged or or they're going to reflect on each other and having a little signature Gap in the middle but just making things more confusing"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:06:00",
    "text": "okay so that's so but so I think it's it's it's kind of three subtopics on postquantum right is is there is there any anybody has a fourth kind of subtopic on the postquantum stuff that would make sense to have as an agenda item at that level so my question um what I wanted to understand uh when I asked uh for this meeting is um I liked uh the idea of splitting stuff because I think a modular approach would might be beneficial to open pgp uh in the future uh as one thought and the other thought is uh that we don't have to accommodate every um algorithm wish uh in one draft I think um but what I would like to understand is if we if you go for a split then um what kind of status would those documents have what uh let's say we have a core document would that be still in a formational RFC I suppose so uh the the splitted documents that are maybe more focused on uh maybe more Niche cases which are still useful or maybe for compliance reasons some further algorithm selections would they uh also be informational rfc's or would that be something different then I'm trying to understand you know sure I I I I would have thought that the the if we assume the core document defines the most Implement things then I think that would be a proposed standard not an informational draft or aiming for proposed standy um for kind of optional to implement algorithm choices whether we regard them as Niche or not as as a different thing but I I think they also could be proposed standards uh I forget what the um I"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:08:03",
    "text": "think the the aana registry setup would allow informational documents but I don't think there's a huge benefit in doing that if we're going to process them through the working group um if somebody was independently coming along and say Here's my other algorithm um that I don't want to process through the working group then they could basically go ahead and do that at some point the working group would be asked what do you think about that and we would have participants would have their opinions um but I think if the working group is processing optional documents having those as proposed standards is just as good and doesn't really add any additional overhead okay you still have to do the the working group last call the ITF last call isg processing it's all the same basically oh okay cool thank you so yeah yeah I would imagine though that the way of splitting the work into multiple drafts would be a kind of you know part of the conclusions we would hope to reach at the session or on the list afterwards if we don't get to do that at the session um but if if I may uh add one aspect we should I don't know that's just an idea yeah the working group maybe should try to avoid a Cascade of you know a split here and split there another split another split another split right so um if you have um a collection of arum that you would like to propose then you should have some reasons why this is a good idea and open pgp for example I guess you all followed the discussion about for example classic mise sorry sure yeah yeah kids sorry um uh and I tried to explain on the mailing list um that we proposed posted at the summit and you know people uh"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:10:01",
    "text": "were a little bit it was little bit controversial oh yes it's it's nice but maybe doesn't it doesn't fit our key servers and so on you know um so people should have some reason maybe then sure I mean yeah you would you would maybe need to Define some standards or some some criteria so that you know this ARG them makes sense to be proposed to the open pgp working group so the registration policies for this registry we have you know just recently relaxed to be specification required so if someone wants to specify uh you know a a rot 13 standard and it's well documented and the designated experts who are willing to sign off on it you know I would like to think that we wouldn't agree on on uh having rot 13 but if someone has something that somebody else thinks oh that's a bad idea because doesn't fit on the key servers or something the answer might well be well okay these are Keys you don't put on the key servers right and key servers decide to not Implement them but that doesn't necessarily mean that we wouldn't do a code Point allocation for them um there's just a corner that wouldn't be there doc the working group that's a different story right the working group is gonna is free to say we won't we won't work on the Route 13 case Okay uh but but yeah so I I think I kind of agree with us though that that you know if we're going to split the work there should be some logical basis for the split I would imagine that the kind of um the co if we want to call it the core document or whatever the thing that specifies all the mosts most implements would you know that should be complete I would think um so it would specify cams and combiners and signatures that are most um and then the the separate documents if we do split into separate things you it it might be there's a brain pull one there's a more"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:12:00",
    "text": "one you know a specialized algorithms one whatever um and I think you we yeah so one of the things we need to do also is to recommend uh people to be designated experts for the isg the isg picked those but they they they would like to get some recommendations from us so I guess it'll be no harm if people who are interested in in carrying out that role would drop a mail to the chairs saying I'd be to do that um uh but it's up to the isg to appoint those people um and typically if the if they get a request for a code point and the specification document is an internet draft then I would expect that the working group would be at some point asked about it what what do they think either by the designated expert or by somebody as this draft proceeds towards being some kind of RC uh so typically the working group will will get chance to chime in uh and I don't think we'd have I don't think we'd be expecting hundreds of code Point requests um for any of these Registries anyway okay thanks I hope we won't get hundreds because the Cod Point Registries are mostly one octet Registries well we can get hundreds but then you know there'll be a lot of no answers so right okay so um so I think we're sketching out an agenda there where we have like three kind of technical things and maybe had a split thing as the agenda items for discussing postquantum then they what next for other work items agenda item do we have people who want to uh take the lead in presenting any of those topics I'm hoping the answer will be yes so we have the it doesn't have to be split this way in terms of presenters but we have the cams combiners signatures um those three things does anybody want to jump up and say I'll do the slides"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:14:00",
    "text": "um um I can take care of presenting these topics I mean accordingly with the other editors if if they agree yes sure y thank you okay good so so we're we're looking for basically one slide deck if you like to cover all those you know basically I presume it'll kind of say here's what's in the draft here's the discussion on the list and here's some things to talk about for each of those I guess right yeah exactly so I think I still need to send out a thread for cem combiners and I will do this uh as soon as possible and the question is at this point for the for the feedback that we already collected um should we do should we action anything before the um before the the cut off that is on the fourth if I recall correctly uh my take on it go ahead my take on it is that um it would not be unreasonable for the editors to submit a new draft that matches the state of sort of what you're thinking with the understanding that the new draft might not any decisions made for that new draft might not be permanent I think that actually having a new draft will make some of the discussion more concrete if you say we think we're heading in this way um and it you know uh I mean Stephen tell me if you think this is a that this is a a bad process but um having a new draft before the cut off which is Monday um will give people who are coming up to speed they give them a chance to read a diff if they want to read a diff um and you know if the if the meeting just comes and says oh my God I can't believe you made those changes then you can release a new job afterwards those changes"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:16:02",
    "text": "rted yeah so I think the the having a new draft that reflects the discussion about the TBD code points um just to you know include a note saying you know the previous draft had these numbers but don't pay any don't do that um I think that would be valuable just uh in case it lasts six more months but I don't think it will but I think that would be useful uh I would not attempt to split the document into multiples at this stage so I think submitting one new draft with you know some new information notes that are stuff that was mentioned on the list um that that would be welcome I think sure um but I wouldn't I wouldn't try and you know split it into multiple documents at this point okay because that's that was exactly my question like we have right now already applied the changes of TBD and so on in the GitHub repo so the idea would be take the giad repo as it is right now and just publish it pretty much with few additional things without attempting to split yeah I think so yeah yeah and as as you think appropriate if if there's points that were made on the meing list you think worth including as a as a note or as a question to be addressed or whatever okay you know if there's something like that that that would be useful in the draft itself great put it in um but you know there's issue tracking things going on as well so you don't have to not everything has to be note in the draft okay and so then we would basically collect for another three week um feedback onto the camp combiners is let's say that is still the ITF I guess three weeks from now yeah I mean personally I'm not sure where that discussion is going to land I don't know if anybody has better insight into what they think is the future will be for combiners I don't I mean the cfrg looks interesting yes oh man yeah I think we came up with a reasonable choice of a combiner in open pgp and then you know now the discussion really took"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:18:01",
    "text": "off crazy yeah um and I yeah I guess that's a thing to talk about I mean I I presume that there'll be a topic of discussion across multiple sessions for ITF 119 um I think you know I I don't often agree with Mike Ensworth but I think I agree with him when he when he made a point that like some protocols like TLS have enough people interested in them to to do something special I think you could argue that's true for pgp as well um you could possibly argue it'd be better in in the universe if there was a common way of doing things for pgp and other people who want to combine cams so that's a discussion that'll yeah so you know TLS TLS is kind of special because they were so early out there with pqc and they tried to sneak that in into the regular TS schedule because they didn't want to touch that so we don't have I don't think you know I'm I'm not an open bgp expert I don't think that we have to that we have such obstructions here in open pgp so my opinion you know my my personal opinion without asking Aon or Falco or yanis in advance is that open bgp should should somehow fit into the ecosystem so we should do something compatible we have the Liberty here I guess but still I think that the choice we came up with is still a very good choice and uh maybe just just to propose an idea do we need the discussion about the chem combiner right now or do we want maybe to take to spend to give us a little bit more time or give the cfrg discussion a little bit more time to evolve because we we still you know can adopt uh what the cfrg comes up with I think Aron what Aon Falco Y what do you think so I'm not sure if you want you know so and right now there are a lot of parallel discussions going on in the cfrg it's a mess do you want to to attach to that"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:20:00",
    "text": "mass with open bgp I think the cem combiner is a detail that can be made compatible at the later stage if people want or if there's a need or um I I would like to have a definitive choice or at least something that is vetted from the community already but it doesn't look like it's really much of an option right now okay I would Pro like not doing anything right now it it like not not touching the cam combiner we have right now is definitely the easiest choice because we already have one um most people who implemented the draft already implemented these cam combiners so not touching it means doing zero work at the moment then clearly uh if we need to adapt it to what the cfrg comes up with we will break everything that is done so far mhm uh like if anyone starts to encrypt data but I hope until we don't have a how do you say until we don't have um definitive code point we can still do it like till we didn't pick okay we do 29 is this algorithm I think we can still change it uh I also volunteered that cfrg to do this like present a little bit the draft of draft own forth Cam combiners that is pretty much the same actually the same Construction we have uh ours in is an instantiation of of this kind of generic combiner and I hope to get somewhere at cfrg with it but it looks like the drafts are just increasing and the the the the spectrum of the discussion is going is the scope of the discussion is exploding more and more so I do not know where where we'll get there where we get um um what I was I think proposing is not to uh postpone the discussion um"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:22:01",
    "text": "to next year maybe but maybe to the next ITF when May in the hope of things getting a bit more clearer and maybe at the at now to focus on what kind of algorithms do we want to propose and how do we want to split maybe because the camp combiner is some kind of a discussion that can be postponed for a couple of weeks months don't open too me too many battles at the same time I I'm I'm just saying yeah just proposing um yeah just a proposal I don't I think I'm I agree with everything you said I think I can also imagine that it's maybe we can give it some time to see if the the scenery clears up a bit if not then it's probably not a good idea to relay the pqc open pgp pqc draft because of that I think something can be worked out and I think open pgp had some special Solutions for other things as well in the past so I don't think it has to be what what cfig ends up with but I think at this point I agree with Star Wars we have so many topics we can clarify I'm not sure if this is really something that will take so much time in the end because I don't think people have too much opinion about it the algorithm selection people will have opinion but can combine I'm not sure I I I I think I would disagree so me too after looking at cfrg like how many people like oh yeah here we hash in one extra kilobyte of data that's gonna be un like Impossible on my point of view it's like I mean yes it looks like um like it looks like the discussion is really really open there I do not know whether in the open pgp working group would it be as open as in the cfrg because we have different requirements on the protocol level like I don't think that hashing in one Kil bite of data anywhere would cost anything to open"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:24:01",
    "text": "pgp um but the question is more like uh at this point stavas would you recommend not to send a thread out now for the cam combiners and wait until the cfrg dest has a little bit settled or would you still throw it out now at least we collect feedback into the working group so that we can also show up with okay the the the how do you say the open pgp working group has this opinion uh but without changing yet anything into the draft I think what I would do personally is uh to say to send out a message but saying that we will postpone the cam combiner discussion as it is a very special element in this encryption process that we are defining now with postquantum um to collect uh the opinion of the community and to summarize the next ITF and to focus right now on those two important topics what kind of algorithms should be defined as a core and which kind which kind of algorith people are also interested to explain to the community you know this decision of um focusing first and then going to the next topic yeah to sort it out I mean I guess the um one of the issues with that cem combiner discussion is how to not how to try and not make it hard for library implementers and I think so I think I would I I think I would encourage have starting that thread because it may be that the set of relevant implementations and libraries used for open pgp is not the same as used for other uh protocols so I I don't know how much common code there is for you know I don't know smime versus pgp implementations at that level um so it may be that the the set of uh things that influence decisions are different in the context of pgp versus in the"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:26:02",
    "text": "context of other ITF working groups that will be combining things so yeah but but as you say I think it's also uh it would be good in starting that thread to also say this is a widely active discussion in cfrg God knows where that's going to land God knows how long it will take uh but it's you know it's happening um and I mean the only other thing I'd say is I guess if if cfrg do come up with some guidelines as to here's a bad thing to do or here's a good thing to do then we probably want to be cognizant of those but again that might take months it might not happen before the summer before they you know land on something um so I don't know if waiting till the summer will get you a an output from cfrg oh not I think I would focus on the positive aspect of it will get us an output for the algorithm selection bit a little bit quicker because we don't blur blur this discussion with another topic that is uh behaving very vital very wild you know it's like a random walk in some space of mailing lists yeah but you know stuff happens this is this is the only um motivation you know to focus on the other stuff and maybe let this go randomly walking on its own for a while I think it might just take us long if you if you wait you might if it's going to take us n months to to to land on a the working group's consensus answer on c combiners i I think if you wait some months before CF for cfrg it'll still take n months um so I suspect going ahead now is maybe okay better you also want people to be paying attention to um what's happening in the cfrg and this can be a way to sort of drive that attention um certainly as implementers you'd hope that implementers are at least game to try what's in the current draft and use that to inform their"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:28:01",
    "text": "thinking about it um whereas if you just tell people we haven't decided on this don't bother implementing anything yet you're not going to get the same level of scrutiny that you'd get from implementers who have at least gone through one implementation and said okay this worked for me this didn't work for me or you know it turns out it would be really easy given the toolkits that I'm depending on to do some other thing you want to be able to hear that feedback um earlier just get people conversing with it yeah and I guess the opposite true as well like I mean if if if somebody uh implementing pgp says uh you know it's it's it's rather hard to do this but really easy to do this that's an input that we can provide to CFG discussion too right okay okay points yeah I mean the other the other thing is that the cfrg discussion from what I can see so far is that there isn't anything that is completely toxic I mean other than maybe some of the the way that the community talks to each other but the but that nobody's like oh if you do this thing you've just burned all of the security that you were expecting it's the the we're we are in the space the classic ietf problem space of we're arguing around these little details that don't matter for every single use case and someone is going to have a particular thing that they you know that they particularly like and you know if there's a clear and objective thing of this thing is an unsafe thing to do that makes the problem much easier to decide reason it's so hard to decide is that there is no such thing this is about minute tradeoffs in these algorithmic choices that may or may not align into different use cases and whether that's protocol specific use cases or non-protocol specific use cases that's we're going to be fighting about that for a while and at some point if you want this thing in the real world there needs to be a choice made yeah and it's all that close a little bit of ego mixed in what we'll deal with it uh okay so I"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:30:00",
    "text": "think that's uh so we have a kind of a sketch agenda for uh the Brisbane session we have Aaron is uh going to make a pile of slides uh in conjunction with other editors um likely to I guess it sounds like you're likely to to shoot out another revision of the draft um by the next week in the next week um so that's all good is there any other things that we should um think about teeing up for this topic for Brisbane time frame the only thing is maybe let's try to keep the discussion the list active because as as much feedback as we can get the better I can then recap it and and try to implement it in the draft we can try to do that so because like the cam combiners received sorry the sorry the the cam thread received way more interest than the signatures so far seems like I know that also cam is more urgent as a problem and signatures maybe some people don't want to think about it yet or but I would still argue that it as as we all decided that and the at the adoption call it makes sense to keep them together in a single draft so let's focus on both even if you have opinions that are I like everything you've done so far it's perfect just write a single line on the list that that would be great sure and I just you know with my chair off I plan to disagree some more about signatures anyway so I'll do that the next day or so um can I can I just add one one uh thing that might be useful in terms of the discussion um used to sessi you're on the call um do you think that the revised version will actually have a test Vector that aligns with a new uh code Point allocation that we can you know something simple like a V6 key um with a standard x25519"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:32:00",
    "text": "25519 primary key or sorry Ed 2519 primary key and then this combiner with a with a test message because that that would also really help to drive um implementers towards thinking about it and us just if that if that was released do you think that would be something that could be incorporated into the test Suite or maybe it already is and I'm just not taking sure absolutely um I as far as I know so johanes has prepared already a test back before before so we have we're now right now testing it out also in other implementations and that is uh just V4 like ECC key with attached to it uh post Quantum encryption sub key and V6 I as far as understood uh they the MTG doesn't have an implementation that is fully fully V6 compliant yet um so Johannes please stop yeah um the problem is that we don't have um ml DSA yet so uh the crypto libraries didn't catch up to that yet um so it's still the lithium and when we release a test Vector we would like to have the the newest standard I guess so I understand you want the newest standard but you could do uh you could do a mixed certificate here um just given that Monday is the cutof deadline if we can have a test Vector in that that has I mean and it doesn't need to have any of the signatures in it right it could be traditional signature scheme um with the post Quantum encryption key so ed25519 plus ml cam um like with the with the primary key d25 519 and ml cam as sub key but V6 instead of V4 that would be a concretely useful thing that would drive people to actually you know"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:34:02",
    "text": "okay do the do the implementation work for um for the the chem combiner stuff and if people and and maybe maybe we'll find out that it doesn't work or people have some new specific preferences because they did that you know it's not this is not going to be the final test Vector this is going to be a test Vector that will we use to drive implementers to pay attention um and certainly auses can imple can integrate that with the test Suite um that you know that that shows uh concrete progress I understand why you want both of the things you want it to be nice and for the ultimate RFC yes we want it to be a fully pqc thing but uh in in the spirit of keeping momentum going on this let's do the let's do one that just has the um the encryption capable sub key and then an encrypted message can Beed as well sounds good yeah I mean I I don't know whether we'll manage to put it in the text of the draft but for sure sure we can put it into some G GitHub space like an issue or PR or something sure but if you can get it in the text of the draft that would be better that's what I'm saying yeah yeah great um so any other things to talk about in terms of the postquantum agenda Topic in it19 here we silence uh so that was our that's our main business for today I guess as dkj pointed out we should ask people um you know what of the gigantic uh menu that we had uh would they like to the working group to try address uh next uh I don't know if anybody has a something they want to talk about here now uh on that topic or so um I remember that we decided to allow postquantum algorithms with"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:36:02",
    "text": "encryption algorithms with um V4 certificates and I'm wondering if that was a wise decision I have strong opinions about this so um I originally was the one proposing to bind it to V6 and since then I completely changed my mind into I think it's a good idea to allow it with before and I can like give a little brief overview why I think this is the case so first of all I think that um this is an opportunistic upgrade so you can distribute a key that contains a V4 sub key and implementation who don't understand it could just ignore the sub key while instead while instead if we have a like it's it's just about um having like allowing interoperability with older implementation while still having pqc in it and given the fact that I feel that encryption is way more uh urgent and than signatures these would allow to transition to V6 to to pqc pretty quickly at least at least can and there are several players in the market who are not really ready to move to B6 full uh I am looking for instance a Thunderbird and while giving them a V4 encryption certificate would make it an easy transition giving them requiring them to bind to V6 probably would make their choice to be okay then we don't Implement BTC at all I mean I get the the urgency but um your argumentation hinges on the fact that you expect V existing V4 implementations to continue to function"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:38:04",
    "text": "V4 certificate and I don't believe that whereas if if we would say that PQ is a V6 only thing then you know there are no V6 implementations out yet so any V6 implementation that is in the making now should better make sure that it will not choke on any PQ artic facts in the certificate don't implementation right now ignore a key with an algorithm they don't understand or they completely choke on if they have a sub key with algorithm ID who knows do you so us this just uh just to understand um your concerns is it uh just because of maybe of breaking existing implementations well I think it it adds complexity and I don't buy into the uh smooth upgrade path story MH and I I I actually think that having PQ in V6 is a great argument for moving to V6 and so so does that sound like a you know another good subtopic will be transitioning or binding to V4 V6 uh you know as well as the algorithm discussions and the combiner discussions um yeah there's another kind of sub on that pqc topic transition or um and having some discussion around that I I think I think that does sound like it would be useful yeah especially if there's multiple ways to skin a cat and Erin you know you you volunteered to do the three points so far U but usus if you wanted to to raise that discussion or maybe maybe you don't I'm not saying that you need to drive it but you know if other Erin we're not saying this that the whole meeting needs to be the Aon whisper show not that we mind having you present to the exent that you're willing to yeah"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:40:02",
    "text": "but yeah just I don't know if that's something that you would want to present or if you feel like that is an awkward spot to be in or you don't have the time um but I agree that it would be useful to have that conversation explicitly with with the group you both reasonable points yeah I mean it's going to be late for me but I can I can try to come up with this light or two and well try try to get the discussion going that would be great cool um yeah I mean I just don't want to um use bqc as how to say as a kind of ram into to ram in V6 um why not I mean I think signatures already doing that to certain an extent but encryption uh especially let's say that you I mean here is only about signature it's not about uh the scpd right that we're talking about because if not you forbid pqc keys from encrypting mixed with V4 keys that would be bad if if a pqc key encrypts if you're making an encryption to a postquantum key that you're also encrypting to a non- postquantum key then the postquantum benefits of the encryption aren't present right yeah but say I I publish just a pqc key and justce just has a uh how do to say traditional then you can't make a message to both of them that that that would be not good in my opinion you know maybe another motivation that I would like to say is that when I uh when we came across those ideas I thought would be a very good opportunity to start talking to ven to"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:42:01",
    "text": "give him an upgrade path you know to say that come on leave V5 V6 discussion at the site here you you have an upgrade path you can implement it in V4 that was some benefit that I saw that I presented as you know at least we are doing also something for GG but obviously um when you read about his ideas about P you see this kind of benefit slowly Fades away maybe um but I think you know the additional ideas to to give implementations that might uh want to spend a little bit more time to migrate to V6 and upgrade goth to pqc a much smoother one and to have some kind of intermediate step and then go to V6 I think maybe that was an idea I don't know um so I don't I don't think we're going to resolve just to elaborate on the history a little bit right sorry I don't think we're going to resolve this here no we won't but I do ask that when folks are thinking about how to present this to The Wider group um and when you're making the arguments that you are clear and you're thinking and I put this in the um in the chat but be clear whether you're talking about V6 versus V6 like the keys and signature mechanism or you're talking about the encryption mechanism which is seip version one which is widely implemented sepd version two or the uh draft C aad packet um and so it's it's just important that we are that we know what we're talking about in each of these cases in particular because the encryption case is a is is very different from the signing case these are not things that we been reason about clearly in parallel should so um should I make or should we make a thread for this on the Ming list as well before the"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:44:03",
    "text": "ITF where this means transition generally or in a more specific sense I would think in a bit of a more specific sense like who wants to bind encryption key version signatures encryption to V4 B6 Etc yeah sure I mean I guess I'd say yes but maybe let's try and um not have too many mixed threads at once so like if you're going to if you're hopefully we'll have more discussion on the signature thread you're going to kick off a chem combiners thread y you again maybe give that a few days and then perhaps starting a thread on on issues related to transition it seems like find thing to do there's time I think between now and brisbon okay so maybe waiting another week and a half from now like if I launch now the one for cem combiners another 10 days okay yeah yeah something like that would be and to make it sure that I because I crossed it out on my too list here the transition for V6 uh just to see if if you're confident with making the slides I'm very happily Crossing it out but just to know if I need to do it or not so I think Justice will has I think volunteered to do some slides but I think it's entirely fine that we have different viewpoints on transition or different inputs so you know it's if if if three people say here's three different ideas for how to do it then we should discuss them at this point I think um so yeah so in other words cross it out or or or add it back um as you think best is fine and if if we have multiple perspectives on it that's that's good okay okay so as I said in the chat I'm afraid I have to drop because I've got to go and inflict myself on students actually on postquantum crypto as a topic today but um so dkg is happy to stay on and I'll talk to you on the list and see some of you in Brisbane or a few of you and otherwise online so sorry to"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:46:02",
    "text": "have to drop but I have to do a runner by for that so Stephen dropped it sort of a natural um ending point here I think uh unless folks have uh so I I want I want opportunities if people want to raise any other concerns um usus thanks for bringing that one up um but we also don't need to use the hour if uh if folks have if there's no other specific topic that people want to cover so if you have some time um so I haven't been following the cfrg um discussions going on can you can you quickly summarize what's happening with the cam combiners uh um I have a bit bit of a vested interest but I followed it very closely if you want so um basically uh there was a call for adoption for um a set of drafts so not only the one that's thank you stos this is a phys a perfect representation of what's happening but like there was a call for adoption for the draft for a few drafts together so a call for adoption for a topic Ren then for a draft and at the beginning a few people expressed opinions uh about like there was the S and S and true um draft from Simon there was the one from X-Wing there was also our draft the one from stavos Mike and I that is a generic cam combiner instead and basically they were like okay let's try to see if there's interest into this topic people started arguing a lot about"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:48:02",
    "text": "whether One cam combiner was better than the other TLS came in with their opinions is like if it does if it doesn't fit TLS it's uh how do I say is useless kind of mood um Mike and lamps came in with silly requirements about RSA in general like wanting to mix stuff with with RSA and other and other like um the djb the barstein came in with very strong opinions about everything well surprised and shocking and and then basically the conversation devolved into I wouldn't say personal attacks but this far away from it like kind of yeah like uh discussing how much how expensive are all the TLs hashing done if you add inside one kilobyte of tax if it's millions of dollars or not there's a thread called millions of dollars in fact uh there's so the discussion basically went away from the point of do we want to talk about this to which cam combiner is the best as dkg said the problem is the fact that there's no significantly worse one so all of them have some advantages and disadvantages are more generic some are more specific some include copies of the CER text some don't and then it's all a discussion about the security proof of them and how zek can it be and how efficient can the computation be and therefore the chairs extended a call till the sixth for f discussion and they said at the cfrg session please come up with a five minute talk about what you think we should do and um they want to make a design team for yet another draft that is"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:50:00",
    "text": "independent from the existing ones that would um Encompass the wishes of everyone let's say it like this in a very optimistic way wow amazing thank you so you know what this raises for us of course is that this process is going to be a messy process and we may at some point decide that we don't want to wait on the resolution of this particularly messy process um or we may decide that we don't want to wait into it and by making a decision early we are effectively um you know committing ourselves to ignoring some insight that comes out later U so we're going to have to make a decision as a as a work grou about yes I I my opinion is here is that if we as long as we commit to something that is cryptographically sound and as long as it doesn't really Break um like it doesn't really break our performance model I think we're fine with it like no dis no discussion on the cfrg came up with this is broken they all came up if the attacker has a complete control of the key the worst thing is the fact that they can reduce in the in the EC case to 128 bits if the cam is broken but not AC is broken if the sorry if the PQ is broken but not AC is broken that's the worst um thing that came up on the list and it doesn't even affect the version that we're using right now so the question I would probably put in the can combiner thread also for the working group is is everyone fine with what we have right now A and B uh do we need to over optimize our camp combiner in order to omit the lace"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:52:02",
    "text": "the some some some how say um artifacts when you say over optimize you're not putting your thumb on the scale at all there I am absolutely having strong opinions about this yes maybe an aspect that I would like to point out here is since we are talking about c combiners um so I I like the X-Wing paper it's quite well written um there's one non-trivial aspect to it and namely this Collision Cipher resistant that is special to ml cm and um one thought that I have or one one reason that I would have arguing against X-Wing in open pgp or maybe in the core document for example would be that I would like the core document to be to function something like a blueprint if someone decides that later point that may me class make a leas or ENT true or whatever cam is a good idea for open bgp he could just copy the cam combiner from there because it's very generic it accommodates every cam as long as it has some kind of um um minimal requirements yeah so um this is one aspect that I that I have in mind when I when I think about Xing and our proposal yeah so Xing would be for me an additional algorithm in fact for open pgp right but we don't necessarily we don't have good signaling mechanisms available for asymmetric uh crypto ingp right we don't so a wide proliferation of things means everybody has to implement all of them because there's no way to signal that this one's compatible with and that one you're not so you know it's I get from an implementor point of view like oh it's nice to just copy this plan plan um and even from a specified view it's nice to be like oh this plan is safe to copy"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:54:00",
    "text": "from we can just do it um but I I want to caution against the idea of like oh we can just like throw a bunch more algorithm algorithms at this because those have a way of persisting inde the future we're we're still struggling with you know people have wanted to deprecate elal and like are we successfully deprecating alal at this point I the results of been mixed um so okay yeah just just there's some trade-offs there that don't necessarily align we have to decide right at the same time from an implementation point of view please use a a generary cam combiner don't bring uh PQ algorithms with with their own combiners please yeah yeah that was our idea right so those are those are the good those are the good um preferences to express clearly and simply and ideally non-confrontation um either on the open pgp mailing list or um if you're up for waiting into the cfrg discussion U being able to say like hey as an implementor who's considering this right now this is my preference um and here's why it's you know it's worth putting that out there yeah one one nice aspect of was this cam combiner threat I'm not sure if if that's this threat or another threat is that some guy just said oh yeah I take X-Wing and I plug in the ml cam 1000 something and I have 256 bits of security I said no that's not scalable and then you know the discussion became wild eron I think you also replied to that guy something yes yeah yeah this this is something that I find dangerous sometimes with those optimized you know good ide ideas optimized but not scalable"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:56:00",
    "text": "maybe and uh how do to say in general I also then kicked in into the top yes this was the guy I didn't want to say anything ah sorry my bad well it's public on the mailing list so it's not a real secret you can all go look it up um but yeah I think it's uh I think there's there is a like the reason why I use the term over optimize before is clearly I say an opinion of mine but is also the problem the fact that by creating a generic building block we ensure that it can be safely be reused without having to uh retune the security proof for each individual algorithm that probably would create a specification uh exploding specification yeah but usus thank you for the feedback that's valuable no thanks I'm also fine with the KAC I think it's not as widely available as as uh um hkdf but well I think that's the least of our problems with the PQ algorithms um"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:58:16",
    "text": "hi oh okay hi you're muted that may have been me EO timing out uh like this was a one hour session and we're reminding you that it's almost coming up I don't know uh uh but it was also a one hour session I don't know um so that gives us like there's like two more minutes left on the hour um It Books up other topics that they want to bring up um I will raise with me de the fact that all of us had the same experience did anybody survive the um what whatever just happened or did you all just Recon reconnect you seem to have it just it just reconnected automatically for me after a couple of minutes okay yeah same here it actually was very smooth but it looked like a brief down time of like 10 seconds or so okay I I'll raise that with you and just check in on that but it was also a convenient time to consider closing out the meeting here since we had it scheduled for hour very briefly so we are discussing splitting up the uh PQ document into into several and I'm wondering what the idea is are we worried that I mean is this really reducing the the amount of work or are we optimizing for a latency so it depends on how the split is done I think if we take the document and we produce um so the document is currently under working group control if we take"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:00:01",
    "text": "the document and we strip out things from it and we say the work group can has a you know we think the working group can reach consensus on these pieces and we're going to take the other pieces that we pulled out and Advance them separately um and try to bring them back that will require another workou adoption for the second piece so if the goal is getting to the end game where we have all the same algorithms applied then this may indeed increase the latency somewhat if the goal is getting to a point where we have a stable specification for some postquantum crypto in op pgp then this reduces the latency because we don't spend time arguing about the pieces that have been trimmed from this one so when I hear split what I'm hearing is we want to narrow our focus and at the same time we leave room for the stuff that we shifted out of the narrow Focus to come back in in a separate process if that makes sense so whether whether we're measuring latency what you're measuring the latency on is going to you're G to get a different answer if there's a but right if the latency is what's the time till a functional draft um I think this will reduce the latency if the question is how long will it take to get everything that's currently in the draft specified this probably will increase the latency that's tradeoff that the working okay thank you um I think that another Advantage would be um to gouge if there's enough interest into all the various algorithms so if at a certain point the N algorithms are like okay no one really cares about them having the N curves there maybe they just there's not enough people pushing for them and therefore they don't get through the working group at"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:02:04",
    "text": "all which is a fine outcome if that's what it turns out to be people who really want it can step up and if nobody really wants it we're not spending time on it so all right we are at the top of the hour folks have other commitments um so I think we wrap it up thank you for the conversation and Aon thank you for taking on the B the of the U presentation work again get the slides to us as soon as you can um you can submit them through the data tracker um these just a few up person meeting slides through the data cheacker as well um if you need to update the slides we can also update them so don't feel like you're getting locked into anything okay thank you all right thanks all thank you for the discussion thank you all bye-bye thank you bye thanks e"
  }
]
