[
  {
    "startTime": "00:00:28",
    "text": "[Music] sorry hello welcome to debt net we\u0027ve learned something at this meeting you really don\u0027t want to be the session right after a really nice snack break because no one shows up so we have much less people in the room than we normally do but we really appreciate you showing up we\u0027ll get more done that\u0027s right so I\u0027m Lou burger this is Yanis parkas we have our secretary Ethan Grossman here and our welcome to that Matt what\u0027s that okay can you hear me apparently I have to eat the mic welcome to debt net our agenda is online and as is our working group information please take a look this is towards we\u0027ve been here for a few days so everyone here should be familiar with the note well if you\u0027re not please be aware that everything you say here becomes part of our record and that we have rules governing contributions and if you\u0027re unfamiliar with them please take a look at the URL at the bottom of the page ITF goerge about note well dot HTML for the meeting we are streaming video we\u0027re recording also the everything is available via YouTube or audio download we are also using our joint minute taking via ether pod please join in and help make sure that your comments are accurately captured and just help us out to have accurate minutes really appreciate that the agenda is online and the blue sheets are circulating please do sign the blue sheets that helps both identify who\u0027s in the room as well as how big a room we get we have two sessions the first session you\u0027re here now so thank you agenda is unmodified so this has been what\u0027s basically been posted for a while for the second session this is the second session great we\u0027ve had a little bit of a change the one number ten and bold is in addition a late request that was added I think we\u0027ve been doing a better job of using the list as well as incremental meetings or periodic meetings among working group authors that all of those are advertised on less than open to all we\u0027ve been doing a pretty good job but it\u0027s really important when there\u0027s a discussion to "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:03:29",
    "text": "use the list as much as possible that ensures that well for new drafts and ensures that the working group is aware of what you\u0027re doing for working group drafts it helps ensure that we have good communication and good agreement and on the drafts and as we know we\u0027re here to have a consensus on drafts to submit for publication as RFC\u0027s we follow an IPR disclosure process here I think most people are familiar with it at this point but basically we do formal IPR calls at both adoption and last call and response by all contributors and authors is required in order to move to the next stage whether that be adoption or submission to the IESE for publication since the last meeting we\u0027ve had three RFC\u0027s published so that\u0027s that\u0027s really great we we sort of were a little slow getting going but now we are pushing out documents which is a reflection of the work that those in the room and those on the list have helped us achieve so thank you for all your work we have a number of documentaries that have gone through last call we\u0027re gonna talk about status on those we don\u0027t have to talk about details on them and they\u0027re on the as I said they\u0027re on the agenda we have some document we only have one document that\u0027s not on the agenda that\u0027s the bounded latency we don\u0027t do we have anyone in the room who is a bounded latency author Ethan is do you know what the plan is for Sean sorry not Ethan Sean what\u0027s the plan for the next update of the document please come to the mic and let us know state your name and tell us what the plan is the next step yes some mama who from epfl the idea is that for the next draft for the next ITF you are planning to finalize some sections that are related to the calculation of the delay bound which is mostly some mechanism that is the depth that can be used in debt net and we hope that we can finish it in IETF 108 which is in I guess to have a final version of the whole draft to be "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:06:29",
    "text": "to go for the next level right and for the current for the current state we have some terminology update and some consistency check for that net based on the other drafts that is existing and that\u0027s it great thank you for that they appreciate it so where are we in terms of our deliverables and milestones we had a set of core deliverables that were called out when the working group was formed we are really in good shape compared to where we were let\u0027s say a year ago we have our overall architecture published we have the core data plain documents that have passed last call and the the debt net over TSN was the first technology subnetwork technology that we had called out and we those documents are closed you\u0027ll hear from the authors how close we are hopefully we\u0027ll see something IETF 107 that we can get to last call the flow information document also is proceeding along and we do hope to get to last call there was some discussion that you\u0027ll hear about between the flow information model authors and the yang models authors and there might be some additional updates based on that the egg models were is on the agenda and that\u0027s in process the the other part of that was pretty important that was called out in the Charter and my initial milestones was the security document and we\u0027re looking to do last call by IETF 107 that too is on the agenda we\u0027ll get an update one of the points that came up with our Adu is whether to do an early review or just a standard review from the security area we\u0027re actually going to request an early review as soon as the authors tell us that they think it\u0027s good to go so we have a question of what\u0027s next and this question is based on who would like to contribute to what and then what the iesg says is our ID say is acceptable work activities for the working group and we\u0027ve thrown out a couple of items and the this the the intent here is to spend a couple of minutes just getting the reaction of the room but will a mean towards a Charter discussion at the next meeting and some of that Charter discussion may also bring in some of the results of the raw Boff where that discussion was really I took it as debt net over wireless my are no last week for myself and you can agree our hope is is that that is becomes a complementary activity whether the isg chooses to do it as a its own working group or within "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:09:32",
    "text": "this working group either way as long as the works done I think will I think we should all see it as a benefit so that maybe also something that brings in that we\u0027ll have to watch what happens with the isg is the result of the of that Boff so Lou Anderson I\u0027m obviously not up to speed really so the security document what state is that in now very close really close to what you guys cause okay I don\u0027t have a look at either microphone or away from the mic okay david black yeah told me security documents oh yeah a lot of good work on security documents lot of good texts in there however one of the reasons requesting an early security area review is the IHF version of no battle plan survives initial contact with the enemy we could see some interesting things come out of that review and the sooner the sooner we learn that the better great thank you so one of the reason one of the items here was a set up for someone who we thought would be in the room but instead we\u0027ll just go talk refer to his may list so greg mirskiy sent a comment to the list about the OEM for MPLS and document and we had oh here he is and we he didn\u0027t come to the mic so also we\u0027ll talk about it so the he\u0027s gonna come to the mic so they will give him a minute Gregg Marissa tea well their authors believe that om for dead net over in the West Network provides their needed technical solution and the document is stable and we would like to work in group consider adoption of this work okay thank you we so we had talked about this at the last meeting and there was some moderate support the issue with why we didn\u0027t do an adoption until now was there was very few people who would read it the people who had read it seem to have liked it but very few at this point our feeling is we\u0027re gonna do an adoption call and see if there\u0027s sufficient support and if there isn\u0027t we\u0027ll go we\u0027ll go from there right so if I may lean in really close because I\u0027m sorry there\u0027s just a lot of noise but no don\u0027t get close because there\u0027s noise behind that be calm okay because actually I hear it\u0027s very well miss so that\u0027s why I\u0027m stepping back "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:12:33",
    "text": "because okay so you probably aware that there is another document for om over death net IP I\u0027ve sent some proposal because in opinion of offers there is a big challenge technical problem of mapping or a.m. session between and points are on to their death net IP flow that to be monitored so I send some proposal appreciate your comments thoughts let\u0027s discuss it in the mailing list and then once we reach some solution that we agree with then we\u0027ll get to their consideration for adoption of second document it\u0027s great I really appreciate you fostering the discussion in that area I have hunger I have a question about the chatter actually we eat bean it helped me well we are contribute in the work of SR v6 bass that\u0027s not and the others including me are very very confused whether this part of work it belongs to the current chatter or it will be included in the rich header part I think it\u0027s a good discussion to have one of the things that we\u0027ll have to work out is is that work happen here or in spring generally the if you\u0027re talking about new data playing mechanisms you go to the group that owns owns that unless there\u0027s an agreement to do it elsewhere right now they own the data that data plane so we would need agreement from that working group to do it here without that agreement we\u0027re gonna assume that it\u0027s gonna you would have to do the work in spring so the new there I believe you have a new data playing mechanism and that probably will have to be done there but it\u0027s a good topic to raise and we\u0027ll have to work that out with our ad and the ad of that group it\u0027s a different ad so we\u0027ll have to work that out of where the work happens actually I am totally okay with doing that job being spring it doesn\u0027t matter but I think because the MPI is a face that than that and ip-based and that belong standard so I think maybe naturally as a six basis and that should belong to ten that as well so I\u0027m little confused and considering that it is very busy in spring recently and we have a time slot in spring in previous session but there is no time left for presentation and I think even "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:15:34",
    "text": "we have some time slot there will not be a lot of discussions on that I think in the current spring stage right you have to go run over there it is happening right now yes so as as the older I prefer to put this part of work in 10 L first I think sure but you the chairs or AP have other suggestions we can\u0027t discuss yes it\u0027s near technology they\u0027re really gonna have first say oh so it\u0027s really gonna be the working that working group chairs call and then the ad is call I think you know from our perspective like that we were talking about related to wireless we\u0027d like to see the work done and where it happens is secondary but okay but they they sort of have to say they don\u0027t want it before we can say we want to take it okay so I will talk with the chair self a spring first sure and if that will be something that we\u0027ll also talk over with our D Deborah okay okay thank you all right thank you any other comments please feel free to make also follow-on comments to the list another great way to ensure that your topic is included in the discussion for IAT f-107 is to have a draft that you can an individual draft that you bring forward and submit towards the debt networking group that will help us make sure that we don\u0027t miss your topic the this is our last slide on the administrative piece we want to give the working group a heads up that were talking about doing another joint session with with I Triple E at OU 2.1 TSN we had a really good session in Bangkok after the IETF at the start of the the Bangkok I Triple E meeting so that was exactly a year ago and we\u0027re going back to Bangkok next year and the I Triple E is meeting the week before us so the thinking is we would like we\u0027d like to propose and investigate doing another joint workshop or meeting on the Saturday before the IETF so the I Triple E ends on the fryer we would immediately the next day we would have the this meeting that\u0027s the straw man proposal this is not yet confirmed but we wanted to first let the working group know that this is being discussed and second just get a feeling from the room of how many people a participated in the last one so that\u0027ll be question one and then question two is would be interested or I\u0027m not like we\u0027re not looking for commitments but be interested in participating in this next one so well how many people participated in the last one okay so it\u0027s it\u0027s a "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:18:36",
    "text": "small number but reasonable set and interested in the if we have one next year think they\u0027re they might attend so a bit more so that\u0027s that that\u0027s helpful thank you Greg mercy City question two chairs you think it will be the same format as more lecture or discussion it depends a lot I would love to see more discussions yes that was last time that was the the first of this occasion and maybe we should figure out ways to foster more discussion okay depends on how many people show up and we were when we started we envisioned a small group and it turned out to be a really big group yes and that makes it a little harder to get the discussion but it\u0027s a it\u0027s good input that we should figure out how to have foster more to spell I think it\u0027s okay that we have the first more like introduction to technologists so might be in the second we can do something for both parties more like go for papers and people will submit some proposals for the shorter presentations so basically break it not a big presentation that does an overview over technology but people talk about specific use cases and problems thank you for that good ideas okay we\u0027re gonna move now on to the the first topic which is the framework hi hi my name is manoj welcome i will share you where we are with the data paragraphs the first presentation is about the framework you might remember that we have decided to have a building block approach regarding the data playing drops so that is the first of the a draft I will speak about each of them so let\u0027s start with the with the framework the current version of the framework document is version 3 this content is quite stable and it it is providing an overall framework for a deterministic network data plan so it is covers the concept and the considerations that are generally common for any of the data animistic networking data plain specifications inside the document we have sections dealing with the.net data plane there are some "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:21:37",
    "text": "encapsulation related consideration deadness specific metadata\u0027s are also covered we have framework topics on the IP data plane and MPLS native line and also some functions building blocks and scenarios are covered like Service protection aggregation and systems and some network in the document we have also a section dealing with the controller plane considerations we have the chef area review for this document and there was a very last call it was finished and the beginning of Dober and we have received pretty good comments how to improve the documents so all the clarification a deteriorate changes are resolved in the version 3 which is the current version so based on that the authors think that it is ready for submission for the EIS G so that is the current status on the framework document and it questions comments ok so the next summer is about for data plane documents two of them are the IP and mpls data plane and two of them are related to subnet scenarios where death net nodes are interconnected over sub network for each of this document we have a version 3 and we will go through all of them in the death net IP data plane document it is specifying the death net data plane over an IP packet switch network in the current specification of the IP data plane and the format of the death net flow we don\u0027t have a sequence number so that means that from that perspective we have only forwarding sub-layer related specification also the death IP data plane procedures are described and we have also section dealing with the management and control information summary based on the feedbacks and discussions on the list there were one technical change in the document and it is related to the ECN that ecn is omitted from the flow identification possibilities and there is also there "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:24:38",
    "text": "were some recent discussion and on the list regarding the use of the five topples and this is what I have highlighted at the bottom of the of the slide that in order to maximize the reuse of five double based Mahoney\u0027s and solutions it is envisioned that an system and that net application should not mix that net and known that not traffic within the same singular five that work the next document is the MPLS data planning document it is dealing with the that net data plan when we have MPLS based at work in case of MPLS we have description for both sub layers for the service sub layer and also the forwarding sub layer and also the data plane procedures are defined in the document so the flow identifications we are using labels and for the segment\u0027s number that not control guard is used and similarly to the previous data plane document we have a management and control playing related considerations in the document during the change of the document there were only editorial changes and fine tuning so the technical content of the document has not changed when we have created the version 3 and now let\u0027s speak about the two data plane documents which are dealing with subnets scenarios the first is the IP over MPLS document in that case to death net IP nodes are interconnected over MPLS subnet so that is the scenario but the document covers it is describing the data plane scenario the encapsulation and it is also showing four IP over MPLS procedures how the flow identification and how the traffic treatment is that and again as for all the data plan documents we have a management and control information summary the same apply for this document as well and we have created version 3 there were only editorial changes and fine tunings in the document so it is also pretty pretty quite stable and last let\u0027s speak about the scenario where to mpls that nodes are interconnected over IP subnet here is a failure on the figure so death net over that net MPLS over that IP is what we are covering and this is also the procedures that we are describing and here again for preparation for the "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:27:41",
    "text": "controller plan discussions the considerations regarding management and control is also included in the document that is that document had also just editorial and fine tunings when we have created the version 3 so it is quite in a good shape and in a stable format so currently with the version 3 of these documents the Shefford view were done and we have also a very brief last call it finished 11th of November so this version 3 is the latest version included all the comments that we have for the document during during the work and the others think that these documents are in a pretty good shape so that they are ready for submission to the ESG and it combines questions there was a comment that came in this week the IP document you want to talk to that yeah this is something I have highlighted on the slides this is not yet included in this format I will make a version for for that document in order to make that happen and there were also comments regarding references normative and informative references I think this is also something should be cleaned up that was also recently on the under list okay so for the last slide you said that it\u0027s ready it sounds like there\u0027s one more version before yeah it\u0027s ready but I think we know exactly that to do word by word with that document so this is via thing that yes when that version four are created then it is ready for the submission okay maybe we can get it done by the end of the session more but well things are going on well we\u0027ll make the changes and push them and get it published that\u0027s that yeah as usual all right thanks okay any comments questions just a note it turns out everyone up here is a contributor to this work so Ethan is actually shepherding this and sort of owns owns the documents from a process standpoint so let\u0027s just want to make sure everyone knows that and Ethan do you want to add anything not really except that these are the first Shepherd write-ups I\u0027ve done and I still have the marked as you know waiting for review so I I appreciate a little bit of input just to make sure they\u0027re everything\u0027s consonant okay "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:30:41",
    "text": "okay and now let\u0027s speak about three documents where we have was a new content from the compared to the previous version and they are the TSL related documents so we have two data plain documents dealing with that over TSN subnets scenario when we are interconnecting IP or MPLS that not nodes over TSN network and the last one is dealing with the scenario when TSN domains are interconnected by a dotnet network for these documents we have version 1 version 0 was created after the split of the IP and mpls data pin solution documents and these are practically the new documents for the documents we have created a new document structure that is valid for all the three and we have made at several points clean up and we have also filled up with some tags where we had not yet text so there are new stuff in these troughs first we speak about when to IP dotnet nodes are interconnected over a TSN sub network because we are speaking about that net IP data plane they should take only about the debt net forwarding sub layer so this is what is covered in the document service protection is not possible end to end however in the TSN sub network this is something what you can provide when you are interconnecting the IP that net nodes on the right side you can see the structure of the document just below here you can see the scenario so this is the TSN sub Network and the two IP that not poles are interconnected the concept to describe this scenario is that we are focusing on IP that nodes which are TSN aware so this is something you can see here on the right side so this is the TSN of our talker or listener so this is the role but IP debt net node place from the TSN sub network perspective we have also collected the management and control information related aspects because you have to map the debt NetFlow us to TSN streams when you are crossing that that sub Network the document is containing requirements for the for a TSN aware IP dotnet node such nodes are member both the death-knell domain and the TSN sub network within the TSN sub network that "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:33:45",
    "text": "IP that not node has a TSN a vertical or listener role and the death net flow IDs and the flow related parameters requirements are met two related TSN Stream IDs and stream related parameters so this is a requirement that we what we have to solve when we are speaking about management and control plan there is also some interesting scenario when you are triggering the setup or a modification of a TSN stream in the TSN sub Network and this is where management and control plane interactions might be required between the death net and TS n sub Network the document does not have any requirements on TSN unaware IP that not nodes because you have no new requirements on them however this is something that we have marked in the management and control consideration that in such a case is it might be even more problematic or more complex to to start such a triggering between the two domain because the IP that not node is not at all aware about that sub Network the second sub not related scenario is covered in the in the next document this is the MPLS / TSM scenario where a TS and sub network interconnecting two MPLS dotnet nodes they are speaking about the MPLS data plane so both the service and the forwarding sub layer are described in the document you can do service protection both in the TSN domain and in the MPLS that not domain however has Service protection interworking can be made this is something that is left for further study in the current version of the document and here the concept is very similar to the previous one so you have your MPLS that not node and it should be a TSM ever to occur or listener from the TSN Sun network perspective so again you have to map the MPLS death net flows to TSN streams in the network so that means that that these MPLS that not knows has a TSN ever talk or listener role the flow ideas and the related parameters have to be mapped to the streams and the related parameters and if you have to change anything you need some triggering and the interaction between the management "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:36:45",
    "text": "and control plane of the dotnet domain and the TSN domain the same statement applies for the TSN aware and pls that not knows as I have said in the in the previous case and just highlighted again that the Service protection interworking scenarios are left for further study but not least we have a data plan document dealing with the scenario had to interconnect TSN domains over that not MPLS network in this case the concept is that the TSN stream what is there inside the TSN domain it is treated as a dotnet app flow and the death net domain behaves like big fat TSN relay note from the TSN domain perspective and the service proxy function this is what is making that mapping of TSM streams to death not flows and this is what can be treated like like a port in that big fatty SN relay not so but we are defining in the document is this Worr concept is described and also the TSN over MPLS data plane a procedure I defined in detail there are some TSM related functions that not serve a related service proxy related functions data service and forwarding sub layer also described in detail and the Service protection interworking is also left for further study in that case but might be interesting to highlight here that we have slightly modified or created this scenario specific version had this proxy is working with the TSN side of the of the network if you look to for example to the architectural document there is a high-level figure here in this document we have a much more precise depiction of those scenarios again management and control plan related consideration you have to map the data that flows and the TSN streams and that mapping is something what is happening at the service box a function of the mpls that not H node and that that not H node is a member of both domain and it is acting from the TSN domain perspective as a as a tsa relay node here again we need some interaction at the management and "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:39:45",
    "text": "control plane when a TSM stream is set up modified or tilled land you have to know it in the MPLS domain and react accordingly and just again highlighting Service protection interworking is left for further study so this is where we are with these documents but we intend to have as a next step to collect the feedback from the group that there whether there are any missing items or something but you would like to describe in more detail or somewhat differently and then also to add the conformance language to these data plane documents so that is the plan questions comments Ethan Grossman I note in the security consideration sections of these various drafts that they\u0027re they\u0027re quite small and in looking at the security considerations for the other data plane drafts the iclicker data planes IP and mpls we\u0027ve been looking in the security group for things that are time-sensitive specific and data plane specific have you given much thought to that are you confident that there isn\u0027t anything specific to the TSN of the security considerations for fir these or or do you think that that\u0027s a subject that needs further study this is something that needs further study so we have identified that this is just something to be to be done in the future versions so this is something to be done okay so presumably we will fill it there is a section waiting for that in the security yeah and so presumably we\u0027re going to fill it in there yeah one question that came up and just discussing the structure was well say we publish the security considerations draft then we get another data plane like some wireless thing or something then obviously this draft will be closed so everything will have to go into the data plane specific document so I was just curious whether it\u0027s a good idea to keep using this model or whether we should figure we\u0027re going to migrate to a model where that information that\u0027s specific to that data plane goes in the data plane drive I think at the point it\u0027s for further discussion so I\u0027m happy to have any working solution in order to fill out those sections and being in line with the other documents so okay can I just have a communication to your question so you because actually the security document was gated by the base data plane actually and the architecture and my understanding is you want to avoid any kind of situation like saying this is it for now in the security "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:42:47",
    "text": "document and from a borderline if there is any new data plane draft that has to do with its own security considerations did I get to find that that\u0027s what you are after yeah I mean I don\u0027t see how else to do it unless we pull all the stuff out and and it\u0027s just it goes there now but since those drafts have already been last called and we couldn\u0027t find anything anyway we\u0027re sort of in at the moment we\u0027re in a consistent state because we couldn\u0027t find anything but if we go forwards and we do find something that it might be interesting but my view is is the we have a base set of documents we\u0027re sort of the foundational documents and as we move forward we can either refer back to those foundational documents and say those we addressed the security considerations there or if we identify something new we do that in the new document we do have to make sure that those foundational documents do adequately cover the security considerations and we will do that and do it early review as we talked about and make sure we have a nice consistent security Directorate review of all the documents and they\u0027ll keep us honest just to bring another example I mean SR v6 contributions as a new that no data plan I think there\u0027s that s our v6 document should have its own security consideration complete that\u0027s my personal view okay so I guess for the IP and mpls that one maybe do we cut it off there and and say or do we include TSN and then cut it off after that what is there right now basically in in oh in the TSN one no and no security in the security document do you cover TSN or D coverage yes there is a placeholder that says to be written so it\u0027s like something that is there\u0027s nothing that I would say cover the core technology and move all the TSN considered security considerations this the TSM document okay I think the way then that way it covers our core technology only okay done and if you\u0027d like you can make a statement that that will be covered in in the technology specific documents and for example the TSM and that would be an informational reference okay great so a timeline what are you thinking in terms of having a version that you believe is stable enough for last call for the TSN documents your media I think we need at least two meeting cycle I\u0027m sorry did you say one or two I just don\u0027t do meeting side because that that we do my expectations all right great so targeting where we Madrid yeah Madrid okay how many have read this version of the document that\u0027s really very few "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:45:51",
    "text": "clearly these documents have not had adequate review to really know what the working group thinks about to the working side no no from a process standpoint I would hope for one but two sounds we\u0027ll go adjust our milestones accordingly I think you know aiming for two is better I think the next what we can discuss is when we have most of the conformance language so that I also expect some and some further consideration so this is why I think that at least two cycles okay keep in mind we are contribution driven so if you feel like you\u0027re willing please review the document if you see things that you\u0027d like to see changed please send this suggested changes through the list you do enough of those you get at it as a contributor or an author so there\u0027s opportunity here some go I just suggest that maybe we can send this part work also to the actually because I think TSM people may very interested in how to do the mapping between the tenet and Tessa because in the previous joint meeting a lot of people they are they are curious about how to use their three deterministic technologies and how to use them with TSN so I think maybe there will be a lot of potential view reviewers there yeah actually that is just a suggestion okay so this is just as once we have a stable document to send it to the I Triple E or is the suggestion to send it to the I Triple E as is and say please help us yes know which one is charge for state wait for stable or I think this this version is good enough and so I heard the author and by the way I\u0027m not an author on these I heard the author say that he\u0027d like to get the serious review once the conformance language was there you know so maybe I think I would like to also call like the feedbacks in general right I prefer the practice of sending a stable document to another musician so it\u0027s written maybe is better to do it like it becomes more Steve I mean without conformist language actually I just want to perhaps the mold reviewers will they will give more feedback to other drafts but I think when the draft is they Bowie is also okay good suggestion thank you very much any other comments okay so the next "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:48:52",
    "text": "topic is update on flow information without I will talk about a bit of reminders what it is about and then explain the updates of draft and and what are the next steps so the focus of this document is so the the flow information as the title says plus the information mundo for the service and this is from the from the document that both the figure and the text what is an information model and what is data model so the subject of this document is the flow information model and the service information model and data models are the subject of the yank document you will hear about after the my presentation so what happened since the last IETF we had version four for the last IDF and two updates since then version 6 and version 5 in version 5 we had a number of editorial updates in up in the language and current many clarifications in the text and in in the attribute formats for example making it clear in that well-known names are attributes and the formally empty placeholder Security section has been filled in security considerations have been added and these were mainly contributed by Dolph Eric who is now a new co-author of the document in after that in version 6 practically speaking there was one technical change a new attribute has been added for IP flow identification the IPSec spi this is a security parameter index which is a kind of an identification tag if IPSec is used so that has been added to the parameter list for fly identification and just a reminder this is the structure of the attributes this is what we is captured in in the draft so as I as I said the key parts are data flow and the service information with the parts but it\u0027s very important input for these how how we describe up flow application flow and this is many to one mapping from left to right so multiple up flows can be mapped to at that net flow and wonderful data flows can be mapped to the net service so where we "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:51:56",
    "text": "are what is next this first question we keep repeating to the group and this is there any missing attributes and this I would like to ask people to review that often and then we give comments on the last two item actually we had a working session as you saw an email list last night and it\u0027s very important that to ensure that this document and the end document absolutely in line actually we find some gaps kaesong we\u0027ll talk about it in the next slide in detail and this leads to the other question we told before that it\u0027s a the flow information model draft is ready as is for working with plastic all now actually I would say after filling in these gaps between the two in some form we think that authors think hey we are close and ready for working class Co so that\u0027s it on on my side David David black I\u0027m not correct merci I\u0027m gonna ask an OEM question anyway and this is actually a bigger scope question of which is the car which is the horse and how do we cope with it which is MPLS om looks like a fairly clean add-on via the ACH IPO am looks like anything but how far along do we have to get with IPO am to figure out that we don\u0027t need anything else it\u0027s probably gonna be turn out to be mostly in the IP data playing draft if we wanted up neat needing to do something clever about flow identification get the OEM flows to behave how do we skin this one that\u0027s a good question and actually I haven\u0027t really seen the discussion on this in the list so yeah that seems to be a bit of an open question no ideas have been bought so far and that\u0027s a good question in the sense of how do we get done because as you my understanding of Greg\u0027s points and proposal was to not to bind together the MPLS and IP om but let the MPLS OEM progress and then progress later as we can with the IPO am yeah the one question I heard from your point is should we hold the flow information whether until we get done with the I promise I\u0027m not sure what I\u0027m suggesting we\u0027re observing is that as you said the Empress om OM is clean it\u0027s pretty clear that that that know how to tag the head identify the OEM flows as Oh am i my "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:54:59",
    "text": "suspicion is that Greg\u0027s proposal affects IP flow identification and hence is gonna hit he\u0027s gonna hit the IP data playing draft is gonna hit this one and I do you want I guess the question the to you is chairs is how how much do you want somewhere i the choice is something like do we push pause and unscramble enough of only Emily we know what its gonna look like or do we carry on get the get the IPD deplane done and then come back and figure out how to do OEM possibly revenue IP data playing if necessary so so i think you\u0027re really making a comment on the two talks ago not this one quite possibly but uh as good an excuse to ask anything as both as its gonna hit both rash right sorry i have to eat the mic this is an interesting question as chairs because we\u0027re also contributors to it so as with the chair hat on and with what we think is the consensus of the working group and i\u0027m stating it so anyone can come to the mic and tell us we\u0027re wrong including the ad as chairs we\u0027ve said we\u0027re going to define the core get those out and keep pushing along and duo a.m. when it shows up we\u0027ve also has made the technical call that OAM is going to have to follow the path of the flows so has to meet our flow definitions and we certainly have had some conversations of ways that could be done but we don\u0027t have a document it at you know greg that\u0027s the status right we don\u0027t have a document that gives us an answer yet so we don\u0027t have confirmation of that okay I think it\u0027s a stand point we\u0027re saying we\u0027re gonna move we\u0027re gonna move forward and understand that OEM is gonna trail and yes we understand that there\u0027s risk here and it\u0027s important for the working group to understand those risk here and okay I think it\u0027s a question which is that that the working group consensus is believed to be that the IP data plane draft needs to move forward without Prok without further further delay as OAM gets unscrambled if it impacts the IP data plane we get to complete we we get to come back and revise that and deal with that when we get there right and just for your information I even had the conversation this week with Greg about it some of our thinking on this is to do wait David I\u0027m answering your question if you\u0027re distracted you\u0027re not going to hear it Stewart let me finish so the the the thinking is on OAM is that we\u0027ll end up having to do some wider flow rules that "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:58:00",
    "text": "cover both the OEM traffic and the six tuple for the data flow and that\u0027s probably as good as we\u0027re gonna get now we\u0027re gonna have to run that through the whole process see if anyone has better ideas but that\u0027s what we think we\u0027re gonna sort of the direction we\u0027re going to end up so maybe I stepped at the wrong moment or something this is a pretty jet lag meeting but there isn\u0027t even a way for regular IP of getting an OEM message to be congruent with it this is way more fundamental than any problem we\u0027re trying to solve here and that\u0027s why I gave the answer that I just did which is the only thing we have is is we can have multiple flows be congruent by adjusting our flow rules yeah I mean I just think this is so hard that we know how to do it for MPLS but oh but for for IP I don\u0027t think there exists a solution anywhere in the ITF I agree and so the question for the working group is do we not push the data plane the IP data playing document forward and wait until we have an OEM solution or do we push it forward and try to align our OEM solution with the IP document though that\u0027s the question for the working group and I think you\u0027ve heard what the chairs think the consensus is its opportunity of the working group now to say disarray okay what I think I heard is the latter which is push IP data playing doctrine phones make sense and revising senior remarks like I would say aligning and modified aligning only with IP data plane modifying the IP data plane if and as necessary so as a contributor like I think we we had a good job and effort actually made effort to make the IP data plane in line with IP principles and I think it\u0027s good to go and if we develop OAM it\u0027s a hard problem but that should be in line with IP principles anyways so please scale to balance we you mention you asked is all the possible wave signal in your flow well listed in this document and there\u0027s another one which is actually not listed I was just wondering if you\u0027re interested in adding it to it so if you have a ripple domain and so you\u0027re using ripple to to do the routing inside that domain then there is work at a troll which actually enables to what do what we call rod projection which is really installing a route from the roots directly into the network and this this rod is what we call a track in six dish it\u0027s a complex route have been something very akin to what we do here and it is signaled in the packet using a hop-by-hop header which contains some information which is akin to a vrf information so our local and global he "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:01:02",
    "text": "arrives so the local ones really tie the destination of the packet which is the exit of this track with a number which is locally significant there and that basically tells you which routing table you need to look at for the spider and you can have huge numbers of those things in a ripple net so that\u0027s how we actually signor not really the flow but the path that this the flow is supposed to go which also means that you could place the OAM and the data on the same path and they will follow it to the destination which is the case I wanted to give to Stuart that we actually have one case where we know how to merge the flow and the IOM into the same thing so is it something want to capture here or do you see it as an exception that\u0027s not interesting so one way I understood what you said is that that technology is kind of Association of explicit routing encoded in the data plane little packets like spring and with the benefits of making like spring can be very it\u0027s more like what you put in the packet is more like topology identification like a v rfid not the source route path right okay so it\u0027s a different other you just I if you if you knew about multiple routing that\u0027s more like that yes so so we actually the mechanisms that we built the IP data plane on or closer to policy routing so if you look at policy routing you can do very similar things and you don\u0027t have to have topology and it you don\u0027t have the topology IDs you have an MRT or the SIDS that you have in spraying you just have policies so I think what you\u0027re saying is we would want that we should pursue a path that maps different flows to the same basically policy the policy tells you which flow is good in which rib and now you stamp the rib in the packet and the packet follows this rib the question is this is how we signal the equivalent of a flow in our packets it is something worth capturing it you are missing attributes well that that\u0027s a flow a notification attribute but let me a flow its topology but I see it\u0027s something below it\u0027s not a flow I as a it\u0027s it\u0027s routing kind of remember but but that is that can be a good technology choice I would say a lower layer not seen at the level of flow information but but if we can maybe double check offline if what what you see as a flow information flow idea out of that one flow plus the OEM into that particular topology because that\u0027s redesigned for it right it there are many of them it\u0027s design want of flow so at some point it\u0027s family but it\u0027s not the same thing so I think it would be great if you collaborate with Greg on his document and try to capture these "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:04:02",
    "text": "ideas and help us move that that work forward because I think it I think it\u0027s actually quite it would fit in quite well yes ok thank you Thanks next maxi\u0027s yong-seok a song if you could oops okay you see the clicker it works this is your song and I will present our work about ten and a configuration young model and thank you for the contribution of other elders here is the history of our work this this draft is accepted as a working group document after IETF well - and in the first version we separate the done edit apology young another document and the yen version - we received some feedback from the working group and we update the following attributes we end the sequence number generation considering the OEM and we end then a service decapsulation and also then I transfer tano decapsulation in version 3 we do a lot of work about the configuration structure update in item well for and while 5 in version 4 which is the current version we modify the scope of the 10 and Yamoto merely to go aligned with the information model work and here is the previous word basically we define a 10 and a configuration module which is defined for that net flow paths built building of flow statements reporting and then add functions configurations we defined through 4 modules inside the this young model which include the attributes of application flow survey sub layer and forwarding sub layer and some network this is based on the net data plan protocol stack defined in the architecture document and in this world I tried to do some modification to go along with the structure as the previous slide show because in the information "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:07:03",
    "text": "model there is that another service attributes so we end the than a service module to include the service quality attributes such as the latency the lost the miss Audrey and we also end the endpoints attributes to indicate the start point and the end point of the dinosaurus and maybe the encapsulation type attributes is also needed it can be MPs or IP and we keep the tended configuration module stable just as the previous slides but after some discussions with the other of an information model there is a call meeting and we also meet each other yesterday and we find that these two Mojo\u0027s models are still not well aligned yet so the mapping between the information model and llamado are still to be defined and we plan to work together after this meeting perhaps we will have a call meeting every week to make this work down and the picture shows that in the left hand is the information model we see that there are three boxes and in the right hand that is the ten oh sorry I write this wrong this is the the structure of the young model and we have four elements so maybe how to map the information model attributes to the young model attributes and make it very easy to understand there is our next step work and that\u0027s all thank you just to clarify here and the next step so we are planning to have virtual meetings working sessions like we are having for the data plane announced on the list to move forward I don\u0027t think it will be weekly we will need to figure out when but that\u0027s part of the plan David black wearing transport area tech advisor hat small request boo-boo top out in the past as you work towards the next revisions draft which looks like a lot of work there is still in this version the dscp and the DSA bitmask pair that needs to be changed with dscp list just it\u0027s it\u0027s small item that should be double sooner or later thank you I think we\u0027re gonna end up with a major revision one of the comments that I saw is it\u0027s it\u0027s very flat and not taking care taking into account sort of some of the layout you\u0027d want to have an extensible free foundation for future augmentation and so I think you\u0027re gonna see oh I mean I\u0027m expecting major changes I\u0027m just uh let\u0027s let\u0027s check this box now so we don\u0027t have to go back and discover whoops we forgot to check out three versions from now that\u0027s all if I understand this right I I remember that you have very "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:10:05",
    "text": "similar comments in the previous meeting so we haven\u0027t updated the draft based on your comments I remember down this okay just since it\u0027s clean major revision come and let\u0027s you simply check check check the box while were there no problems okay thank you if you find that there is something wrong please that has no final meaning this thank you thank you so we\u0027re actually running a bit ahead which is right which is pretty rare which is actually really good because our tech advisor David black can\u0027t be here for the second session and really wanted to be here for the security document if the if even if you\u0027re willing can you go now great so we\u0027re gonna move that slot up [Music] okay all right I\u0027m Ethan Grossman and this is an update for the security considerations draft so the intent of the draft is to be a reference in a toolkit for network designers who have not necessarily dealt with time-sensitive networks before so this is relatively new in the IETF so we figured we\u0027d have a clearinghouse for that kind of information so this document doesn\u0027t address the general considerations for security for IP and mpls networks we leave that to the existing documentation we\u0027re very focused on only the time specific aspects of it and the relation of this drafts to the security considerations sections in the other debt net drafts is that basically each of those drafts is to have its own security section addressing issues specific to that particular draft topic but then having a reference to this draft to cover all of the more general technology independent and and other considerations that\u0027s that way we don\u0027t have to duplicate these many pages in each draft so at the moment the technology independent section in other words regardless of whether you\u0027re on an IP based network or MPLS that section is fairly mature at this point this drafts been running for nigh on two years and we\u0027ve had a fair number of eyes on that part and if there\u0027s a fair amount of organization there\u0027s a few little bits to fit in and "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:13:05",
    "text": "fill in but that part\u0027s pretty mature the thing that we thought we\u0027re really going to do is the next big thing was the IP and mpls specific sections we thought well there\u0027s got to be stuff that\u0027s specific to both time-sensitive networks and the IP implementation versus the MPLS implementation so we\u0027ve had as many people as I could manage to wrangle into discussing this look at this and so far the result is that we haven\u0027t really found any unique that are both related to time-sensitive and not covered in the general case but are specific to that data plane so we have later I have hoping we can have a little bit of conversation but maybe it\u0027ll just get deferred to the list but my sense is that if you\u0027ve ever read read the Gladwell book about blink there\u0027s this thing where people who have been doing something for a long time just have a certain sense of intuition but it\u0027s not just intuition from nowhere it\u0027s intuition from many years of working on it so I guess what I was asking is that if you could think about that statement I mean at the moment our stance is there\u0027s nothing technology specific about these so we got sections in the Security draft that say IP nothing specific it\u0027s all just the general stuff MPLS nothing specific just the general stuff does that ring true or does that leave a bad feeling in your stomach because I haven\u0027t gotten anybody to come with anything specific but I\u0027d settle for a general feeling about it so that\u0027s just one way to approach what to me at the moment is kind of an intractable problem is trying to figure that out so that\u0027s one thing so the TSN specific section we discussed a little earlier is not started yet but we\u0027re going to defer that to the the TSN specific draft so that\u0027s off of my plate good the other thing that is I\u0027m in a quandary about going forwards is this in the use cases draft if you\u0027ve read it you know that at the end of it I sort of collected all of the related security related statements from every other draft that I could find at the time it hasn\u0027t picked up the new ones lately but basically particularly from the use cases draft because they were like all these little kind of funny statements and there\u0027s not really a requirements document so I thought well how is anybody going to review the security draft without understanding what the criteria and the requirements are so I said well collect all these things that\u0027s as close as we have and that way people can look at those and say well this is kind of what\u0027s expected do we think that we\u0027re covering the territory so my question is well what do I do with that stuff I mean do I leave it in the draft if I do then that\u0027s our a process of updating it and make sure I\u0027ve got all the stuff to date that\u0027s been added since you know that was last worked on which was many months ago or do we just chuck it and figure it doesn\u0027t really belong in the security draft anyway interesting questions to ponder we may "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:16:05",
    "text": "have a second for a discussion if we do and we\u0027d like to I\u0027d like your employment I will okay so I look forward to your input any minute now right now discussion okay so there were three questions that I had intended to ask one of them the third one we\u0027ve already actually managed to resolve about the security Directorate review is it going to be before after working group last call and we decided that we would go for it at the beginning of last call we would also submit for an early review in other words it would be four before it was passed to the iesg we would also have the security Directorate have a look at it first in parallel with our working group last call so I\u0027m happy to have that result the other couple things are about the data playing technology specific things does anybody have any thing to say about that and the security related statements from the use cases any thoughts about that so I did but some people who drew a blank on airplane technology specific threats I thought are come to the mic and explain why my gut feel is that it\u0027s okay or I\u0027m not really upset about it and let\u0027s just see if I can get somebody up to the up microphone to debate me and we\u0027ll learn something reason is that the security reasons draft is very much written from a threat model perspective it takes a general functional model of time sensitive networking and outlines all the various threats that could disrupt that at that level it\u0027s got pretty complete threat coverage now if I plug a data plane in underneath that time specific of networking I wanted up we\u0027re finding that general function model is specific manifestations data plane the threats haven\u0027t changed but how they impact the data plane probably has but with the security drive haven\u0027t been written with primarily in terms of threats and not in terms of specific manifestations in the data plane the fact that we can\u0027t find any new threats against the data plane is not that big a surprise interesting point does that mean that we should be talking about those specific impacts on the specific data planes or does it mean we\u0027re sticking with threat models and call it good I think you cast a die I think divers cast awhile ago to write the security the overall security draft as an overall deterministic networking security draft and that leads to its current Phet model structure so I\u0027m not criticizing that try and just sort of have a look at is there a gap there and the answer is well no it\u0027s our they did did did implementing deterministic networking on a specific data plane add new threats to deterministic networking perhaps not know but I understood what she said I thought but my question was we haven\u0027t we specifically did not address the impacts on a specific data plane is this "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:19:07",
    "text": "a place where we should be thinking about that and not be talking so much about the threats but about that subject referred truth and beauty perspective I would say no that when when you\u0027re looking at a threat to specific data plane mechanism it\u0027s a security consideration for that data plane draft so another way of David I like the way he phrased that it actually triggered some additional thoughts that I hadn\u0027t had so they the you know what\u0027s really different by the way this is Lou as contributor or not as chair what\u0027s really different between the different data planes is how we do flow identification that\u0027s about it and so maybe we should focus on that and highlight even in your general section about technology specific threats to articulate that the difference between them is how we identify flows and so the additional threat there or vulnerability whatever the right word is is that it it may be easier or harder or one flow to impersonate another flow or to potentially deny services based on the number of fields that are used but that\u0027s really about it between the technology specifics the rest of it is all about service and that\u0027s gonna be common and when we get om done we\u0027ll have another difference right right okay so the next steps were looking at are to basically at this point finish it up and get through working group last call and security review right thank you so we still are running a little bit ahead but I think if we try to squeeze in another we might run it run out of time in the session so what we\u0027re gonna do now is break until the second session the second session is back in this room in half an hour so instead of a 20-minute break we\u0027re gonna have a half-hour break so see you all here at 5:40 there will be all kinds of interesting friends they really reliable of course they will delays on TDM that\u0027s all well that\u0027s "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:22:07",
    "text": "history and that\u0027s what people have been doing that\u0027s we\u0027re trying to move away from the other thing too we might want to watch out for a lot of people when they think they buy a wire or serve as an internet service for example from their a turbulent area I\u0027ll find what they think thereby they\u0027re buying a moment sex right yes well I\u0027ll not even if I mean so if anyone missed signing the blue sheet either raise your hand or come on up here almost like Oh a.m. it\u0027s like to a certain degree you just have to get the thing out there and then find out what happens once it gets out in the wild and isn\u0027t limited to but I think a lot of really new territory "
  }
]