[
  {
    "startTime": "00:00:41",
    "text": "hello everyone Hello Alex how are you good good just uh came back from a week in the U.S visiting all the interesting cities and I actually didn't realize there are so many time zones in that country so like I can say it's good now yes go ahead we cannot hear it"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:05:13",
    "text": "okay so maybe we can start now okay uh okay yes if you want I can do the intro and give you the help from there okay I'll move the slides go ahead okay thank you so hello everyone um this is um on the an interim meeting of the lp1 working group so this is an ITF meeting and a search oh official ITF policies apply uh and by participating you agree to follow the ITF process and policies all right so um if you need to be aware of all the BCPS that are listed here uh and uh uh I mean everyone that that that's that's right now logged in of course you"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:06:00",
    "text": "have heard that you have read that note well many times but please do take time to to read it uh uh if you have not done so until now so uh that's for that's here for the agenda for today uh so we have uh of course the update of the working group then uh Richard and discussion on the rechartering uh I think that with I mean a lot of the things have been said already so it's going to be I think maybe the conclusion of these discussions um we'll see uh and then uh Chic compound act and next steps for the architecture documents um draft so do you have any additional items that you would like to discuss yes because there was this discussion on the data model that just arised on the mailing list yes yes just uh to inform you that I we publish a new draft that is on related to access control so this is a very basic graph that just summarized what we sell last time in in a meeting and the goal now is to to admit to your and start discussion and how we can under Access Control okay thank you well we may we haven't do you have a slide on this no because the slides are the one I presented last time is is just some text around but uh next time just posted to the mailing list so we at least this is this was announced and yes I mean we can always take it in the agent in the agenda that the items for the next meeting"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:08:01",
    "text": "did you see the the discussion with Eric uh and Elena on the young data model it was around noon today no because my my company is blocking mails from uh RFC editors so I need a proxy to send it and I don't think an uh resend me the mail okay uh so I mean that there's Eric is not with us right so maybe we can take that to the to the next time basically yes but basically um there was I don't know I was suggesting to change the title to a young data model as opposed to just data model something like that so we we solve already all these uh this issue it was one week ago and uh we we produce a new document are we and today we also review the document and I think we I finished maybe and I can say more about that no problem my only point at the oath 48 stage uh wants to move one paragraph uh in security consideration just to the two one the two paragraph data copy for the young security template so no just a change of the flow in the security section okay so so I mean you will see this email address so please uh consider it yeah yes we okay I don't know if there is a new new one but we answered this morning and only I have sent all the mails to Lauren so we have uh the answers we I I put I sent us with him so"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:10:03",
    "text": "we answered together okay and you know if you have problems reading or receiving the oath 48 and most of the author tiered messages are also in an email archive so if you're Google iatf archive OS 48 you will find all the emails sent in the old 48s okay good okay so um that's that's pretty much it for the agenda bashing I guess and the the status of the working group has not changed so I move on quickly on that but uh we we have this is a great days because we always have news on the document advancement so uh Eric thanks so much for your uh early idea review for the compound act and we will have a long agent item to discuss that actually I received one slide from careless and and uh it's gonna be Sergio's picking it um npiot is still cute to the RFC editor but it's in edit State meaning that the RFC editor is working on it uh Chicago is complete the only thing that blocks its publication is the publication of compound AG so if you look at the state in details of the sigfox document you will find that effectively there is copper deck which is not yet seen in DRC editor and for the reason that we still have to push it to the ASG but basically once it's published Fox will be published at the same time and then we have the young data model which as we just discussed is still in those 48 but from what Lauren was saying we we are mostly done with everything and we we already know the RFC number it's going to be uh 9 3 6 3."
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:12:00",
    "text": "so that's it for the document advancement uh um and let's let's switch slides if you don't mind and we'll go straight to the discussion of on compound X so I need to change the slide set you go ahead Sasha your muted but go ahead hello can you hear me yes well hi everyone thank you here uh well we received the the ad review on version 10. uh thanks a lot to Eric for the for the review we have already applied almost all changes and we have a copy well we have a copy on on our genome discussing with the with the authors and we have already all the point by Point answers to the well we are missing one or two but we have almost all the all the answers to the Eric email curious um they are mostly that are required so um to the RFC 8724 specifically Section 8 the 8.2.8.4.2 uh in that case we are well we are"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:14:01",
    "text": "proposing a new sentence uh following the one that is proposed by Eric to to try to make it more clear that uh that the new text is the one that substitutes the old text in some cases or in some cases the old text is removed for new texts inside it uh I don't know if anyone has any comment on on this format or or or on how we proceed in this case of the new textual text so Sergio I would strongly suggest right so I was reviewing another draft in iot evaluation doing the same thing so it's basically not changing a few words in the text right uh like you do in a Google Docs or whatever I would really suggest that you are replacing complete sections that are not too long theory for the top of my head right section 4.1 replace a section 8.4.1 from RFC 87 or 24. and you copy this directly right so and you remove everything that needs to be removed and so in the new section right you don't have new text or text and that's it because you complete sections or subsection in case you need to compare it with the all rsvc modify the implementation on on that sense that was but we can do it this way I think it's simpler I I understand that for at least for the authors that's simply the way you do it right it's pretty much like you do Microsoft Word Google Docs review mode right you see the change but it's not the way it's usually done it in the ietf so I would really suggest especially if you replace complete section right"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:16:01",
    "text": "um do it okay so in the new version I will remove this new textual text and just leave the new text without the section replaces the section Okay blah blah in the end security perfect okay and similarly with the appendix D of rfca 724 in that case well we just add a couple of bullet points to the list I don't know if we need to replace that section again or if we just leave it no then if you do it completely at the end you say appendix D of RSC 84 8724 is updated by appending the new text right at the end you say new text right it starts our new text Stars the new text are you and in the end you say end of new text correct because you replace part of it right so no I don't know if appendix D I didn't check right if appendix D is 10 lines you replace it completely if appendix D is two pages then you simply append the uh the new text to it okay I think we are appending just uh the new text because at the end what we are saying is if we are using the compound Arc in the profile so you need to specify if you're using the compound act that's what the we are adding to the appendix yeah it's really a readability issue mainly right yeah yeah and we will we will be adding also a paragraph describing the the ACT system just to make it a bit more clear for understanding that compound mask"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:18:13",
    "text": "foreign well we will be sending this probably at the end of the day or beginning tomorrow okay so so um how do we do we need to do anything else now as soon as I'm happy I mean um with the text proposed by Sergio and others uh it will go in the ATF last call immediately I mean within the day well okay so we're I guess we're good there um anything else on this document or should I just switch back to just saying thanks to Eric and thank you Eric thank you everyone thank you all the authors right that's more important without authors we have not nowhere okay and actually I guess the next item was uh to go a little bit through the rechar train text so that was a very limited limited discussion and and change last time I will show it but basically the text has been stable uh as we promised last time we have published the text to the mailing list that was basically only one reaction that was Anna thank you so much Anna but it seems that the the the no one was unhappy with with the text the little change is on the second paragraph that you see here um and where we use the term multi"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:20:01",
    "text": "multi-hub to in the beginning of the second paragraph to indicate that three what we care about uh with this new Charter is as opposed to having just one Hub in like in traditional K1 networks um between the uh application and the uh well between the device and the the Gateway or the the there will be now a multi-hub network that can be IP that can be ethernet that can be anything meaning that we need to expose explicitly what the session is between the the endpoints which was implicit in in traditional rp1 networks and the architecture life actually will reflect that so that's the that's the main chance on uh slide one of three uh two of three I think we didn't change anything there was this discussion that uh oam was also multi-hop if the lp1 network is built IHOP so so I guess it's implicit with the fact that we reach out for multi-hop anyway and and the new work items which are proposed for this re-chartering I've been stable I mean they are the same as as before so discussion last time was about you know do we need to be explicit on which foods there are for Chicago and which bar foreign but we we decided to give a certain list because we could not leave it completely open I mean we thought the ASG would react to that so we gave a list of what we could support but we don't commit to to support all of them it's more like giving a"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:22:00",
    "text": "um a focus we will focus on some of the things that we list here and yes I mean for for the rest it's been stable so do we have any question on one of those uh Charter item slides or do we consider it stable now Pascal just me being a suggestion because you say what about ishik over sub layer or super happy and then you say replace of course full later by sweep IP layer and bar over shake you want to say protocol or application of a chic something like that okay let me write that down oh do we have somebody uh taking the minutes by the way uh I've not been checking I opened okay so we need to to write down that that so you suggest to change Foo by sub IPS under IP I guess but but I mean that includes IP itself but do you consider IP to be under IP when we do IP over IP because we want to include I use sublayer or sub layer right or something like that oh I'm confused because it's IP is not a player either right but underlying layer I think that's what we used in 8724 excellent Dominique but we need to write that down I mean I will be editing the the draft at the same time but it's good to write it in the middle so so instead of shake of our Foo you mean Shake over sub underlying layer and uh"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:24:01",
    "text": "laying it's a bit cool Community but and bar you say application or or well yes but of course the application is not really ipv4 right so but yeah or carry it protocol and carried protocol yes it's underlying layer or layers layer I guess layer okay and honestly I think we need to stop um Bank shedding as we say at the iitf uh the charter it will be reviewed by the AG and you will get more change to it and then by data Community with more change so Pascal try to send me or Alexa try to send me the charter and I will start the process this week right or even later today okay I will set it right after the so I'm applying this this particular change um and then we I will say to you right away protocols over chic and just to be clear right on this special day I stopped my day working on my day earlier to go to the restaurant with somebody right so yes we are there okay okay but so so it's not like we expect you to process that today but I will I will I'm doing this edit uh because anyway we are ahead of our time so I can I will just read it to you the text as it's because full appears number of times that's what that's why you see me uh gasping a little bit"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:26:01",
    "text": "um underlying uh okay okay so basically underlying layers as we placed Foo and bar has been really placed by [Music] um the protocol or carried protocol depending on where that that's that is and Eric I will send this email with the document and copy Alex right now so so it's that foreign matter but at least you have you have the list of of the work items that we would like to cover there we go it's flying to you Eric and so for this we are good and let's move on okay the architecture so last time we discussed um whether there should be two steps or stages in the architecture document one describing more you know the art of LP ones where you have this single hub and then one where we would"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:28:02",
    "text": "extend that to multi-harvest expose the changes that this implies to the architecture I've been having possibly uh peer-to-peer communication as opposed to device to app communication and also I think the the need to Signal the session because now we are going over multiple hubs between possibly peer nodes uh and so we discussed that and um looking at the minutes remembering what was said it it seems that we converged into saying that having those two steps is a bit of Overkill with it because that's real history that's how we got there but it's not really what we are building what we are building is we have this session it simply said it's it's explicit but we have we have this session so let's have the architecture show something which works in any case and then say Oh by the way in the signaling you may not need to Signal the session but it's there it's always there and um since we converge I'm saying that that's what I said last time but I've been reviewing it I was still the same I'm not convinced that we need to change the the structure of the architecture document it seems to convey uh what was asked last time what was really in in this in this list of of changes so I still I still uh retained the comments by Ivan but my bottom line is and and the discussion that we had last time is we are covered for uh what was discussed and the changes of structure to have those two steps uh are not necessarily improving the architecture and if it was a history document or something that would have made sense I mean to explain how we got"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:30:00",
    "text": "there but here we want to give basically where we are what we want to build what we want to build is something with that session implicit or explicit and it has to support multi-hub but it has to support um the the provisioning of the devices provisioning of the network Etc so so that's that's why I'm not saying that the architecture is complete but I'm saying that this the change of structure that was proposed in this email um does does not seem to really help in in where we want to go so we have we have not uh acted on it so that's pretty much it relax yeah yeah I agree that's kind of work with this one and uh and of course I think once we get the new Charter finalized we'll we'll reread the architecture document and just make sure that everything that's in the charter is covered which I think it is right let's just like reread it once one once more and then I think we have everything there and if we see something missing we'll contribute right but uh yeah that's a great point because all this discussion we had about the foo and the bars Etc uh we probably need to write something in the architecture to explain that chick can really act as a player in various places and sometimes you you have it several times on your stack and so the other things which it compresses and the thing that transported and these are the foods and the bars and and so we yes we probably need to to provide more details on that we have some text but yes since the richata will open more work on that agree that we will probably need to expand yeah so"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:32:01",
    "text": "so any okay good no no it's often it was all I wanted to say but I agree with what you said here that the structure is is uh okay as it is to the end you know after rereading after that maybe we'll consider something else but for the moment you know it doesn't make Maybe it's not the right time to rearrange stuff before you know seeing how things will evolve with the with the rich artery okay and and the discussion that Laura started an access control Etc and this this it and which is listed here yes we will need to have some text the thing is uh we we kind of write something in the architecture once the group has kind of converged on something so access control is just an early draft it's been one discussion by Lauren and so we it's probably not stable enough to to be written in the architecture but I'm sure that soon it's going to be and we will have we will have a section and access control as well yes Access Control can be uh just a draft and then can can merge to to architecture or if we don't have if we don't add a lot of things around uh another point it's but I think the architecture has to be very generic it means that we don't have to say it works for lp1 it it works for mesh it's just an article architecture that can be applied to all these Technologies so that's what we concluded last time as well we were in line so for example what we need to to know is how we identify the the chicken stances and all that stuff so to to be sure that we we have something that is universal and then on security for example we can state that"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:34:01",
    "text": "for example a device can only modify its representation on on the core or a thing like this so to to restricts uh what can be changed but in the world so that's yes if this is very touchy wording so it would be great that if you don't mind you post an email where you craft the words that you would like to see in the security section to cover the access control so if you're already very clear based on your document Etc in the description last time of what kind of wording exactly you would like to see in the architecture and then we can we can expose it to the mailing list and and get feedback and discuss it and then once the words are agreed we will put them in the architecture yeah but yeah but it's not clear to me too so that's why I I put Access Control in fact is to to have a discussion on on that and see what part of the this discussion can go to the architecture and if it remains something that is not in the architecture because for example we we have to Define uh and we will have to define the young data model then we need maybe it can be a very in the architecture if but no the architecture will stay high level or any specification and it will remain informational so anything standard track will be in its own standard so the architecture will be the like the the underlying structure which which explains how things fit together but how they are done will be in the specification documents which will be starter track not just informational okay so one one point is our view over and identify the the other end uh is it"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:36:02",
    "text": "by a certificate is it by some Layer Two information and so it's I think that we we have to identify because there is a discovery of the other herd and once you have discovered you know something you claims to be the one you care but there is a proof you know of whether he is effectively the person that you are productive yeah so I mean I I I I think it's really precious the document that you are writing about the the ACL at the access control and we we discussed that you know we need to define a couple of of use cases I think like the cases where we want to to Define that acl4 so that's that I think that's super useful um but uh uh I mean I I maybe uh it's really good if we have like um to prepare for that discussion because it's a very deep topic and I know that we can take up all the time and uh you know maybe not to arrive at uh at the conclusive uh step but there is something like the owner on the ACL there is something about that we'll see how it translates to the architecture and that's something I'm really looking forward to uh so that being said I think uh so the with the discussion architecture is uh so we we went through that uh and uh so the ACL maybe we'll discuss that on the next time that's really great um and I think that we we went through all the items for today was we're all set uh so yes we are we agree with you we have to do that discussion on how you you look at the end point and how you secure the communication I think bubbleskowitz has a lot of features on that and so uh when Bob is with us we can have more uh discussions uh last but not least I have requested a work group"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:38:01",
    "text": "meeting for Yokohama personally I don't have my ticket yet so I don't know if I'm flying to Yokohama I hope I am but it's it's not sure for now um but but at least lp1 will happen that's great thank you Pascal I'm not sure I'm going either for for Yokohama okay well I will we'll see I will be there you will you be there hello that was a question for you I think uh no okay so we need to find uh in person Delegate for lp1 yes I mean it's I'm not I mean maybe I'm coming Eric but I just don't have the confirm for now you know yeah you know we work for the same company right yeah exactly so I know late but yes I mean uh Dominic are you going um no I'm not going nobody's paying for my ticket anymore okay so so uh Eric I don't know I mean it's just open right now okay very worst case uh I I could do it of course but that's not the expected thing yeah you know you know I know yeah okay and with this I guess uh that will we're done so if there is is there any other business for today foreign none so we're giving you back 20 minutes of your life and so what's the next session we we"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:40:02",
    "text": "have another one before ITF right I think we do it we just um yes I I'm I'm not going to be sure it's the same time as the mobile Congress so I'll be there at that time so I'm not going to be able to join it's on 28th of February okay okay so next year we'll do it on 29 to make sure [Laughter] 2024 so there is actually a 29th okay goodbye you all and talk to you for those who are not at the World Congress here two weeks from now bye-bye thank you bye bye everyone bye everyone"
  }
]
