[
  {
    "startTime": "00:00:06",
    "text": "hi everyone uh let's wait a few minutes for us to join John is also missing hey Michael hey constant hey Ray hi Hank and hi nil hi everybody good to hear you Hank uh hey Steve I can hear your hands but I did not understand you test test can you hear me now yeah maybe the audio is not good hey John hey everyone hey Harris I was just saying that's quite a few minutes for people to join yeah of course [Music]"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:02:05",
    "text": "um okay I guess we should get started and if others join a little later then we can accommodate for that so I sent out um a brief agenda I was suggesting to also discuss the key trans topics I forwarded them an email or I forwarded them the meeting invite for our weekly call and um ask them also to join I don't know if anyone here is actually from the key transcript or participates in the key transcript is there yeah I didn't see um you send that out uh when when did you send that out well I I send it to the keytrans list oh oh okay yeah that that maybe maybe they didn't have a chance to to try and today for whatever reason um okay uh maybe they turn later and and then we can talk about that stuff the the other thing where we stopped last time last week we had a holiday so we we skipped that meeting but the week before we talked or we looked at the list of open issues and we specifically spent some time on uh one open issue that"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:04:02",
    "text": "Antoine created uh he was talking about the um the URL for the transparent statements I believe if I remember that correctly but there are tons of other issues that we need to go through um unfortunately well it's good that we captured them captured the open issues uh Steve is that okay for you uh to go through them what do we have other topics that we would like to sort of like we're on a gender bashing phase for today any other suggestion or if that has any input on the schedule sure definitely has we do have a large backlog it'll be nice to triage through oh certainly yeah Hank do you want to say something yeah exactly so uh foreign proof ID and uh how we are arranging that to be updated significantly for the next iteration okay I guess maybe maybe if we um discuss this after uh Steve left I think is that okay for you Steve because then we could that's fine I mean it's up to you guys if that if we feel that'll fill the hour then that might be more productive um no no I mean uh we start with the with looking at some of the issues um maybe we can assign some issues to someone who is um most qualified to make some proposals on resolving the issue or we maybe some of the issues are actually stale and we can we can close them [Music]"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:06:01",
    "text": "let me oh sorry you should have permissions the share the screen yeah it works this is Charlie uh sorry I'm running a little bit late I got back to back to back meetings here but uh one thing that I I have brought up in the past is that uh there is no standing invitation for this meeting I don't think is there I mean isn't it a different URL every week um yeah uh as yeah I I believe that's true um because there's only reason why we can't have the same URL so I can just click on it instead of having to download a new uh a new calendar invite and firing that up yeah the upcoming calendar for this then you will have a calendar entry and if chairs put the media Echo Link in it which I think is now automatic then you'll have that in your calendar okay that I don't believe that is working for me I'm uh using Outlook web access as the calendar and it puts it in my Mac calendar and uh that I mean I can go click on that but it doesn't register in the calendar that I use every day you could unicast me and I could help you but um okay the links change because of this technology and there's not really anything we can do about it okay I I guess that's what I thought the answer would be but I thought I'd bring it up anyway seems like yesterday's uh solution in a way"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:08:00",
    "text": "okay over thank you Michael I'm paying offline thanks okay Steve do you do you want to like you are looking at the issues right now do you want to say something about them you're in on mute if in case you're talking Steve you muted can you guys hear me yeah okay have we lost Steve did you lose can you guys hear me now uh yeah too many buttons to turn things on and off all right so um we'll spend a couple I guess 10 minutes going through some of this stuff I was gonna work from the back um for some ones that possibly hopefully that we can close more quickly and triage some of these so this one was the terminology um I think we've got the majority of it done with this PR um in fact we made comments of this so I guess my proposal here is just to close this one at this point because we've converged most of the stuff we've Ray had a good doc that we reviewed I think we've got a good stability Point here any objections to closing this one out uh what was my sorry what was my document that you're"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:10:02",
    "text": "referring to because uh can you go uh I guess I can open it up and look but um yeah it was this one I don't know if my screen yeah there he goes oh this is a putting a higher level overview over it yeah it still was helpful to me I think it can still help us although it's probably not going to be accurate over time sure okay so I'm gonna close this one could we just see the final language just so we're all on the same page and understanding what we've landed on uh sorry I heard documents of the uh the skipped documentation well that that's not going to come through um it is the document so I think one of the things that that um we can just say if it's pretty sure this is true we're saying uh append Only log instead of registry or Ledger even though uh we it may be implemented in some other way okay so it was just a to use that named as a as a way to just say that and then get rid of the other other type of nomenclature and then probably in our definition we can say an append Only log might not be in a pen Only log it may be something else that that still has the attributes that we need um was that one of the main things Steve that was done here we we did use append Only log"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:12:01",
    "text": "um we did use transparency service um as the main pieces to the latest changes uh I don't remember if we discussed the details of if you're doing something other than a pen Only log if it has the same attributes yeah okay so I I think transparency service has been pretty useful thing to say um and helps people kind of understand what it is without anything more um they they just kind of shake their head and go okay I know what it is a little bit um okay so that that's that's probably going to help us is to have that um that change versus saying skit or skit registry or something else because that doesn't doesn't do it but okay thank you they are written somewhere yeah is that written somewhere where we we say explicitly with transparency service is I believe there is a definition in that's in the definition section yes can we see that Steve if you have that available yeah I'm trying to I gotta let me just do something here and copy that yeah um Steve I wonder whether we we should put in an action item to raid double check um whether he's actually really fine with uh of the way how his feedback was addressed um because he spent an awful lot of time producing uh a document and and sort of discussing this issue with us and so I'm I want to make sure that we actually captured the feedback Ray obviously that puts a little bit of burden on you um after all this discussion and you're right up and so on and so on um to double check whether you're happy with uh what we finally ended up with yeah so transparency services in section four in the architecture document here"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:14:00",
    "text": "we go right uh service although I don't see explicitly called out uh it's it's implied I think with anything else yeah I wouldn't say the transparency service is referred to by its synonym notary I don't know if that's actually a synonym um yeah I agree I think a notary and I've been coming across this a lot and maybe it'll be a good tool for us okay and that is if you have there's there's us there can be a signature uh you know somebody signed something and then there is uh away and this was all in the nist um they have a whole thing about how to you know how to get the to prove that the person actually has that signature at that time where you send them a nonce and there's also I think that's the way to do it they also have a Time stamping way to do it but you send them a nonce and you say sign it and then I'll check it with your prime your public key and make sure that you actually signed it with your private key so that's kind of like a wet signature on something so that you can say okay I sent you a non so you did it right now and you signed it so I know you have that signal that private key then there's a secondary thing which would be uh that I don't see discussed in places but I think it's the way they use they do a lot of the open SSL stuff where uh or that's not the name of it um at where you you have something that you actually do trust and then it observes it does that wet signature business and"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:16:00",
    "text": "verifies that the person did have that private key at the time and it signs it it witness that so it's now another deferral one more step out from the actual witnessing so if you had an entity that did a wet signature checking of the private of the you know the public key and private key connection that seems like that would be the definition of a notary and not the transparency service which is uh a little bit different than than what I think of as a notary and that's how I think about it now I I'm so so I would take out a transparency service is often referred to by its synonym notary because in my mind that doesn't uh that isn't right but I don't know if we're trying to edit this now or and I don't want to get distracted from if there's some serious thing we need to accomplish thanks I mean I think of the when we have this particular issue we're tracking it was the registering transparency service I think this was where we were trying to figure out and we do have this piece here I think the notary is a part of it but not the a synonym I would agree with that I thought we had a different issue tracking that um ad notarization I think that uh and we have these two here so we can put it in I mean we can leave this one open and revisit here or we can track it as part of the other issue because we we wind up with this one being a larger specifically around registry and transparency service then we have another one that specifically talks around the notarization process okay so I don't think they actually normally call it notarization but I know"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:18:01",
    "text": "they called the The Trusted time stamps um could be used with a notary uh functionality but I'll tell you what I'll do is I will uh because I've been working intently on this lately uh so I you have my attention on it man what I will do is uh write up what I understand as these little pieces because I I've I've been um trying to just you know understand the various cryptographic mechanisms and these are mechanisms that are are they are mentioned in places um but I I see that the uh what what is the name of the everybody's using now and say because you know they had trouble with people getting you know paying for a a public key of you know certified public key and so then they went to the cheap uh free method to do it and I I do it all the time but I can't think of it for some reason anyway so that that is like a deferral where you have another entity that you trust more that at one time Witnesses the thing but that public key and private key are now gone they're no longer there but you have this thing that says yeah I witness it at the time they did have it and so that I think is is like the concept of a notary and is there another well does somebody know is there a clear definition of what a notary is because it certainly is not not a transparency Service uh in itself it's in it's a function that is a cryptographic function and and I think it's this deferral if somebody watching a wet signature being done and then saying I watched it and you can and I'm I'm a very trusted entity because I have the paid for public key uh and so"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:20:02",
    "text": "uh if somebody does then maybe in the chat you can let me know where it is uh and I'll go look at it but I'm trying to I'm trying to absorb everything about this because uh just to let you know I'm working on a uh a uh air gapped protocol which basically will be requesting for data or delivering data and then securing it on you know flash drive or jump drive or something and so I we're working on this right now but anyway thank you okay so Ray I'm going to assign this one to you for some next steps okay I think so I'll update on that yeah are you okay with that three yeah no I I will but I probably will will not uh but yeah yeah I'll do that yeah this is number yeah this is issue seven okay yes you said thank you okay I need to drop um so I'll leave it for you guys for the next items yeah and I mean by the couple of additional folks showing that I was wondering what is someone from the key transparency group showing that's what Chris are you are you following the key transparency discussion um vaguely I'm not I didn't I did not join on that basis okay or you probably can say more about that hi are you hey um yeah so I'm following the key transparency work um so if you haven't watched the boss videos you you should um they're really excellent from the last ietf they had a"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:22:03",
    "text": "lot of um really relevant content and I think the important thing for folks here to understand is when you say key transparency they mean like key Value Store transparency they don't mean like cryptographic key transparency now of course a key value store could store cryptographic keys but you know so can a skit transparency service so I think there is like a tremendous amount of overlap in terms of the mission of the keytrans charter but it does seem to be focused a little bit more lower level at just like the securing bytes and sort of representing key values and you know gaining cryptographic properties that you you care about in a system whereas we spend a lot of time talking about naming things and architecture diagrams and sort of process pieces they they're focused mostly on securing cryptographic representations of key values that can be applied to many different use cases at least that's my reading of the current Charter they they do have a structure that's sort of similar to our concept of a feed um I don't believe it's going to be bound to any particular content type so similar to the way skit is also not bound to any particular content type so so Ori if you don't mind uh me asking this question um do you see from your your review of this how we can does the key trans stuff seem to fit into the identity um you know our needs for identifying or or at least getting the public keys of the of the identities that we're working with something like that so"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:24:00",
    "text": "um they you know they talk a lot about applying key transparency to uh username like uh identifiers like email addresses or or phone numbers where you know you want a consistent public key for a given phone number and you want the property that no network adversary can partition the network in some way that would you know disrupt the uh end-to-end encryption capabilities of communications Networks um does that answer your question uh well I I like the answer um and so it's progressing my my understanding so thank you John you and thecube do you want to add something to this uh yeah just a short bit so thanks Ari for um filling in do we have uh maybe I'll go find them we should put links to the buff videos um in the in the Hedge docks to make it easy um yeah so I got a similar impression I had a bit of a dialogue on the chartering process and I think the words they're using look like a huge overlap and I also think it's kind of confusing key transparency and certificate transparency to me are extremely closely related things um but maybe they're further away in these groups than than it seems because um indeed when I questioned the sort of aims or the overlap the response that I got back was very much focused on a user-centric personal privacy anti-stooping prove these are the so the reason it's looking at bits of keys is prove these keys are actually the keys that were made over there and not some that were replaced in the middle um which is a very special use case"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:26:01",
    "text": "that's kind of adjacent to us um so yeah it's it's an interesting one to to watch for potential creep overlap but it doesn't look to me anymore like the initial use cases are actually going to particularly overlap with our use cases if I've understood that right can you say why you think that's adjacent I like these seem to be to pile onto what Oreo is saying like the exact same problem it's just like a different different thing that's stuck in the than the logger in the tree at the end of the day um and there's there's of course like deployment specific considerations that go into what goes in the log with regards to for example um who owns the thing that goes in the log who is the public key correspond to who produced the software artifact whatever but like the core of this work that is like how the law is structured how proofs are generated who audits the log all that stuff is it to my understanding like highly um uh similar to what's being developed in in KT Katie has like some properties on top like they don't want you to be able to like enumerate the log to like figure out what's in there because there's potentially like privacy sensitive stuff like usernames but like yeah I think that's the crucial difference um is that I I would be inclined to agree with you and the reason we started this thread is that for a great many use cases the writer answer just from an efficiency of work point of view if nothing else would be to use skit and cozy Merkel tree proofs um to do all this stuff the pushback on that opinion in the in the in the Google Doc for chartering ultimately came to that non-enumeration the personal privacy bit I think they"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:28:01",
    "text": "have a non a um a repudiability requirement so you can deny that you have a key if if a an oppressive person comes at you but you can prove that you have that key if a friend comes at you um and and if they want to solve those use cases we could expand our scope and our on our Tech to solve those use cases but I think we're not quite there yet and the the interesting question would be whether they are constrained to that or whether we accidentally get this big overlap that we're talking about but that that's that's where I'm kind of convinced that there is other work that's that's worth doing not to say that they're in many cases very overlapping does that sound right to you Ori I mean it would be a shame to create two almost identical things just for the covert journalist use case which I think is basically what they're doing [Music] um but that is a use case that's valid yeah I think there is a big difference there from what I've seen and I did did view all those um they were great it seems like they do have a different problem at hand at least constraints on it are different in that they have a much higher volume of uh participants and we're probably looking at here and those participants are like the the the entities that are probably submitting to skit are are less likely to have any you know problem with identifying like they probably have a domain name already associated with them for example and whereas just people messaging each other or something don't really have that they might have an email something less significant so so I think that those constraints are different enough"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:30:00",
    "text": "such that um uh if I were making a call myself with no one in the room I would say that that if we try to overlap with what they're doing then we're going to get ourselves um with a lot of features that we don't need um and uh features that they that we need that they don't have so so I think that uh that I would not push for for trying to uh but I think we should still be very very cognizant of what they're doing um and and what the issues are that they're seeing making sure that those are dealt with on our site thanks um any other any other comment um I hope I hope we managed to get the guys uh to join our conference call at some point in time in the future to discuss this rather than sort of use uh sort of like second-hand information on on what they are trying to accomplish what the similarities and the differences are keep doing that I think thank you honest yeah I think we need to also keep in mind that this this is not a green field opportunity there is a fairly large supply chain implementation that's underway that that's existed for you know a few years uh you know things like signed software products and so on and so forth so whatever we do here hopefully it will be Center you know synergistic with what's out there already I think that's going to be important to adoption of skit is that we can accommodate the practices that are already"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:32:00",
    "text": "being used but we're adding some value that people will will find useful like the authenticity and integrity verification components that will help bring that trust uh to the to the public so that they can check this registry or transparency service to see if a piece of software is indeed really trustworthy thanks thanks thanks yeah certainly um okay uh let's switch um sort of back to to the agenda namely um let's give Hank briefly a chance to talk about the um uh Hank how did you call this uh you called this cometry or something like this committer yeah that's that's a commuter is the abbreviation for concise Merkel tree proofs um there are two types of them but I'm not going into the details here so we were um why what are we doing here we are standardizing two tiny fragments one of them is about the sign statements it's what the issuer the supply chain entity emits as the as the actual uh statement about the supply chain uh that is the sign statement uh and then we use the transparency service to uh to give some uh additional assurances that's what the transparent statement then is and that's basically the sign statement plus the receipt and the receipt is the other tiny thing that the uh uh standardizing here and so therefore it is too cozy uh using um envelopes the science team is rather straightforward I'm not going into details about that the receipt needs to include um information about the trees used there"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:34:03",
    "text": "is not just one tree out there there are different flavors of ash trees uh there are balanced they are small they are labeled they are a lot of again mechanisms and metadata you can add to that there are consistency proofs and inclusion proofs and such so what are we doing here we are going uh overloading a uh um a receipt that is just for skit then we decided to cut it into halves if we go to the Cozy world and make a generic Mercury proof document there that already exists and then I wanted to um profile that for example foskit trying to do that we realized now uh that is a lot of things we overload this document with also we are already initially overloading it with a cherry-picked algorithms that might be a little bit too much and it actually might be um uh contested uh somehow uh under question and so um so I think we're diving that back I think Ari is the leader of this document and you can add something from this point of view uh after I'm I'm done with this uh so what we did is we we decided to uh use the one algorithm as a hash algorithm for trees that is already known in the iitf and that is for certificate transparency that is already an RFC and so uh when you want to enumerate algorithms for trees we just start with the one that is well known in the ITF make a uh cozy um structure for that that is basically the basis for all the other things and the receipt and uh and we're not only doing that I think it's it's a good uh current practice at the moment to to start a base document and immediately a profile for it so you understand that we had uh looking at the second document how to"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:36:00",
    "text": "profile the base document the base document comes with a very known algorithm and the profile document will come with a uh not so well known algorithmet's also popular and I think it's CCF depending on the author's decision and so uh going from there we now have the agreement I think internally how to proceed with this we are doing a cozy document that is still the concise Mercury proofs with just a single algorithm from CT that is well known uh establishing the registry and immediately in parallel having a profiling document for the base document says how to add other algorithms to the registry and how to describe the extensions to the structure that is used in sibo here so I think that's the current Way Forward it took a while to find our sweet spot here to be honest especially with the Chun and involves stakeholders and especially with a lot of inputs here I think that's that's the way we want to do it right now and that's why I'm highlighting this again this is not about the science statements about the receipt structure we're doing cozy first CT first and the Pro 5 CCF probably in parallel and therefore we should have a good basis open items are registration policies at the time of creation of the C because they can alter the believability of receipt and einsight so a receipt might might need a link back to the registration policy enforce at the point of creation of receipts to understand who was allowed to put a sign statement into the service at the time so that is an uh thing and of course we want to reference statements between services at some point so we have to reference those uh early feedback from Russ like we have to identify the service the receipt is created by is an optional and relatively easy to fix thing that's already included today um yeah that's basically my report and maybe already has some additional items"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:38:02",
    "text": "for this but I think that's basically the summary of where we're at so yeah a little bit under the cover Sean but I think the solution we came up with is pretty straightforward now um thanks uh you know already was sharing some pointers to the mostly to the latest version of the document which I put into the meeting minutes so in case you guys want to catch up um the profile document is I assume is not yet there right uh exactly it's not there yet unfortunately I I was I was counting on it a little bit but uh unfortunately uh as availability always as far as um we are probably going to do it this week we are agreed on the file name we agreed on content and I think uh we have to move on the pull request uh it exists on um the links that already probably shared I'm checking this right now um yeah there's some examples I I guess or you you are working on on a prototype implementation or is it is it someone else yeah I'm working on a prototype implementation and it follows the latest pull requests um on the draft and it defines uh cozy representation of assigned inclusion proof and a cozy representation of a signed consistency proof and those are the two proof types that RFC 9162 defines which is RFC 9162 is the certificate transparency RFC which defines uh the minimal consistency proof for our binary Merkle tree so there's good reason to implement that particular algorithm because it's you know provably the smallest consistency proof for an append Only log that's it so this is something um at least your prototype is something that we could play around with at the"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:40:00",
    "text": "hackathon yeah um I think the pull requests have links to the uh source code behind it and the demo is up on uh skit.xyz the demo is a little hard to understand because it uses detached signatures and say you have to juggle many files um but the demo implements the draft pull requests that are up yeah that would be an exercise for the hackathon itself [Music] um yeah thanks thanks Hank and uh sorry on this one um let us switch back to the on the open issue list uh Johnny you're sharing takes a while to come up now it takes a while because it's not offering me the right Chromecast or broken or at least so we're back at uh square one at least from my point of view here I think I've overwhelmed it with my I have about 100 Chrome tabs opening be there in just a second [Music] okay let's do this one yes I do yes it's a fine window is that the right Safari window if it's not I'll just"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:42:00",
    "text": "change it I don't I don't see anything okay we'll try it another different way [Music] and for the fifth time yes I do want to share my screen okay excellent excellent thank you okay so um just walking down the list um we did triage these a while ago do we want to just go down the 117. well we did uh start with the first one and then we had a lot of discussion on this one and and I think that was good uh the second one uh Hank you apparently have been assigned to do this one is that still current or do we need dedicated section on skit requirements for bent only lock I um not entirely sure to be honest I uh I think that the at the moment the text is clear um the the question here is that we want to have that in the terminology um it is kind of inline Ray has its opinion here but I think uh I can if you would like if there's agreement on this if there's a yes give us a proposal I can do a PR on the definition of a pen Only log that's pretty concise I can run it with Ray reviews okay with that and some other initially I don't know early uh Alpha testers for the text and then we can go from there if you want this uh I I don't think it's a blocker so so it's not super urgent but maybe it's useful for anybody who wants to uh point at these documents and give somebody an understanding what an append Only log term means here okay and so so the action would be on you to come up with a proposed text and"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:44:01",
    "text": "and send it on the list and for rate to uh to review it and and also for Antoine who are supposed something here yeah I'm just taking the action item just to get more movement um I think I can do one task per week at least so that would be one task and it's not a big one yeah let me note that in the meeting minutes um that you are going to take this yeah it's okay with me I'll try to put that cover that in uh that number seven I think it was uh that I'll work on thanks okay so Hannah's guide me are we just going down yeah I I'm just trying to write down the action items in the in the meeting minutes writing the stone uh shall I include some examples so uh of course a history is an example it's pretty obvious um but Ray uh should we talk maybe offline about another example it's definitely not in history or something like that for uh your point of view sake thank you I was important was actually talking about the last thing or what's on the screen now um they take this offline I'm not trying to install this that's the disgusting of London oh yeah okay that's fine"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:46:02",
    "text": "and I think this is ori's uh issue yeah and I think it's it's very relevant because we want to have um registration policies as the sort of main hackathon thing so yeah it seems like there's maybe a duplicate issue open issue 63 I think we should close issue 63 after cross-linking it to this oh yeah yeah it's just a smaller version of the same thing I'm going to close issue 63 after Crosslink what's the source issue I need to link to a 66. awesome thank you so by policy identifiers uh maybe we can look at that one and just make sure we understand what it is this uh effectively um names or uh links if you will to stuff in the append Only log like how we uh how we refer back into the log is that what this is my remembrance of this is that even the configuration changes need to be recorded and generate a receipt onto the append Only log so we know that it's there the real question was any other receipts generated needs to be able to point at what the registration policy they were acting on at the time and this is what this discussion was about oh I see okay so this is do we need to specify are the what is there an intravability issue here why do we need to Define these identifiers"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:48:02",
    "text": "that's the question again honestly sorry so uh foreign would be nice if two different transparency servers would uh immediately by by Design understand uh what to look at and how to resolve it and and so so that that's I think one one of the aspects here of course uh it would be nice to have a uh a standard way to to resolve the policy and as Ray already um sorry as um foreign assertions in the in your own tree so uh so the registration policy of the tree can be stashed in the tree and there will be a specific very known feed for example inside HV and uh that the the the pointer back to these policies could be standardized in that way to to have a well-known feat so to speak that has always to exist in a transparency service so that's maintained a history and that is the decision to be made I think that is an excellent Way Forward but I'm not sure if everybody agrees so that is basically the topic do we want to have well-known Feats for certain things and just to give another example the trustworthiness of a processing node in a tree called stash it's Red's things in uh a tree uh basically about frustrating is right so so there could be a few a limited number of of feeds that we would support uh and are mandatory to implement for certain assertions about uh the the three service itself the transparency service itself and one of them is definitely the registration policy uh one other thing"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:50:02",
    "text": "for future Edition could be uh attestation results from rights for example so so there's a lot of use for that and maybe it's a fundamental principle and I think that's that's a thing to to decide yes or no on uh in the working group I think dick wants to respond to that thank you and the queue thank you harness yeah I one thing that's really important from a consumer standpoint is the ability to you know verify and validate these identities and of course the ability to do that I think skit has a role in part of that but it's it's not alone it's not the only um party that's involved for example using an x.509 certificate you know as a consumer I want to know two things is that an is that an authentic entity an identity and is it still valid and that's still valid part is important because these these certificates can be invalidated because of many reasons they can be found to have been used to sign malware and they can be invalidated so these are important aspects that I don't think skit is going to be able to maintain a constant update on validity I think that has to come from another party who's monitoring for for those valid certificates thanks Roy yeah that's a dick the problem becomes the time validity of certificates is is a problem so being able to do that forevermore is impossible at the current fix 509 capabilities the whole point of the notarization is to basically say at the point in time the evidence was received here's what the state of that identity was and that"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:52:01",
    "text": "is your longer term ability to audit the signature yes you basically need to be able to know the identity of who signed it but the ability to check it is limited to a very finite window the statement that it got it revoked at some point is why we get into the discussions of endorsements and claims saying hey this has been revoked as a product with a negative endorsement backfills this whole conversation I think you we need to get out of Simply using x509 revocation as a way is the only way to invalidate things it just doesn't flow it doesn't work past a finite window of two years yeah no I understand you're you're concerned with that Roy but what's the better alternative well that better alternative is is basically that you kind of need to know that there's a number of problems with individual signatures is you now have to push out a new set of trusted roots from across the world and I don't think we want 300 more Roots being sent around as here's how you here's trusted Cas and so forth yeah so so on Dick's uh thing if I may interpret uh their dick for you uh you first said this is a you know this is something that we have to work into the existing infrastructure and for that reason I think he's right uh you have to have some way of bridging to certificates uh while understanding obviously the drawbacks that Roy uh mentioned here um so yeah so I think that's that's a good question um I have my hand up for a while so I wanted to just jump in here um and the uh the topic I wanted to discuss was you know the policy piece besides if there's a policy right uh the way we've kind of architected this thing"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:54:01",
    "text": "is that it's supposed to be somewhat uh administrator independent even though in reality it's probably going to be trusted third party most of the time implementing it but who is in charge of for example stating you can only use spdx and uh one of his examples there so I think that a public Cloud point of view the clouds themselves will have a negotiation of what identity providers they're going to support as an infrastructure if you have a skip instance running on your own firewall then that configuration is completely up to your own ID department and that becomes a completely different conversation I don't agree and I guess uh but I do think there is a there is a missing piece here it's kind of a vacuum on who gets to talk about policy um because otherwise uh if it is in fact a you know uh administrative independent architecture you could end up having policies in there from all kinds of untrusted sources and then everyone would have to evaluate the policy for its trustworthiness independently so which is why we were asking for a way to be able to reference the policy so we can at least audit the velocity and understand but you're yeah yeah start building up a thread and things uh get to be a pretty complicated weave the the trick here to understand is if we do it whatever way we we pick here either it's by the receipt of the policy we're pushing that as a requirement for anything on top that has to support search right so there is some ripple effect of how we encode this putting on the outer system as to what basic search requirements we kind of need is there a need for an instantiation uh"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:56:00",
    "text": "uh rule setting preparation to build this kit I don't think that's been called out anywhere in architecture you want to repeat that sorry yeah no yeah it wasn't really clear I guess but obviously this thing has to be set up by someone in some configuration and we don't really talk about that very much if at all in the architecture document and we might want Yep this is why this was brought up this is the registration policy has to be an integral part of this if we're pulling receipts at a a good clip how do you know when policy has been changed on on the the skit incidents you're pulling from and there's probably other things too so so there might be like an initiation architecture initiation uh step you have to go through when you're starting a skit and then I think in that section we should probably State what the various uh parameters are that you need to decide on before you set this up because I don't think this is the only one there's a few others yeah I want to um I think the issue lacks a little bit of clarity on what we are trying to do with which document um like the last point I just heard from you Roy was about an indication of when the registration policy has changed and obviously uh an identifier for that policy would be helpful um to do so but um that's not what this uh the text on the screen says so so I don't know maybe it it needs some more text to to clarify what chat seems orthogonal to that conversation I guess uh yeah I have no problem with either way of talking about it but we should probably settle on one"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:58:02",
    "text": "that's the main question well maybe this is abortion and we tried to get um some other things done first and then we it's actually this one Maya interrupts is this a thing Yeah we actually have two more minutes left so it's um that's really quick so personally my personal point of view is that we need to provide the in in in data formats speak we need to provide the place for the very uh to put the pointer through policy too yes I think that that's that's pretty mandatory if there's other opinions about this please say so on the list or here um I think that's highly important because you have to uh detect if that pointer changes that could be a buy compute right so you can just have like four ages the same pointer and suddenly changes then you have to understand what's pointing to now right so this indication of change of policy uh that might impact your trust in the service it's highly important to Consumers of the receipt and that is why it should be indicated already in the receipt blessing and and uh and how to deal with it that is a more complicated question right to resolve it do we do degree standard ways to represent it I don't know so so but I think the the place has to be there I think that's it seems like a fundamental disagreement here I think we are not at the end with this issue and uh we do a little bit of preparation for to make progress on this one um I I think uh um some of you to get this moving forward uh off list uh and then to have prepared a"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:00:01",
    "text": "discussion for next week very good is that did you did you uh give the one to me then like several people participated to to check with all of you to actually prepare a little bit more structure on this issue for next week's uh discussions to make some progress on yeah I'll take a look at it for sure thanks there's a bunch of connected issues um around registration policy I think we should bundle them up and make them the agenda for next week rather than knocking off a little slice at a time yeah let's do that okay all righty done yeah thank thank you all um thank you what better"
  }
]
