[
  {
    "startTime": "00:00:42",
    "text": "a little [Music] "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:04:18",
    "text": "[Music] [Music] [Music] [Music] [Music] [Music] "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:07:40",
    "text": "so I suppose where does it go yes okay and okay welcome everyone to thinking research group meeting and sorry for the delay there\u0027s a bunch of technical "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:10:40",
    "text": "problems apparently with the network so so you shouldn\u0027t be expecting to download files large and large than one megabyte over over the network today so as you saw where their ideas the IOT of meetings not well advise you are being recorded and the usual IPR guidelines do apply we will be sending ping sheet shortly once we get getting signed up we\u0027d like to get a volunteer extra note-taker so if someone can I\u0027ll be also taking notes on the ether pad so you don\u0027t have to do it alone but we also doing some talking so be good for someone to help on the enterprise the beatified link is on the github repo so you\u0027ll find it from there ok thanks and thanks to the agenda for today we will give you a very brief intro and Archie status in the beginning and then we will give a report from some of the recent activities in the whisky in the pre work meeting we had on Friday and also from the hackathon then we have micro coaster joining remotely to present that able to see community group schema extensions mattias will give an update on the web of things group and then Klaus will give us a presentation and and we have assigned time for discussion on using kora to bring more hyper media through IOT and finally christine i\u0027m just will be presenting research Directory replication any questions or comments on the agenda okay so we have a coral site meeting upcoming it\u0027s on Wednesday 3:00 to 5:00 p.m. in room to raka Klaus will will be drive driving that the user what are we doing intently research group what is our scope and goals we are looking into these open research issues how we can really turn IOT that we are working on into reality we are focusing here on things that there is opportunities for either standardization it way starting with the IP layer going all the way up to the application layer and an API so often we get a question so what is the relationship between the IRT F thinking research group and all the IETF I Oh T work so of course there is a lot of overlap on the topics where we are looking into in particular with core and and L with working groups so as you know ll wick is giving this information on guidance for implementers how you can actually implement I hope the unconstraint space and in core we are doing a lot of protocol engineering for the restful environments so tingling "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:13:41",
    "text": "orgy is is many looking on those things that are still falling the outside of the scope of these groups and and the other other IOT related groups and looking how we can be extending the areas where we can make an impact but then doing also work together with this research group these working groups and occasionally we are handing off work from the research group the working groups but on the other hand sometimes we discover group work in the working groups which falls outside of their area today and it can be for example discussed here some recent activities where we have been involved we\u0027ve been driving this work on IOT 70 hypermedia interoperability called wishy that\u0027s historic two years ago here in Prague in the inter-regional we she works up and then we have had a lot of virtual meetings and bunch of hackathons actually the fifth hackathon at this time here at this idea also we had a WebEx session with OMA spec perks similar sessions we have had with OCF earlier earlier on about aligning the use of IDF technologies and with OMA expect for technology particle-like with implement protocol and heaps of models also what we had a work meeting this Friday before the IETF week here in Prague next meetings we are planning to continue that we she calls our most likely something some day around May you swap in monthly or bi-weekly basis there is still work to be done to get with ocf so we\u0027d like to have more virtual meetings within likewise with OMA spec works with whom we had the first meeting for some time before this idea there is gonna be a double 3c web of things work so happening in in tune Matthias will tell a bit more about that but there\u0027s also likely good collaboration with the things in Archie and another organizations and then of course at the next IETF in in Montreal we\u0027re planning to have a yet again a we see hackathon on the weekend before and there\u0027s also potential to have a joint meeting with a spec work so long name is meeting the week before so potentially on the Friday we could have a face-to-face activity together with all may also we have had this long-standing desire to have more academic involvement in the group so we are looking for potential colocation academic conferences during this year if you have any good ideas on that please do approach these chairs we\u0027re more than happy to discuss with you the document state is state of the art challenges for the IOT Security\u0027s currently in the RFC editor queue so that will be the first are see we\u0027ll publish any day now it\u0027s actually on the top of the queue so we expect that to be ready very soon we also have another research group document restful design for IOT I will have a bit more details in the upcoming slides on that we have also bunch of "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:16:43",
    "text": "documents we\u0027ve been discussing in particular on the Friday meeting that we could be taking on as a research for topics there has been quite a lot of work done on the H and IO team so having a research group document on that could make a lot of sense on core applications and with the whole coral ecosystem if you wish some part of that work would make a lot of sense to do here in the RT some of that has to be done in the working group where it\u0027s standardization work but then the more explorative parts for example application descriptions are very much related to this restful design priority work that we have here so we\u0027ve been discussing about having a group of document around that space and for example one part from the core interface is draft that has been in the core working group could become actually an orgy document giving guidance how you work on this environment also there\u0027s a bunch of other documents where you can have a look at the Friday meeting notes for more details one topic we discussed then was this layer three considerations I have another more detail slide 10 on upcoming we could make a some document out of that and in the we see work we have been making a set of what we call wishy notes right now a set of informal wiki pages are turning some of those potentially in the archie documents longer-term the right way to go so for restful design the next steps that we are planning for the restful design draft is adding new terminology I have next slide on more details but then also we\u0027ve been discussed would be great to get some more practical experience if a building IOT systems involved there so if you are involved in building a IOT system and you have experience you\u0027d like to share it be more than happy to talk with you and get of some of that guidance in important document how can we in in practice field I restful based IT systems also we\u0027re planning to get more reviews it\u0027s also outside of this group but of course all the reviews in this group are more than welcome and we have a perhaps now a ambitious call for getting ready for publication rather soup perhaps even next IETF so I mentioned about some additions to the terminology we are planning for two new terms there a transfer protocol and transfer layer and actually these are not really any new terms we\u0027ve been using this in the co-working research group probably up to a decade or right now as it turns out we never formally defined what we mean by a transfer protocol or transfer layer some examples that we\u0027ll be referring to these protocols it\u0027s a specific go up and all versions of HTTP so our our restful suit of protocols but also other "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:19:43",
    "text": "protocols that you could use in an IOT system of AMQP MQTT XMPP for example they all have kind of these similar characteristics that you could describe as as a transfer protocol so we have not drafted too early draft definitions I would very much like your input and feedback on these you can read them on the slides but they basically for transfer protocols and this here we\u0027re now discussing in particular IOT domain because the draft is about restful IOT but the transfer the cost would be protocols about transport transport layer that are used to transfer data objects and provide semantics for operations on the data the key thing is you are transferring some sort of a top speed between between systems and you provide some additional semantics but these protocols are reusable and often even to some extent replaceable so it\u0027s not a that tightly bound part of a vertical stack but actually a a maybe even a distinct layer and for the layer part what we are being draft as the definition is reusable part of the application protocol that is used to transfer the application specific data items using a standard set of methods that fulfill application specific operations so here are the def instance we are planning for at here is there any instant reactions or comments on these definitions to do people recognize that you\u0027ve been using these or seeing this being being used I see some little bit of nodding in the audience so at least in the context where I have end up quite often when you see that there\u0027s some you have a European application and then you are underneath have a set of choice for protocols happy having a term to describe what is that thing that is traditionally part of the application layer of a par stack but it has kind of reusable characteristics and even potential for replacing protocols across seem to be very useful so that\u0027s why we think it\u0027s a good idea to have that part here but if you have recommendations on how should we perhaps tweak those tweak those terms or should we rename them something else those would be very much welcome then moving on in the indo-asia work what we have had so far is six online meetings since the last IETF we have been discussing a set of topics we started with this plot object model it\u0027s a new IOT object more explorative from robert from google we have been "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:22:44",
    "text": "discussing the work is happening in the schema and IOT extensions we have had quite a few meetings on this topic of best practices for data model component reusability it\u0027s a topic we also discussed on friday friday meeting and i have more details coming on that and also how in general can we go about adding semantics to existing instances of data so if you have data that doesn\u0027t have machine readable semantics when you\u0027re consuming it how can you apply after the fact some different ways of getting the semantics in order to do for example translation between different models and it topic very much related this one is of this parsing and translating binary data in part of our comment coming from legacy sources if you can apply semantics to it becomes much more simpler to handle the data in the rest of the pipeline and finally one example of a topic that was originally discussed in the core working group but then we realized this perhaps more wider resource aspects is this exposing more structured media types in hyper media exchanges so in core working group there is this draft on on expressing multiple media types in within a single media type and we were discussing that in core we realized okay this actually may have much wider implications than just for the draft that was discussed in the core so then that was discussed in the we see working group like what are perhaps wider longer term implications or do we have new design patterns here that we should have to be more explorative on then we also had the we see hackathon that was the weekend before the IETF this was the first one and we had actually 12 participants and a few more extras occasionally showing up we had also one remote participant and in this we see hackathon we had the roughly on high level the same goal of connecting things from different ecosystems and we are using hyper media and shared semantics as the tools to achieve that but this time we had a slightly more different approach we had a lot of work done around coral so some of the things that we did achieve we have now it is a new parser for for text form of coral it\u0027s already publishes open source as a ruby game there is also now a basic coral encoder and parser and a serum model for the right operating systems and you have links there on the slides for more details we work quite a bit on coral examples and use case is to get get more practical experience unlike how would these things look in practice and also we have been using quite a bit the web of things that we develop things thing description format and they are related for much but slice taking a different annual on the similar approach we were looking into ways to be doing "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:25:44",
    "text": "translation between the two although there\u0027s a Python implementation from Christine a masseuse that is able to do coral it was now augmented here to support the latest version of coral and also to do visualization of coral and one example of that you can see on the slide and on the lower right corner we also been improving some of the resource directory implementations during the hackathon and also we did in the update are alive with them to MTD generator so we can generate team descriptions for life with them to him to confirm the latest in description format some of the things that we learned over the weekend it seems to be coral is working especially with using for resource discovery but also beyond and one experience that was that these hackathons are very useful for getting the implement a and testing guidance in particular on coral distances we had people who were actually finding coral and multiple implementers over the same table get a lot of good feedback on on the approaches on both sides and also it seems we are now getting better ideas on how all this should be integrated together to actually achieve interoperability then quick update on the Friday work meeting we had a full day meeting with a half a dozen different topics we started with the data that model component reusability discussions for example discuss the vocabulary definitions and and what kind of term mappings we do need their terms were discussing for affordances traits resources object etc different models used light click on different terms how do these fit together and how can we use those to go actually across different models some conclusion was that we do need tools that we can use to describe these data models and we\u0027d also seems to be need for language that is independent from from the transport and this common metamodel language that Michael will be discussing it later is one example of that and also there are a lot of choices what you have to do when you design this datum was in particle how fixed or dynamic features suited a the models have and we did manage to gather a bit of guidance and that may be getting a bit more formal writing a wishy note on that or either not and research who are see it could be very helpful and finally since we were focusing quite a bit on hypermedia in this work we discuss on how you actually expose these things and hypermedia on different levels speaking of hypermedia well one topic was using color to bring more hypermedia to iot one observation we had two is that the coral today comes without batteries you need a bit more to actually build your application on it so we should perhaps "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:28:46",
    "text": "start building some of those aspects to make it more easy to use in in real use cases one thing was this common composable vocabulary in part well link relation types that that could be defined and also tools are around coral one tool for example was this TD and in coral transformations we did discover that this whole topic of authorizations like who is allowed to say what and and where and when when it comes to link relations and how we can for example use this in our days it\u0027s very interesting topic to explore more and also coral complex Cora is a very simple format but of course the more features you add more complexity out there and one interesting design goal when it comes to link format was that you cannot have it only in ROM and that\u0027s what we call a row mobility and and how much of that can you have with coral in what kind of that boundary conditions seems to be an interesting area to explore more we also discussed this common metamodel language which is basically abstraction between having expressive powers to have high field details of different models and the idea is that when you have this meta model you can have different ecosystems mapping the same model and with that you can achieve interoperability but you can also describe this common model using the metamodel and then when you go to concrete implementations from different organizations for example you can use protocol binding semantic annotations to achieve that one good observation on this kind of models was that we really need to make this useful for domain experts cause oftentimes when these models would be described by a language it is someone who may not have years of IETF or data model back from it actually has to mine expertise for example in agriculture or smart metering so instead of showing a what we call a core dump perhaps something more human friendly language is an important design consideration we had a whole session on on security there is already one draft new traffic on that enabling network access for IOT devices from the cloud currently an individual submission but something we could consider as an Archie document also what we were discussing is that would be very good to document some of those success factors and lessons that we have learned from different security mechanisms in this area for example why EAP has been rather successful in its own area and also when it comes to the security work outside of the tilting Archy but within ietf like if we can come up with specific requirements especially on the constrained IOT for example for new crypto that would be very huge very helpful for the rest of the community H and IOT has been a very popular topic in denoting artyom over over years already "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:31:47",
    "text": "and this is something that also Co energy and energy are working on on various aspects we\u0027ve been looking mostly on the IOT specifics on this but there seem to be a lot of interesting work to be done together we con r.g and energy but the question here was having at the thing centric view to edge computing we also discussed this some called beyond its edge and even abyss computing was one term that was raised during the session and also what kind of instance is today do we have of this internet for resources and computing and for example pops up rocker was raises one instance of data do we have already in the core infrastructure some examples of storing some of your representations in in the network and having network infrastructure helping you we will conclude that yes also in this area we\u0027re gonna need more terminology and even though we might not be ready today to make the architecture for 4-h and IOT some fragments of that architecture and more terminals around that is likely to be very useful there is a in video submission between you RT already on the IOT in the credit bit edge computing we concluded that that\u0027s perhaps a good way to continue with our collaboration and an extending on that and perhaps considering later adopting as an RT document there\u0027s also one spin-off topic from this whole H and an IOT which was this in 300 IOT so of course the industrial side has a lot of commonalities with the other areas but it also has some specific requirements for example on the criticality of different operations so what is what is that piece that is is different in industrial area and how to explore that was one one thing that we highlighted and finally something we didn\u0027t have in the agenda originally but what that lemon raised up as an interesting topic is this layer three considerations and that called single thing end to end so it seems that there are quite a few challenges still when it comes to routing and reach ability when you are connecting constraint node networks such as trip networks with each other over over a LAN for example home network so things as of today it says don\u0027t happen automatically but you do need some infrastructure management for example the home network control protocol also there are challenges when it comes to discovery we did discuss that we have quite a lot of tools on this in the core core set up for example resource directory but then you also run into challenges how do you actually find your resource directory in particular in this kind of heterogeneous environment also on the security side for an isolation conference Warren was one of the mechanisms that were highlighted could be helping here but overall the conclusion was a bishop someone should probably implement all this and really "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:34:47",
    "text": "see where where are the gaps we do think we have a good set of tools available that do they actually fit in practice as well together as we think probably some good implementation work would be very helpful here ok that was the report from the various tingling research group activities so far there any questions or comments on this before we go for Michaels presentation okay seems we don\u0027t have Michael yet online he is currently attending another meeting so we may have some challenges finding the common slots so perhaps while waiting for Michael to join we could take the w3c whoever thinks update first and on all of these topics that we have highlighted here very brief if you\u0027re interested in working on any of these please do join you can ask for us chairs what\u0027s the right place Hudak on back to actually start the work on these okay everyone ready yeah good yeah so this is another update of this yeah collaboration with w3c where we have the web of Things activity main part of the work is happening in the working group at the moment as a quick reminder this is the big picture what we are working on so what we have is a big umbrella document about the what architecture and there we basically describe blue sheets are coming they we describe how the building blocks that we are standardizing fit together so the overall idea is that we do not define a complete vertical solution that now everyone has to implement but we look at standards that complement what is already out there and help the inter probability and the integration of these individual systems already out there and a key part of this is the so called thing description so it\u0027s a document format that allows you to learn what a thing provides so it has general metadata it has what we now conclude it on calling affordances to be aligned with the hypermedia work and it also includes then the protocol bindings so you can figure out in a uniform format what protocol use what weeks has have been applied to this protocol and so on and we have the "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:37:49",
    "text": "central interaction model to simplify to connect this with applications so we have properties to encapsulate data to have basically statuses exposed by by things you have actions to trigger physical processes on the things that might run for a certain time and we have events to support these a synchronous notifications that you might receive by a thing and we then have in addition the scripting API so this was work on defining a common runtime a bit sim or similar to to the web browser where you have a common common runtime to define web applications but it\u0027s not transferred to the IOT where it\u0027s more about automation has orchestration that would run in the background but still against a standard API for communication and so on and the last document down here is the binding templates this is basically a document that helps you to define your finger scription x\u0027 it can look up how you would describe an existing device for instance of the ocf ecosystem of lightweight m2m ecosystem and so on so it is an explainer document - the central thing description and we are now close to completing this work on the first set of building blocks here the picture is now as follows the architecture document and the finger scription recommendation tract documents so in w3c speak that means those will become standards and the scripting API unfortunately was downgraded to a working group node that means all the work all the findings that we have are still covered in a document we will officially publish this document but it\u0027s not normative the reason for this was that the kind of the interest of implementing this and gaining experience hands on discretely decreased unfortunately over time and in the end we had kind of two two camps with different opinions the central problem is here api\u0027s are difficult there are so many styles out there and often it\u0027s even a fashion how to do it so for instance even in the WC for the bet platform itself the overall recommendations change over time so this would be an item that we take to the interest group and then try to have more consensus while gaining more experience actually hence on implementing this good let\u0027s have a look at timelines so overall the efforts were now going on for almost five years so the first actual work in in the w3c started in 2014 with workshop with quite some high interest shortly after that we started the interest group that then "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:40:51",
    "text": "worked on defining and basically what should be the first building blocks and also work on a charter for the working group which then yeah started end of 2016 as you can see the now bar is pretty close to the end of Charter and yeah we are currently in in the wrapping up face so it\u0027s a lot of work that we have to do at the moment our last face-to-face meeting was end of January to mainly work on the test Suites so something that you have to provide in WC is a test report that shows that the recommendation is basically implementable by two independent implementations and those yabber correctly according to to the specification we have then prepared the supporting documents that are required like an explainer to send it to the TAC the technical advisory group of w3c and we are currently running the fight review so for everyone who is interested and maybe even adopted this so for instance there is a collaboration of ocf with one m2m and so on have a look at these to your eyes and yeah provide us with anything that you might have had on the back burner or yeah thought yeah you will come back to us now would be the time because we have to close this soon planets to publish or transition to the so-called candidate recommendation on the 9th of April so basically in roughly two weeks that means it\u0027s a free stem and we then have to work on the test suite so basically provide enough test results that show that this document is complete and sufficient to implement correctly and then according to to the process of w3c there will be another transition to the so called proposed recommendation if we are successful by to show that everything is quite right on the 21st of May and this would be important a date for those people who have or work for companies or organizations that are active in the w3c please tell you a serie that there is a new proposed recommendation and if you support this work that he showed to basically fill out the questionnaire on this this new documents and yeah from the end we hopefully then have the standards ready by end of June another announcement just before that is here the second workshop on the w3c so what\u0027s this about we had the last workshop about about five years ago and back then to see what is the general interest of of doing this kind "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:43:52",
    "text": "of work in the w3c so more application-centric standardization work on on the Internet of Things and this workshop we want to use to of course disseminate our findings basically what we have learned in this quite diversified group that we had in the w3c and then also discussed the way forward meaning yeah what should the interest group be working on how big should be the scope of the working group and by then we will already have to have charter proposals ready and but we will be able to discuss those proposals at this workshop if you\u0027re interested to participate we have this call for participation so this is a w3c process that it\u0027s open to / and free to participate at these workshops however you have to submit this notion of interest which is just them yeah an expression of interest so you basically say hey I\u0027m interested in this can I please come if you want to have some stage time so participate in some of the panel discussions give a keynote or presentation and so on then you have to create a submit one to five pages position paper also if you have a good opinion on on what should be done then this position paper would be the right format for you the submissions are handled through easy-chair so those from the academic background should be aware of this the deadline is unfortunately pretty soon so the 15th of April I saw that there are some of the announcement systems still say it\u0027s the 7th of April if you find that always pick the latest date that you find on some official source at the moment it\u0027s the 15th of April notifications would be then end of April and then there\u0027s another deadline for the actual registration to show up more you can find under this link here for the call for participation and that\u0027s it any questions any comments okay everything\u0027s super clear thanks matheus okay do we have now Michael online Michael can hear us "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:46:57",
    "text": "okay seems we\u0027re not limited to the beginning to have this technical challenges today give up this life [Music] okay seems Michael is having setup tough challenges if things don\u0027t work out smoothly now Christian would you like to take your research directly replication first that we can give Michael some time to join hello my name is Christina Moses and I\u0027d like to present actually I\u0027d like to actually present two documents here the first being resource directory replication which I was asked to take here from the restaurant environment because it is more of a document that looks at whether things can work without really prescribing what what needs to be done or without without building so much and the second is a proposal that I have "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:49:57",
    "text": "that takes what the first document shows can be done and built something that I think will be very useful for a web of connected things that directly work with each other so the first one I\u0027m referring to your Android document here it just sets up sets out the the structure sort it describes some challenges in upscaling what are the requirements and what are patterns that can be used to have a resource directory that is not only a single thing that everything depends on but a composition of several devices that together act as a larger one a one like the the I\u0027d not say tribute the solution but the first solution that comes to mind is having a single application under a single authority that has some kind of back-end that more or less magically orchestrates things and whenever the request comes in all instances of that application refer to the shared database but it turns out that due to the way that the resource directory is is built it is not necessary to have such a tight coupling so you can have several resource directories that might for example be announced on a that might all individually be found or that might be announced under a DNS name that resolves to different hosts or whichever setup you have and a registration happens at one device at one entry node and when lookups happen that all those lookups are more or less proxied across the all the participating resource directory nodes whether that is eager caching or whether there is whether data is distributed in another way there\u0027s various possibilities depending on the on the particular requirements so there is very little running code to back this so for very few very small examples but the rough findings of the document are that we can have resource directories that are distributed and tolerant for signals to fail and still provide for lookups still allow registrations and still have a way for registered devices to say that to recognize that their registration partners just gun and they failover to someone something different different yeah so that is what the first document says sets out and yeah let\u0027s not talk about something else that is how do we describe with which device is another device talk so let me very briefly sketch out the scenario where we are having a small device that talks to your cell phone and they are just finding each other in a local network and have "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:52:58",
    "text": "an address to express that name that that relation whether what the phone is looking at but as soon as the as the phone leaves the network for example fails over to to sell you on an n-type network that name won\u0027t broke anymore so let\u0027s the Louis list what do we want of names so stable identifiers is something that it\u0027s probably good because cool your eyes don\u0027t change and the your eyes are what we are using in web linking they should probably also be your else so be used be usable to resolve that name into something that we can work with and they should be able to set us up for enter and security so if I have an IPA if I have an IP address as no matter how stable that is that won\u0027t tell me how I know how to trust whoever does that and while we are at building a shopping list I\u0027d like that solution to work with constraint devices that don\u0027t even need to grow their code size in order to do that do that [Music] turns out of we can do that so our d-link is a proposal that I have about a an additional way of how we could address devices that in parts builds on resource directories conceptionally but is largely distributed and decentralized system so how could those those your eyes look like well if you\u0027re probably familiar with the regular scheme so I coop plus 80 is something that core is working on to have a single scheme rather than one scheme for UTP and one scheme for TCP and then we need to have something that is certainly a property of that device and the in my opinion best thing for those things especially if we can\u0027t rely on being part of any centralized structure for a hierarchical structure for that matter is a cryptographic identifier and that should be still usable in for expressing a particular resource on that thing so it works like a regular like like any other regular kueh pure I and has a past component and can you can do operations on that now how do we how do we find such addresses because we already linked or our person not exactly something I would expect and what I record too oh what a request resolve those could either in local scenarios when maybe we don\u0027t even have an uplink be yourself using multicast and in most um for the internet case those could be entered into a distributed hash table with some additional ascertain that that the address that we are advertising is actually an address that is backed by whatever cryptographic identifier is in that address now of course we are talking about constraint devices here so "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:55:59",
    "text": "those will in all likelihood not participate in that THD but we can have helper notes and those helper nodes would form something like a global resource directory that might not support everything that resource directory is set out to especially kind of in-depth resource lookups will not work because is you can\u0027t just find everything on the internet but it will look very much very similar therese of directory and participate in all the protocol negotiation steps that a resource directory can participate in as well so this of course is doesn\u0027t kind of I come from nothing so I\u0027ve looked at several other earlier approaches to the same to the same issue of finding names for things that can be used so um the Tor project and their onion addresses are certainly a large influence I\u0027ve looked at various others as well I do not claim to have read through all of that um in particular the probably 30 years RFC\u0027s on hip but those are all things from which we could from which I\u0027d like to learn and take lessons and much of that has already gone into the design I\u0027m presenting here so from the idea how do we get up forward um one thing is this relies on working core so there are two to kind of building blocks that are that still need to be fleshed out next that for me would be to tour us to write some to do some prototyping and to get actual running code and then to answer questions of operations so right now I\u0027m having an opera address in there or I think I haven\u0027t even entered something into an eye on a registry yet and having it at our portal - using it at our codomain is definitely a step up from that so one question is for me that I will need to answer in the course of this is how will that work in particular but also something that where I hope to get feedback from a research group is who else would participate in that so how could that be spread out because this will if it is to succeed this will need to be it\u0027s an effort that is distributed among among several parties the ghio I\u0027m having with that is that I would like to run this with off-the-shelf devices by 2023 now I am aware that this is ambitious but I think that if the people that might use this work together this is something that can be achieved which brings me to the last step on that there is my my questions to the research group or so I would love to gather general feedback and ideas what this can "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:59:00",
    "text": "mistakes I made things that things I did not consider all the things that are that someone else might have solved an interesting question especially with respect to also to the chairs and is that is this at all the right place so I\u0027m standing here because basically I\u0027m resource directory or application moved here and I think this is a good place because this is definitely something experimental but I might be wrong but the most important purpose of this presentation is to to gather you in so do you have requirements for for similar applications do you want to use that do you want to participate in that and I hope that there are a few yeses and I\u0027d like to hear about that absolutely did I just go off the slat or fell off the edge your no idea below bill here from Tampere University I can start with the first part of the presentation which is about the resource directory replication and I think this is work that should have been started a long time ago because this is actually a really pertinent problem we need that replication in many places and in many use cases and I\u0027ve seen this being applied in various industries that without replication we find extremely weird implementations where suddenly a resource directory becomes a co-op server and then they put a client inside it and then try to do registrations toward a different resource directory and so on so I think that\u0027s that\u0027s that\u0027s really good and I hope that that work goes forward and then the something completely different part that is interesting I am obviously very keen on the protocol negotiation as well as the effortless 80 so I\u0027d like to discuss this more flying with you unfortunately I was not able to look through this rough before today but but I think I like the ideas what you proposed and especially the prior art is it\u0027s it\u0027s it\u0027s there I think there are some things that we can also look outside this prior art for example ocf as a similar scheme that you could resolve so we could talk about that bit later yeah thank you so Eric dawn marks I didn\u0027t capture in the case of the global you know resource directory be the DHT or anything else so what are the thoughts about sort of having some level of control about who can see what information sure these are basically hashes but still I might only want to "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:02:00",
    "text": "expose you to my company or my family or whatever yeah so there there are three answers that I have to this first is that when it comes to things that the device has about itself which usually in a resource directory registration are all my different resources those would probably be alighted by most devices which is okay with the resource directory now the second is what do I know of this hat what can I know of this hat and I\u0027ve talked to people from the Tor project and with their version three identifiers they have a very interesting concept which basically encrypts the entries to the distributed hash table with the names themselves so only someone who know who has been given that name is at all be able to look anything up about that and the third part that I see so that name is a character string names yes that name is looks like a tor address so that is 60-ish characters of base 32 and coated parts that are formed from a authority component under well-known well-known domain and the third part is about restricting control with respect to two organizations now there um first um this does not by itself expose the devices from the network so if your device is unreachable from the outside unless the device asks someone outside to proxy for it it will still not be reachable it can opt to proxy but it will usually not and the other thing is that those helper nodes you can not only you don\u0027t do not need to rely on any existing network there so you can just as well have in your at the SE border of your company run one of those nodes yourself at the at the well-known address like implement that anycast address yourself participate in all the steps but if you say that your node should not be announced to the outside but should be announced within your organization or you want to be able to reach outside nodes you can do that at that point so I think convinced me that the most you can do is sort of count how many people are sitting behind some set of it might be at this prefix I can count them if I had access to the whole DHT I can count this is a big organization because they have a million of these things as opposed to three yes you can make guesses on that although I\u0027ve looked into even even hiding your position there when you\u0027re running one of those more advanced um helping out so you could you could do even more but that\u0027s like I\u0027m probably one of the next or next if you have a key there you could actually decide that I\u0027m gonna encrypt the information that sinden DHT note as well so yeah what what I was trying to "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:05:02",
    "text": "say is that um you could even have your helper hide everything that is running on your network behind a tor hidden service if you\u0027re so inclined okay thank you Christian and regarding your question to the to the chairs yeah this different sounds very explorative so and if there is interest in the group then I think it\u0027s certain right place to look into this so and I base where I see so far look at this initial interest so seems worth exploring deeper thank you maybe I could add the hallway discussion that comes up again and again is that we are putting these three devices into jails now and we need to find ways to plumb between these jails and Directory infrastructure map might actually help us do that but of course it would have to operate the doors of those jails and and and so there are some interesting questions of what what exactly a directory can do in this space but it goes beyond just just hitting an IP address of something you need to operate more machinery to actually be able to start to talk to know not sure if all of that but I hope we can follow up on that thank you so we seem to have Michael Michael can yes hello can you hear me yes okay I it wasn\u0027t that the tooltips on this thing of chains and now it\u0027s hard to tell what does what how do I go into presentation mode give me a hint sir well I\u0027m I\u0027m sure you thought so okay so if you saw my slides then I don\u0027t mean to present okay that\u0027s fine okay so I\u0027ll just I\u0027ll just start so yeah this is going to be about the status and things that are happening around IOT extensions for schema.org we used to call this IOT schema.org but we aren\u0027t probably aren\u0027t going to have a sub-domain now as you see from the presentation we are likely to integrate directly so next slide please okay so briefly we\u0027ve formed a community group but it\u0027s still not active that the plan is to do most of this work in a w3c community group for these extensions but we haven\u0027t actually spun that up yet it\u0027s formed and people are joined and more people can join but we\u0027re not really using it yet the next step as you\u0027ll see is to engage that and I want to talk about how we\u0027re going to integrate IOT extensions in the schema.org and then a thing that\u0027s recently come up this is called one data model as an industry initiative that is "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:08:02",
    "text": "very closely aligned so next slide please yeah so um would you move forward to that a few slides to this schema.org integration proposal part I\u0027d like to go through that first yeah that one okay so what we\u0027re planning on doing is contributing schema.org based on the prototype definitions that we we have which are capabilities and interaction affordances and events actions and properties and data items and we\u0027ll probably you know need to rename those to prevent name conflicts and to come up with names for those that that everyone likes but some simple and types like a capability provides an interaction pattern and provides output data and that can be used of course standalone other things could provide output data data item constrains are already there in property value constraints and we want to add some property types for features of interest so we can say for example that this temperature sensor is measuring the oil temperature of an automobile and the oil is the feature of interest and doing that linkage allows the semantics client to be able to understand what they\u0027re doing so the definitions themselves when we say here\u0027s the thermostat here\u0027s a light bulb here\u0027s the capability to turn something on and off here\u0027s two capability to set the level of something those might not be in the ayats they won\u0027t be in the schema.org core definition model they\u0027ll likely be in external namespaces so the idea is to just integrate the the basic core property types and object types and then let the people who want to define things use their own namespace and this is the pattern that we\u0027re also seeing in this one data model okay next slide please so what this is is basically just a description of what we\u0027re doing this is basically the core model right this is really the part we want to add to schema.org and the next slide and along with the extensions for feature of interest so this is basically basically the model that we\u0027ve been developing over the last couple of years of collaboration in schema or in IOT schema in the extension group and this is really what we\u0027ve come up with so it has the core the core schema properties actions events interaction patterns and then feature of interest linkage so this this allows us to pretty much say go tell me the temperature of the you know heat exchanger tube side outlet for example all those features of interests that are in say brick schema can be combined with the definitions of sensing and actuation that we have here and have a whole semantic identifier somebody\u0027s going to the mic somebody\u0027s "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:11:03",
    "text": "in the room okay then next slide please I think we\u0027re yeah okay so the plan is to basically create yep github issues and drive discussion in our collab organization and in the community group and at some point when we know exactly what we want to contribute we will go and create issues on that schema.org and engage them and start the debate discussion about you know how to add this stuff to schema.org all right so um now I I think it\u0027s a good time to go back and now that now that I\u0027ve reminded everyone what the core model looks like let\u0027s go back and look at one data model stuff okay so the proposal is to basically so one data model is a bunch of SDO Sandman and and vendors so it\u0027s be OCF gsm a oma with lightweight m2m and google and smart things and Amazon and Comcast and basically it\u0027s to create a high level semantic model that does not require a particular protocol implementation so it\u0027s essentially the same same mission that we took on in this game about organ stanchions and what it turns out is that we\u0027re probably going to converge on the same patterns and the alignment is uncanny in terms of how how well it\u0027s it\u0027s I guess the work we\u0027ve done is held up pretty well because it seems like that this is the same the same conclusions are being made in this group I\u0027m currently at the first face-to-face meeting of this group and already made proposals of the nature that are well the proposals are in the link here and in my github basically it\u0027s a high-level semantic model with protocol bindings and it says that for example you can you can turn a light on or off or a measured temperature or set a set point and then do that based on the abstract high-level model in the application and then the system will be able to sort of select the protocol bindings and figure out you know from the protocol bindings that you need to go to a post at this particular address and and what the format should be what the data types are and this sort of thing so let\u0027s look at a couple of examples I\u0027ve got some of that I pulled out here next slide please so the UML model okay this is just a repeating what we already said there\u0027s the thing and it has capabilities and they have interaction affordances which can be events action properties and then there\u0027s some data types and data typing is for the range and the range units things like that what\u0027s in a non net cetera okay next slide please "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:14:04",
    "text": "so I\u0027m just gonna blow through these and not go line by line but here\u0027s describing a switch and a switch level capability which is an on/off and a dimming capability and basically it says for a switch I have a value property and an on and off actions and for the level property I have a level property and a set level action really simple next next slide please yeah so then the those things link this here are some of the things they link to so remember I guess I explained a little bit this is essentially json-ld which is JSON with some RDF hooks that allow you to do namespaces and you are eyes and things like that so when we say add ID that means that this thing is meant to be linkable from externally this is a URI it\u0027s defining where this thing is in the in the data space by URI so the switch level level property that\u0027s the thing that I can refer to from another file right and says that a level property has a subclass of affordance and it has switch level data it has a data item and then it\u0027s saying the set level action is a is also an interaction affordance it\u0027s an action type and it has level data and rate data so basically with this information that the application knows what you know what what kind of data items and are available and then next slide please and the data items themselves are defined and yet another place again each one has an ID so it\u0027s linkable and it says that the switch value data in this case consists of a spring enumeration with the terms on and off in lowercase and English language for example it could be a boolean it could be 1 \u0026 0 it could be a lot of different things and so the idea is to be able to represent exactly what this this existing device does which is a it\u0027s not really a device it\u0027s a smart things pseudo device that you have access to in the cloud but it\u0027s just basically a you might call a shadow or a mirror so at the data items that we\u0027re using your value data that\u0027s the on off the level data which is a an integer from 0 to 100 and rate data which is a an integer from 0 to 65535 so now that now the application knows you know what what it can do and those sort of what the data items are needed in and it knows how to conform those data items and this is all the definition that we\u0027re doing at at this level the next level we\u0027re taking these in these terms like switch value data and level data and putting them to a protocol binding so next next page please yeah so here\u0027s an example of a protocol banning this is a fragment of a swagger file an AS 2.0 and it says this this resource has a path this is the path of the resource and it has get in host operations and what we\u0027ve done is added annotations to say at type which means that the semantics type sort of tags these things "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:17:06",
    "text": "so what you know is that this URI exposes a value property and it\u0027s also where you go to do a non-action and an off action and then when you look at the the verbs the get gap says this is this is how you you access the value property this is how you interact with it on a read and post is sort of this is how you interact with it on a write and post is also used to invoke the actions so the idea is this protocol binding the client already knows how to how to look through the swagger and figure out how to create a request but it doesn\u0027t really know what they do and so this basically adds information about what these requests do and how to do the different things next slide please in the last the last thing is it says the data so on I want to send the value and this is basically in the in the swagger part that says describes the values it says it\u0027s a boolean which actually doesn\u0027t really match who the the other example but let\u0027s just pretend that the other example said boolean big this is ocf now so it says that there are some types here that\u0027s a value data a non value data and all value data and so what this means is that if I look at the on and say I want to switch this on it means that I have to put a boolean true and if I switch it off I have to put a boolean false in and this is all the annotation for what data values you need and then the value data just gives a schema constraints like 0 to 256 or or whatever right so this is basically what we\u0027re proposing as the as the way what what the one data model looks like but as the representation for this high-level abstract model that all of these different SDOs and vendors can map they\u0027re in existing models too and this is really meant to facilitate eventual convergence around a single model that everyone uses I think that\u0027s I think that\u0027s about all I see what\u0027s the next slide look like we going into the yeah ok so we already talked about that going on ahead toward the end and I think there\u0027s yeah ok so again the schema.org what we\u0027re planning on doing is working on the existing ontology until we get it ready to put into schema.org and we need some broad agreement across a lot of different communities on what these are yeah and we need to figure out how to make the definitions how to make the navigation work on the definitions so we have a web page you can go to read them nextslide yeah so on the definitions we\u0027re basically going to start creating these examples now that we have a format and tools and all that work we\u0027re going to go forward and and you know have have as many of these examples as we can and then in terms of tools "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:20:07",
    "text": "most of what we get requests for to make this easy for developers to use so the same thing is happening in one data model so basically we\u0027re looking at a best practices guideline and eventually some tools and scripts that allow the developer to automate a lot of the redundant part so that means all right so we\u0027re looking at probably adding a few new classes like data typing and some some common thing types that and and also enumeration so we may be adding a little bit more to the ontology but these are things that that general problems in the industry that need to be solved like what the enumerations for the fan mode of a thermostat and things like that for example you want to make those interoperable as well right next slide please so yeah building the web interface we probably need to use shapes constraints and and do some navigation and then we need to figure out if you go to schema.org how do you get over to this other namespace and then agates these definitions is that one entry point or separate or whatever we need to figure all that out I think that\u0027s about it that was probably one more slide yes yeah future of interest so this is a thing where what\u0027s happened in the last couple of years is some folks in the automotive domain using a Geneva VSS and the building domain using haystack have kind of decided to align with this sort of way of doing definitions and build feature of interest ontology z-- that are going to be compatible with schema.org and what we\u0027re doing so they\u0027re calling it VSS schema and brick schema for automotive and buildings and what we want to do is work with those folks that are defining those in in Volkswagen and BMW and other folks are doing the building stuff and you know come up with some some really good feature of interest properties for linking features of interest into the definitions or vice versa also that at the at the w3c meeting last and they only came up with a number of other collaboration points with sensor data and geospatial data on the web and then we wanna also explore collaboration through IIC with some for some industrial definitions that\u0027s I think that\u0027s all is there one more slide yeah no that\u0027s it okay so that\u0027s that\u0027s where we are the you know the big news is this one data model thing which really is is in its early stages but I\u0027d say that the outlook is very good that a lot of these st o--\u0027s and manufacturers can make some some agreements at this high level so that\u0027s that\u0027s kind of the takeaway thank you Michael um Stan I think you you want to report "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:23:09",
    "text": "about what\u0027s going on with you all right now okay so I\u0027m I\u0027m in Philadelphia at the first face-to-face meeting of the one data model I wouldn\u0027t even call it an organization it\u0027s a I don\u0027t even know I guess I guess you\u0027d call it an organization but we have a group of folks and we\u0027re we\u0027re getting together to sort of hash out some of the high-level details it\u0027s an oxymoron you know how we\u0027re going to go about this and it really it really started off as a fairly low level thing that okay there\u0027s a ZigBee model there\u0027s an ocf model there\u0027s a lightweight m2m model how do we do we just pick the best one you know what do we do and through through the discussions that led up to this we\u0027ve kind of come around to realizing that we mean you know we need to do something like capabilities events actions and properties that everyone now agrees that we really want to decoupled so what we\u0027re doing this week is basically working through some of the actual examples and you know nailing down some of the decisions we had a really good day yesterday of pretty much greeting on what the core model is going to look like and what where the bounds are and now we\u0027re down to okay what if we need to how do we compose things what are the limits of what we can compose we\u0027re down to talking about what the license is like for different issues that contribute things that already have licenses so I think we\u0027re down into the the architecture discussion and this afternoon we\u0027re going to try to build some representative samples so and I\u0027ve made some proposals about you know like this this earlier thing that we earlier slides we saw of how we could use json-ld with namespaces and all of that as a common definition format and no one else has proposed in the alternates so it looks like we may be able to go forward with a lot of without a lot of arguing about what the format should look like we\u0027ll see anyway this afternoon is is the concluding quarter of the meeting we\u0027ve met all day yesterday and we\u0027re meeting today and this afternoon we\u0027re going to work through some examples there a question from the mic hi it\u0027s Eve I am curious to know who\u0027s not at the meeting that you\u0027re gonna need to reach out to and draw into the discussion we\u0027ve really not just the Apple at the table yeah in addition to maybe companies are there other organizations in the IOT space that or you know general what an interesting segment whether it\u0027s automotive or whatever that you need to to bring in to you know endorse as well that\u0027s that\u0027s really good question and I think what we\u0027re what we\u0027re looking at is we probably want to enable domain experts to create these definitions and not just pull things from exist existing "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:26:10",
    "text": "stos so we want to get people who are more well domain experts like the we mentioned with IIC for example we\u0027d also like to get people that don\u0027t have leis on agreements currently it\u0027s sort of working Eleison agreement with with ocf and ZigBee and all of that and we have some invited experts but we really want to bring in people from my ETF and i RTF as well and get more interaction there we have some people who are in both like Ari and myself and and and some others but we really want to try to open it up a little bit so I\u0027d say in those two areas get at the other representation from other SDOs and other people that are building definitions and including Apple and also that domain experts do you have suggestions on other other engagements we might want to do no not yet but it would be great to see the full list of participants at some point but it\u0027s an exciting initiative so yeah we will look forward to your your minutes your notes or whoever\u0027s notes I\u0027m thinking I\u0027m taking notes but we have other people taking minutes as well so hopefully they\u0027ll be a good report awesome Thanks thank you only thank you my good so I\u0027m not seeing anybody that\u0027s queuing up for the microphone so I hope you have a successful meeting great thanks and one more thing if anyone wants to participate we have a way of inviting experts we have an invited expert kind of category that they obviously won\u0027t be able to participate in some of the if we go into any NDA space but why am i hoping we never have to do that we try to keep it all open so please let me know if you\u0027d like to participate and I\u0027ll try to get an invitation for you okay connect you up already you should be getting an invitation soon okay thank you so this item is closed telling us about using kuroh to bring more hyper media to IOT now one one problem maybe in preparing this segment is that one or two of the the thing you think research group summary meetings ago I gave a quick tutorial about what color is and maybe we should put a link to that tutorial because it\u0027s recorded and ooh - "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:29:11",
    "text": "hello can you down you know I think it\u0027s good thank you so maybe we should provide a link to to that tutorial which is recorded on on youtube if you want to have a little bit more detail on how coral works and this segment here really is about looking at the larger world of how you can build applications in a restful hyper media oriented way and talk about the the place that coral has in in this world so let\u0027s hand over to tell us thank you so happy already talked a bit earlier in this meeting about what we did did at the hackathon and I have a few slides and just to provide a bit more background on what we did there and then I guess it would be a good opportunity to take some time to for discussion and next steps and how we might want to move forward with this and I don\u0027t have slides for that before I come to to the hackathon things I would to briefly talk about hyper media in the ITF and I RTF in general so this idea of using hyper media for infections where there\u0027s not a human in front of the screen clicking on links and looking at funny pictures but using it to drive the interactions between machines has been around for a while and several occasions people have come up with some kind of hyper media format usually based on JSON that they propose for for driving these machine to machine injections in some way and the surprising number of those have been published as internet draft none of them of these often called hypertext application languages have made it to a working group document status so far but as the number keeps increasing over time it shows there is some potential here and there\u0027s also some need for Standardization because essentially all of these formats are almost doing the same thing but slightly different so bit order is the hypertext application language how more recent is jason hyper schema which has the interesting approach of not putting the hyper media on the wire but instead augmenting "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:32:11",
    "text": "existing json documents with hyper media controls that then tell you how you can interact with the service based on this data and very recent is the profile hypertext application language and with which is unrelated to how and my proposal is coral for a while there has been this HTTP link header field which also falls into the category of providing machine readable and machine understandable hyperlinks for navigating and detecting with HTTP based applications and the core working group we have the link format that is now showing a bit of its age so we are thinking of maybe replacing that with coral at some point and right now the primary use case for link format is this bone or resource where you can ask a server Kristen Lee what resources do you have and map Nottingham has a related draft for HTTP which he calls a home document you can ask the server please give me a home document which is the entry point to your server so coral is yet another hypermedia format intended for these machine-to-machine interactions and it does define a data model which consists of links which allow you to navigate between resources and forms taken from the concept of HTML forms and which allow you to make submissions essentially to the server and that\u0027s enriched with the metadata about the resources that I mentioned so that a machine can decide which links are relevant to me based on some kind of vocabulary that I know and how can I make some requests and coral comes with two serialization formats the primary one is based on C bar and it\u0027s very compact binary format it\u0027s suitable for constrained environments and it that\u0027s the biggest difference to their other hypermedia formats I showed on the previous slides because those are mainly targeted at the big web and not at constrained environments where every big and every byte counts it turns out that this binary format is so compact that you almost only can look at it as a hex dump or that\u0027s not very useful for humans so there\u0027s also a text-based format for coral that we mostly use for writing down examples and then that code "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:35:11",
    "text": "get compressed into the binary format and if I had to summarize coral in in three sentences and I would describe it as it gives you a description of what is the resource that you\u0027re currently looking at what can you do with that resource and how does the resource relate to other resources and how the look will still like in this text format is shown on the next couple of slides so one example that has been used for a while is customs coffee machine it\u0027s totally not very bad you find example but the attention is to create some showcase for different data models or injection models and try to see how that works out and one concrete instance of that was presented as part of this plot data model in Vichy and I took that example and tried to convert it to coral and what you know can you see here is I go to into the details but roughly it provides a bunch of metadata about a resource a co-op resource that describes the coffee machine itself itself and it describes a bit about the current state of the coffee machine it\u0027s currently brewing something it\u0027s making progress and it has some limit self and how many orders can be queued up and then there\u0027s essentially a queue of coffee orders that the Machine will produce one after the other and embedded in there is a form a create form that instructs a client how to crank create co-op requests for adding new orders to the end of the queue and then there are some forms for counseling some coffee order or posing and posing it then we had one example where we had a w3c thing description and I caught it Michels light switch because it\u0027s very similar to what we just saw on Michael slides with the IOT scheme or odd update and here it\u0027s not using a made-up example of coffee machine vocabulary but the existing IOT schema exam vocabulary as much as as much as possible and this is a good example for showing this what is it what operations can it do how does it relate to other resources and we can see here that this light switch is "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:38:11",
    "text": "alight the binary switch and the level in IOT schema terms what can you do with it you can switch it on and switch it off so jess is which state which you can change and it also has a level that you can change the thing description that I used to write this is shown on the left hand side in a tiny tiny font and that\u0027s because the thing description is very long and which makes a lot of sense because they think description does more than coral and it has these grouping into properties actions and events which Cora doesn\u0027t have and then it has protocol agnostic part for each also the interaction form and then the protocol binding that tells you how to how it\u0027s mapped to this specific protocol so it turns out to be a bit longer but if you just make the assumption for example that you are using co-op and then it collapses very nicely and in very little information and can be expressed nicely in coral then I\u0027ve this slide you\u0027re not supposed to read this but I went to the omae slip so definition of reusable resources so they have these definitions of resources that can be used inside of episo-- objects and I try to extract this list of resources and I gave each one a name that can be used in coral so this could be a first step for expressing if so structures using coral so you could ask if so implementing device what what resources do you have and it could answer using coral of course one of the use cases is also this bound on core resource where we currently use the link format in core to describe the resources of a constrained device and there\u0027s one nice example in our C 66 90 which describes a bunch of resources ascenders resource the temperature resource in the right resource and it uses these features like resource type that we have defined in core and interface type and it also uses some of their INR edges that link relation types that you can find in some RFC\u0027s so this we also can do with coral and as I said the conclusion so far at least Decathlon was it works so I guess a useful next step "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:41:15",
    "text": "would be to do a bit of more experimentation to find out where else we can apply it earlier today we discussed about this use case of group discovery using resource directories which where they used the link format Rendall and they stumbled for example on the problem of extending link format with new link target attributes and that\u0027s the one of the power to the link format is showing as age and which could be very gently solved using coral because coral has these extensibility mechanism but in from the start so a bit of more experimentation would be useful and that\u0027s there you come in and if you have ideas or use cases way would interested to find out if that could if coral could solve some problems there and it would be very nice to hear that but so that\u0027s somewhat independent of that we also now have a bunch of specifications one for coral itself and some details and a couple for essentially showcases of poorer and these at least the coral document itself is quickly stabilizing and I guess it would make sense to now look for a home in some broken coupe for it and the question is how do we do that so you said you you said you were collecting links to other things using correlate words using colors that on that screen right now I said that from place um I don\u0027t have a slide for that but if you go to this github repository which is the last link on the slide you can find some of the implementations that were created during the echo tone for example and the github repository also contains a bunch of examples and a PMF grammar and CDL and so on okay and every watch find say we would find things like implementations and other material that we could use and I should probably point with a side "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:44:17",
    "text": "meeting that we are going to have tomorrow from 3:00 to 5:00 in room Taraka any questions right now any comments on Europe favorite like a media format it works so yeah for the record get some thumbs up from the audience from Christian so yeah maybe for everyone I don\u0027t my personal experience was Cora was like first it took a while to get my head around it but then more and more I started to actually understand it the more useful and cool yet she started to look like so I had a lot of fun over the weekend in the heck I don\u0027t thinking about how we could be using and especially adding these semantics to coral and how can we be modeling systems in in a slightly different way that we\u0027ve been doing so far using more hyper media also in in the IOT space so I can highly recommend having a closer look at that and Thursday because we\u0027ll we\u0027ll post a tutorial also somewhere more easy to access if you think you would like something like that to get started and I think the Wednesday site meaning is gonna be very good opportunity to also to learn more about coral and think about different ways we could we could be using that but definitely one of those interesting to me seems to have a lot of potential to do things in a different way and and I probably interesting to explore how far can we take it so with that I think we can give you little planning you want to do with it so yeah I don\u0027t wanna keep you away from your from your dinner plans but for the meeting planning so we showed in the beginning what\u0027s what\u0027s our another plan for now so you can see see the list here we of course having is used well with IDF summary meetings but these meetings usually are not the one where we\u0027re doing most of work it\u0027s mostly work with no reporting what we\u0027re doing elsewhere so I highly recommend you to join for example the we she calls in if you\u0027re interested in the hypermedia semantics topics or if you\u0027re interested in these various collaborations we have other organizations we have those meetings coming and we all be posting all of this information on the mailing list and then in part go to the last point as I mentioned like very interested on on having a co-located event with academia this year next year but in any way doing bit more of that "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:47:19",
    "text": "than what we have done before so if you have ideas on good venues good locations good good ways to do that and please talk to us chairs okay so with that if there\u0027s no further questions or comments thank you everyone for joining and hope to see many of you tomorrow in the decide meeting and of course rest of the week in the various IOT meetings thank you [Music] [Music] and if you haven\u0027t signed the blue sheets yet there\u0027s at least one blue sheet here in the front of the room "
  }
]