[
  {
    "startTime": "00:04:11",
    "text": "hello everyone so we'll be starting in just a minute can you can you hear me yes I can yes perfect hello B so um I suggest it's 5 minutes past the hour so I suggest that uh that we get started uh Pascal if you do me the honors for the uh the note well um and uh then I just have uh a little something the end of of of the chair of the chair slides okay so this is uh the usual ITF meeting so it belongs fully to thef procedures uh so you need to be very aware of all the best practices that are written on the screen in particular uh we are very sensitive to harassment so if you're um uh witness to some harrassment situation please contact the umet team and you see the link to to to the the team and obviously as usual uh"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:06:02",
    "text": "if you're aware of any iprs being discussed in this meeting that is not announced please tell the group or refrain from uh discussing this IP and the agenda for today is uh just two items so we'll start with the discussion on the access rules and um so there are AC discussions right now on the maining list on the access rules and then uh lauron will uh present us uh the next steps on the shake architecture next yes um thank you very much Pascal and uh so here I just wanted to do a short recap of the action items since our uh last ITF so we had two adoption calls uh that we had uh during the the the the working group meeting we had uh uh a wide confirmation and uh we wanted to confirm also on the mailing list uh uh so we've sent uh this on right after the ITF and we got uh positive results for both draft to access control and draft Tia uh 8824 update uh so these were confirmed uh and uh I'd like to thank the authors of um 8 8824 uh update uh for the submitted uh ITF version and we are still waiting for the draft ITF sh Access Control to be published uh but I know that that will probably happen very soon um so uh there are two uh two action items that I would like to uh uh to put on the table so the first thing is uh we were discussing about the oam draft uh at thef and uh I I I really would like to because I cannot find the actual"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:08:00",
    "text": "adoption call for adoption of that draft so I would like to to put things in order and I would like to propose for us to start an adoption call for the uh uh for the draft Bartel shik o o uh for it to become a working group item um so um let let's say um uh I would like to see just your opinion for the people that are currently connected uh how do you feel about that do you do you have um anything against like or or would you like to have some more discussions before we start this uh adoption call so I don't yes pascar yes it's just that there were a number of items that were discussed as possibly belonging to this uh OEM document uh o is very large in terms of scope um if we focus on P or or or or I mean maybe I was just wondering if the title could be more narrow to what exactly you want to do with this particular o document um versus the global om things that can happen just because the title will last a long time so at the time we adopt maybe a better title could work I don't know you almost yes it's not just ping it's all the icmpv6 message processing so yes we can restrict it to icmp as we have something with as we have co-op we can have something on acmp V6 yeah but o wellp can do a lot of things and we"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:10:01",
    "text": "won't support them all I mean repo nebor Discovery work onp we're not working on them um so icmp is not the right title uh icmp is just a transport oam is probably not the best title either because there are so many things in the am like I just look at what we're doing in row for am or in betet um which is not considered here as well as like something like you know I don't know the probing methods I don't know I mean probing or or something like that you know a word it's not only probing we we have a way to compress ER messages we we have a way to yeah so it's more generic probing or integration withm or something is very large and people would be confused I guess o people would be confused by the content of this document versus the title okay so so I I I understand what you're meaning what you mean here Pascal and uh in any case I I think that it falls under our oam Charter uh so in any case it's in in our Charter and then there is the question of the the name of the draft actually so um uh I I I just tesing the the scope do we have all the features um is it uh do we have too many features I mean uh do did we have all the discussions on the feature set in this document the ones who w't so we could adopt and then change the feature set but it's if we could just do a pass on this document at the next in just to consider the feature set and agree that this is the feature"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:12:00",
    "text": "set we want to adopt that they would be perfectly happy okay so you would be in you would be in in in opinion to to postpone so so first the first to to answer my question is not start the working working group item adoption today I would make sure we a pass the content yes discuss discuss the content right it's like but that can be done during the adoption call I mean if the adoption call asks the question questions please check not just the title because that's not exactly what it is or or uh check the content and think about you know is do we have all the features that look like this do we have too many features I mean and if we get commands then as part of the adoption we can we can um know get those commments publish the last draft Bartel with those commands there and then adopt it to turn it into draf I'm just not 100% sure that that we're there uh you know because we didn't have so many discussion on the maining is for a long time on this document okay so I I I I I like what you're saying because it also puts like a some kind of a limit like I mean there is a reason why we start a discussion there is the adoption call and let's discuss this uh uh the exact scope within the adoption call um and and on the adop call will continue like maybe it will be a little bit longer than two weeks um yes the scope is is the right thing I mean I I agree with you because if if people agree with the scope then the title should be obvious the title should be kind of the scope and the content should match that scope so that's that's exactly yes the discussion that we want to have what do we want to take to our FC right now which features exactly what is the feature set what's the okay okay um so um Eric is does does"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:14:00",
    "text": "this sound meaningful to you is it okay for you um probably I mean we can uh uh okay I mean for for for uh I'll write up then an email oh yes Eric yes sorry it took while to find the new Button as usual yes yeah it does make sense it does make sense so go go on okay so I I'll write this down I write I I I will write that in the in the in the minutes and uh and then I'll proceed if it's okay for you okay so that was that was the the the first item and then uh uh Tod do that is remaining is to move from interor to the shic working group but I'll I'll have to I'll I'll contact Bob for to do that and so with this um we uh uh uh it's seting from from my side and from from the size of the chair and we are giving H um yes and uh so Ian want wants to share slides okay how can I let me let me accept this all uh yes I need to uh Pascal I think that you need to stop okay I'll do revoke slides and then I'll do this so it's shared um I don't see the slides yet I'm not sure if I did the right it says on my side as well that the new deck is being shared but doesn't seem to be coming it's interesting once again uh Ian is asking to to share his them"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:16:02",
    "text": "himself so maybe we can say yes yes I don't know how to share something do you have the presentation Anna did uh yes yes so it's maybe it could be better if you share yes okay I'm not sure with this interface Pascal can you share please the access I can so it is the Access Control right yes yes okay do you want me to give you the ball yes please you should have it now can you check if you can move the slides I no I cannot um well let's go like this and I will ask each time I need to share is the name Amina on the left okay somehow the the magnifying didn't work so let me uh I don't know how it came but so now it should be okay oh yeah yeah sorry I mean this because when you select somebody the the the window gets bigger I mean it's a u getting used to it so I clicked on the wrong thing at the end ahead well thank you I will share some presentation we did with Anna lauron just to follow the some conversation we have in the mailing list about the access control draft so just to wrap up just this is just the Conn contivity what we can do"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:18:00",
    "text": "where we can apply Shak the idea was just to summarize some use cases so on the vertical side you have the data rate and then the transmission range you have several type of networks some hard Harvest Network like RFID some fixed networks so the idea as we saw before is to move shic from just lp1 which is in or 1x6 box to other kind of networks then we also have some cellular networks we had the draft on shic for mbot maybe we will have something else in the future for extreme massive myo for example for 6G or for 5G with red cap then we also have some short range like 154 Bluetooth BL Etc and then maybe Serio will have something on satellite networks so yes this just to say that we got several uh use cases where we can apply shake so that's why we need to take care of the creation of the rules and the access control of those rules because we are moving from something that is that was really vertical in the1 topology to something else different so the usage Evolution we go from the stack we have been working on from several years which is from lp1 sh iv6 app and then we created it's already standardized a data model within the working group and the idea is to have a j data model also for the new use cases we will have it will be little by a little so the idea was to have uh something on UDP on TCP on IPC on icmp there are several work going on so this this is like the reason why we think we need to have some Access"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:20:00",
    "text": "Control either or directly on the on the Gen data model that's why we start with the data model because we already because we already have something standardized on that so for now what we propose is to extend this CH data model of what is already done means on the left side of the slides and then we can think about what we what we can do for the other protocols so our position is that for now we work on the Gen data model that is already done to extend it and to add some behavior that can be applied to that uh data model so in shic over lp1 we had some compression of uh of abstract descriptions the idea was that because the traffic was pretty uh we it can be defined in advance so it will easy to Define also Define the rules so in that case we had low rates so there are some little packets from time to time that need to be transmitted the idea was it's need to be on the datagram label we think that that should be the same for the other protocols because it's more static and it's easy to to create the rules and there are little or no changes in the traffic but this is not the case for another protocols so the prise we have when we move from shic over1 to shic over F will be how do you create the rules how you number the rules how many changes changes will be in the if there will be for example a flow or how this will will be changed with time even if this a de same session or not so we need to Define"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:22:00",
    "text": "some conventions some possibilities Define maybe some methods of how do you create or how do you solve these problems so what we have done already so there are three levels so the idea is that at the first level you have the set of rules that you will be instantiated in your in each host on your note name it as you wish so we also Define the rule so there are some rules so the idea is to with this uh access control is to either avoid fermentation avoid noncompression to avoid some attacks and the open question is do we need to have uh to control to change some changes in the compression rules or not so this is the discussion we had on the mailing list now and uh if we go deeper we can have access control to some descriptors like the target value the FI ID and the F ID only for citable Fields like um the uath so the the main question right now is we believe that we need to have this this granularity or going into the field ID for C repeatability repeatable uh Fields because if not there will be some attacks that can be be that can be done and we also have that idea that it should be more General so that would be the ideal part as some people discuss in the the mail list but we do not know how to do it with for example these cor repeatable Fields like the Europe paath so the question is open and we believe for now that has that what that what has been already defining the Gen data model can be uh can be done for the coop rep"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:24:04",
    "text": "light Fields so these are the desri discussion points we have so which are the description the descriptors so do we need to limit those values that does not fragilized Shake do we need to limit those Target values that do no change in the protocol definition like for example the iv6 field for in R only that's what we propos only the c repeatable f ID may be changed that's what we proposed and the danger to to include some bur m o CDA so maybe in some cases uh this per M ocda can be a security concern so it might be a good idea to create a new rule just for those changes so that's all I the the the discussion is open we are very happy to hear from you if you have some suggestions or questions about that and we can discuss and move forward thank you um thank you very much for the presentation uh Ian um so first of all thank you for for the the actually the diagram showing the architectural evolution of stack from lp1 and toik um because I think it captures really well the the changes we we have today um and including also IPC which is also an interesting discussion on goinging in parallel um thanks to Anna she's the artist okay well thank you very much Anna um about this so um uh yes if you can go just back to the to the previous slide yes um so uh I I uh these are like uh"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:26:05",
    "text": "several open open questions and uh on some of them I can have some uh like personal opinion and and we can discuss some on on some of the others but actually I I like the way you present this and and probably one of the things is to maybe we can explicitly list like okay well this behavior Can fragilized Shak or this Behavior can uh yes like the read read only Fields so these these needs to be read only and and all that so um okay what I'm trying to say is that the way you formulate these questions maybe some of them can uh enter the the draft or the the future RFC as options like to say well okay well you can enable this in your shake instance but it will cause this potential security uh uh threats yes um or or maybe we can we can say that hey well it it's such a this the this like securing in like the putting ACLS in place can be such a big U task that we may want to restrict like in the first version of the ACL and say hey well this is like ACL basic and there can be more like extended but to at least to have like a initial level of of ACL and security uh Laur uh yes can you back go back to the previous slide please okay so I think this this one is is very important to to explain what we want to do so right now in the draft we wrote with in the young model we extend the young model of uh"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:28:03",
    "text": "8263 with three Fields three new lives that give some uh way to modify or not the the young data model so for example we have one at the glow top level that consider the set of rules and say we have to say for example you can add or remove some rule from the set of rules then we have the rule and the rule say for so right now it's not totally clear but for example our compression rule we can say you can add or remove fields from a compression rule an existing one and then there is on each field of a compression rule we can say we can change uh what we can change so we can have a lot of granularity for for that for example we can can say we change the TV Target value we can change uh the CDA the matching operator uh and so the question is do we need to make something very very precise or can we have only some uh very basic way to say for example you just be able to modify the TV but you never be able to change a matching operator and in that case if you want to change it create another rule which means that you need the right to do it at upper level so which granularity we need and which level of genericity for example we are using Co-op to say that we can add some Yuri path or URI query but that's specific to Corp and maybe in other protocol we will do we have to do uh the same so that what we at which level we do the the control we can say for"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:30:01",
    "text": "example that uh in the young data model uh matching operator and CDA are always readonly and we can never change it and then we don't have to do some very complex things so what I will expect from the discussion is to say for example first if this three level of granular of granularity for Access Control is enough and then what do we put in it what uh if we you are allowed to change what are you allowed to change etc etc um okay yes okay well it's um I mean the the the way I I I see it looks like um yes count please yes thank you I believe part of the discussion on the main was because of me so I'll I'll just uh tell why uh I said uh I was a bit skeptical by the reasoning I mean the reason behind the The Proposal um it seems to me that the main focus on on this uh proposal is is security and uh the fact that uh I wanted to discuss is um I mean what kind of scenario are we protecting against because it seems to me that uh securing the system by uh locking pretty much everything because uh in the draft there's even a mention of of uh only allow modification On Target values um and only for certain Fields um so so my my question is is this uh approach good enough for protecting and for like what are the scenarios that we are protecting against because my"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:32:01",
    "text": "understanding is that uh if we leave only one target value that can be changed in the rule then we can change that value and make the rule inefficient I mean even in apparent because the matching operator will never match basically and so the question is um why are we making that and the the other question is um if we do Implement those kind of restrictions uh what happens uh if we want to change a rule for example say that the traffic is evolving uh we need to change some value for some reason I don't know for example there's a change the traffic pattern uh there's there's a co-op um type that wasn't seen before and because there's some request from some host on the internet uh we start to see it happening and we need to react to that and we need to change rules um is that something that we can do with those restriction in place or is this something that we cannot do because of those restrictions so yes the question is basically why are we enforcing such granularity and what are the the effects of that on on on the efficiency of of applying shic CES basically but if I may say um so since I'm not an author of this document or I'm just looking at it from from a distance um in in the internet at large there is certainly a need to ensure that uh shik is not used as an attack Vector so certainly this document will have a very very big security section um and there will be a fields in in shic which are expected to be modified for instance"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:34:02",
    "text": "your IP address that could be a dollar one or something so there will be things which will explicitly be written in the rules as uh modify that in a certain way um and and then he said uh what if we we have some new flows we have also discussed the capability to add rules which apply to things which match not none of the existing rules so if if you have um a new flow which is your example and the rules that we have none of them match then it could be acceptable to add a new rule which does match versus modify a rule for an existing match uh which is an easier attack Vector so so I agree with your point that flows can chare but there are a difference between something new comes in in which case we don't affect the existing rules we just create a new one um versus but but it's like a default it comes after all the others have been tried versus a new rule which could effectively affect the processing of the existing rules so there are two different cases here and there is even a thir scenario where you would modify one of the existing rule uh so that it also uh uh can be applied to the to the new traffic yes the question the question is this for example say that we have an equal nent on the type of a coop field one way to accommodate for a I don't know like a confirm that appears for the first time would be to just change uh the not the equal not send to match mapping basically and that's something that uh is discussed in the document and that is said to be uh a vector of attack"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:36:02",
    "text": "and I agree this could be a vector of of attack but it's also a feature that we want to have to be able to adapt to new traffic yeah yes that I believe when you do an ACL in general and and I believe the rules of of a bit that Prime usual in the router um looks is ordered right it's so so you you match the first thing if it matches doesn't match if it doesn't match then you go to a second rule Etc um our rules I'm not sure we we we have that exact feature and to do to make a difference between what I was saying and what you are saying um we would need to have an order because if if you have this if if you're capable to add a rule which comes earlier in the order than the rules that effectively apply um then you could disrupt the rules that follow if you can only add a rule in the end which only applies if none of the existing rules work um then it's less dangerous but then the specific use case that you just mentioned there would be a rule above the new rule that would effectively already match and then the new rule would would not apply so yeah there are the cases where you you would effectively want to do it and the cases where you would not that's why it has to be enabled or not and you have to say hey I'm I agree to do it I don't agree to do it yes so but if you can be brief because we have yeah no just say I think this question is do we trust the other end if we trust the other end and we have establish a security association between these these two ends then we can allow everything uh if we don't trust the other end so we have to see what we"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:38:00",
    "text": "allow or not yes I I totally agree uh that's exactly what I was going to say the question is is less about leaving an open door to a tax but more like how do we make sure that the rules that we Implement in the network are uh legit and the legitimacy comes from who's installing the rule basically and so this rais the question of how do we secure the installation of new rules basically and uh and and I would say that's that's the the main question and the is ACL the correct way to to ensure that or should we use something else I don't know like kind of like an authentication to make sure that the people that are modifying rules of a Chic context uh has the uh has the right to do it basically which is a different problem to yes I I just before giving the word to to Ivan I I wanted to to uh to say that what Pascal said was I I like that very much the the notion that okay maybe you can do stuff but if you do stuff you shouldn't like the rules should not the rules for example you create a new rule it should not be become further like earlier than the existing rules so at least this provides some kind of a protection to like a um uh diverting traffic from from legitimate sources or something like this but um yeah so I yes just to say that in the first version of the draft we try to do something like you mention C like trying to Define some threat model and some attack profiles but then the the doc was to spread so uh so that's why we we narrow"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:40:01",
    "text": "down it only to the data model so the idea of this draft is just to say hey there is a box of tools you of what you can what can be done on how to change uh rules based on the Gen data model but yes I agreed that we should maybe create another draft that will talk about on boarding on how to restan Chate rules how on when there is flows and Etc so but there is another thing that we can do in parallel or something different that can be used in conjunction with this draft I don't know what you think about it okay so count and after that we're I'm cutting the line because we'll need to to move to the next discussion but yes please go ahead yes um well it seems that the I mean the the main reason for this for this work is to prevent threats and uh we say that we provide a toolbox against those threats but it's it's I mean it seems that we should first Define the threats before providing the tools uh if we want them to be efficient and the second point that I wanted to mention is that it's we've we've talked a lot about like uh a rule that would be implemented as an attack to divert traffic from one us to another and I believe this uh this is something that we should discuss because I believe that uh a rule is uh valid inside a Chic context and a shic context is basically to us and it means that in the I mean we should not be able to implement a rule and use a rule to to do this kind of um attack uh just by definition uh this is a shic context a shic context is only Between Two Hosts"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:42:01",
    "text": "and that's it this this should be the end of the discussion like I don't see a way uh where we would we could install rule that would say okay I'm going to capture traffic from someone else basically unless unless all of the rules are in the same uh kind of like sets of rules that we are all evaluating them against all of the traffic which should not happen I mean that's that's an implementation problem I believe that first we should be able to say okay this traffic is coming from this end and then here is the list of rules that we should be applying to to it but but that's maybe I don't know I maybe going too far on that um go Ahad just micro micro okay just micro comment maybe go ahead yes I I I I wanted to say think think a little bit in terms of uh the peer whom I trust is compromised and is using a rule to perform a SC an attack on my memory for instance like uh expand Beyond buffer size and you know all those attacks that are done in memory uh against the device if I if I let the compromise device in front of me change the rules in any fashion he might be able to to attack my device by doing because he he could be manipulating my memory um that's just one example and that's why on top of just trusting the remote and there are things like those ACS which can act as a zero trust type of security on top of the global security that you you get by just trusting the other peer and then for instance if you if you prevent some manipulations on too many bites or or I mean some rules like"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:44:02",
    "text": "that then you may be able to defend against the compromised remote host yes excellent point so um very interesting discussion I think that we should uh uh we should continue on the mailing list and uh yes so we have a plus one from and on my side as well so um please go ahead and and and and U continue the the exchanges and we will we really want to continue like narrowing down on the the actual on the actual threats and what Pascal said was also really really important like the zero trust the notion of zero trust so having said this um we move on to thank you very much Ian for for the presentation thank you Anna thank you um thank you and so we're going to we're switching to Lon to talk talk about uh uh the architecture um so let me find you shall very good oh thank you Pas okay so here I I wanted to present something I I didn't have time last time at the last it meeting because it was at the end and so I didn't change a slide from this meeting I just changed to to to interim uh so I skipped the context because uh why we need this architecture but I I wanted to to summarize what we discussed uh few months ago with Pascal another number of people that we we call the arik and uh the goal is to make some layers shic and also in introduce the the management in in the architecture so the first notion we we introduce what was called a discri minator maybe the better name now by reading the slide I"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:46:00",
    "text": "will say the origin so it's the overend we send the information so as we say can be IP addresses sport number MLS label or any connection ID we we can have so it leads to this architecture where all this represent a single node a single instance and what when a shic packet arrives you first look at the discriminator or the origin and this way you can distinguish will shik stack you you are going to to use so for example in this example we take uh the source address so the one that send the packet as a way to uh uh to find which instance we we are going to to use then we have the Shader so the Shader is something new that we we have introduced few months ago that allow you to carry some signalization for for shic and for shiker we have a specific set of rules in the shiker we can have an instance identifier and when we have look decompress the shic header we have this instance identifier and then we can look on which instance we send uh the uh the shic packet the rest of the shic packet for a decompression and here also we have for each of them we have a specific uh set of rules so what we introduced and I talk a little bit about that uh at VF session is that we have the management so what we propos to do is to introduce a new kind of rules so we have already compression decompression fragmentation reassembly or no compression and we can introduce some rule ID and this rule ID will be tagged"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:48:00",
    "text": "as management and so they will go to uh to a place where we can do the management of Ru regarding all the access control we we we will have the defect so I will not talk about that in in this presentation but I wanted to to show an example for the discussion about some uh layer shic where we have different instance of shik we have uh so from the top we have Oscar that will be uh compressed encrypted then we put it into Co-op we compress Co-op and then we put into an IP UDP packet that says that we are carrying some shic messages it goes to uh a coric so the coric will do the decompression of the first layer and will send the packet get to toward the destination saying is Chic and then we do the opposite things and for this we have a Shader that will tell which uh uh port number we are using because the port number is in that case the first place used to indicate that it's a shake protocol so here we have an example so notation is not totally good but in fact in into parentheses it's something that is compress so the first empty parenthesis means that we have no shiker then we have the IP uh either so the rule ID in fact should be inside not outside and then we have the shiko the coap and the housecore that are compressed so here suppose that we are in a kind of lp1 network so you we are on the device size and we receive this packet so here we don't need the discriminator or origin because it's simplicit it's come from the network and the first thing we do is"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:50:01",
    "text": "to decompress the Shader but from the rule we know that this shiker is empty so we send it to the instance we have only one instance an implicit instance and here we do the decompression of Ip and then at the end after the decompression we have an IP packet from A to B with UDP destination is sh and then the rest is some uh shic residue and P so this is the first instance of shik then this packet is they Define as shik so we put it to another shik in stance so here is the same packet here we use the discriminator so source and destination address and so we go to this instance here we have a shiker so the shiker we tell us which instance we have to use and then we do again a decompression of things and we have Coop or score so we go then to a third instance of shik that is implemented here so we decompress Coop it remain a score and then we uh we have a score so one point also that we we can discuss but it's details is that here we not don't have instance for co-op on a store because they are very very link each to each together so it's not it's not necessary to have a Sher uh between that so uh here it's um so some architectural point of view the good news uh we test it in open CH and it's very very easy to implement in fact there is absolutely no change to do the only thing we we have to do is to define a rule manager for each set of rules um"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:52:01",
    "text": "so when you receive the first CH package you know at which layer you are so you Tex uh the good instance the good rule manager to process the packet etc etc so it doesn't change a lot the implementation but it's uh it's very flexible so here it's a a very short overview of this architecture so now of course we have to to discuss it in in in the group and get your your point of you on that okay thank you thank you L all um I I I've seen this notation and yet I think that I'll need some more time to to to read it again but um uh yes I think that it's very promising that you have already implemented it and it's um uh and it's uh straightforward way to to implement it um and actually I think that this will give us input for the for the shik header what information should be there on the sh and maybe for the next draft like I I love askart but well uh we have to include it into uh the chure because now there is nothing written on that okay yeah yeah I I I'll need to yes yes I agree I mean we have to to basically we started the the representation at the last ATF UHF before actually so two ITF meetings ago um but but the text the architecture is very light uh in particular we we need to make sure we we Define this concept"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:54:00",
    "text": "of origin clearly and uh from the discussions with Lauren in my mind yes I tend to agree that uh we have to define the origin as being basically the source of some application in the source now can it be it cannot be the IP address because some some flows will not be IP we we can do Shake over ethernet um and and there could the applications inside multiple applications which do sh sessions with other applications between one big server and another big server so it's the origin is not the IP address so being able to define the origin is is a big step yeah but uh there's two things the origin can be different at each Lev level so for example you can imagine that it's an LPL MLS label at one position and then we decompress uh IP packet so now you have the source and destination address and it becom the origin for the next layer yeah we need to describe that and something if you are it's implicit which which is a bit more for because for instance if you look at Laura there is no Chader at all so it's all implicit and when it's simplicit it's very obvious that the the instance that is ETC uh if should do it over IP um uh yeah just one point Pascal here implicit is to say that when you receive something from VNS you you have no over Choice when receiving from it so here you you cannot distinguish different uh source of information but after that you may have a shik yes exactly exactly that so so the origin is is the the the origin that bothers me is the one for implicit uh we have to to"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:56:04",
    "text": "that correctly I mean if you're in you know is it really a case by Case Technology by technology depending if you're doing it on Ethernet or doing it at something else or Ms or know where do you pick the or or is it some configuration on on the receiver which says okay when you when you get a a packet which Maps you this generic format then yes um implicitly sh is this like start with IP Plus Port I don't know and that would be implicitly some shake session that that is this thing 100% ready to craft yes so so so yeah so I think that we this probably should be like separate even subse section maybe in the in the architecture drop chick inance resolution and um and there we we we specify this must shcking ex well we need to to to specify this this tree of instances right there is there is some form of instance stre um but even when you've done that um you you need to say how you root it and that that's you know but that's so a big subsection in that section of that explains the three of sh is really how you process the root how you do the implicit first but just to I think what is important here with the what we call now origin is that for example if you look really at a device in Nora one with core uh so on the device it's implicit and on the core or it will be the Devi yeah so we we realize that it's it"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:58:02",
    "text": "is a a knowledge that has to be programmed at least on the side of the core it has to be programmed oh you're doing Laura and and that's the device ID uh and if you're doing something else that is this something else so so it appears that there must be something programmed into each device which says how it does the implicit origin and maybe that's that's all the text we need right and we provide examples and then if there is a new technology that wants to use check it will have to provide its own uh implicit resolution it has to be configured into the device in the end okay I mean to me that that I think that we we agree on that uh we agree on that uh on the side item right to and I I and we agree that it could be U like simply a new section or subsection in the in the architectural draft um so so I I don't know if um uh who would like to maybe insert the section and and then we can discuss that and and share it on the mailing list um I I would be happy to continue working with LA on on this make sure that we craft text which which we are both happy with we had at least two one to one discussions on that topic one in red and one thef uh happy to continue also we can we can take the that of line and craft that text and then we'll propose it to the group with pleasure okay sounds perfect um and with this uh we have uh arrived at the at the hour of the top of the hour so thank you very much all for for being here um and so Pascal I'm going to uh upload the minutes uh to to the data"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:00:01",
    "text": "truer so thank you all and uh our next interim is going to be in uh in January so uh happy holidays and see you next year thank you all okay enjoy the the Christmas period and have a lot of fun and snow and presents and good food and everything else family family very important yes okay you'll take care byebye bye thank care bye"
  }
]
