[
  {
    "startTime": "00:00:00",
    "text": "ones. Hello? We are ready to start. So please, Yeah. Let's you pass the slides. Right? And then you come. Okay. I was at a Okay. So hello. Let's start then the the session. We're going to the she can meet him here in 98117. So next, please. So, yes, the usual at the beginning of the meeting, they're not well So by participating on the idea, you should know whether the rules are applying to the meetings. So you are aware of patents, and so please, yeah, consider the the disclosure of them. And, also, you need to to follow the ITA processes. That is at the end of the slide. a number of BCP documents at the, yeah, be recommended for you to be familiar with that just to prevent any kind of issue. So One thing I'll send you I give you I'll pass the the blue sheet. We have the new version of the blue So regarding the idea of conduct guidelines,"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:02:01",
    "text": "please be aware that well, the the we are here for having in personal discussions focused on just technical matters. So please be respectful and and, yeah, have called to see in the discussions with the and individuals here in in the meeting. Next, please. So regarding ideas meeting tips, we are using meter tool. So for the those that are here in person in in the room, a use the the the client for the for the room for basically for raising hands in in case you have any question to comment at at the mic. For those that are remote, please, yeah, use it if possible to have funds for improving the the reception of the all your comments here. Next. So I said, well, we were using Mitako. I think now all of you are familiar with that, but in the during this in the general slide, you can test the the tool in case there is some doubts on on that respect. next So we would like to ask for any minute taker in case someone can volunteer to take the the minutes help us to to take the minutes of the meeting. Also, the the blue sheet what Daniele or radiciculated Also, in this case, we will have record the attendance through MitECO. And, yeah, just a reminder again about the IPL pro process. So be be aware that you disclose any kind of IPRs that could be related to 20 of the drugs that we will discuss today. in in the group in general. So the details of the session the link in the agenda of IETF has all the materials where you can as well and and and get all the contents for the session today. And as you can see, we have a very packaging Next. will get to be diligent on the on the timing and and please adjust to the allocated time in and just I mean, to be sure that everyone has the the proper time to to discuss and and propose the the rest only stuff."
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:04:00",
    "text": "Next. So as a reminder, very important whatever working group, please use the mailing list for the app reposting new jobs for this in existing drafts for whatever topic that could be relevant to the working group. So we encourage us to share the usage of the the Middle East as as much as we can Next, API process again. So yeah. a written just just to remind that prior to to move to to progress any task in the working group we need to do some polling and and every IPRs will be disclosed. Next, this And then with this, hi, Hanover, Daniel. we'll go to the details of the drafts. Thank you. Thanks. So I'll try to be as quick as possible to maybe use a bit more time for for presentations. Quick update on the status of the working group. We have a new RFC. Yep. 9376. which is the GMLS applicability to o t n were beyond the the 100 gigabit. We have 3 drafts in the s g processing the layer 1 service model. the layer 1 types and the DOTN topology. A number of working group drafts will be presented today the ones that you can see in the agenda, so I will not spend much time on it. a quick update on the ones debt will not be presented. There is the Internet client, the topology young model, which has not been updated since meeting 116"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:06:00",
    "text": "Actually, this is due to the fact that it needs to be reviewed and evaluated half their other topology models are preted are concluded like the OTN 1, the flex grid 1. The client signal model did did it was updated, but not not much work has been done on on this document as well. there are some pending issues that are being that are being worked out like resilience, part layer, etcetera. and then it should be ready to move to move forward. Then we have the DWDM interface LMP, and parameter and the young model for for parameters. Regarding the LMP, I don't I don't know if we have any I don't I don't recall receiving any update on that. I don't know if we have some any of the authors will link to share something about, like, about that. I know that Gabriela is driving is driving the document. don't know if Gabriela, are you are you connected? Are you online Would you like to share an update on the document Yes. Daniela. Nobody is speaking. No. There is no new update on different PC 7. also because we we would like to see what what are the new let's say, new fate of this kind of protocols thanks to the centralized controller. and the STN functions, we are working at So maybe this will go for for forward, but we still still need to see what's going on with the for example, a CTN and so on. Okay."
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:08:04",
    "text": "Thanks. And regarding the the the second one, the the The second one, again, not date, And this could be, for example, a good reference for for the pluggable, for example, and then a good matching for layer 0 type. if needed. Yes. So, again, we we still want to see what's going on. on the other draft, and then this will be modified accordingly. perfect. Thanks a lot. Thank you. Thank you to you. I'm moving the slides, but nothing sense. Let's try to grows and start sharing again. stable connection to the surface. Okay. We are back. then a flex Ethernet. Young model. we started the we asked for the routing directorate and young doctor review. This is in preparation for for the last call. So once the document will be will be reviewed we will we will be ready to move to move the document forward. We don't have any update on the on the two draft set that have been carved out from the microwave topology."
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:10:03",
    "text": "We still needed to understand if the C Comp is the right place to to move that forward. If I don't know if you if you remember, but the the microwave topology has been split into 3 different documents. The the microwave part has been has been moved forward independently. Now we have these two documents which are Let me say generic enough to be carved out from from microwave. We started a discussion with the chairman from different working groups that understand that we're to where to place them. I don't know if Scott would like to share a bit of information here as connected No. Okay. I'd I'd ton, can remember if Scott is is present or not. Okay. What else? Then we have the part computation models. the optical and the o t n. the two drafts are pretty stable. but they will be able to be moved forward once that the deep part computation the generic part computation draft in t's will be will be ready. The transport NBI applicability statement is the the document needed to be put on a diet Both Dan and Italo have been have been working on it a lot. We have 2 updates since IETF 1 is steam them? And, probably, we are now ready to move that forward as well. Speaking of well, I have we have done in the queue."
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:12:02",
    "text": "If you wanted to speak up, please face face to do none. Hi, Daniel. Hopefully, you can hear me. just just wanted to let the working group know that we did actually issue an update a few weeks ago. on the on the on the on the on the to transport MBI clickability statement. And the the change was just to reorganize some of the references if anyone was wondering why there was an incremental update. Wonderful. Thanks a lot. And speaking about the for 10 BI design team. Give given that you have the mic open, then would you like to give an update I I put it together some material It was -- Yes. -- another charter. Yeah. Great. So, essentially, we're going to update the charter, remove some members, and add of new members, This this team will have a side meeting tomorrow between 10:11 AM at the golden gate for breakout meeting room. There is also a a a Zoom available. Etalo has posted the details to the mailing list, I think, earlier today. The meeting may not have a significant amount of substantive discussion tomorrow. It's really just sort of introducing some of the team members to each other, talking about the existing work, and and trying to kind of scope some of the new discussion. I think one of the more important points will be that the objective of of this new design team isn't actually to publish a draft it will be to create sort of recipes, that can be published through the Wiki or or or maybe the GitHub if we've got some yang with JSON examples. And it's it's really about kind of looking at the toolkit that we've got in c CAMP."
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:14:03",
    "text": "both what sort of publishes an RFC, what in the pipeline, how we would use them for a variety of of different scenarios. And one of the things that we'll be doing over the few weeks is discussing the potential scenarios and and what the sequence of lists should be in terms of prioritizing their set scenario and then starting to work through them. Perfect. That thanks a lot. We take the opportunity to have John here. So the the the team is using an external mailing list for for communicating the Would it be possible to provide them with the immediately the first of all, not to spam it too much on the sea complementing list. And second, to have all the discussions being tracked being available Is that something, John, you can help us with or tell us how to do the out how to request it, and we will do that. But Thanks. Thanks a lot. and that's it. We are ready for the first presentation Okay. Just a moment, there was a a comment from Scott in the chat saying that the the 2 other devs came out from the microwave with progress from now till back meeting. And I I I would move the the slides for Okay. Okay. Good afternoon."
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:16:01",
    "text": "Then then the right thing. Good afternoon to everybody. I'm Sergio Berlty speaking from Nokia. I'm going to report the status of optical impairment aware to apology model, draft on behalf of quarters that you can see in the in the slide and contributors. Next. The main update with respect to the last the ATF, 160. is that we complete the OMS protection test with the refinement adding pictures, new pictures, new Very important to understand that the contest and and the section related is the 2dot 10.2 of the document. in the 2.10.1 instead as reporting the 2nd ballot we add the explanation related to how the model is addressing a specific case in which the regeneration up and on only one leg. Then we addressed the comment from young doctors. and we complete the suggestion and the the comment from from them. and we also fix some issue. that was related to suggestion from from Tom Patch at I the opportunity to thank him"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:18:01",
    "text": "for his comments. and in the in the link and the updates, the the the there is the link for what we have done. We have not completed but we are going to complete after ATF. And then we made an alignment with respect to measuring unit, the initiative with respect the RFC 9090 Travis, Next. Thanks. Okay. as said, we complete we added a a description of how the model is is able to manage the case in which you have OTSI single protection with the 3 ever generator in a single leg. We remember that as a explaining the other ATF and already presented document. In case of individual OTSI, We the model present to have the protection. We have 2 end to end media channel part that is also check it with the single of PSI senior, In case atriar, is is crossing only one of the two legs. We're even both there. the end to end media channels are terminated on both site of the triage generators. in this case, so the the the question is that how to associate the 2nd to many channel partner that is arriving at the wdm node that is conting the triage generator. And to attain that, we have an article that is configure termination type"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:20:03",
    "text": "that set up Austria Generation me to indicate that the transceiver really did are forming a 3 hour generator. instead of terminating the layer 0 tunnel. in k at at the wdm node containing their generator, we stitch the two and one media channel part forming the end to end media maybe a channel part for the layer 0 fan, fan next, Okay. This is the example the picture We have a single OTSI that is splitting in the WDM node 1, the the red line, and the associated end to end media channel for the leg on on the on on top, that is the green one. in the bottom leg we have a generator in containing the WDM03. In this case, the end to end media channel part is terminated on both sides of a regenerator And we have a end to end media channel part orange that is teach at their generator with the end to end media channel blue the at the at the generator. And we added the explanation for with JSON code below. So in the the part of the discussion of the network topology. we have the list of all the internal media channel part, that is 101, 103,014, In the node, we have a related to the responder, a to the WDM node"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:22:04",
    "text": "3, the setup of the configuration terminator type is triagegenerator. So we understand that at that point, they and 12 media channels to be stitched and the last part of the JSON represent the link. So The in the case of originator, the end to end media channel are related to the OMS MCG 2 and MCG 3. are stitched together. Next. Okay. The status of the draft. we resolve 11 issue from IETF around the 16. This is the link for the list. And the remaining open, we have 8 open issues still open. but the tree at the bottom of the list the last one is not strictly related to this draft is more related to implementer and why the draft is not the stable as as it is the case of the optical impairments. So and the other two So the boundary layer is 1 and the Muxponder are not strictly ready today. optical impairment is more related to general layer 0 topic and this is discussed more in the contest of flexible grid call on Thursday, for the other one, there is already discussion about Essentially, we have to update need to update the security considerations adjusted by Tom Patch in his mail. and"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:24:02",
    "text": "provide the providing for optical impairment in the sense that We have optional attributes that is optional because not needed the case of not optical impairment application, but we need to describe the fact that is absolutely required to have this attribute in case of the thermite application is provided. Next. For the next step, k. We need to address the still open issue. The young model is stable, So there is no new requirement that we need to address for the optical impairment, triggering complex young update, the text has been already refined this round and there was there has been also a lot of work for alignment with the I2T terminology. And we our planet is to to close the remaining issue by next IETF and be ready for working group, let's call by ITS, 100 18, 18 there is an off our meeting any Tuesday from 2:3 PM chat and anybody is welcome to attend. Okay? Be before moving that to the the presentation of the other document, Is there anything that to could be added to this document before moving it forward up. make it just making an example. we have now the new work popping up on pluggables."
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:26:02",
    "text": "is still individual contribution. So we don't know if the working group will decide to work it or not. But Suppose that that's just one example that comes to my mind. suppose that that work will be adopted and we decide to to work on that. will be there any impact on on on this work the the model or radio that has also case. That's okay. is also a plate applicable in case of the remote founder, ace So I don't see any difference in this case, we just spend the variables So that that was my feeling as well, but I didn't think of it thoroughly. So Could you please in when addressing the the last issues consider if there are possible impact from from from new new new work on that. Because, I mean, I don't want at all the the draft for for too long. But if we have some low hanging fruit, it would be nice to add it there immediately before going to last call instead of writing these 2 months after Okay. Okay. We we can take it for Okay. Thanks. k. Again, I'm Sajibail Opti. reporting the status for LSC 90 93bs. major update since the last IPF. also in for RFC 90 93, we update the young model according to young doctors last call review."
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:28:00",
    "text": "We fix adding in the young a new line coding to align with the the factor from the problem of to have multiple line coding related code, ITT application code We changed This is what already mentioned in the optical impairments We changed the type of name for the powering DB because it was wrong. So is no possibility that this measured in DB but in DBM, the power. we align the fact that the entities with respect to the old layer 0 type and added new fact that I was not there before, And we change. the definition of operational mode because there is a request in the issue to have the possibility that the operational mode is unique So for this case, we define operational mode based identities and the operational mode as identity RF with the respect the basic entity what is needed to for the implementers I need that implement specific young model with specific identity related to the identity base that is defined in this model. And then the namespace will assure the the unicity. even if you use the same name. Then we"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:30:03",
    "text": "clarify one point related to the available nominal central frequency. that is not that has to be related system correlated with the reference. spectrum, With the And so we added the same centers for alignment that is already present at C80363, clarify that they are available nominal center frequency are correlated with the slot with the at with the m equal to 1. next. So here is what we change for the operational mode. So in the previous version, The operational model was a string. Now it's defined as identity, we define a type operational mode. as identity ref to this identity. the the change is made with the intent to the design big way. the potential clash related to the name. So the operational mode identity then the needs to be defined in the context of vendor specific or organization specific young model. And this vendor specific model obviously, it must be supported us capability by the server, so need to be added the net comp capabilities, And when when and once that is is in insert it in the a netcomm capability, so the service is able to provide this guidance"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:32:04",
    "text": "For example, you can use this operational mode find by the different vendors. for example, in the context of IETF optical impairment topology that already use operational mode. Next. So this is the example for what I describe my words So on the on the left, there is what in the real case is the layer 0 type definition. So we have defined the entity based operational mode. We define the type def operational mode, and we define the leaf operational mode with type operational mode And on the right, There are 2 young models, specific one for the 1 vendor, a, the other for a forum specific Anybody has to import the the example on the left in which define the basic entity and anyone can has defined a new identity for 400 gigabit operational mode. as you can notice Both use the same name but in bot at the bottom part on the left side, we reported the JSON code And based on the fact that they are they have different a namespace of the vendor a with and and and forum b, there is no overlapping and clash between the two names. okay. situation of the penny -- -- time check. 2 minutes. 2 minutes."
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:34:00",
    "text": "Sorry. community. Okay. Okay. Yeah. So the point issue, we we solve 11 issue. and taking to account the priority with the respect for dependency for stable version. to avoid slow down the approaches for eventually, plus coal. we are still 17 open issue, but many of them have been already this customer with the possible solution. So we are we don't have too much, even if the number, it seems larger. next So the next step is obviously the we wanted to address the issue that's, yes, still on the list. we need to review a bit the terminology And the plan is big to big to big to big to big ready for working group last call with possible target for alignment with optical impairment of IETF at 100 18. you. Any questions, sir, to Sarah Jim? Thank then we can move to the next Presentation, which is Otiana's lysine. k. Good afternoon. This Iowa, and I'm presenting OTN slicing on behalf of the coauthors and contributors. next page. So"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:36:00",
    "text": "Here is a list of major updates. basically, what we did is there is intermediate layer of models between the OGN slicing and the generic network slicing model. which we call the transport network size. For this update, we actually merged this model along with the IETF Network sliced apology separated from this draft which we're gonna present in t's that describes the need of having a a topology to for resource reservation in an IETF network slice. frame frame So this makes the o t n slice model kind of much simpler and it's viewed it directly augaments. It directly augments the network slice MPI. We also updated a bit of the text description, for the So the type definition of OTM PM threshold value because there's a we usually we used to have the bandwidth scientific notation, but it was removed from the RC8776 bps. So we got updated accordingly. some of the author's affiliations, as well as added mid missing Diana assignment for the Ocamp slice MPI. And, also, their their there are changes associated with aligning this model with the base model because of the modeling updates in the base model. Next one. Right. So with that changes the modeling relationship changes from the left side, which has an intermediate layer to the right which in which the o t and slice model now augments the"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:38:02",
    "text": "base model of our ETF network slice MDI. for the connectivity part, but also to your our design. It also augments the separate model called ITfmetersizedtopology. and adds OTN Technology specific attribute to the topological components, like notes and links that basically gives it a due augmentation for that. But there is a an issue, an issue. Let's go to the next page. Right. So, basically, this creates a dependency, as we said, also in the last working group meeting that the OTM slice now depends also on Not only on the base model for network slice and BI, but also on a draft an individual draft that is falling on the fader of the t's working group. So As we said last time, the best option. The preference for this working group is to adopt the IETF network slice topology within the T's working group. So then then it we'll make the the whole chain slice work built upon on 2 working group dropped. We did not successfully get it down last time. So we are presenting an update of the draft in t's this time. and seek for comments and hopefully to have some working group consensus to have it adopted. that's the plan. But if But then there there are also backup plans, and one of that is to create a separate OKian OKaments,"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:40:00",
    "text": "based off of network slice topology, And instead of know, to that to to do to occupants the UGN slice model, we could do that in two steps. One step, the first version is to only implemented the connectivity based network potentializes. and that can go along with the working group of process, when the concept of sliced topology is accepted, then we could have a v Two version of the OTM slice. to add the that capability for topology into the into the model. Yeah. But as I said, the bad the the preference is still to seek for working global adoption for the network slice topology. so we can keep a single model for the 0 10 slice. Next one. Yeah. So the next step is to address a couple of open issues. and the main issue is is primarily the the the working group adaption of the network slice topologies, a week keep our plan as as planned. and also the other part is to continue working with the network slicing and align the 2 models if needed. Or do I understand that for the net NSMPI, are kind of ready for working group last call. Bye. Yeah. Yeah. And then here's the GitHub repo, and we have weekly call on Thursday, 10 to 11 EST. So anyone is Welcome to join the call. think that's it. Next page. Right. That's it. questions, comments, and we're then welcome. I have one"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:42:01",
    "text": "So do you think there is any reason why these wouldn't work or adopt the networks like apology. because that's something that is needed also for genetic slices. So non OTN specific ones, but slicing in pocket is something that, in any case, and needs the natural slice apology. Right? Yes. That's that is what we would think And, also, as you see from the latest mailing list, the discussion in t's, I think Luis and Adrian had a lot of comments on that, right? So one of the main arguments about This is how much capability would we would want to give to customer to customize the for example, the service path for the connections of a network size. Right? And in our view, I mean, the best way is to do that is to support with with the with the customized for topology. And not only that, but also there are other benefits, and there are some use cases that we are describing that in you know, it it may be to the benefit of the customer of a network slice customer. to use a topology to express their intent and to actually save resources that they can pay for. of the network slice. But in any case, even if the model is not used to provision that lies -- Mhmm. -- in any case, it can be used in a read only mode to understand the word what is the the the the topology of the slice. case. Right? Yeah. I mean, in one in some way, this customized apology is not like"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:44:01",
    "text": "replacement of the existing mechanism. It's a complements. Right? It's an optional parts if a customer wants to play with the notion of, you know, I want to define a customized apology in order to reserve resources that then then I can play around with it any time I want. But with the the the thing in mind that I have already resources available for me. so I can activate at any moment. Right? I mean, this concept is not new. it's it's it's, you know, the in the past, we have the the the ACTM VM. thing and also I think in in in OIF, there is this notion of BN couldn't remember the BNTS or virtual network I thing. And that an oil. sits around its apology for for resources So so Yeah. So let let let's see let's see how things go in in pizza and -- Right. eventually, we will decide how to proceed. Obviously, the best Yeah. The preferred of the choice is to have the the the Internet thing done in teaser, and then we do adjust to this pursuit. Yeah. This is still the hope. Other questions? Thanks a lot! Thanks a lot! Thanks a lot! We are surprisingly perfectly on time. Let's see if We can keep with that. Cool. Hi. Thanks, Stanley. So I I can just ask you to forward the slides. I don't see the controls. on. Great. So this is a quick update on the flexible documents that we have. So we have the flex grid topology and the flex grid tunnel. And if you've been following the flexi with work, you know that over the last couple of ITFs. We've essentially gathered"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:46:02",
    "text": "some additional requirements, which meant we needed to pause some of the discussions so we could see if we can service the requirements with the current Yang model. So essentially, the the key requirement here is to have a multi technology view for a single instance. And that actually doesn't just affect the FlexGrid topology as most of you know, we have several documents that are all interconnected, and I will highlight these. Next slide, please. So this is the use case. The orange line is essentially our single instance, so it's It's a single topology, a database that's derived from our model that shows essentially eight nodes with a variety of interfaces, which are representing different technologies. In this case, we've got WSON, with a g m p s control plane and flexi grade also using a JGMPLS. Now if I wanted to model that environment, I I would previously have had to use multiple yan models, which would obviously create a significant amount of state in a a large network with lots of nodes. So we revisited the original requirements and looked at this new requirement of how can I have a single instance that, not only is providing a a a a a topological view of WSON and FlexGrid, but potentially several other flexGrid technologies that we're also working on. So we've just saw the OTM slicing draft, We've got Ethernet, We've even got microwave as well that we needed to sort of consider here. Next slide, please. So the good news is when we presented the work"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:48:00",
    "text": "at the previous IETF in Yokohama. we were sort of slightly concerned that there was gonna be a sort of significant amount of updates that would affect several documents. Well, actually, the modeling work itself provided Well, eventually became pretty straightforward. And in fact, there are just a few updates. And if you would to look at a diff of the current flexi grid topology model versus the previous version, You can see the changes in the tree and also the yank code, and they're they're not significant. they're relatively minor, and and, hopefully, they'll be straightforward, and I'll I'll I'll walk through those code chain changes. So the good news is that we can indeed support different interfaces within a single instance and obviously, those different technologies will have a variety of specific characterizations, you know, an mutes, whether it's sort of labels, bandwidths. etcetera. And This can also be used not only for the flexi grade models of this new code, but it can also be used across several other documents. Next slide, please. So what documents have we updated before I, like, get into the code and show you what those changes are. We've updated the flex with yam. and also We plan to update the ATM apology document. I think there was a typo there I meant to provide a slightly updated set so, actually, I believe it's only the flexible yang model that's that's updated. I know that talking to Scott, there will be some changes to the microwave topo YAN model as well. I don't believe that document's being updated as yet."
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:50:03",
    "text": "I believe that the changes have been pushed through the GitHub so you can see those changes as well. And and, essentially, I can show you some of those changes a little bit later in my presentation. cute to be updated. will be the Ethernet client t topology as well as and and that's a c camp document. And, also, we will need to update the the the t's Yan. atat tnplsdotdocuments with these changes. Now in addition to the topology documents, because we're now dealing with sort of merged technology Yang Models, will also look to merge the WSON and flexigrids tunnel document. Now that's not shown here because it's specifically not a topology document. but just just, like, giving you a heads up there. I mean, we have mentioned it on on previous those Next slide, please. So in conclusion, just really with the stages of the work, I I don't believe we're going to see significant pushback from the working group because I think the vendors and the operators that have been sort of most interested in the work. And familiar have been attending are weekly, sexy with calls, but we'd certainly like to hear from any other participant of CCAM who who might not be following the calls weekly, but we'll now have seen or or please go and check and and look at the young changes to see if you're happy with the changes. And if you have any concerns, There will be sort of several takeaways, I think, from from the analysis work that we did and then the development for the Yang and then, ultimately, when when or as we implement"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:52:00",
    "text": "These these are effective sort of guidelines. or or best practices. Now how we document those will be kind of interesting. Of course, in the documents, we can sort of state the characteristics effectively, we're using sort of a container and then defining the technology type on the link and then the various sort of technology specific attributes. but but there's some useful sort of descriptions and information that that we might not include directly in the Yang, but but we could sort of talk about with it within each technology specific documents or in this case sort of something like the the the flex unit topology the fact that it supports multiple technology But I think we also need to kind of expand a little bit more. And and this it doesn't feel like it should be directly in the document because not all documents, future documents potentially we want to refer back to the flexi bridge, yangtopology document, So that's that's just something that we need to consider. It's not an urgent issue, but but it's something that that we might the future. And I suppose there's a little overlap here with you're sort of going off on a slight tangent with the with the Transport MBI team because we're going to be publishing effectively rec read recommendations. And I suppose we can sort of sit down and define the definition of recommendation, but but that. whether we publish through a wiki or a GitHub it's it's something that we kind of need to to think about. We don't seem to have like an RFC light mechanism in the IETF. And I know this sort of topics come up previously, but it it does feel like"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:54:01",
    "text": "a more pressing sort of need now, especially as we've got sort of 2 topics at this IETF, both might benefit from some way of sort of publishing information that that could somehow be archived and and sort of used and referenced maybe future without having to go through this whole process of sort of a a a full fat RFC. Okay. Parking that discussion for a moment then. We will continue to have our our weekly calls We now need to switch from this apology discussion because that's effectively sort of part and and so and now we need to move on to the tunnel. Of course, we we we still need to submit those additional technology topology documents that I outlined on the previous slide. Next slide, please. Sorry. I I kinda kept these slides just just in case we had some time and I don't think I've gone over my time, so maybe I can just spend a a couple of minutes talking about these changes to our our Yang model and, essentially, the the sort of the the guidelines that we have. So next slide, please. So this is our use case. So you can see the OTM, but it it it it could be FlexiGrid. It could be WSM. It it could be Ethernet. It could be something else. Effectively, this sort of Highlight technologies running across our our OMS link. physical link. So, effectively, we have multiple technologies that need to be modeled in a single instance. Next slide, please. There's a a variety of interfaces there. IDs, technology types, and then specific technology information as highlighted. So you can see are inheritance here."
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:56:02",
    "text": "Ah, okay. Thanks, John. I will come back to that. John's just sort of post that comment. good at So so so now you can see our effectively, our tree here with the different technology for our topology. So, of course, these will be extended in the future with new technology types. Next, Thank you. So we've now got our node type. So you effectively, this yang has a network type, a no type, a link type, determination point, type the label range and the bandwidth. So, effectively, these these slides just kind of talk through the Yang for each of those. So this is the kind of information that that we would want to kind of expand and documents, and then maybe have some examples of of how it's used both for single and multi technology environment. So John's kind of pointed out there. We'll you know, write an Internet draft and just publish that, and maybe it expires. But but who cares because it's it's it's kind of archived. So, yep, I I take the point. So you can see here for the no type up or indeed the link type, we can go on to the next one. It's okay. I I'm not gonna spend too much time talk talking through these because that wasn't really the intention of this prep presentation. But you can see here that there are specific kind of gotchas, you know, information about the network type, the node type, the link type, the termination point type, the label range etcetera and the bandwidth. So this is really what we kind of want to document, not not just for flexGrid or WSON or or or Microwave technology or OTN, but but just in in its general use as well. Next slide. And then, actually, you can go on to the next slide. I think it's the label range And then it's back it's bandwidth. Yeah. So oh, yeah. Next"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:58:07",
    "text": "Thank you. So this this, you know, is a type that you wouldn't use to say microwave but it essentially, it's it's relevant flex with w s on and OTN as well. And, obviously, wherever possible, we inherit from earlier documents that sort of define specific types or special cases. And, you know, it's important to make sure that the work that we've done here with this Yang is is backwards compatible as well. Obviously, we didn't wanna break anything. And we want to make sure it's consistent, and the usage can be applied all the different technologies. And I think just the final slide, we'll show you the bandwidth And and, again, you know, it's very straightforward. But, again, you could perhaps look at the the t's sort of t doc document. essentially, there'll be some sort of CCAM technology specific information that would have to document that, of course, would be in the WSON /flexigreedtopologydocument, But, again, whether it's an Internet draft or a wiki, we'd want to describe how it's used in a multi technology instance. Cool. Thank you. I think that was the final sign. -- a lot to them, Adrian. Yeah. Hi, Adrian Farrell. Dan, I know I should pay 10 to what you do, but sometimes I don't. this this sort of usage guideline stuff So I'm seeing a bit of smudging of the boundaries between what t's would be saying and what Cifamp is saying. So, you know, it's it's clear that if if you've got something you wanna talk about, at least, own the applicable to the the sub IP"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:00:02",
    "text": "technologies. That's fine. It lives here, but things like key link bandwidth are are surely tease type things, And maybe if you're gonna put together some some young guidelines here. you need to do a joint piece of work with tears and put it a joint place. Yep. I think I think that's that's a valid comment. This is probably the The the least sort of c camp specific type of those sort of 5 or 6 types that that we've got, but but but I certainly take the point. There was you know, there was a great there was a great sort of document the guys wrote in t's sort of the the tutorial, effectively the tea modeling tutorial And and it and it's almost like we need kind of need to update that or effect, we have sort of a c camp equivalent that builds on that document. Yep. Exact. Please. Hi. So hi, Juan here. So following your comments about the continuing work on tunnels and for WSign, if that's great. I wanna point out, like, once we have the capability to have multi technology, single instance topology, it could bring us new opportunities of creating, say, a as tunnel that spans across multiple layers of network technologies rather than having a single multiple, you know, overlay, underlay tunnels, etcetera. I think the same for path computation where we could create a path computation for end to end services across multiple layers I think we can probably keep this in mind when we design that the convert to the w sign of x greater tunnel. Cool. Yeah. No. I think that's that's that's a really great great point. And"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:02:02",
    "text": "from an operator perspective, the less amount of state that needs to be modeled and maintained is obviously a good thing and and and you know, that that seems like, you know, this is this is not only sort of innovative capability, but it also reduces the operational sort of burden from a from a provider, you know, an operator perspective. And and it's very easy through an analysis to say, This is how you would model things previously, and this is the amount of yen code that you would use, and this is the size of the database for xnnumber of nodes versus, you know, this sort of new approach. Cool. Cool. Cool. Cool. regarding how to document these So the problem that we saw with the draft is is some is that is something that probably would find some pushback if we ask that to make it become an RFC. if that doesn't become an NFC, and we want we we need to keep it alive and renew it every every 6 months. So that's why we work on during the the week as an option. But, I mean, that's something that we will we will figure out. Time for the next presentation, We cheese Microwave to polish. Okay. Okay. Hello? Can you hear me? Yes. Okay. I'm from Away. I'm presenting on behalf of the code to send contributors. The status on the macro topology and Next slide, please. Okay. the the document has passed the working rule plus goal. that we got some few comments, and there is a resolution underway. So the the the main"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:04:04",
    "text": "step next steps into implement the changes. You know, after most of these changes are, yeah, just update the younger. 1 One is to align the the macro topology model to the let me say, Guy NICE that we discovered with the discussion of Plexigreed. presented before by Daniel. Next slide, the changes are basically exactly the the the changes that are needed to do to support the multi technologies. So the macro link where they can exist with other technology links. So we we are going to add a presence container to the cave whether they know this is micro or not macro or capable. whether the TP or the link are micro or or micro level. we got a comment about a range for a for a for a for an attribute, which was not very clear whether it was from 0 to 99.9 or 99 and we agreed to remove the wrench because it can be longer than outside of the range, we had some mandatory crew to make to force when there is a macro link to this to to describe whether it's a radio link or a carrier simulation. There is no other option if it is a micro linker. And we discussed on the bandwidth we noticed that there was also some discussion it is, and we we agreed to align with the other errors using IPF, so to describe the microwave bandwidth in the unit 64 with b per second because Kbps was not very clear when it was bits or bytes, And in many cases, we noticed that it's beats per second rather than, you know, Vixter. Vixter? Okay. So the plan now is to continue the work on the 2 draft that have been carried out for the barrier availability and for the interface reference so to a loan application between a topology and interface model. and we will have a con continue our weekly calls on Thursday 5 to 6 UTC. And And then there is a new worker coming. We have not yet a draft ready. It and a a bispecific 36561. We got some comments from some operators, and we started to address"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:06:01",
    "text": "some of them to see how to update the interface and macro interface. we have some work done in the in the guitar, but we are it's not yet ready to publish it ID. So we have not published it. We have the the RST model, which is describe how many working and protection carriers are present at been updated to align with what we are doing in a topology. is more flexible than the current solution. And we are discussing about the possible announcements in the description of the of the latency fade, the PR and power consumption, which are comments that we received from operators on the current model. And we hope that we can have a draft which can be ready to be presented and next to the IETF. Thank you. That should be all. Yeah. When when I get get anxious because we are late on the agenda, you on the stage. I'm confident that you put us back on track. could. Any questions to retail? Thank you. Thanks, sir. From it from from Scott as well. And it's now time for net work inventory. we we will you be presenting? Okay. Perfect. a short a short intro before before you start. So probably you noticed that that we have a new working group in the operations area. which is called the Ivy, which will be working on a common base model for for inventory. Most likely, part of a model that is today in in this drop"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:08:03",
    "text": "will need to be carved out and be used as the basis for for the common model. We I mean, as as as we anticipated that many times, we decided to adopt the this draft in Ccamp even if we were aware of the fact that was material that didn't belong in in CCamp. because there was a lot of hype a lot of energy, and we didn't want to to stop it. But, I mean, just to be conscious that that part or better. Don't be scared or scared or offended if we will ask you to move some some some some part of of the document. Okay? Thank you. I'm presenting on behalf of Cortisol Cotributors, sir. you, Mister Chairman. Next slide. Thank you Yes, Edna. Okay. We did we we focused on presentation on what we have done and what are the openings on the draft, and we will see in the IV put working robot can be done to make it based And so the major changes that we've done from the Elastic TF, we cast a little bit how to describe the components location. because on FTR 547, which was is describing a pattern slinger, which is based on racksubrack shelf and port entity fires. And we noticed that this string is quite commonly used in the optical networks, but can be generic, can be used also outside of optical networks. but we didn't want to constrain everybody to use this thing. So we said, okay. We keep the location as a string from a syntax perspective. you can structure the way you like, but we describe this possible structure because it's quite"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:10:03",
    "text": "commonly used in the network. We have some terminology mismatch in the optical domain that is usually speak they speak about shelf shelf while in our model, we use HRC, which is a more generic term that are shelf So we keep this as the the term in the young model, but in the thing we align the shelves to have a commonality between the other with the other models and technologies. But we clarify the table there, the shelf is basically a is component from in our in our document. And we also clarify that they keep a room and wreck our option to reported, there are some cases where they are not known by the controller. So it can only report what can be discovered there, which is the network elements. so so because sometimes this information can be fed manually to the system. We have seen some scenarios where this information is known by the controller and provide to us as a system in some case where it is not known and provide them manually. by the operator. So it's optional. Next slide, please. Okay. We had some discussion about the cases where we have well, the red belongs to the network element and possible changes to the model, for example, to have a navigation between the rack and the stack component. And after some discussion, we noticed that in this situation, we use is only one rack, which only one shelf. And there are situation where the rack the stacker is a component. It's not really a physical record. and the location of the rack is a logical position within the earth of Calamine. So we we will introduce the description of the stack component into the draft, which is already in the young, but not described. We did a draught and it could be a physical or logical grouping of Shases, but we will maintain the the navigation between the equipment room and network cameras will be done based on the shelf. And we discussed the modeling for the So we will we'll have to add the the the Yeah."
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:12:00",
    "text": "So so we took out the description of stack. Then we discussed the modeling of pizza boxes, a pizza boss can be seen as an agreement with all in one shelf. So we can in this case and this this chef can be in the lack of can be located, for example, on a table within a room. So we will need to have the possibility to have stand alone shelves, which are not in direct within the network element, and the navigation is still between the share efficiency. We need to work out the the detail of the example, but we have some discussion. There was some discussion about cases where the the the network element is a single board network element. We the the feedbacks we got was that is a very corner case and not to be supported by the model. So we decided not to update the model to support this this corner case. There's night, Lisa. Then okay. There is some discussion, especially in the context of the generalization, that the keyme room is is 2 more is more specific. We need something more generic And we are having some discussion. Maybe we need to place, the list of the Kimiya room, something more generic like a list of sites. which can have also a a a hierarchy association because size can be, for example, a building, can be a campus, can be a building, can be a room, and the building is inside the campus. The room is inside the inside the building. So we can make a generic concept like the site, which has a boosting relationship between them. So and maybe we can focus first national to have a quick really very only to type and a a site which is off diaperchemer room, And then since it is extensible, within it actually, we can add new type of size in the future update. the model. Next item. And there is some requirement also to have a sometimes damping them. So to the try when you retry the information about the inventory, class science stand that says when the the information was first discovery, discovered and where the location where the information was last validated because sometimes the the problem, especially with the information which is manually configured, it gets"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:14:02",
    "text": "outdated. So you think you have something in the field, but actually it's not there. Or you don't know. There is some and that's so there was a requirement. There is still some discussion because the requirement is not fully clear. So we are this is an open issue we are working on. to figure out which timestamp to put and whether we should put any notification out of it. Next slide. Okay. That's all. Okay. So now the plan is to see what can be moved to the IV working group. And we we are still working to get more input from the IBM Macro Technologies. We think the model is the is generic as it is. can be used for optical API with devices, but we need more most of the people working in on the graph are coming from optical. So we need people who have this expertise on how those devices are designed to to validate. And then we we have we are going to work more on the component specific mutes in the component list and, okay, continue to work on them. an issue that we have on we are tracking this on the guitar, which is under sea camp at nowadays, and we keep having a weekly call on Wednesday at 4 PM, European time. which are open course anybody can join who is interested to Thank you. That's all. A question on on the time stamp. So I was I was thinking of the the information that is manually provisioned wouldn't it be useful to add a parameter that says that these this is something that was manually introduced because that that's something that most likely was defined Timeexa, and then never changed the again. So it's something that might might be considered outdated, But in it's not because it's something that was manually provisioned and"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:16:04",
    "text": "and not and not updated. Yes. The the weight of my non research is typically this information is the chemists. It's the chemo room and the right because exactly because the network carrier doesn't know what is installed. So this is something you write it down. Some maybe in the network element or in the controller or in your sense. What typical you get this you discover is the the the autocorrect automatic and discover what are the what are the parts of that? plugged in. But yeah. So I think at this moment time, the model is structured such that the cover we call it discoverable non discoverable information are on different part of the tree, but really we can look at it. There is something which maybe is worth having attribute or just clarify here after that you pass of it. of the tree Okay. Any other question? You're saving them for a Friday. Thank you. So we have an on the fly modification to the agenda because Oscar should be the next presenter, but he was presenting in the into different working groups at the same time. So if He he asked if it was possible to swap is a lot with done. So then if you are Ready we can we can anticipate your your your presentation just a lot. Sure. Sure. No problem. Great. Thanks, guys. So this is this is a a shiny new draft. Let me gosh. Was it really that long the title? Integrating Yang configuration and management into an app"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:18:00",
    "text": "extraction and control of t networks, aka ACTN, system for optical networks. Next slide, please. So we know well, hopefully, we know. We all know what ACTN is. We've been working on it for for many years now. And, essentially, it's a it's a method for abstracting connectivity and and available resources from sort of lower layer technology domains through a a series of functional components PNCs and MDSCs, that will allow customers to access and request services via CNCs, lots of 3 letter, 4 letter acronyms. But, essentially, the point with HTN, it it's really sort of abstraction of network resources and allowing sort of customers that may be within a service provideroperatorenvironment or externally sort of application content OTT type providers who who who want to access network connectivity through third parties. And what what what the original sort of HTN discussion and and series of documents never really addressed actually was some of the fine grain management requirements. because it's it's you know, it was it was not really a consideration for although we did talk about some sort of device level and sort of traditional different features, it it really wasn't the priority of the original framework and and and various documents since then. we know that several standards organizations have a a variety of architectures and frameworks and things like fcaps, default configuration, accounting, performance security, etcetera. And we we never really applied those"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:20:00",
    "text": "to ACN. So why now next slide, please. Why why why do we can now? we care because our Well, some of our earlier discussions around the applicability of this technology. essentially the framework and then deriving functional components into an architecture for, say, packet over optical, for instance. we start to care about not only exposing capability but also managing and operating and troubleshooting that connectivity that that a customer has requested and is currently using. Now we we created a new document, which was the HTN POI assurance document. And if I remember correctly, it was a t stock document. oh, yes. We put a slide in front of me, and that shows you the topology that we were using. And that document just started to kind of flesh out what APIs essentially, we have in the IETF on which young models you might want to use. when you're just trying to kind of maintain that connection that you requested and you're now consuming from a a a customer and an operator perspective. So, you know, there's a the whole host of requirements from a sort of SLO type perspective. And, obviously, you've got customers have certain expectations that that have to be satisfied. how do you kind of maintain that? happy relationship with your customer, from a a sort of end to end, a layered, and a you know, potentially sort of component perspective. Now, of course, you know, we have to decomposition to mentalize these into sort of different layers of the network all the way down to the device level, but but that's that's why we have sort of FCAP's capabilities. Next slide, please. what what Now how do we kind of blend together ACTN and FCAPs."
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:22:02",
    "text": "Well, actually, yeah, it it it turns out, not only do I want to request a service from a, you know, customer a, hat on, but but I I wanna make sure that it's actually meeting my expectations and hope blew the operator wants to ensure that in the event of a degrade, of service or some kind of failure or potentially identifying that if a particular link or node or interface degrades any further, then it may have actually impact my service before my customer realizes that the service is impacted. So we we started thinking about, well, what technologies do we have in the IETF, And then, well, how would I use those technologies? And and there's a a variety of things here. So there there are obviously frameworks, then there's a particular sort of interfaces. So there will be over the wire protocols. There'll be yam models to use in those sort of messaging protocols. but there'll there'll there'll be gaps as well. And we're coming at this from a a a sort of a fine grained perspective, a granular expected rather than sort of the abstract perspective that sort of the scope of HTN really was originally designed for. And this document is just kind of the start of the journey, I suppose. It's it's like an investigation that was initiated from some of the service assurance for POI scenario, and we've kind of broadened it to well, actually, it turns out there are other technologies that we may want to use STN 4. within sort of a c camp, I I'm not cool environments. And now we sort of thought, well, what would the augmented HTN framework. like, where would you have these types of interfaces would you want to apply policy? Because we're"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:24:01",
    "text": "we think this is more of a sort of a policy based approach rather than sort of intent, but but maybe there is an intent to a policy mapping. You know? So, obviously, intent It's kind of your declarative. Yeah. And that may be, hey. I wanna ensure that my SLA is met, and then the imperative is, will I need to now monitor these particular you know, these these end to end services, maybe technology domains, and maybe at some point through the PNC specific links and interfaces. Oh, well yeah. Maybe they're the same thing. So we have started, yeah, I guess, doc documenting what the augmented framework would look like, which interfaces we care about, what functions would be required, what protocols would we use focusing obviously on IETF Technology here. which Yan models exist. And then at some point, we will start putting examples in there. And if we identify that the are particular gaps for this type of capability, then we can stop. documenting the requirements. and then we might want to decide at some point, well, what do we need to do about that? Do we need new yan models? Do we need augmentations? the framework do we need enhancements to a particular protocol? Next slide, please. Right. Well, I think I might have just summarized in sort of the previous verbiage much more investigation needed. Yep. already, I suppose, people might. make the point that this type of capability in these functions not only apply to optical networks, they may also apply to packet. as well as sort of other technology, yes, I kind of agree, and that's some of the initial comments I've had back from people. Although people are shy,"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:26:00",
    "text": "know, I was hoping to get some some feedback directly on the list but instead, I've got sort of 4 or 5 unicast emails that have come privately to either myself or Adrian. But it seems that people are interested in the work So, you know, we're happy to take questions, comments, accusations at the mic, And Yep. Yep. Yep. I suppose that's that's everything I want to do for this presentation. It's kind of to highlight the work and and hopefully have people read and and and comment on the document given though that we've had sort of at least five people comment either to Adrian or myself, If it is something that the working group wants to work on them, I would not be adverse to sort of early adoption of this. That's obviously up to the Jazz. Hey. I have a question, man. So you put down a a figure where the educast was basically coming from the PNC. So it wouldn't make sense to to collect the f cabs capabilities from directly from the MDSC. Yeah. I think I think it could be it could be both depending on on the scenario. So, typically, the left that's that's the OSS what you might traditionally see in in your network with your legacy umbrella NMS and then maybe sort of EMS specific cake capabilities, so the main controller here would be an an EMS and more sort of traditional vendor specific or technology specific device. But what we see is that maybe the MDSC will have a policy request that would use some kind of augmentation or enhancements to the MPI. that would also provide sort of f caps like capability. So instead of having to operate sort of in the HTN based network. and maybe a siloed sort of separate OSS Legacy."
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:28:02",
    "text": "EMS or NMS, specifically for Fcapped capability, we would actually stop migrating function from traditional EMS, NMS into sort of an a c an HTM based system. Mhmm. So I think we need to clarify that picture a bit more. Oh, okay. As a conclusion on the on the picture, going also in the in the same direction is that you you somehow depicted the the OSS has something monolithic, let's say, we we could have the different instances, you know, for depending on type of a PNC, you you saw in another figure there p and c, the packet p and c. So probably it will be also different OSS. Yeah. Absolutely. Yeah. Yeah. I mean, It depends on who on who you talk to, and and, obviously, you you you you you know, far more about sort of operating the sort of the operational aspects of the network than I do. But certainly, talking to people and and some of my experiences Some operators will have sort of an umbrella NMS system. that then kind of talks to sort of vendor specific EMSes, at least they are kinda coordinated But then as you've just pointed out, there are other systems that are completely siloed So you'll have something which is responsible for for a packet network or slash domain, and then a completely different system for your vertical. And and maybe even you can slice that. Well, let okay. Lift. that we refrain from using the word slice, but separate that into different OSS systems completely sort of separated although joint via sort of human capabilities for your WDM and maybe your OTM network because they're not. know, there's no sort of over overriding operational support system. Okay. Thank you."
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:30:06",
    "text": "A question on to work with the the different other activities, different working groups, etcetera. So we have the assurance work which is being done in in this How does this relate with that? In the sense that is this the technology specific part of that work or Yeah. It's a it's a it's a really it's a really good question. This This work part partly, this work has being motivated because of the ACN, POI Service Assurance. So I see them as kind of concurrent but I think this now this particular draft is is it needs to be ensured it needs to be developed. So we've got sort of results that we can bring back to the ASTN POI work in t's. Adrian. Yeah. It's it's Adrian. I think that's that's a really important question, Danielly. and I what I I think we need to make a a slightly bigger Piece of Asquay Art, to show where the the service assurance fits into to this picture. Chris, to me, it fits in Above and at the MDSC. And this is this is clearly below and at the MDSC. So you know, maybe it's all supportive, supportive, then the other pieces that we need to pull in, the incident management work that's started. because certainly a chunk of this FCAP stuff is the incident management. oh, and a piece of it. inventory."
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:32:01",
    "text": "Okay. So Dan and I have got a bit of of history here of opening opening boxes and discovering the insider are a huge number of worms that have to be carefully pulled out, lined up, turned into ASCII, for fortunately, you know, straight line worms are really easy in our see. The other piece is, you know, the the non optical part of this and we certainly started thinking about this from the the the very traditional transport network where you know the that that the the the f caps type of things in the transport network are very well defined, well known, and then less well defined in the packet world. but we should probably go and sit with some of the PM people, and BFD people and and start saying, so Does that fit, though, should it all be in one part or or should packet be actually very separate separate speaking about assurance, the the if I'm not mistaken, the assurance architecture has just been published in the our team look. Correct? I was gonna say that also align the work with OXXA because they are all the there's some Yeah. As soon as there and I don't know. some are they related? Because they are they work in creating this concept of that you cinnable. what whatever entity creates the service the couple, the entity that is doing the assurance with the entity that is in charge of configuring the network. EVEN, EVEN, EVEN, EVEN, EVEN, EVEN, example, doing restoration, completely decoupled and once since talks to the audio show. Maybe that that's"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:34:01",
    "text": "creating a new interface that maybe it needs to be done. I don't know here. aligned with us, but at least which would align with over our. We are pretty skilled in starting work, and then belongs other working groups. Uh-huh. Oscar, since you are standing ah, no. You have another question. Hitol. Sorry. Oh, no. Just a comment. The CTMPO assurance is more focusing on the multilary aspects what's going to happen when you have a failure on the optical network impact in the IP layer. So it's in my opinion, it will be complementary, I agree with is a little bit above, and it's only going to look about what happens if you have a problem in the optical network that is a fairly happy network to make sure that You have you know where is the problem. And while here is a little bit more looks to me I I have a little bit wider scope about focusing on the PSC. Few fuel fuel lines in the draft to explain about the relationship in my opinion would would prevent any confusion Yes. That would be great. So Oscar, let me pull up your slides Plug a box. shut. Okay. Good. I think we'll say now. Good afternoon. now we are gonna jump to a slightly different topic And now our Doctor and PLS routers have pluggables. So and they have color pluggable. So we have optical interrupters, and now we are gonna discuss the applicability of ACPN. to this at the optical integration. So here, The work is now a collaboration between couple of operators and several flyers here. So We are going into 2 good directions. So go on to next slide, please."
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:36:04",
    "text": "So first, how how does it relate to existing work? So you know, in the in tiers, we we have been working in in the scenarios in the more classically scenario over layers scenario where we have On the one hand, the the packet network, the the routers with their MPLS just taking care of sending packets and relate with the optical network, or does does care about the transport. And there for that scenario, this is the we use the ACT architectures. doing the inventory, the service, the topology discovery, and we cover some use cases like example, the provisioning of a leisure free VPN, which is a very common use case in the packet world with traffic engineering requirements that involve the relation with the optical optical layer. Then that word is split in 2 one part taking care of the of the assurance. But here, by assurance, we really mean what happens when there is a when there is a failure on a degradation and and acting up or need or need or need. okay, So it's a particular type of of assurance. and the failures of the equipment. And then we have this draft, okay, which is focused on the platforms. Okay. So here, the particular thing is not now the optical transmissions starts in. the pocket device. but the scenario is similar to the or the the kind of network similar to the the one that we referred at the beginning with the routers only that now we started there. So this is why we created this separate draft, and we believe that ccompanies there. the right place to to work to work on it because it has more optical unpacking. So can you go to the next So here, what are the changes to the to the revision? we incorporated Nokia and Telefonica to to this one. And here, we added another option to here, we have we entered into the architectural Discussions,"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:38:01",
    "text": "And in here, we have two options that we are gonna explain later. 1. is the, what we call, the 2 LSVA Management and the other agent that we are just gonna discuss it right now. And just work in the use case of description and and terminologies. So here in this version, we have not yet done anything about young models yet. Okay. So just interface. So reference, okay, which is the kind of network that we're talking about. as we mentioned, we have the the routers, the packet routers, and we have them as we are incorporating the the optical transmission there, we consider it as a bucketoptical note, and then the rest is a regular optical network that we have with the optical node the ROADM and so we assume that optical layer is able to provide at least media channels end to end. Of course, it can also provide the full optical connection, But at least we are assuming that they spectrum switching is performed at the optical later. and optionally, the the on here, the coherent plug or the transmission is the pocket optic and also. once that reference network is is clear. Go to the go to the next slide. Here in this in this type of network that we have made this this introduction, we will have the what we call the the IP link, which will Just be. that to interfaces. in diabetes routers. Half. an IP address that allows that a packet sent that IP level from 1 to another that they have any third links, so that means layer 2. If you send 1 layer 2 packages, we'll reach the other. and this is a new thing. that there is an OTSI"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:40:02",
    "text": "link. So there is a signal that starts from one router and terminates in the in the other Then we have the link that comment that connects this coherent pluggable interface that you're hearing. to to They port in the optical line system. So we had a lot of discussions at the very beginning on how to call this with the best term that we we got was inter domain link. Okay? thinking that one is the packet domain, and the other is the optical domain. This is why we said inter domain. At the beginning, we call it interlayer, but in but it was we said it's not layered anymore. So had some discussions there. But in the end, we agreed to to keep it as inter domain. then between our agencies is the the media channel. k. So That's we are unaligned with the with the standard you go to the next slide? auction. So can So once this is agreed, we have. On the one hand, they option what we call option 1. This comes from the set of operators defined in Intel Telecom in a project that defined which are the potential architecture that we would like to to be explored. And in this first one, the particularity, is that the packet controller. and the optical controller both. have access to information of the of the packet node. Okay? So all of the telemetry information from the packet note regarding the optical is been accessed by the optical controllers, so the optical controller knows all the, what's in error or a lot of parameters or the all the pluggable details, details, But In terms of configuration, we only allow the packet controller to really touch the device. So the their every device, it starts only by 11 controller. even though information is allowed in the in the optical."
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:42:03",
    "text": "k. So next next slide, please. And the second one, is a even we don't allow the optical controller to access to access that information. So all the information will have to go through the communication between packet controller. an optical controller, and in this in the CDN architecture. It will go through the multi domain controller. in So to the hierarchical via the hierarchical level. So in these options, us As you might guess, you will have more interactions. There will be we will need to define more the interfaces between the different elements because we don't have this direct access on of the of the optical controller. Here, we don't have in this draft option 3. There is another draft around there that has an option 3. that control that there is a completely that the optical controller also configure that. But here, it was for us as operators, and we will have see you later why we didn't want to go to that. option we are only considering by now these 2 options. And by now, we are not closing. any any of them. So this is why also we want to work here in IETF to a working at. So can we go to next slide? So analyzing both option with we think that are they are doable. they But why do we think that only the packet controller they should be able to touch the the router. So first of all, it's just to avoid any kind of race conditions. Okay? So we want that when accessing the device, there is only one entity that manages. Okay? It can come order. took him by by several to do several things, but he he will manage the the access. So then we will be we will avoid any kind of blocking."
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:44:00",
    "text": "We know that there, we have we have not come for that. We have the protocols that could in theory block different parts analysis, but we know that the common thing at least in IPs to block configuration, do whatever changes, and lock it. So having 20 days working at the same time, we think it it can lead to synchronization issues. then the state of the pluggable. So it is not really independent. Even if you can say, okay. It's completely independent. k? We modify the optical. We modify the modulation we modified the bandwidth with Okay. When the router needs to know that there is a there is a new bandwidth even. the pluggable has the client part, okay, that is internally to the router. Even in the client part, you even even a can create multiple interfaces. So it it is completely coupled. So in the client part, you can do everything for the humble the 400 in 1, or you can do for 100 inter interfaces, you can if you modify the bandwidth, it will impact also that that part. So they are they are coupled. even even even Even we can think they can be fully the couple. But always is the case. Okay? There are there could be some things. Okay? If you we maintain, for example, the bandwidth that we are offering maybe just the optical part. could be completely independent, okay, that there are some part that could be But there is some religion. Also, In terms of the evolution, we think it's it's better not to have that the owner of the of the plug or control is just the the optical router, the security, So, again, having multiple access multiple NTD success machine. it creates more security problems. We know we have NACAM. Okay? So we know"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:46:00",
    "text": "could solve. a part of the problem by by saying, okay. these part of the tree of the junk tree in the device. is for one, yeah, another is for the other. but has a limitation. So it's not it's not perfect. Okay? So so here, We avoid any security problems. And, also, we have cases where we have multiple issue when And then who is there is who is the the the control from one of the line systems or for the other line system, k. So then we avoid from from none of them. So it's for the for the packet. I'm not sure in the the work that we have done so far in the in the city and architecture, it it it was more aligned with this option. We never had these real dual fuel dual management, we never had it. in in IT. So, I mean, it will be a little bit more more complex if we want to that option. Can you go to the next slide? So And not not that much. Just, Carlos, how much time do we have? Okay. Yeah. Just just the just the have a set of use cases here for the that's are supported in the roaming discovery, network discovery, end to end service provisioning, provision the optical circuit from the from the router. of mental acts, so we can have 1 1 one interface, and we cannot capacity to that lag. do optical restoration from the router, and perform network maintenance. So can you go to the necessary, so we can have time. So here, We want to a updated draft with the proper IETF terminology. We know it's complex. Okay? Here, are mixing walls. Okay? We are mixing the the pocket world and the and the optical world together, want to prioritize the the use cases to work with, and maybe add some extra use cases. align also the terminology with the ACTN"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:48:01",
    "text": "draft, try to involve more operators and more implementers in the in the discussion. and especially start working in the details. Okay? So it's okay, which are the young models that we need to use in all of these interactions, and are there gaps for them? And if there are gaps, okay, which are the extensions if if needed. Okay? to to make the workflows that we have identified. So in the draft, we have identified a set of use cases, each of them has a specific workflow so quickly to work in them. So we believe this is a very hot topic now. The the plug out and the coherent plug was have come, have come, in the industry, They are there. So I think, I think, IETF needs to deal with it. If IETF does not deal with it, there will be others that that work in with it. So I think this is the best place to work in this and work in these details. So questions, So rest of this. rezorukui from Massiana. If you go back to slide 8, the 8 and 9. That's only with the 8. in my opinion, can you go to slide a? Should is available? 8. Hey. This is Okay. So there are 2 options. So in reality both options should work together. there is no knee either or but rather, you know, combination of both. Another thing about both approaches let's start with 8, for example. When you are creating the optical services, basically you're creating optical services from block to block. When you want to do that, you know, there are lots of things should happen beforehand, you know, why ability, planning and lots of things that should happen. And in this topology, both of them actually"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:50:02",
    "text": "that who is going to look at or who is going to take a has the knowledge of the end to end services. In this case, you know, we have to can't be conscious about that one. In this case, that the optical TNC is looking at the block to block. But in the previous one, there is no such entity. So another thing, if, for example, something happened to the optical plugs. and router IP link goes down. how they are going to communicate, who is going to tell to a router that yeah, the problem is not your QoS configuration or something about the router, but rather optical. So there are lots of details here that we should be clear which entity in this architecture is looking at the overall system the configuration perspective and also which entity is looking at this from the telemetry and assurance of troubleshooting. So this should be very clear as we go forward, but Anyway, both approaches has pros and cons, But the generally, we have to be conscious about that when we go and try to select one versus another and how we are going to address stuff. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. 5 Hi, Oscar. Owa here. So I I have some slight different opinions on the options, but we can wait until Nigel presented his options. But for the time being, let me ask you this question. if like like like So for the for the case that you have IP PNC and optical PNC, managing the same IP routers, You say there are difficulties and you wanted to constrain this But to me, it sounds a little bit, like, you know, not sort of like awkward. Right? in that sense, a are you open to consider options"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:52:02",
    "text": "other than netconf, young from the from the northbound, maybe like a protocol would work better between the two devices, know, if if you cannot serve this purpose with with NetConference. Yeah. right now, we were thinking in more in in NetComm. Yeah. I mean, Of course, I mean, you could do the optical thing like there is I know there is one approach of one vendor that has created, like, second interface just for the a dual management interface just for the the optical part But Do do you have something in mind No. All I'm saying is if if NetComm is not the best option, you know, maybe a product could serve that. Everyone does net confer. That's why we chose a net Yes. You know what I mean? It's like, okay. Yeah. As as I have the problem of Chris, I outsource it. Okay. It's optically, in a separate interface, it doesn't mess with with the other. Even if you create another protocol, Internally internally you will have to deal with the pluggable talking to the walls. Okay. So that that You have it. just still even if you get another protocol, you will still have the problem. Yep. Yep. we we have TMPLS. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. I mean, you could have the the optical just with the gym delays, but even there, Turning up this now to support TMPS. Okay. we would like to to make a a quick check on the interest interest of the working group on on moving this as an auto draft forward. So we will set up a a little call, sorry, right now. So you you can express your returns if needed. you tell me what are you right working. interested in working on one of those Yes. log in. travels draft."
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:54:32",
    "text": "So the team somehow is his balance. Okay. It seems seems to be a a a slight preference on working on that, but probably maybe we can take a line and and and and see. Thank you. Thank you. It's it's flapping. Yeah. It's flapping. Okay. Thank you, Oscar. Hello? k. is this is This So, Iowa, again, I think the original presenter, has some problem with Internet, so I'm doing this presentation on his behalf. And also on behalf of what are the causes, So this draft is about defining a Northbound interface to basically for the performance monitoring management and retrieval. So the major update we did for this version is"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:56:02",
    "text": "We added Yamodju's relating to PM interfaces with reference to the TMFM toe be We added backpad. EM module to retrieve the capability of resources, and also we added RPCs to support, like, operations like resetting or clearing the cache to performance monitoring data. those resources, and also clearing resources associated with a particular TCA profile. And then the other thing we did is to to add a normative reference to the it0tg.77 10, according to their comments from the last meeting. basically the the GTOT draft has a lot of definitions for performance and monitoring, so we wanted to reference that and hopefully get alignment with the with the draft. exoppage, Right. So as I said, the scope of this draft is primarily to define a not interface for the performance monitoring management and retrieval. And as you see, like, the requirement is to align the capability with what it what has been specified in the TMF and tosy interface. And so what so the basically, the the the dark green is what do we have done in the last revisions. And the the one with the light green is what we are to support in this revision. So we wanted to know to that for this data model, it's not just a simple translation of the Amtose But also but we consider this as supplement"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:58:02",
    "text": "to address the missing capabilities for management in the optical domain and in the IETF space, and this is also very much aligned with the draft of that, I think, Daniel and agent, but please presenting about adding this capability to the IETF models And not only that, but we also try to harmonize this model with the existing IETF data models. For example, the with the network topology and the inventory work ongoing inventory work, and So for this verseing, except a for the iterate list interface or the other M2C interface regarding performance monitoring are supported And for the iterator interface, as to our understanding it could be supported by using the ongoing development of the pagination mechanism for Resconf in order to support a large amount of data retrieval for and this is especially true for other PM objects and data Yeah. Next to page, Okay. So Here we define 3 interfaces corresponding to the TMFM toesi specification. which allows the controller to retrieve, for example, a list of the performance data over a list of termination points, to retrieve the PM the the number of hours that We have PM data recorded in the PNC. And also, list of parameters is supported by a specific and network element On the left, you will see the module that we propose, which is"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "02:00:00",
    "text": "which is generic performance monitoring module with list of resources And this resource could be either physical or logical. Right? So, you know, for physical resources, it could be a network element. It could be a port. And for the logical resources especially in the IT space, we call We could refer to a termination point, a a link and things like that. I sorry sorry to interrupt you. can you close in a couple of minutes? Because we have yet another it's already 3. Okay. Okay. I'll give it a try. So Next the page then, Yeah. So these are the 2 RPCs that we defined about clearing and resetting the performance monitoring data and also get a list of associated termination points. according to the end tosy. that use webcam work over a large amount of a resource resources in the network. Bye. Bye. Bye. next to page, Right. So there are a couple of open points. For example, there there's definition for layer rate, in TMF And Tosey. there are over, like, 200 plus values in the TMF document. but we couldn't find a matching, you know, attributes in the IETF space. So it's remains open as to how we define it. right, how we describe this. And then, also, we need to align the TMF or the TMF objects with the existing ACTN objects defined in the in the current hierarchy, if we wanted to align to harmonize both the control and the management, work, we need to do this continuously to make an alignment to with the t and f PMF specification. next to page. Okay. So what do we plan to do is to define"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "02:02:04",
    "text": "PM indicators specific to og to to to to optical networks in reference with the ITOT document. and we like to seek interest in a working group and call for a working group adoption. and also for the joint comp contribution in the next phase I think I save the time well. Oh, I'm afraid I won't go to make up the schedule now because you've well, I think I'm negative. So hi. I'm Nigel Davis Sienna. I present on this, it's actually an additional option to what Oscar presented, so we can go on to the next trying to make it more try making So quick key thing. photonic controller has control of the photonic functions including the functions in the packet and device, which is essentially So the rules is essentially split across the packet and photonic domains. So this is really emphasizing that. There's clear separation of concerns here. I think Oscar also agree with essentially in the discussion you made here, but I'm saying we need to emphasize that. And I look briefly in the the in the draft that it's 3 control architects, but I won't dwell on that if you're on the next slide. That's I'll try it very quickly. So pictures of I I really enjoyed Ascui diagrams went to me a lot took me back a long time ago. So back to the beginning of my career. Anyway, So I've I've got some alternative architectures for network here, but just emphasizing that there's an end to end end set up and complexity in the setup and the root of straddles, the 2 the 2 in this the 2 domains so that the client can pack a domain. I've then broken down the lower diagram. It shows that a network device broken down just showing the"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "02:04:00",
    "text": "fair separate functional logical separation concerns. And I'm actually emphasizing there are 3 potential ways into that device. 2 highly relevant ones. One's NetComm obviously with a model on it. I could use open conflict over GNMI or something of this sort. But the other the other critical one is control plan, which also was talked about earlier. So I'm just emphasizing those 2 mechanisms as ways in. Do you need to go to the next slide, actually, as well? So what I've done here, I just I've just shown. So there's no there's intentionally not a particular architecture. So, actually, it's just emphasizing there are a number of control functions that relate to phonic network setup. So viability optimization and the these the capacity setup. I forgot to say on the first slide, Basically, there's also control of restoration and that's critical. because with restoration, I might need to change the the settings on the plug and getting direct access to that plug is really important. go to do that rapidly and so on. And the and the 2 architects I've got, one just shows cloud of functions, the other one just shows them in a traditional hierarchy with a partition packet and photonic control. If you wanna go on to the next slide, Thanks. So what I'm showing here is just emphasizing that in that hierarchy cool setup. The photonic controller will control pointing. Line Control will control No point in directly the plug through one of those three interfaces and the packet controller control the packet parts directly through its interface. you wanna move on. Okay. So and we've we have got experience with operators demanding this this sort of split of operations. and we've also got experience of it working. So we know it can be made to work. And if you wanna go into the next slide, So the key question here is we're looking for support with this this draft. i e, the the additional option and the the critical thing is direct control."
  },
  {
    "startTime": "02:06:01",
    "text": "And then, of course, I wanted to ask how to progress this. So Okay. So that's that's all I have. Okay. So be before jumping into which which option. So we needed to understand if the working group is interested in working on on these or not from from the first polling, there is a there is a little bit of ambiguity But, I mean, obviously, this is something that we will take to the list. So apologies if we run a little bit behind the schedule, but there there was a good discussion so that we didn't wanted to to cut the lines Moreover, this the this is not the cookies break, so we So we thought it was okay to to to steal 5 minutes of your time. Thanks a lot. See you in Prague. Helping the million list was no. Yes. was called the TMBI design team. Okay. That was easy. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. In my comment,"
  }
]
