[
  {
    "startTime": "00:00:04",
    "text": "so Joel might be cheering this how about good morning destination check this is the six-man Working Group sure you\u0027re all on the right place so this is our second session for Prague we have some well here\u0027s the note well should ask you to recite it Minister trivia and Thank You Michelle for Jabbar scribing this is the agenda well I can see it here so the first section is follow up on SRH we hope to get the closure on the open issues there\u0027s been a lot of work during the week and then think well we\u0027ll see how the discussion goes but I think we\u0027re close well I guess we have another slide on that then there\u0027s two active drafts Universal RA and the hop by hop into you draft and then there\u0027s a set of new drafts and we also have things that we didn\u0027t have time in the agenda for but I also want to call your attention to the OEM the last two drafts I hope we will have time but it there\u0027s some chairs of the IP PBM group would like to make sure we get a chance to look and comment on these so the plan for the segment routing is was to get the closure during the week there\u0027s been a lot of there\u0027s been discussion on the email there\u0027s been side meetings we met with Darren guests yesterday good morning to go through the issue tracker and several things got closed I think there\u0027s still a open things that were "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:03:06",
    "text": "hopefully going to get closed today and then our intention is to close the current working group last call and since what so that it will need to be a new revision of the document posted and when that\u0027s assuming we get agreement today we will then do a new working two-week working group last call on the new document you know there\u0027s been a lot of changes and it\u0027s been a long time since we started and people should review the whole document but at least speaking for Olli and myself we would really like to get this done in six map so then it can go to the iesg and they can have lots of fun discussions too so any comments or questions on the agenda okay good okay Darren so Bob\u0027s all about sharing the joy today good all right oh there\u0027s the screen so sr header revision 17 like like bob had said we\u0027ve gone through a lot of work a lot of late nights a lot of discussions a lot of very significant effort by a good number of people so thanks everyone for your input it\u0027s been really fantastic I want to remind you of the quickly the collaboration this isn\u0027t the I can only collaboration this half in this drafts been out for several years now five years since first implementation I think now our emails are at 105 1500 so maybe more than one line protects our land attack so one email per line attacks so thanks this week for that we\u0027re now at 17 presentations this one included alright so the collaboration started for this this particular revision of the draft on Tuesday morning I met a good number of folks and really listen to what the underlying issues were besides just what was kind of in the ticket text because that\u0027s not necessarily what people are most concerned with we got a clear definition of what closure looked like for most of them and then followed up with some prompt resolution on the list and that continued as we started to kind of work through the items all week and learn more and and and get the text out and then on Thursday we did add tracking update with the chairs thanks guys that was much appreciated where we were able to go through and close a whole bunch of more items and the items that we closed during the week were some tag related stuff where we sent out some gifts those were accepted the SR HT all these we sent out some deferred owes on issue 38 those were good H Mac was "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:06:10",
    "text": "verified covers the destination or revision 17 was acknowledged we had a minor one for moving up our programming was acknowledged some security related items around edge filtering got acknowledged as well when those were closed by Thursday now where we stand today this is a numerical order so that the chairs can go through numerically and and keep track the first item number 54 is around TLB limits and alignment of tlvs in the segment routing at the concern there was that while there are limits in the in the text saying don\u0027t exceed they\u0027d like to the extension header there was requests for four more limits basically based on what an implant implementation could configure to limit the number of tlvs that are processed and we added text or diffs and sent them out to lists indicating that an implementation can limit the number of tlvs as they processed on the alignment side of things there was alignment text in the draft but there\u0027s a feeling from some of the working group members that that alignment text should be in line with what\u0027s done in RFC 8200 and that\u0027s the NX plus y or x n+ y definition of alignment so we reverted to or modified the draft and sent out gifts to use the xn plus y type of alignment definition or alignment requirements and then allow the source node to to align the tlvs as necessary in order to meet that requirement of each TLD type and that was sent out that was sent out yesterday the C padding one by Maya this was closed a long time ago issue number 55 that\u0027s actually an old one we need that well we don\u0027t need to do anything for that it was close quite a while ago we added the pad single byte pad there was some muffs language and should must an SH appear ones that were also closed long ago so I consider those ones closed now we had various minor issues from Adrienne don\u0027t know if he\u0027s here we confirmed the ones that were previously existing are closed but then there\u0027s a whole bunch of new nets that that were brought up these are all primarily editorial in nature and discs were provided with them so we don\u0027t see anything more that needs to be done there follow the diffs 67 on padding and h mac and flags this is a question of is the support or is is the m is an implementation required to support tlvs and hvac and the answer from the working group has consistently been no and implementation is not required to support TL vh Mac that I responded to in association with this question as well so that one I think the working groups responded to pretty well saying it\u0027s closed 469 adding in the leading tlvs no "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:09:14",
    "text": "there\u0027s no text in here that talks about adding and deleting tlvs so that ideas closed the next one was for the SR header should have some discussion around aah and discs were sent out for that saying that the SR header for the purpose of computing and a HIC v is mutable which means the SR header can change so what H does is it will zero out the the portions of the SR header for the computation of the age ICB where their disk for that yes the district sent out two lists on that as well number seven a local policy is not defined oh yes okay local policy is not fine so the term local policy some folks have had an issue as saying well we don\u0027t really know what this local policy is described and in discussion that actually came down to well what you\u0027re really saying is local configuration we\u0027d be happy to say local configuration may we be happy to see local configuration we\u0027d be happy to see local configuration limits or limits but local configuration I can specify the things that local policy was previously set up for in the draft so we\u0027ve changed the word from local policy to local configuration and expect that is gonna close this item now with that that\u0027s the remainder of the items closed the discs are on the list now the question is do we close the last call anything from the chairs perspective will certainly say you know thanks a lot to the authors and the reviewers for having spent a lot of time this week to getting everything resolved well feel free not to come up on the mic what you know as we\u0027ve started with our plan is to with all these issues closed consider the working group last call of this revision of it done we\u0027ll reissue a working group last call that with a time limit just to ensure that people get a chance to review all of these changes and well that\u0027s dependent on on revision 18 do you think you will have that out so yeah very soon yeah I\u0027m gonna I\u0027m gonna sleep on it before I release it so so I\u0027m thinking early next week Monday Tuesday yeah yeah as if anyone has a burning issue about this draft please come up now or forever keep your silence "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:12:15",
    "text": "except of course on the mailing list [Laughter] yeah we need to pump up that number on the mailing list well cool I think we\u0027re done then for now that\u0027s that\u0027s for now yeah way to go all right thank you everybody thanks Cheers so I\u0027m next oh right so for a completely different topic the universal RA option which does require a bit of suspense of disbelief just like when you read a science fiction book to accept the reality is behind it so this is draft I posted a few months ago in response to some issues that we\u0027ve seen which is to follow I\u0027ll go more into that but it\u0027s basically this view that which is a reflection of of the idea failing getting successfully deployed service discovery in my view so it ends up with we need these general carriers DHCP being one RA being another from signaling information or carrying any information from the network to hosts and so the idea was can we make this more generic can we make it in a way where you don\u0027t need to change the route or implementations to add new information objects and likewise you don\u0027t need to change the sort of core RA processing engine on the hosts and you don\u0027t need to disturb the working group every time you want to add a new object so the proposal is is make a universal array format will request number 42 from the ini we\u0027ll see if you can get that it\u0027s a CD DL concise state the description language described objects encoded in in seaboard and the point is essentially to do this so you can on the network side you describe your objects as JSON object we can argue about the exact formatting of this or you know currently everything is text string so they can be represented in Jason you could make it more efficient with you know binary encoding the it\u0027s harder to represent in Jason and likewise on the host side a user application interested in one of these object would just subscribe to a key and "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:15:17",
    "text": "you know that\u0027s x4 for example and I will get notification from the RA processing engine when it receives objects for that key so I would you know not require implementation changes in in you know III Reuters then you had new ones have been one of the problems we had and likewise in you know if you did the RA processing in the kernel or even in separate process here\u0027s a typical CD DL representation so this is an experiment it\u0027s twofold one of them is to you know how far can we get away with not requiring an IDF specification for these you know so the idea is to put most of the description and most of what you need into an eye on a registry so you know it would just be the CD DL with you know either reference to a external document as a stable reference or we would just have the description in the ion or registry itself so as you see this is a fairly neat way of describing RA options so the problem I you know with or I\u0027m trying to solve and it says you know remember that first slide though is we\u0027re spending an inordinate amount of time arguing about you know these configuration objects if they should be allowed to go into Ras you know half the people say as well I don\u0027t need it\u0027s uh not going to support standardizing it and it takes an awful long time to get it standardizing it takes an awful long time to get it in implementations and it\u0027s you know questionable how much value we as a working group add to this process so the suggestion is you know new Ayano registry CDL described objects which is you know again self-contained into the INR registry or a stable friends and just expert review you know so you needed the prep sixty-four option for example you will just fill out the form get that into Ayana or get through expert review and they will get it to the iron ore registry and you could implement it if you wanted it or not without any discussion in the working group and so the experiment is along two axes you know it\u0027s a technical one what is the advantages of doing a self describing describing format you know on the implementations and the cost of doing implementations and the time it takes to deploy things and it\u0027s the process part what\u0027s the consequences of the working group stepping back and letting go and not involving you know these you know quality checks that hopefully the working group applies to these which means that you know take the example of the RA only flagged for example which you discuss for it for a "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:18:17",
    "text": "long time right lots of emails in this case someone would just say well I define one you city auntie you could of course still discuss it but it would still be there and available right so there are there certainly interesting consequences it has been you know I think the third the email not to point point out anyone but I think the third email was say it was you know eg I could use this mechanism if I love live another you know in are s messages as well I could build new protocols this way right yes you can but that\u0027s hopefully not that something that would pass expert review so for the experiment the proposed time is two years your finger in the air would take us about that much time to gather information we would get a official code point so it doesn\u0027t conflict with other experiments and what are the success parameters and I don\u0027t know I mean absolutely no use of it would possibly be a success massive use of it for it well I don\u0027t know if it would be a success but it certainly would be very hard to shut down the experiment at that point so you know so so that is you know but you could close the registry of course but if lots of people use it it\u0027s very hard to put that cash back in into the bag so yes so you know this is an individual draft the discussion I was looking forward to especially around that you know the process track it seems like we can quite quickly agree on on sort of the technical you know modeling language encoding all of this thing has been discussed that has mostly been discussed at least not so much you know the sort of working group implications and the process implications of this so yes please go oh no Jenny hygienic oh I definitely like the idea of speeding up deploying of new options right because it means I can get the support much faster on the router side side but I\u0027m a bit concerned so this would simplify describing the option right so it will be much faster however how do you think we are going to define the host behavior in this case because I don\u0027t I do not think that are we spending too much time discussing bits and bytes and the options I think the most discussions are normally happening around what hosts are supposed to do and in this case it\u0027s basically unspecified right so I would be very concerned about how can i deploy something if I don\u0027t know what hosts are supposed to do so there is nothing here that prohibits you from writing an IETF document that describes that right and there might be another one that you "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:21:18",
    "text": "could reference already that has uses this object or very similar one right I mean the DNS you know the our idea let me see if I good example so basically ipv6 only flag right right I don\u0027t know maybe I was missing sumption but I think the most discussion was around host behavior so one flag what few bits in the option is not really a subject Cashin so I do not think will be it will would have helped much right on my damn wrong here well for that particular one I\u0027m not sure the working group document helps right oh right because you basically ended up saying well it\u0027s really up to the implementation what did the implementer think makes sense for that so I would be happy for that one with a single line of text which says you know signal system of e6 only link but you know that\u0027s my very pragmatic view so right Jen Eric Cline the text in the document says if you don\u0027t understand an option you ignore it so there\u0027s there\u0027s that bit of host behavior but if you define an option then yeah and you want people to use it then you should definitely have a document to say what to do with the option though the otherwise it\u0027ll be ignored no so basically what I\u0027m saying I fully support the idea of introducing new options in this format but I think it should not be like implement that until we describe what host is expected to do because I\u0027m not talking about hosts do not understand Young\u0027s option I\u0027m talking about hos doing completely different unpredictable stuff when they receive that option hi Tony Polly so speaking as one of the PVD authors because you\u0027d mentioned on the list hey use this for PVD so in general I think there\u0027s actually a really really good mechanism I would like to see this used for like a lot of basic option passed through especially if all you really need is the host just like passes up to some other layers so they contribute it seems really good I think in the case of PVD specifically I think that is a little bit more complex of case because it\u0027s specifically meant to be containers other options it has a large impact on the host behavior when they have to manage multiple different Ras that they\u0027re getting and how there\u0027s interact with advice however I imagine one of the things that we\u0027ll want to do in the future with pvd\u0027s is have because they have containerized options have more options to extend behavior there and those should all be this definitely so I think they complement each other well I don\u0027t think switching PVD to one of these is the right thing to do but I think this is very important work settlement and I certainly wouldn\u0027t you know expect pvd\u0027s do not have a stable reference to this crap out there used right right I just wanted to add Michael Abramson to what Thomas said one of the use cases for PV DS is four-legged sales to not "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:24:18",
    "text": "understand something so this would mean we would have to have standards for all the normal things let\u0027s go into an RA to be in here as well if we you want to apply this to the PVD case right so the current sort of so if I want to send a Pio to a PVD aware host that legacy are not going to use I need to have Pio here in the new format yeah that\u0027s already here that\u0027s like raises lots of texture is we\u0027re taking everything that we already have all the options and putting it here as well that\u0027s the experiment right there\u0027s no you can put whatever you like I mean as long as it would in two thousand bytes Eric Clint I realize now we also need an our flag I think it\u0027s like 60 to 75 or something you know guys take another flight video yeah but all of it isn\u0027t that owner is right now I I support I liked the extensibility of this right adding the MTU to the RI o was a nice and easy thing to do so I do think that if this is popular and successful certain things we may net neck now is the time to take care to minimize the size of things right text strings for prefixes they can be shorter than their binary representations but they also definitely cannot be I mean the reason that I\u0027d is it\u0027s very neat to have an API on the rear side where the only thing you need 13 is a JSON object and if we are far binary encoding at least you already have something that takes the in theory can take something from a radius server diameter server and put it into a DHCP option right so it\u0027d be similar to that you need a little bit more parsing right so at least you need it would be nice to not require implementation changes but yeah sure we can say you know with the v6 working group at least we can do the v6 addresses in binary encoding and requires support for that on the routes but yeah yeah yeah now the implementation on the regicide is 15 lines of code right it would be a little bit more thank you dr. JOHN CARTER so I\u0027m very much in favor of this and I think we should keep in the back of our heads that having something in here doesn\u0027t preclude us from noticing that it\u0027s getting widely adopted and hopefully reacting quickly and actually moving it out of this so even so I don\u0027t think we would necessarily be nailed down to keeping something in this Universal option and I think it\u0027s it\u0027s the ideal environment to figure out if something is actually getting adopted and if that happens then decide whether we want to keep it in here or create a "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:27:19",
    "text": "new option code after all and then have some period of time where we have both at the same time or something like that Eric green idiot of I just said to David really mad man I like the idea of course pretty much like to meet a thing DVD is mm coder there and your option is pretty much a token are so it\u0027s not one or the other and the last one and we preserve buddies experimental status because you are really looking for something which may stands forever or you will get no implementation in host for instance I understand why you say experimental yeah no and I think you know looking for monitor status in the directive with an experimental please use the mic for your discussion 3 in the draft as far as I know it\u0027s snark state whose experimental yes ah yeah Jenica took more comments so I\u0027m trying to think about a deployment scenario so it means now I have to duplicate information in both experiment like universal array and existing array options because I cannot be sure or support this right no I mean well so these examples are just you know you could represent the current information like this I would expect this to be used for new objects which only exists in the universal RA right so if people want and part of the experiment is getting experience with what the hell is people going to put in there are there pitching their beach be a routing table there perhaps that wasn\u0027t a good idea we should shut down the experiment right so in the second comment like I am in a favour for experiment but I just think two gears my baby shot because I wonder if it just me or getting something supported on the Audion platforms and getting it deployed after all this qualification might take slightly longer provide and I probably would not have great devices just to get this right so it need to fit into the standard lifecycle management we have two implementations already Tomek did one on the hackathon for kia and and there\u0027s one only poppy but of course that\u0027s not the platform\u0027s you run presume air cleaning it one of the things I forgot to say earlier was I think there\u0027s some you know doctrinal conflict about the kind of things that belong in Ras and the blowing elsewhere and I could try to send some send a full request with some text about what sort of qualifiers but you know in general my perspective had been that the things that you need to use the network belong in in the RAS and everything else belongs behind some servers discovery mechanism of which we "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:30:19",
    "text": "have thousands so and the to take the example from earlier in the week of the SIP proxy the SIP proxy is not required to use the network I must of course you having a network whose sole purpose is to serve a bunch of SIP only devices in which case that is the purpose and that seems like a reasonable thing to put in here maybe yeah well we have an infinite namespace here right it\u0027s better but not an infinite him to you yeah sure but you wouldn\u0027t I mean yeah never cooperate it would only put options that made sense for the network so so I\u0027d like to close to my client to keep going but Alex Petrescu generally I support the way it is presented problem seems to be true the way to address it seems to be appropriate I would like to ask clarification is it intended to be only a router to host or all could it be also a router to router well they are a mechanism is by definition routed a host right there is one open issue of you know should it be allowed to go also in host to router to signal what you want it back as it sort of a DHCP like option request option if you like or you know but but but I mean Richard ureter protocols are aiso not well the CP case is special but then we say behaves in host well right so it depends on what you mean by router to router thing okay I will take this question to the email is to explain what is router to router allow me a second question which is with respect to judging success sometimes success comes from the availability of software tools to implement various things now we talk about a new format here we see Jason we hear C Bar C DDL I think I\u0027ve seen also sn1 I\u0027m not sure the syntax if you\u0027ve seen that please go and wash your eyes okay well I do like a sn1 so the question was whether the discussion on the format to be used is still open or the decision is made because C bar I\u0027m afraid there is not really many implementations so I\u0027d like to have as not discussed the format but we should be discussing today whether we want to do this if we agree to do this then we can discuss formats but right that\u0027s not the main issue for us to decide so hold that for later okay thank you Timmy I support this I mean the the protection here is that we we state that any unrecognized options must be silently ignored so the hosts were just ignore it my concern might be then this kind of an implication of the document you might generate or need extra Ras to convey "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:33:19",
    "text": "information so you\u0027re going to increase the number of Ras at the scene on a network with the obvious consequences of that a little NIT in the document there\u0027s a there\u0027s a bit where it says the second purpose of the dot of the experiment is to and then it ends there so all right of a cliffhanger in the document that you\u0027ve left unfinished so this is the key type of experiment the URL is there pull requests welcome okay okay yeah I was I can say yeah the other thing it might be interesting to put in a little appendix for the time being maybe not to put in the final publication is a list of proposed RA options that have not made it through to get an idea of the type of things that people have proposed so picked up the ones that are on our sort of schedule now is never boot option it was proposed didn\u0027t get the no gender lock but that\u0027s a URL for beauty information it\u0027s well it\u0027s you know the only one we\u0027re talking about you know they pivot ease the pressure 64 is there yeah I think that the point is if this is something that removes the barrier to people getting things out there then having a look at in the last few years as if we can do it easily I sound like I\u0027m volunteering here so just to see what sort of things people were putting forward you sort of can wave at start people all these options it might be nice to have a list of what has been put forward is a right draft I mean it\u0027s the ones we have discussed a lot right there are so you know good examples of if we have had this at least viewed saved all the working group time discussing them but you know what yeah and we don\u0027t really know what else is could be out there right the transfer box original question yes support definitely David I\u0027m pablor speaking as someone who person FRR I\u0027m happy to implement this if I can find the appropriate libraries and I\u0027m happy to ship it so just as a statement and Michael Abram suggested I support this I would just like us to look into the implications when it comes to the MTU I\u0027m worried about this and some of this actually is multicast which it has implications on discussions on Wi-Fi and multicast so and if we think that this is going to grow which means that we\u0027re going to send more unsolicited arrays I would like us to think about that and conceivably come up with something that means that this is from the rocket to the host is sent as a unicast only is it and it\u0027s never a broadcaster - Romana cast it and I think that\u0027s also one reason I proposed this as an experiment so we gave a song room for for learning along the way as opposed to sorting out all these issues right because if we think that this might have for a while turn out to be several kilobytes of information it might be better to just keep it out of the orient and invent something more like I don\u0027t know yeah but whatever we "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:36:20",
    "text": "come up with so a new DNS SD would be mentioned here so we probably need to figure out like what should go in there and what you\u0027re going so I\u0027m Anita says home sorry I have a a picture of my family you can send that over sending that on the link so everyone knows right so this is what it what happened with you snip right let\u0027s just want to I\u0027m not doing anything with our ear in it now but this looks it looks like a lot of fun yes so did Suresh get the last word oh yes so one thing I didn\u0027t see cover in the draft that I like to see is like how do you handle conflicts right so from let\u0027s say you have some information that came in from DHCP that could also be given by this I\u0027d like you know how do we resolve who goes first and things like that that\u0027s something I would like to have some information so I\u0027m I\u0027m supportive of the experiment but I would like to see a little bit more text about like you know sending configuration information through different means and how do you the solve the complex yeah pull requests welcome like you know I asked you to do this re all right good I mean I have some concerns to you know I\u0027m worried that this is we this is gonna become very popular there\u0027s gonna be a lot of new stuff they\u0027ll be very little barrier so we need to be careful about how what we require to be specified but it\u0027s gonna hit yeah so I don\u0027t know how we do that and I\u0027m not sure how to thinking about it there\u0027s a lot to learn here but once we get this going with a type I think we won\u0027t be able to stop it so in any case lots let\u0027s this discuss but I think there was a lot at least what I heard in the room was a lot of support for this so good thank you okay it\u0027s a it\u0027s a bit strange presenting something you think might be a bad idea and also support you know oh well let me go for another 30 year old idea my co-chair Gauri is here as well I think you\u0027re two in a box well it\u0027s yes or it\u0027s no box yeah they got rid of the pink box now it\u0027s just an X on the floor so this this is the ipv6 minimum path MTU hi-hop option I guess we should have considered putting it in an RA instead way doesn\u0027t work that\u0027s my other graph do a double act here so we all thought path MTU "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:39:21",
    "text": "discovery kind of work because it\u0027s very widely implemented and it does work but it\u0027s not really useful it\u0027s not working well so we need something better and there\u0027s two bits to this there\u0027s maybe an important piece of the transport layer and actually checking what works and verifying it but here there\u0027s a hop option and the hop by hop option is basically something new that we came up with which was something old that we discovered afterwards but and it\u0027s maybe a good idea now because these two things come together and it can help it doesn\u0027t help everywhere that we ascertain that it helps in some places so they\u0027re the new draft that was published this month we changed this to experimental from standards track where I\u0027m at least gary has convinced me there\u0027s a lot we need to learn before we try to do this permanently or something the original draft just had it before particular domains but you know this is there\u0027s a lot we need some real data here before we can decide what to do add a new motivation and problem solved section to better describe the purpose and started describing experiments that we wanted to do and some editorial changes the motivation you know as Barry said you know a MTU discovery as in a toe 201 doesn\u0027t work well in all places in the Internet I mean it does work but it\u0027s not reliable enough for what we want to do nodes in the middle may not send a nice compact it to a big message you know for various reasons it may not get back to the source nodes are mostly relying on MSS for TCP and we see a lot of defaults to 1280 you know and protocols that tunnel or encapsulate end up reducing MTU and you know these mechanisms don\u0027t work there and you know we also sort of observing that you know as links are getting faster 10 100 Gigabit Ethernet you know if we\u0027re limited to 1280 octets the packets per second rate starts to go way up and you know the difference between 1280 and 9000 at 10 say a 10 gig is significant and so if we want notes to be able to do this if we can get to bigger packets it\u0027s actually a big win and these are the 10 gig numbers and you know ya add multiple ooh I tend to get a hundred gig and we\u0027re not gonna stop there so if we could get ipv6 to work better with bigger empty use I think it would be a real win so turns out it\u0027s "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:42:31",
    "text": "possible just to send a message through the network in the forward direction asking what MTU is supported and then we can figure out what actually is deployed and then we can start using this but the point is that such as the sender who needs the message so how do you get this information back to the source of the ipv6 packet well we could send a path to packet to big message an ICMP message from there involved right back to the source and this isn\u0027t perhaps as stupid as it seems because we do get other ICMP messages back from the remote all the way back to the source because they\u0027re not cherished on path maybe the state in middleboxes let you forward these so this could be a cool thing to do and we\u0027re interesting people opinion on that and particularly measurements on where that works because that could be helpful and we could also put the value that we find out for the forward path in the same pot by hop option using the return path and return that value back to the sender so the source knows this from extension header option that\u0027s got different failure modes pretty salsa possible and we could also of course perhaps easiest of all when the transport does it we could simply put the value in a transport parameter or return it back over the top of the transport possibly encrypted if you have something like quick you just simply return this is a message size value back to the source so now we have three ways of getting feedback which complicates it makes it more of an experiment but I think there\u0027s good possibilities here that one or perhaps more and might succeed if we can make this a lot more robust all three might not be a bad thing but this is what we want to find out all right okay so and this we think it\u0027s useful thing to keep this document going and and standardize it as an experiment because there are experiments to do and in fact there are many expands to do but some of them are listed here and the first one is the one I\u0027ve just identified how likely is it that the hop by hop option will be forwarded to the remote node remember this is not necessarily a data packet or it may be a duplicate packet of a transport protocol so we don\u0027t require it to get there we just want to know what its fate is is does the packet it tick with the hop by hop option get discarded and does it traverse the link and get ignored and just something else happen maybe he actually gets updated how likely is it the ICMP message is returned to the source way as originated from the endpoint but its rigidity from the nor to rather than from a box on the path because then you don\u0027t have routing issues etc so it works with load balancers how easy is this to implement aha we\u0027ve already started that we\u0027ve been doing stuff at the hackathon and we "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:45:31",
    "text": "had quite a lot of fun that and quite a lot of success in making little things work so this might be a really good place to drill and how much support is there for jump or friends anyway one of the motivations here is to fix tunnels where you get less and less m to you but one of them is to send bigger and bigger packets now we know Ethernet MTU in its in homes and with with smaller NICs is limited but how much support is that really for jumper friends out there can we actually start moving up to that and I think there are more questions I have a lot more but I thought these were the ones we could actually drill into initially Janene Cova I was just realized so you don\u0027t necessarily have to get make it too big back you can get destination unreachable and if enough of the your head there will be included you can actually get that information even if you know doesn\u0027t support this right if we know doesn\u0027t recognize that option yeah I think that\u0027s quite cool yeah and I am still going to give you some data on the probability of getting that was an old yeah yeah please join give data right Eric Cline I think if you\u0027re interested in Gemma Graham\u0027s technically they can be of the empty you can be a 32-bit number right I think it was Ethernet Jumbo\u0027s who were talking about enough to be six Jumbo\u0027s just a minute I\u0027m I\u0027m not that ambitious um a 2k 4k 9k 16 um you know these are sorting numbers I\u0027m thinking of not-not-not UDP packets that are enormous because the MTU option in the are a and in the jumbo all that stuff is 4 bytes so cool if you think that believes well no no I mean I\u0027m fine with them too and we can change the spec to say if it\u0027s if the option length is 4 that our is 6 then you know then you know why also I was gonna suggest some text about is it the the socket API 35 42 if you have received path MTU options set it would be good to get this bubbled up to the app I think it\u0027s probably a very simple mention to suggest that in such behavior Thanks yeah agree with Al Michaels I just wanted to comment on the MTU Ethernet CRC calculation start to break down if you go way above 9 K I think it\u0027s around 10 11 12 that\u0027s where you start to risk getting bit errors that are not detected by the C or C algorithm in news so with and since Ethernet is eating the world this is like a practical thing we would need other link layers to larger packets yeah for a template from Boeing so I know this was close came up "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:48:32",
    "text": "on the list and you guys responded to it but in 1990 RFC 1063 tried to do exactly the same thing and a lot of people put a lot of hard work into it at that time frankly I think they were on the right track which I think you are too I think what happened back then is they were under a time pressure they needed to get something out and that\u0027s where a lot of 91 came from so I think we\u0027re back to maybe getting on the right track again but it\u0027s good to look at that history lesson I think it\u0027s it\u0027s important to see that a lot of people put a lot of time into it the next version of in draft will probably cite that okay artwork are RFC 1063 and if people who were involved in that one to help us write the text around that that would be great I like history to know why we did things differently in the past we may want to do them again I think this case we probably do that don\u0027t they applies to people born before 1988 I think I qualify so I did a quick check of the Linux kernel and as far as I can see it does pass hph options along but it doesn\u0027t look at them while forwarding and I believe that this is the result you will get from most if not even all routers and I think that is something to keep in mind for this because this is going to be hard to change well so I you are correct that\u0027s the status code today I would at least like to think that if we can show that this would be compelling and provides better overall service on the internet that that will encourage people to do it I don\u0027t think we have to assume that implementations will never do anything they don\u0027t do today right but let me also make the argument that this is something where we need to consider making it as easy as possible for routers to actually implemented it and I\u0027m not sure that the nigth option is the best way to do that maybe maybe it\u0027s possible to find some way to transportus that is easier to pick out from the general traffic flow by by the raw by the rotor itself so another during the hackathon I actually wanted to do that performance tests difference between you know what\u0027s the cost of processing an exception packet for path MTU T today versus stamping it with the help I help option so I\u0027ll try to get that work done and publish that Charita one other question to tackle as part of this experiment would be the forwarding behavior changes when hopper hop option is present if the path is taken written without the hop-by-hop option would would change that would be important even for any other hop-by-hop functions yes and we want to do stuff in this space to figure this out however we also or at least I do as a transport person assert this is only a hint so we would have to have a transport layer mechanism to verify the bigger packet worked or not so the hint would be completely wrong if they took a different path and we want "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:51:33",
    "text": "to know about that but it would have probably derailed the transport it got a little bit of wood what do you think about I mean you said that transport return path is obviously the most reliable one and so you mentioned quick and clearly quit the patient on the table so we can do a lot of things to it now there is another transport that is commonly used in the Internet TCP and what do you think about opening up that thing in and maybe adding ability to set MSS after handshake could be used very useful for your purposes could probably be useful for others too so you want to renegotiate MSS when you discover something bigger this kind of a weird thing with MSS yeah if you tell it yeah well you you tell how much office space you have and we just not change but yeah I see what you\u0027re saying that and interesting and let\u0027s think about this we also need to think about how MSS clamping would it would interact if you didn\u0027t send it on a sin but yeah right I mean MSS clamping is Pandu for really values for symmetric pass anyway so this thing would be for a symmetric path would work for a symmetric basis as well let\u0027s talk I think I\u0027ll look close the line by Magna Steyr go ahead Tom Jones and so just an American Davis questions on implementation so the saga API exposes the hop-by-hop data it comes through and this is how we did the Linux implementation of the hackathon and in the forwarding paths the hop-by-hop option processing is not great like this is where the spiders live in the network stack we\u0027ve never done anything with this and but it\u0027s not gonna be horrific to add support so we could do this Micron\u0027s and so in my twenty years I\u0027ve seen ICMP the TTL expired I could just go from being handled by the cpu to be done on the line card I guess then fuses all have you talked to the silicon guys but doing the hop-by-hop option in silicon and have the MP you been up to they they say it never needs to get punted to anything intelligent not yeah okay because I think that was a good question it\u0027ll be very valuable to make it sure it\u0027s silicon friendly and I know I\u0027ve talked to them and some they can look like 128 bits into the 128 bytes into the packet and I don\u0027t know what they then can do but if you can do this I mean we\u0027re going you\u0027re going to have to handle like 10k 100k paid PPS of these as we progress up in line speeding you\u0027re going to have four hundred eight hundred ten one terabits per second line cards it\u0027s going to be a lot of ppso or not buy up options that the line card is "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:54:33",
    "text": "going to have to process right and then there\u0027s another question about you only put these in the syn packets and then occasionally or do you put them in all pack right but we definitely want to make this silicon friendly sorry I I definitely agree with this because commentary about making this line I\u0027m very worried about in general that we losing the possibility to have the network communicate and hosts and using the the the IP layer so the network layer to do this communication otherwise you\u0027re gonna have to do this processing in hacks in transport stacks level and that\u0027s really worrying for me so I had closed the mic liner but if you\u0027re very quick please okay yeah I\u0027ll just repeat something that I told David Lampeter I think it could very well be that devices that already knew to CPMs s clamping can easily handle this and devices that don\u0027t won\u0027t and that\u0027s probably plenty okay and there\u0027s another way to use this in conjunction with your ongoing with an ongoing protocol session and that would be to just basically in parallel send send this option from the source to the desk with no next protocol there\u0027s like 49 or something C 559 thank you to the next to the host so you basically could keep your application trapping the same I just how to probe this in parallel this is probably easy to thank you so just do this quickly so as Tom mentioned we played with this at the hackathon last weekend was the Linux host implementation a BSD post implementation VPP router implementation before a router implementation and I did a Wireshark did the sector I got to learn bunch of stuff overall work pretty well but we decided to change it of course it is an experiment so we did a version that this is not in the draft so this has a return value and a return flag or turn bid I guess I called it here so if the source wants the destination to send back the MTU it received in a hop-by-hop option it sets the flag and then and then the host with the destination would put it in the return value and in order to keep this to still be eight bytes to not have it grow into sixteen if you notice we take you can only send even size empty used back so you divide you know so it\u0027s shortened essentially divided by two but you know I think if we lose one one bite of NTU it\u0027s not really a big deal and keeping this short seemed like a good thing so that\u0027s why we experimented with and this is what it "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:57:36",
    "text": "looks like in Wireshark and I\u0027ve almost got this completed except for it notice it doesn\u0027t show what the next protocol is Wireshark is a little challenging when you\u0027re not doing the end protocol so one yeah I\u0027ll keep at this so yes continue to talk to us you know there\u0027s gonna be some experimenting with this going forward and we hope to have some data by the next IDF so I think we\u0027re almost out of time if they\u0027re going for a lasts so I was going to say if you have questions or comments this is a thing we intend to increase our work upon as we go in the towards the next IETF and hopefully report more next IDF so please talk to us not just now but as we continue to do this yeah absolutely I think there\u0027s a lot of work you know interest in this work it doesn\u0027t necessarily have to be that this is a solution but I mean this collaboration that we now have with the transport area is so you know I encourage everyone to accommodate up come a new suggestions for that marker this is kind of empty Yuri take Rome don\u0027t sit there like you\u0027re not going to run up here and do your twenty minutes if you can do it in 20 minutes our bio beer in for a six-pack okay run Bonica and there are four drafts I\u0027ll pause for questions after the second one the first one is about the VPN contact no it\u0027s not first one\u0027s about okay I want this one yes yes sorry VPN compressed center yeah we got a bit um keep in mind the segment routing header that we just approved because this isn\u0027t the same same line of thought if you take a look at network programming you\u0027ll find that there are two classes of SIDS Trant a transport Sid that steers a packet to a terminal segment of an ipv6 tunnel it\u0027s processed by the non terminal segments segments left greater than 0 and examples of these in the SRA char end and end X there are a little relatively few of these in fact two and an index and their semantics is very simple very little information is carried in a transport set by contrast we have service SIDS they determine the behavior at a terminal segment they\u0027re processed only when segments left equals zero at the terminal segment and examples of these are end d x4 and d x6 by the way this this is all familiar to folks who\u0027ve read the network programming draft and they\u0027re relatively many of these they "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:00:36",
    "text": "have a very rich semantics and because of that it takes very many bytes to carry them in any event in ipv6 we have two ways to deliver instructions to downstream nodes we have routing extension headers that steer packets from an ingress to an egress they\u0027re processed at non terminal segments when segments left is greater than 0 and they are well positioned to carry transport sets and by contrast we have destination options that determine behavior at the egress they\u0027re processed only at the terminal segment that\u0027s the same when segments left is great equal to 0 or when there\u0027s no routing extension header at all and they\u0027re well positioned to carry service heads now there\u0027s one more observation we need to make and that\u0027s the problem with routing headers they\u0027re too long typically they take 8 bytes of overhead 4 bytes are mandatory mandated by 8200 most routing headers have 4 more bytes typically they represent each CID in 16 so a routing header with three SIDS is 56 bytes long when it gets much longer than three sets let\u0027s say six or eight its impractically long these aren\u0027t ASIC friendly processing long extension headers is computationally expensive that\u0027s one of the reasons you don\u0027t see very many extent routing headers on the Internet today also they impose unreasonable bandwidth overhead short packets less than 500 bytes are very common on the Internet routing headers with three SIDS may become common and a routing header with three SIDS would impose a 10% bandwidth overhead so where are we going with this we\u0027re proposing two things first to encode transports heads in a new compressed routing header and we talked about that in graph Bonica compressed routing header it\u0027s a topic of this talk and we\u0027re also talking about encoding service SIDS in a new ipv6 destination option actually a set of new ipv6 destination options one of which is draft Bonica 6-man BPM desktop it\u0027s the topic of the next talk now what does this new routing header look like well the first four bytes are incredibly familiar they\u0027re mandated by RFC 8200 the fifth byte should look familiar it\u0027s exactly the same as the segment routing header it\u0027s the next two bits that are new they tell you how much we\u0027ve compressed each cid a cid can be represented by 8 16 or 32 bits and let\u0027s say we\u0027ve talked about all this stuff ready um comm tells you whether the SIDS are 8 16 or 32 bits each sid maps to an "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:03:39",
    "text": "ipv6 address through either a table out rhythm or look up and the ipv6 address is copied to the destination address of the ipv6 header just like any other routing header the interesting thing about this ipv6 address it\u0027s a real ipv6 address it identifies an interface not a said it carries no semantics beyond what RFC 42 91 gives it so for those of you who were in love with packet formats this is what the compressed routing header looks like when the CID is encoded in eight bits you can see you can get eight SIDS and a 16 byte header if you need a little more to encode your transport SIDS here it is encoded in 16 bits and here it is encoded in 32 bits we have some compliance extras here an ipv6 address semantics remains unchanged once we translate us into an ipv6 address and copy it to the destination address it has no semantics beyond what 4291 gives you there\u0027s no need for transit routers ever to insert or delete if extension headers there\u0027s no need to have two instances of the CRH in the same packet extension headers a process for Cle in the order that they appear in the packet no need to backtrack or anything like that the status we have multiple operators who\u0027ve expressed interest in this we have prototypes under development in juniper both on the forwarding plane and Isis extensions to supports it advertisement they\u0027ll also be in the next few days BGP well BGP advertisements to support the VPN destination option and what we\u0027re asking for is wide review in spring and six-man and after some review a call for adoption in six-man working group anyhow stop for questions here so we actually don\u0027t have time for discussion so again and we expect you to catch up on the next three okay okay oh you can\u0027t be way behind okay if you can get me to argue over that you can give me the hook after the next one okay BPM destination option here is the anatomy of a VPN you have pease that learn routes from CES a PE advert associates the egress PE associates information VPN context information with a router that\u0027s learned from a seee advertises it to an ingress PE when the ingress PE gets a packet for that route it prepends VPN context information it to the payload it puts that in a tunnel and sends it off to the egress the egress pops it off now what does the staff look like when it\u0027s sent across "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:06:40",
    "text": "that tunnel you have payload you have VPN destination options with VPN context information a compressed routing header which is optional if you\u0027re taking any path other than the least cost path and an ipv6 header you see the new thing that we\u0027re introducing here is the VPN context informations it\u0027s where we put VPN services do you have a need for security with this no problem just put an authentication header or an ESP between them what does this new option look like well it\u0027s got an option type act bits or would not recognize this guard whoa no change bit a zero you have variable length data and so you can encode as much information or as little as you need in your VPN context information and you have data to go with it again the status we have operators expressing interest we\u0027re building prototypes inside juniper looking for comment on the mailing list next steps same thing wide review call for adoption next ok this sorry thank you ok next nope that\u0027s not next a.m. is next not this one yeah no not that one no yeah [Music] okay I\u0027ll do it without slides not a problem no how yeah well go ahead and this one right okay that one thank you okay we have a new option if you want to elicit OAM from a packet you put this that option and either a hop-by-hop a destination a destination header that precedes a routing a header or in the ultimate destination depending on whether you want away M information from every hop along a path from segment end points only or from the ultimate destination the OAM option has some flags in it the flags elicit of behavior from the processing node the behavior is log a packet count a packet send an ICMP message to the packet source obviously rate limited or send telemetry to your NMS now when you say log a packet what information goes in that log message as much as the processing node can put in it it might have a very accurate timestamp but if it can do it it might have what port it came on and on if it can do it whatever it can do the same for counters what counter does it go into whichever one the processing node is configured to put these B\u0027s in the policy can be as complex or as simple as you need what does the packet look like well like this the interesting thing is "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:09:40",
    "text": "the act bits are 0 0 skip it if you don\u0027t understand it the change bit is 0 what does that look like what does the ICM we define a new ICMP message to send in response to that what does it look like it looks like this it has a timestamp it has the original Datagram next steps review call for adoption that one am i close to getting the beer you are very close to get you to ok this one is just for completeness we don\u0027t expect it to be used very often at all what happens remember the first message where we had the CRH that had these very narrow bandwidth SIDS along the way well what happens if you want to use a CRH and you have a high-bandwidth sit in the middle well we have this thing called the segment end point option it\u0027s to convey information to selected end points in a service cheat so let\u0027s say you have a service chain with five elements in it you want to get information to element 3 and element 4 you put a destination option header in front of the routing header it\u0027s processed by every segment end point you put this new option in the destination option header it has a segments left field it gets decremented just like the segments segments left field in the routing header it also has a list of containers in it each container has a segment identifier and an option when segments left equals the segment identifier then you execute the option it\u0027s a way to have a high bandwidth segment identifier in the middle of a CRH now do we expect this to be used often no in fact you might choose if you have a path that has a high bandwidth said in the middle of it to use an SRH so for some paths you might use an S RH because you need that you need that for others you might use a CR H but if you just have maybe one segment in the middle of it that has a high bandwidth you might use a CR H with this again call for adoption wide review and I think I have beer coming you absolutely have beer coming alright so we\u0027re thinking at the end of the set of lightning talks we have two more lightning talks we could take questions and all of them if we have any time left then without your ring there you will still get there so Frank can you please come up let\u0027s see if I can this is a session about getting beer do you just apply for lightning talks to get beer okay that\u0027s "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:12:41",
    "text": "the method to go wine beer out of you cool all right so this is a quick ask to IP from IP p.m. to six men working group to go and give us some guidance on how to proceed with IOM in ipv6 so hopefully everybody\u0027s seen I am in a nutshell so what we\u0027re doing is we\u0027re adding operational metadata into the packets very much like what ron was proposing and we had a discussion with ron to go and see whether or what he\u0027s doing can be kind of synchronized with the work that happens in IP PM because there is a shitload of overlap and so we\u0027re adding metadata and we need to find a place in v6 to carry the metadata so the ass two-six man from IP PM is really we want to go and carry the metadata in extension headers and we need option type Co points both for hop-by-hop as well as destination options depending on how we carry these things and well we need this thumbs up yeah it goes the same way as what was done for TBM PDM earlier on that ended up in in an IP PM shepherd at our of c so i do 250 so that we can go and progress that work in IBM so what do we want to go and do we have right now in iom we have four types of data that we\u0027re encapsulating two types are tracing data which is pre-allocated tracing or incremental tracing that would go into an hop by option we have proof of transit data ie proving that your program progressing through a predefined set of nodes and that we have a edge to edge option which is just encapsulated at one point not book that throughout the network and then D capsulated the other node which is what we need a destination option code point for so the ask is readier well we have a set of metadata defined that is already defined in a draft and a working group draft in AI ppm and we want to go and drop that into extension matters that isn\u0027t without problems right so after we we started the working group discussion prior to the ITF meeting in Bangkok at that spurred a bunch of additional questions and so we thought like ah yes just asking for coat points is one thing but in addition to that you want to go and have deployment considerations that go on top of that so we explained how the option would be used because that\u0027s super useful for operators to consider right and because there is problems with that we don\u0027t want to go and half the packet forwarding behavior really changed due to IOM being present the IOM shouldn\u0027t we\u0027re adding things it shouldn\u0027t go and exceed the power time to you is because that earlier if somebody adds IOM "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:15:41",
    "text": "information well you need to make sure that anything ICMP goes back to the guy who added that information as opposed to somebody else and we should go and find information Co and come up with mechanisms that allow us to understand if there is misbehavior in the network without too much of a pain right so if that information would go or the extension header would go somewhere where it shouldn\u0027t go then well someone should be able to go and detect and then obviously ward on are gonna go to ear to what is it said in 8200 ie not inserting instead extension headers on the fly and what the deployment option drafts what they what the Department RAF then talks about is a couple of individual use cases on how you can skin that cat with one or the other trying trade off if you\u0027re sourcing and terminating packets right at the host then you don\u0027t need double n cap you can insert the header there you could terminate the header at the destination in transit networks if you just want to go and do it on one particular individual domain then well there\u0027s multiple source of what I would call double n cap you can do ipv6 and ipv6 and there is options whether you use a dedicated EULA address in the overlay so that well even if packets leak they can never have a leak because I can\u0027t be forward if there is no seeing an eroding up for them we could also choose for a different option where we would use the same destination address which makes it easier to make the path of congruent and then obviously you could use other parent protocols to go and carry that information so you don\u0027t need necessarily need v6 and v6 but if you\u0027re going to go and carry the information in genève well you can go and carry it somewhere else I want to go and come back to the main ass right we we really asked you to go and help us so that we can unlock the work and progress it in I ppm and I don\u0027t know well know whether Tommy who by believers here the chair of I ppm can add additional color to that particular ask maybe you can go and give us a little bit of background off the discussion that we had on on Monday on that very tough topic and that\u0027s it for me thank you sure thank you Frank yes I think the question and the feedback we\u0027d like to get from both the chairs and the group in any any basic comments are welcome is what\u0027s the most appropriate place to do this work in the past we have done work outside of six men we wanna see is that appropriate to do here how much do we want to do here what type of relationship do we want to do on the work as far as the review I think from our perspective we are fine doing this particular part of the work in IPM the IOM work in general has a lot of different encapsulation possibilities this is one of the protocols that uses it some of those will make potentially more sense to belong in the working group that owned the protocols that they\u0027re encapsulating "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:18:42",
    "text": "with something like this I think is a bit more well understood and I think we could feel confident doing that in IPM if that is what the ring group believes is the right thing to do but if Britain group believes that this should all be specified in six men and be done here we would like to know that as well um so we\u0027d like to essentially just get an answer of what is the right place to pursue this work in if it needs changes in review that can happen in the future but I think the main thing we want to know right now swear thank you shooting from flowey I think here we all agree that we should be carefully later the ipv6 encapsulation of the IOM and but here the proposal is we are proposing here is like to put the hem data into the hopper how about that\u0027s Tunisian option but if we look at the ipv6 extension header order that is before the RH so in the tracing mode the the IOM data along the path is going to become very large so we are going to push the RH out of the parsing deaths and so that will damage the performance the forwarding performance in the data plane and and we also have them the same thought on this topic and we that was in the agenda but we didn\u0027t get the slot but fortunately we are going to present in the next session in the RTG so probably that we could contribute and provide some more thoughts on this topic so we had ten minutes left of this session so you can ask questions both for Frank and for for Iran I guess yes please Michael Abram okay you go back to the consideration slide that had like six points when I read this the first thing that came to mind is none of this is true with the proposed approach Hoppa Hall Petters inserting stuff that\u0027s gonna affect the ecmp does it doing what I thought you were do I am read the the draft I just saw the presentation now you just violates all these things I understand somebody will read the draft right how about that so we better straight up so all of that right but we\u0027re trying to go and mitigate these concerns as much as we can if there is other deployment options that can be considered let\u0027s go and consider them there was no free lunch right so that\u0027s something you changed some and if we were to go and deal with that change in the most modest and and operationally friendly way okay so are "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:21:44",
    "text": "you going to continue to do this and v6 ops as well or what where is this going to be discussed like the operational so I think that was the overall question on guidance on where we should go to the work right now well they\u0027re the core of the work is really an IP PM this is where the data draft happens this is where export considerations happen this is where the yang models are being done there is a load of documents against how do you encapsulate that into multiple protocols also presented in IP p.m. at that one well in particular and this is again had jumping between these two deployment considerations could go to v6 ops I think it helps if we have a way that we think help keep some consistency and the energy of the people that really care about that in a relatively concise forum right now but I feel it a little bit like I\u0027m on a dating tour and I have to go and kiss every single bride and figure that one out not that I don\u0027t like that right but enjoy it because you are yeah at some point right you want to go and take a decision and and and making everybody do the dating tour not sure right so we need to move this long sure Ash\u0027s racist hand so I\u0027m gonna on him yeah sure thanks Bob so the idea is like Michael I\u0027d personally for me like this should go and I am the work should be done in IP p.m. and the way is six - shot at us like six man gets like final say over whether this gonna work so I think it\u0027s better that he\u0027s like you know talk about this in six-man and see if there\u0027s like some showstoppers before starting the work rather instead of like coming back during like the fag end of the IETF call right so that\u0027s really the idea like you know that like kind of talk to Frank to like you know bring this up here because it\u0027s it\u0027s if if we figure out there\u0027s no way forward with this it\u0027s like we rather do it early than later right and and that\u0027s really the goal of this draft okay so if you want the operational feedback on fresh can we mute thrush I\u0027m getting feedback or get headphones on sorry again I think the people who might be able to give feedback I say if you do this to the packet this will happen in the network that those people would be basic selves would be a good place or here um I don\u0027t think those people will go to I ppm and give you good answers there I\u0027m sorry sue me I could have in the responsible transport 85 BPM yes we want this feedback please give it to us now but like we all say like I mean we take the feedback we try to address it and then we need to move and it\u0027s on at some point right so either you make a "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:24:44",
    "text": "decision here that this is like something that\u0027s really important for you you want to work on in this working group then you can have it or you provide us some feedback now and we can move on in I ppm but we need this this decision at some point and of course that also would mean that we will interloop with this working group in this community in from a Cheers perspective I think we would happy to have this in AI ppm I think we would be also happy to review the format and you know help you if you need an early allocation request for a cold point for example that we would be involved in that but I don\u0027t know Bob I don\u0027t mind this being owned by our ppm for sure can we maybe as a starting point and you find somebody who does like an in-depth review and provides like detail feedback that we can work on an IP PN we have a waiver behind ROM thank you thank you cool thanks oka mine that this is a comment for all the I am Drive drafts I own no I please don\u0027t include anything that has a ability to send back a packet elsewhere and then forward and asks and ask up to the same so any sort of loopback or anything else because that\u0027s basically an awesome director for reflectively in attacks so deployability wise you put it in it will not get activated that\u0027s a good point and I gained feedback from my ppm there\u0027s two things that are mixed up right now one is take things and record it and the other thing is an instruction to do something in most of these cases the instruction to do something is take a copy of the packet or take a portion of the copy or something from the packet and send it somewhere well maybe to local author maybe - oh yeah look a lot of fine if the device can manage it but maybe to some node in the network but I think that is there that is where I think the intersection between the Wigan our ppm and Ron\u0027s draft is and we already had a discussion that we want to go on find a way to go and consolidate that and also take these active things out into different draft and separate them out from just the recording portions so I think that\u0027s been surfaced and it\u0027s gonna be addressed thank you for that yeah internet is a dangerous place so keep it in Moorea Guardian is fading it\u0027s dangerous as well by the way Gouri first tell us going back to the internet rather than dating there we go some of the basic problems you\u0027ve got someone here the basic questions you have are the same as Bob and I had um so there\u0027s that there is a two part problem one is doing the OEM stuff and measurements and the other one is kind of what\u0027s works in the Internet and I\u0027m not sure how we get the clue for both of them in the same place because the two different communities and so happy to "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:27:44",
    "text": "coordinate in some way or go to mahadji and present some data and mix all I\u0027m saying is please don\u0027t lose the fact that other people might be doing something similar and we can all learn from the same experience yeah and I think next time we share your things that might be used if IP piano and six men are not really scheduled for the same time so that we can go and be there right so point well-taken thank you well super thank you very much and we\u0027ll put that on the conflict minutes back we have your running but that\u0027s all thanks to wrong lights Thank You wrong for going going fast and I\u0027ll also go go go buy your beer maybe right after this session I\u0027ll buy that one actually so the reason we\u0027re ahead of schedule dispose of Darren at the beginning because we had a lot more time we expected that to go longer so well good I think we are done so this concludes today\u0027s six-man meeting please continue these discussions on the mailing list and we will see you all in Montreal thank you oh and we need the blue sheets back please currently this drop is owned by a PBM right and this is not you "
  }
]