[
  {
    "startTime": "00:00:11",
    "text": "Thank you It's a good afternoon, right? Good afternoon Welcome to SAG Am I too quiet? Oh, hold on. There we go that's better, right? Okay, so welcome to SAG We're going to go ahead and get started. That'll give you more time to talk about the stuff at the end. All right, so this isn't know well Hopefully you've seen the note well so far this week Note it well And this is the code of conduct and just be respectful to people i think is probably the answer to this Meaning tips, you should have seen this too Keep your laptops muted It's fine My meetings go quick Agenda Anybody interested in agenda bashing? Yay. Okay so changes in the security area group since IETF-1 119, we had one boff this time That's the network attestation for secure routing boff Nassar. That was today They have an email list and a Datatracker page and you can look up what they doing. We have a new working group chaters"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:02:00",
    "text": "called spice yay We re-chartered two working groups, OpenP, and EMU and currently I'm Ellis and Lake in the process of rechartering The Spice chairs are the only chair changes we had, and that's heather flanagan and martin thomson Thank you very much for your work If you're interested in becoming a working group chair, you should tell us You can all become a document shepherd to reasonably easy to do. Learn about idea processes while you're helping to move documents along. Also, errata processing We are always sort of buried in errata so you can help us out by looking at it, determining whether it should be verified or what and letting us know And then attending Boffs I mean, that's, I think we're done with Boff this time, though Yeah, it's a little bit. Okay, so working group summaries, if you have not sent your working group summary to the mail list, if you want to come up and give us a short blurb we'd appreciate it We're not checking you. You'll have to self-report if you didn't do it Chris and Osse, Skit, we met just before this Good conversation. Looks like we're coming close to readying our architecture draft for publication Hopefully by the next meeting but I won't promise that. And otherwise, the API is progressing. Thank you We'll do that Oathware Group, we had the two meetings"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:04:00",
    "text": "Monday and Tuesday, and we still have one more tomorrow at one p.m. We have lots of documents to discuss. Some of them are existing work groups documents, some are new documents So if you're interested in all, join us Hello sean turner. So for MLS, we were kind of stuck on one particular issue in the architecture draft, which is stopping us from rechartering. But shout out to Brandon, Richard, Britta, and Rowan, who got together in the room and solved our problems so that document should be moving, and then we'll do the recharter And then like 15 extension documents will come flying into the working group. So that'll be exciting. So that was a very fruit our problems so that document should be moving and then we'll do the recharter and then like 15 extension documents will come flying into the working group so that'll be exciting so that was a very fruIETFul meeting I thought and for adults we had to of the four drafts that we were looking at were well, they were all discussed, but two of the four are actually out now for working group call for adoption. And the one draft where we didn't have anybody to volunteer for, we suddenly got like a bunch of world-class experts who threw out their names in the ring to at least help with the draft so I'm cautiously optimistic that we'll do good that's like the hard like the finding algorithm problem. We got like Nadia and Matt Green and some others so I was like ooh exciting so good we're on a launching forward move. So thanks Nancy. I forgot to get on the Q queue. So for skin, we met the cursor pagination draft is maturing We're looking for interrobability right now. I think there's a couple vendors looking at implementing that We discussed the notion of doing Delta queries That is another draft that's still under discussion Questions about how we might manage CRUD at scale And the device models had a pre early sector review of that draft So that's the draft for how we can handle IoT devices and SCIM. So the authors are working in responding that and maturing that draft so that"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:06:00",
    "text": "hopefully we can get to working group last call Thank you We would also appreciate and love to have a couple of note takers Anybody's interested in doing that? Hedge doc goes around, easy peasy. Just a couple of notes to give us a little bit of hints when we put the notes together They're all studiously looking at their laptops Shocking. Thank you Awesome. Yay looking at their laptops. Shocking. Thank you. Oh, there we go. And Mike Thank you very much All right. Next These are the list of related non-security areas activities. I don't know whether anybody wants to come to the mic and talk about any of these So, um yes, Watson? Uh, yes I think NIST is having a series of conferences, or maybe it's something more on accordion mode that might be of interest. What kind of mode? They say accordion, basically modes that deal with large amounts of data efficiently and have nice properties for I don't want to figure out my associated data versus my messages Okay, thank you Hi, justin richer co-chair of Wimsy, and we met earlier this week and we've got a lot of we've got two drafts in process, one that's going for adoption and a lot of really good energy going into the"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:08:00",
    "text": "group. We're under art, but still very security focused and a lot of security nerds are hanging out in the group so encourage folks if you're interested in uh sort of workload identity space and especially cross domain identity and security topics, that's what we're going to be focusing on in Wimsy A lot of good stuff happening there, though So, yeah so new non-working group mailing lists, we opened, reopened the security shell working mailing list now SSH turns out, was used for something not secure shell originally something about secure handbooks So we kick that to the curb Yeah, right? So we thought it was more appropriate to use SSH as opposed to whatever you used before, which was SECSH or something. So SSH is now secure shell and the email list is open and so if you are a proponent of that and want to be involved in what's open, shell, and the email list is open. And so if you are a proponent of SSH and want to be involved in what's hopefully up and coming working group, you should you should hop in there and join We also posted this week a new mailing list for the post-quant of DNS SEC proponents, and that list is there. Again, you should, if you're interested in post-quant, security for DNSSEC, that's the place to go And then Nassar, the network adaptation for secure routing, has a mailing list as well We listed it here. I think routing might have actually opened that. Don't tell them we're pitching it, so So so mr opened that. Don't tell them we're pitching it. So, Mr. Onsworth, do you want to come to the mic?"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:10:00",
    "text": "Or maybe Paul. We'll take Paul Okay, so on the post quantum DNS sec, um, that's a mailing list that's actually sort of also doing research. So if you're kind of person who in fact, wants to do research on not just protocols, but how they are used operational, the idea behind this is post-quantum signatures are big DNS is really good with things that aren't big When things get big, things have and we're not really sure what. So this is partially crypto, but it is also partially operation with what happens when a UDP protocol has to deal with a lot of TCP. If that interests you, please come and join the list Mike, I mean, I am answered him on the chat Yeah, right I was wondering if you could speak for sort of on record here speak to people who aren't aware, like, what is the current status of who owns? the SSH protocol and is IETF sort of adding one more standard to a pot of already existing? standards or what? The SSH RFCs today there was an SSH working group back in the day we would like to kick one off again in coordination with open source community. So that work is in progress. Stay tuned If you're interested in being involved in that work, the SSH mailing list is the place to go He's coming He's a lot way from the mic We'll add to his steps for the day"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:12:00",
    "text": "I don't think it's adding a new standard I think it is, uh, shall we say, uh, documenting and establishing the existing standard instead of what's a lot of outdated stuff that's hanging around me IETF. So I think it's about maybe bringing the IETF back into this protocol in a healthy way Deirdre Do you know of any initiatives? with SSH protocol that? the IETF is interested in pursuing like post- post-quantum SSH, they have in the open SSH implementation, they have one PQ-K agreement and I think they're adding MLT Chem, which is great, other things to figure out include authentication There are things we would like to change in SSH to the protocol in general so these are things are the interest of a possible working group? So those are things that can be explored right? So there's some initial maintenance work that needs to be done to bring things sort of up to current. We want to be a little bit careful to make sure that we're only doing things that are implementable and have been implemented and so most of the work is going to be focused around there. We don't want to upset the apple cart too much here And we're hoping to keep it as cordial as we can not to put too fine a point on that so i do think we're going to start with the easy stuff The post quantum algorithm stuff is definitely going to come up it may not be the first thing that happens. Thank you"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:14:00",
    "text": "I did push the button We do have an AD-sponsored draft in the queue. It's the, you can see it on the slide. So we're going to work on that Not our favorite thing to do, possibly possibly Radar processing. Yay how did we close negative 50 50? Okay, so what happens is we closed 50, but 27 were added so we only like 1 25 on our backlog So please work on the Ervada when you can. It's, you know, a good use of your time, help the ADs, send it just a short message to the list about like you have control I've confirmed, is a verified this or this seems rejectable That would greatly help your ADs just cleaning this up That's great Is there like a little video on YouTube about how to do this? Because I think it's something I could help with Wait, a video on YouTube Sorry, I know, I'm just trying to say like I've heard this several times. I've been coming for a year. I'm like, oh I'd love to chip in. Where do I? learn how to do it? We can show you We can show you. There's a fabulous interface But that's not scalable. No, well it's not. Show me and I could make a YouTube video. No, so the problem is there's a backlog. So the backlog you have to go to the fabulous interface right? For the new stuff that comes in, it comes to the mailing lists already. And if you just hop on it right away then there's no need to go to the fabulous interface. You can just like the RFC comes, it comes in and you say, oh, yeah, that's a good, that's a good one. That's a good catch. We should verify that or validate that. And you reply to it and say validate it. And then we fix it"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:16:00",
    "text": "It's the old stuff that you have to, there is an interface on the RFC editor for errata and you can search by RFC number or by area or by whatever and find all sorts of stuff. There's an even better fabulous interface for those of us that have to actually change the state of Arata or by whatever and find all sorts of stuff. There's an even better fabulous interface for those of us that have to actually change the state of a errata which is different So, all right, so ad pointers we do have a wiki We also have a list of common discuss items that we use when document, when draft go to the telechat before they're published You can also see what documents we're sitting on have not yet done or working on And a list of what's on the next telechat Telechat is what happens when done documents before they're published. What? Oh, there we go, okay, fine So we also have a pool of sector review that look at all the drafts before they come to us. You can request early reviews of sectors if you have documents that you think drafts that you think could use an early security review you can request it This group of people does a fabulous job. This is how many they've done on it basically. Uh-oh sorry this is Elliot I just want to make one comment as somebody who's just recently been reviewed, which is a shout-out to mike ounsworth for a big fat thank you as an author to the reviewers and to him in particular. Great. I was going to write him an email note saying, hey, good job"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:18:00",
    "text": "What was that for? a skim? Yeah, it was for a skim draft Keep going So now this is Raphat and Dickhart want to come talk about off too glasses aren't going to work either up here like last time Next slide. So I got Chao ChiPt to help me make a diagram. I don't know if you can read it But, you know, this is really the picture epitomizes the problem we're trying to solve is that there's a bunch of different people doing work It's all kind of identity related. They're really kind of talking about sort of the same thing, but they have different words for it or they're using the same word, but they actually have different meanings. And so, you know, with the you know, one of the problems is people don't know that people are doing things related to what they're doing And then the other problem is, you know, somebody from one group has an idea of what they think word means, they go to an another group. People using the same word. Nobody really calls out the fact that they actually have a different meaning in this other context. Next slide So one of the things we're thinking to do to help our awareness is in future meetings we might do lightning talks or people go over the why around what their work is just to give people a high-level idea of stuff that's going on that might not be as easily digestible by just trying to look at a draft so focus, quick lightning talks talking about why a drafts being word as opposed to the details of what it does. Next slide And then the other one that would"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:20:00",
    "text": "made some progress on is terminal And I have chatted to a bunch of people. And I've chatted to a bunch of people then the other one that we've made some progress on is terminology, and I have chatted to a bunch of people and, you know, all the backend on IETF At the SF meeting, somebody pointed out 4949 we thought well maybe we're going to update thank you update that and then we thought well we actually need this to be a living document but there isn't really examples of that in how things works so we've been trying to figure out well how do we go about doing that? And we have some ideas about that you know one of the things that we know we don't want to do is we don't want to be creating new definitions What we really want to do is gather definitions from existing documents and pull those all together so people know what they are and then potentially be able to look at new draft that are being published as people are doing work and they're using a word to be able to go and say hey there is a definition for the word or maybe you should use a different term because there's already a definition that means what you're talking about, but they call it a different thing to try it up you know, have it so that people know what people are talking about And we had a site meeting earlier today that we talked about it and next slide We're going to have a side meeting tomorrow at 10 I think I only had five minutes, but I guess if there's questions. There's jon peterson in the queue queue queue paul hoffman, you mentioned RFC 4949 There's also RFC 949 which is a DNS terminology document It isn't a living draft, it isn't a living document, it is an RFC it's in its third edition now, it's DNA terminology, some of which is security In your discussion I can't be in your side meeting tomorrow. Please consider actually making an RFC. What we have found is a lot of"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:22:00",
    "text": "people can't find living documents as easily as they can find RFCs RFCs are super helpful. 9499 one of the co-authors. I get messages at least once or twice a month from somebody saying, I sort of know a little bit about DNS I looked at this document, boy, was I wrong So, which is sort of what you want. You not only want to help people new, but you want to help people who think they know something who don't. So do consider maybe actually doing it as an RFC. It's worked well for us in the DMS world So some of the challenge, thank you Paul, and we thought a bunch about that but the terms in new documents are coming up a fair amount in the identity area. And so as a fixed document, we saw that as a challenge and that it wasn't until you mentioned 4949 that many of us even knew that it existed and so part of what we're investigating is how do we get references to the glossary into our so that people have awareness of that and that as new terms come up, people can call out to people to say, hey, there is a term that's already defined as opposed to nobody even knows about it because there's not really enough references to it But Paul would love to chat with you separately. If you're not even to make a side meeting, grab me and let's talk. And I'd love to want to learn from your learning thank you Okay, so Jessica, the cue is closed, but if you can make it great Oh, I really just wanted to say plus one to making it an RFC because I think it also makes it easy to reference in other RFCs and we're doing similar things I've seen in like the post quantum area so I think it's kind of common to have a terminology RFC. So just plus one"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:24:15",
    "text": "Thanks for giving me time here The only reason it's at this level is because the working group that this could have been in is now concluded. And so one of the asks I have in this talk is if you're a chair and you think this is appropriate for your working group let me know, I would be happy to participate in that one So there is a, you know, there are a couple of drafts from the second Working Group that has concluded. One is the push draft you know, push delivery and poll delivery And there are some limitations like ever mentioned on the slide because of which we need a new draft and you know in the shared signals working group in the Open ID Foundation, we're seeing increasing number of situations where a transmitter and receiver you know, are both the same thing and they're talking to other parties which are all transmitters and receivers. And so we need this kind of two-way transport and that's why we're doing this. Next slide, please And so it's very simple We have defined a communications object that can contains three things there is a security event tokens array and then there is a set of security event tokens that you're acknowledging, and then a set of security event tokens about which you're reporting errors, right? And you, so this is really nothing new. It is all in a part of the poll delivery spec, RFC8936 And what we're doing is, you know, binding this in two ways. Next slide, please So we can do it using website"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:26:00",
    "text": "doing is, you know, binding this in two ways. Next slide, please. So we can do it using web so we can do it using HTTP requests response. And, you know, there's just one minor field that is added when you're doing HTTP requests to this. Just to follow how it has been done in the RFC at 936. So it's really a very simple spec, and, you know, I'm looking for guidance as to how to take this forward from where it is right now because the the working group has concluded Yeah As a year-round chef, the fourth SEC event, I think I represent my co-chair as well Dick Even though the mailing list still exists a SEC event dwindled to basically nothing at the end, and even the mail list is really non-existent. So just expressing the effects I think the shared signals working group is interested in this work so there'll be there'll be uptake we'll also talk about like maybe AD sponsoring or something. So we'll get back to you all right thank you everyone And so for our next presentation, we have Nadia Hanger who is an awesome cryptography and she breaks things all the time and she's going to talk about how she broke radius Hello, everybody. Thanks for giving me time here to tell you a fun story I suppose. So"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:28:00",
    "text": "this is joint work with a number of people who are listed on that slide, and among these people, Miro Holler, who is my student, is also here. And we will be talking about this in more detail tomorrow at the Radext Working Group if you want more technical details. Next slide and also if you want all of the details, our paper is online here and it will appear at Use NIC security next month Next slide. So the summer is that there is a protocol vulnerability in radius. It hard codes a weak authentication method, which is based off of the broken MD5 hash function. It has been known that MD5 is broken for 20 years. The vulnerability is a little bit more subtle than that, which is, I think, why it would be continued to allow to exist in the protocol But the outcome is that a man in the middle network, attacker can forge arbitrary radius responses for non-EAP authentication modes, and this works in basically every implementation, because it is a protocol vulnerability. So the implications of this I'll explain the protocol in more detail, but you can turn an access reject into an access except a man in the middle attacker can do that A man in the middle attacker could also add arbitrary network access attributes to an access reject that they desire to forge Our attack is practical with a little star, which is the we have a proof of concept. We didn't optimize it fully for realistic runtime but it could happen. And this vulnerability is present from the earliest versions of radius in the 1990s, and it has never been updated Next slide So all talks, there's always an X case so this is the obligatory XKCD cartoon for this case So radius is the de facto standard lightweight protocol for authentication authorization and accounting. There was a follow-up protocol diameter, which never was as"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:30:00",
    "text": "widely used, and radius is literally everywhere, sort of underlying our network infrastructure. I listed about bunch of cases here. So the reaction to our work has been a little bit split. Half the people we talked to are like, surely people would have run this over IP section TLS, and they would only use like EEPTL authentication, so your attack is impractical. The other half, of the people are like, yes, every ISP on the planet is, doing PAP authentication over UDP and sending it over the open internet So just to put that out there. Okay, so radius is everywhere Next slide So to remind everybody how radius works, since I'm sure you all are super familiar with the RFC and have read it in great detail So this is, so, so do, say, authentication, you have a radius client and a radius server, and this allows sort of remote authentication validation, and so an end user or an ad and a radius server, and this allows sort of remote authentication validation. And so an end user or an admin or whoever wishes to log into a network device they enter some credentials, the Radius client, that is running on that device sends a request to the server. This is often over UDP. The request contains some metadata such as username and an obfuscated user password. The server evaluates the request, perhaps by sending it on to a further authentication server, and then sends back a accept or reject, which may also can the server evaluates the request, perhaps by sending it on to a further authentication server, and then sends back an accept or reject, which may also contain some parameters The, there have been, let's see, so there was an extension status draft for TLS encryption for radius This is more than 10 years old It never left experimental status, but it was implemented by some but not all vendors And then there is a current draft which is intended to be standardized that"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:32:00",
    "text": "formalizes TLS for radius. Okay, next slide so the packet formats in particular, so an access request looks something like this. This is a very nice byte-aligned protocol. It has a code. It has some values that identify the request. There's an ID and there's a value call a request authenticator. The authenticator is actually just a nonce. It's a random value. It doesn't actually validate any of the packet. And then there's a series of attributes that provide information about the request, such as as I said before, username or password, or other information about the request this predates sort of modern cryptography, so the packet contents are totally unauthenticated and the only authentication is the source IP address in the packet A client and server share a fixed shared secret which is pre-configured by whoever is setting up the network and then password are obfuscated using a, we call it an obfuscation mode it's it's sort of combining md5 in the shared secret this is not cryptographically secure, but it is not totally broken, other than it's not authenticated encryption So we sort of ignore that in our paper, but it would be interesting to try to break that more fully Next slide So the response, the response package that in our paper, but it would be interesting to try to break that more fully. Next slide. So the response packets looks something like this. They contain a series of attributes that well, so they have a code which identifies whether it's an accept or reject. There's also challenges and other responses that are possible. And then there's a series of attributes that provide parameters for the response, such as you can have a configurable reply message, or you can set privileges, or you can add sort of access information. And then this, is attempted to be authenticated by a value"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:34:00",
    "text": "which is called the response authenticator so this is a 16 byte MD5 hash of some value and I will show that on the next slide So this is computed, so this construction predates H-Mac, and so it is an ad hoc construction, which is essentially the response packet with the nonce from the request slot it into the packet value, and then you append the shared secret and then you compute the end hash of this So, and then this is the value that is intended to I guess, protect the integrity of the response against a network type attacker Now, this, if you know that MD5 is vulnerable to hash collision attack, it seems that the people who are looking at this problem, 20 years ago when MD5 was broken, we're like, well, this includes a shared secret so we don't see how to do a collision attack against this. So it's probably okay for the moment. Okay, next slide Okay, so the full history of radius and MD5, I sort of mix these together to show the story, because I think this is for this audience most interesting kind of as a story of what happens with protocols from the 19 1990s. So this protocol was originally designed in 1991 by Livingston As early as 1993, MD5 was known to have weaknesses. There were partial collisions in the compression function The initial radius IETF draft was for 1994. It hard-coded this ad hoc MD5 construction. Shaw 1 was published in 1995, H-MAC was published in 1996 So by 1996, the IETF had the option of using HMAC Shaw 1, which would have avoided this issue I looked through the mailing list archives in"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:36:00",
    "text": "somebody with a dot mill address suggested this and was ignored So 1997, the first radius RFSI was published and it included this ad hoc MD5 construction Probably they weren't interested in changing because they had three to six years of back radius RFC was published, and it included this ad hoc MD5 construction. Probably they weren't interested in changing because they had three to six years of backwards compatibility to worry about Then the Radius RFC was updated and there was an additional RFC that included a bunch of extensions. The most interesting extension for our purposes was an attribute that was defined as optional, which is called the message authenticator and that actually is HMKMD5, but it was optional for non-EEP authentication modes. And so it was not enforced for non optional for non-EP authentication modes. And so it was not enforced for non-EAP authentication modes in implementations. So, 2000 the first full MD5 collision was published And then by 2007, this was improved to what's called a chosen prefix MD5 collision, and this is the kind of attack that you actually want to to use to break a protocol-like radius And so this was applied in 2009 most famously to create the Rogue CA colliding certificate that was using MD5 hash a number of researchers found a certificate authority that was still using MD5, and they were able to create a malicious certificate and sign a um, a, uh, certificate that then gave them CA privileges and this was actually exploited in the real world by the flame malware against Microsoft signing infrastructure later So in 2007, a further RFC discussing radius security left the message authenticator attribute optional And then as late as December 2023"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:38:00",
    "text": "and I draft written by Alan over here mentioned that there have been as yet no attacks on radius authenticator signatures, which are stronger than brute force Okay, so that's the history of radius and MD5. I guess next slide So it turns out the reason that I'm here, is that if you on understand the structure of MD5 chosen prefix, collisions, then the response authenticator is vulnerable to a chosen prefix attack It looks something like this. You fix a prefix, which is the value in gray. So this is a packet that an attacker wishes to forge a collision for And then the way the attack works is that you feed this into a collision implementation. It produces, say, hundreds of bytes of essentially garbage. But after that, you have, say, two different prefixes and then you append garbage to each of them, and at the end you have a collision. And once you have a collision, then you can append the same value and get the same hash And so in order to carry out a practical attack against radius, we needed to hide this gibberish into a protocol attribute And it turns out that there is a protocol attribute called proxy state, which is perfect for this attack. And once the attacker has done this collision, they can copy a response authenticator from an observed response from a valid server into their forged response So we will cover this in more detail tomorrow Next slide. So in summary, our attack is a man in the middle attack, and it has to be an online man in the middle attack because of the nonce and the request authenticator. And so the attacker observes a valid request, modifies it by injecting a proxy state attribute, computes the collision, injects the proxy state attribute gets a reject back from the server, and then copies the response authenticator from the reject into the accepted"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:40:00",
    "text": "that they want to forge. We'll do this in more detail tomorrow Next slide. So, um, since this is a man in the middle attack, it is less vulnerable if you have a well-protected network. It is more vulnerable if you're sending a radius traffic over UDP over the open internet And this also, this attack also doesn't apply because HMEC-MD-5 is secure against MD-5 collision attacks And so even though MD5 is broken, H-MD-5 is not vulnerable to the same attack, which means that if the message authenticator attribute is required, this attack does not apply And in particular, since it's required for EEP authentication, EAP authentication modes are not vulnerable to practical attack Next slide So the short-term mitigation I phrased this wrong, basically, the short-term mitigation is that all implementations need to require the message authenticate or attribute The long-term mitigation is to send all radius traffic over TLS, and this is in progress in the current draft. Next slide Thank you meditate on TLS for a moment. I think the next slide is the last one So I'm going to finish up with some sort of thoughts for discussion and introspection which is that I want to draw an analogy to the series of attacks against SSL and TLS So there are a number of protocols facts about SSL and TLS that the IETF had the option of fix in the 90s and they chose not to because they were worried about it say, three years of backwards compatibility, which then rose again decades later in a series of vulnerabilities in in more modern TLS"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:42:00",
    "text": "implementations of the protocols. And I think we have a similar situation here where worries over three years back backwards compatibility led to insecurity that were only realized 30 years later after this has been totally embedded into network infrastructure. So one is how did this go on notice for so long? People say, oh, we knew about it, we knew that MDC, was insecure, but somehow it didn't get changed And then the question is, what else is out there? What else are we missing? And I also want to say that this is actually one of the smoothest vulnerability disclosures that I've ever done And so I want to specifically call out CERT and Allen for helping so much with the coordination I think Ellen has some thoughts also to add. So thank you very much for this awesome work Nadia. And we definitely hope to not see you again soon Hello, so how did we get here? This gets into a little more detail a little bit of overlap with what Nadia was saying Radius got defined by living There's some discussion on security in 97. In fact, according to people I talked to who were there at the time, I only started coming to the IETF about 90 98. Apparently there's almost fistf between people like Jeff Schiller who said, oh God, no, I'm going to forbid this, and everyone else went I don't care, we deployed it And 30 years later, we're still here fighting with that"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:44:00",
    "text": "98, HMAX starts being defundated In fact, one of the things I found going through this, which I had forgotten, was a complaint by me in 98 that we should fix this So it's been that long. It's been known that long Partly in response to similar complaints on the mailing list, 2869 has a long section on, yeah, we can do messages authenticator. It doesn't really matter. Nobody cares It's fine. We don't need it 2007, I'm the co-author on 50 can we please just use hMac So far as I know, there's only one radius server that actually implemented this and the suggestion in 5080 was when you're sending packets, always add the AT and the suggestion in 5080 was when you're sending packets always add the HMAP and add a flag for reception going, if we don't see this H-Mac drop it. I don't think anyone else implemented that And it was not made mandatory because of historical reasons of oh, now my implementation is going to be noncompliant And 10 years, you know 17 years later, oops, maybe we should have fixed this a while ago, right? If everyone had fixed it either in 2000 or even 2007 this issue would have been oh yeah you know that flag just set that flag. It'll be fine. We can move on Next slide. So there's a lot of pushback. Does anyone still use radius? Right? There has been a lot of push from a lot of people nobody knows anything about radius. The reason I think nobody looked at this is nobody cares, right? It's an old protocol. It's been replaced by diameter, right? Diameter is the next generation up and coming Despite what the diameter RFC say, most diameter secured"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:46:00",
    "text": "is source IP filtering and everything is sent in raw TCP. And if you look, there was a article by CESA one of the cybersecurity agencies going, yes, people are being tracked and located by nation states who are watching the diameter traffic. So we just have to secure everything Hasn't everyone switched to E-TLS and all this? new magic post-quantum crypto? No, no, no. People have MD-5 is fine. There are big companies today advertising that they send radius UDP over the internet with MS CHAP, which has been broken for decades So congratulations, your clear text pass over the internet with MS CHAP, which has been broken for decades. So congratulations, your clear text passwords are effectively going over the internet there are companies today saying that they recommend against using PAP because it's insecure despite the fact that no one has been able to break it. So there is a lot of apps absolutely terrible advice, terrible practice out there. There are ISPs where their alleged internal network is sending radius traffic over the internet. They buy connectivity from someone who buys from someone else And then there are recommendations to fix this by switching away from radius to Kerberos, Tackax, or IPSack I don't quite understand what that is. It's done mostly by people who have buzzword bingo and checklists rather than actually understanding things, unfortunately Next slide Radius isn't the only one. I mean, there's issues like this CVE, local DHEP server because DGP is completely untrusted"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:48:00",
    "text": "can spoof routes and get some of the VPA to bypass the VPN And, you know, this has only been known for decades, right, Paul? Everyone knows this. Why would this be an issue? It's been 20 years yeah and then that goes to my other question of, you know, if you're authenticating to the net, you do 8021X and post-quandum crypto and you know, 8192 bit keys blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, and then you have this DHEP packet where you just sort of throw it over the wall and hope to God someone answers it You don't know who answers it and they don't know who you are, but that's fine. Yeah this other CESA article I mentioned recently state-sponsored actors monitor diameter to find out where you are to attack you based on where you are. This is happening today and the only reason they don't mention radius is they probably either don't know about it or don't care, right? Other issues in other protocols DHEP can request DDNS updates, so if you forget to put WWW for your company, into DNS, I can put it in a DHEP update, and now I own www. your company and the response from a lot of vendors has been yep, that's the way that works So, yeah the internet is built on sand, right? DNS is in the process of being updated with DNS over TLS, DNS over HETPS DNS is secure, that's great There are still things out there which are hideous piles of, I won't mention including radius Next slide. So how do we get here? A lot of operational people don't talk to crypto people"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:50:00",
    "text": "National cybersecurity centers I won't mention countries like Canada don't talk to the crypto people and have recommendations which are complete nonsense if the specs are not extremely clear on security issues, they will get ignored I can't tell you how many conversations I've had with people where they say the RFC allows me to do that. Well, it doesn't right? The RFC is silent on a lot of topics because no one thought you should put don't do stupid things into the RFC Well, if you read my documents, now, they are enormous and they go into a excruciating detail precisely from these kinds of reasons. And then as I was saying, earlier, you know, we have 802 and then raw UDP packets There are reasons for this, RFC 55, is an IAB document which says you should separate network layer security from application layer security There are reasons for that separation I'm not sure I agree that they are required to be separated and that it is always useful to be separated. It just seems weird to know that we're using post-quantum crypto and completely unauthenticated UDP PAC packets. Next slide So what to do next? How are we going to fix not just radius? How are we going to fix? the other protocols and whose response? other than the people remaining? in this room who have to have the gumption to get up? and do things which are not always politically correct, not always business correct, but as I've discussed we'll come back and bite you 27 years later I think that's it"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:52:00",
    "text": "Questions? actually we're going to skip questions if you don't mind because we don't have much time Sure. We've got some other topics to go. So thank you very much much Thank you very much And I just want to make a correction. There was a blatant error I made on some of the earlier slides. Had a Flanagan is, of course, not the outcome Spice Chair. She is one of our wonderful incoming Spice Chair I will fix up the deck for posterity after the meeting So next, cryptography for IETF protocols. So we often approach by people that want to have a certain algorithm handled through the IAT and given an RFC number. And there's very have a certain algorithm handled through the IETF and given an RFC number. And there's various ways you can do this, and usually it also means that people can start walking once path and then come back to other paths And on multiways, all the paths lead to the security ADs who then have to see how to do this There's no formal policy for this and what we're hoping to get out of this is the start of a discussion on how we can maybe somewhat formalize this process so that everybody's treated equally equally So a bit of an overview. So there's four themes that that can produce RFC. So we've got the main internet engineering task for stream through the IE working groups, IESG, involving the security area directors and the working groups just the internet architecture board that can do things and write RFCs with recommendations, although they tend to not do technical specifications. We've got independent stream editor that is usually also involved traditionally in some of the crypto RFCs. And then there's the intent research task with the CFRG and the crypto panel that are related to this Historically, we haven't really said much about formalized this. This has mostly been sort of an informal process. So you see very few RFCs are related to"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:54:00",
    "text": "sort of policy on process questions on cryptography RFCs And so we're lacking here and we'd like to fix that There's a lot of algorithms that come in so this is a list of some of them that have happened through various ways Some of them went through the independent stream. Some of them went through 80s sponsored. Some of them are so old that there were streams that no longer exist But again, the point of this slide is mostly to say that there's various documents that come on various ways that are not really in any standardized process rights And then we also have the cryptographic suites or profiles that also comment in that are then using these specific cryptographic algorithms or make recommendations on their use for it. And they also come in via different streams and that also adds to the problem of getting a transparent, consistent policy within the whole IETF So just a reminder the registration policies on various IANA registries are specification required expert review, standard action RFC or any RFC or first come first service or any combinations thereof that people decide to put into the registry So just to point out that we can actually have code points with algorithms that do not have an RFC. So that's mostly where we put this here We have fixed up some of the registries in the recent past for instance, some but not all of the DNA registries got updated, the TLS registries are now, I believe, either specification required or actually expert, are the expert issues? I have a slide. I do that's true, that's true, I have a slide. Why do I remember this? Okay, so yeah, so here's some of the the most common groups and and how to I am"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:56:00",
    "text": "registries currently are. What we're trying to do is to say, like, is there any left that have our required where we can relax that to be? either specification required or some kind of expert review? Because after all, the goal of the IETF is to make the internet work even better with where everybody can experiment with their own code points and once enough people of us like the code points, then we can sort of start recommending them and maybe give them a nice RFC number number Then it's a role of the CFRG I'm probably not phrasing it the way they would like it to be phrased but we sort of see them as our lo- experts in the IETF, where we go with all of our questions and then we ask for help, and we sort of count on them to see which algorithms are getting popular are probably researched in the public community, have credibility et cetera, et cetera. But of course they are not like we cannot go to them and ask them to make a decision for us. They are an advisory body to us So this is part of the proposal that we'd like to bring forward See, for G doesn't tell us which ones to use use The new algorithm preferably, sorry, actually let me rephrase it. Any algorithm that the C4 new algorithm, preferably, sorry, let me rephrase it. Any algorithm that the CFRG hasn't recommended towards us for like, you know, broad adoption, we preferably do not want to give them an RFC number. Unfortunately, RFC numbers are used for various reasons, marketing and mind share that would not be good for us to just like out many of them and then later on finding out that many of them"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:58:00",
    "text": "have fundamental problems in them We should give them a code point as much as we can, but any kind of sort of recommended yet or should or must status should really come from the IETF community as a consensus forming decision preferably through the working groups By the people on RFC, like I said, there's many reasons why people on RFC, but a lot of them sort of do not apply to us and we preferably don't want to hand out RFC for these reasons So this is our straw man proposal that we want to throw out there for people to give us feedback about So probably I can just leave this slide up and people can read them and hopefully we can have a discussion on what people think of this So we've unlocked the queue now and now everybody can step forward Sean. Hi, sean turner So I guess one of my questions here is the eye is like don't go to the IAC to ask for an algorithm. So I've got, I've made my new cool algorithm and I show up and you're basically saying, you know, I would go to the CFRG and they're like, no, you're crazy, man, you're on a crypto person. You can't get one of these. And I go to the I see and I convince them it's possible to do this is this record this IETF policy is going to tell the IEC say no So first of all, we as security entities cannot set the IAC policy Fair enough. So we might make recommendations to the IEC who is now going to the microphone to give us maybe some input. Great. Oh, look, you're so close, that's awesome Thanks. I'm just curious because that's what I saw for C happening at some point. So hi, I'm the ICE, the independent submission editor. So I don't set policy for the IETF"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:00:00",
    "text": "and the IETF doesn't set policy for me However, we know that there is a relationship here between the two It's, I, I, would say this is going to come up tomorrow in Ice Open. The ice, at least the current ice, is predisposed to sort of be concluded with this policy There may be exceptions. One of them is listed actually like DNS key becomes a little tricky because of the way because there's a limited code point and requires an RFC But we can continue this tomorrow if you want for ICE policy. So I think before, it kind of like made a little sense, because we had Jim Shaw, you know, rest of soul because he would go implement all the things. So the Goss guy showed up and said, hey, we want this thing to be standardized. And he's like, cool, but I found all these books because I wrote the code that make you do it. So we don't have that person anymore the person who's willing to do that kind of stuff. So I think this makes some sense where you kind of are talking and are saying don't do this. So cool. Right. So in that case it's a it's a specification on our profile and it's the bottom bullet, right? Watson Hello, watson ladd, Akamai. I'm a little confused by how I'm supposed to read these lists Are they oars in the first thing? Orr ands? Can you say that again? Your microphone's not great Okay I'm trying to figure out in the first big bullet. Are those three alternative reasons? to publish a crypto RFC"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:02:00",
    "text": "or do they all have to be true? No So, yes Hold on. Hold on So if it's vetted by a public cryptographic community outside the IETF or if it's recommended, you know, to have and, we can talk about this I would say, or it's recommended by CFRG what's that is that or okay then you could publish it as a crypto RC You can choose that to be recommended It's Thursday, okay? This up to a working group, right? So working groups will decide whether they want recommended yes or recommended no That's not something that comes up normally in an ISC. I would expect that it goes through the ISE system that it would be recommended. I mean, it wouldn't be it's there, right, but it wouldn't be an MSE right did I would expect for TLS, IPSEC, that you would have recommended yes through the working group? not through some alternate process Does that help you? I think it clarifies the point I asked about, which is good and it probably gave information to other people were curious about. I think with the first bullet point that is an assumption that I've seen again and again people make that there's interest and ability for very busy actions in an extremely competitive and fast moving field to do this. And that really isn't the case. I mean, the best case scenario is NIST competitions, but"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:04:00",
    "text": "we very often have real protocol needs where NIST is not interested. So, for instance, Spake 2, you have Kerberos, say, okay, we need a better way to handle users with usernames and password in certain conditions where you don't have a shared PKI or secure channel They have to go to CFRG to go get some kind of key agreement through. So I think that we should not imagine the first one will work. So what, let me, let me maybe reface the point so that it becomes more clear to you What I meant to say with the first two points is basically that we don't want a black box to come here again get an RFC number. But we would like this to for the, you know, public cryptocryptych community to have looked at this. And we are kind of assuming that the CFRG are sort of channel that community are active there and are sort of help us analyze what has happened outside the IETF and bring that knowledge to it assuming that the CFRG are sort of channeling that community are active there and are sort of helping us analyze what has happened outside the IETF and bring that knowledge to the IETF to then make the best decision possible within the IETF community So I think, thank you, Watson for clarifying this first point. I think it still requires a little bit more nuance and sophistication The work that's been done in the IETF is often cryptographic work to some extent. We did the work on TLS and the Sigma Protocol on which it is based and the variations that were added on top of that is essentially cryptographic work And the working group was confident in the composition of all of those things because of the work that it did and that was work that happened here in the IETF and the CFRG has a very important role in all of this in terms of terms of"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:06:00",
    "text": "work that it did and that was work that happened here in the IETF and the CFRG has a very important role in all of this in terms of in this case choosing symmetric ciphers AADs, the hashing functions, all sorts of other things but the protocol work that happened in TLS, happened in TLS And it was the work of that working group I think this is going to be something where insisting upon a recommendation from the CFR is increasingly less viable given the breadth of things that we're trying to do with cryptography across the community and it really comes down to having an understanding in this community as a whole whole trusting working groups in doing the process but also having a broader conversation about whether what the working groups are doing is in need of further review whether that be by external cryptographic community the CFRG or something else So we envision this, so working groups will do the same work that they have always done. This doesn't impact what a working group does. It's when the working group does not wish to take on the work or there isn't a working group So for example, there's a couple of cases there's a couple of cases in TLS where TLS has said we're unwilling to take on that work You need to go elsewhere. And so that's one of the reasons those TLS registries have been opened in such a way that allows them to get a good point. Right? That's code points within TLA and that's a very specific discussion about grabbing code points, which I think you have basically right on this slide. We should make that more open I'm talking about the cryptographic work that is TLS I'm talking not the cipher suites or anything like that. I'm talking about what TLS is I'm talking about things like what's happening in Privacy Pass to define new things. There are cryptographic components that they're using that are coming in from academic work. Do you think?"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:08:00",
    "text": "that that work is not being done? properly now? So, um academic work. Do you think that that work is not being done properly now? So, no, I don't. In fact, I think that work is doing is reasonably happening with this organization. The problem that I'm seeing is that there is a number of people and I apologize for taking this much time because it's a very long queue That's okay. There's a lot of people who take the assumption that the CFIG has a monopoly on the critical apologize for taking this much time, because there's a very long queue. That's okay. There's a lot of people who take the assumption that the CFIG has a monopoly on the cryptographic review, and I think that has created problems for the CFRG in terms of the amount of things that they are being asked to do. We saw a bunch of things today. I agree And this community can take responsibility for some of those things without necessarily creating that dependency. Right. And that's not something that I got from that's why I want that to be an or. Sure. But those are not the only things that happens here because vetted by public cryptographic community outside the IETF is kind of meaningless to me So again, let me clarify a little bit We were here more thinking about those parts where you can sort of pop in one side for another so someone comes with another algorithm and just want to pop in one for the other. I wasn't really talking about sort of the whole TLS protocol design because nobody comes here if people come to the I have got a replacement for TLS we already have known answers for that. Yeah Like that's not the answers we're looking for right here. We're here looking for an answer like I have something that replaces ASTCM here Here's the specification we we we didn't tell you how we got to a these are the magic code point or these are the magic values. Please accept it Then we're saying, like, you can have a code point, but not an hour That's our hope. I see where you're going please strike the last line I think that the IAC will set policies for the IAC That would say something else. It would say we will not publish profiles and sweeps"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:10:00",
    "text": "which I don't think is true, given what some of the working groups in the organisation are doing Right. What we're trying to say there is that we really don't want people to do like go go shopping go venue shopping or like if they don't get something inside the IETF stream that they just go to the IEC stream and try to push them Sorry, just a point of clarification from the ICE, which is just because somebody comes to the ICE, doesn't mean things get through All right, West Hurtaker, ISA In general, I like the proposal I think it makes, I'm over here, guys, you're scanning I think it makes a lot of sense, except that the line only crypto that needs IANA recommended, yes, should get an RFC that makes sense, but you need the flip side of that too, as we've discovered in DNS off, right? You also don't want to bunch of other random things coming forward that get an interest and then somehow end up in recommend yes, but they don't have an RFC You need to be able to, so what we ended up doing in DNS office we actually have four columns right we have implementation for verification implementation for signing, and obviously there's encryption and decryption type stuff too. And then there is actually deployed you know should it be used in the wild but the important thing that we added was anything that kind of through that needs a new cryptographic entity in the IAN table, at most can have a may right at most can say may be implemented Because, you know, just a yes or no doesn't work if you're going to do must, should not all of that kind of level, then you don't want other things coming through. So I would change your first one to if you get an RFC and if it's standard, then you can have a strong impact"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:12:00",
    "text": "implementation or deployment requirement, but otherwise So I think we agree in a slight slides before this, I sort of said like the recommended slide shoot slash must language. So like each working group has slightly different ways how they how they sort of put this information in their register and so so I agree with you that that flex flexibility is not something we want to remove Right. And do also note that we are making sudden requirements for all future working groups. Like if you ever need a crypto algorithm, then you know, you're actually having a whole new table in Ianna with a new column with new I mean, we're setting the stage for the future I am much more concerned about the second main bullet Um, drafts are updated as Sean just said a couple minutes ago, I mean, we all miss Jim, but there are people who will implement a draft, find a problem report it, and then we hope that the draft is updated. Ianna registries should in fact, I would say must, Iiana registries for crypto must have a version if they are afforded registries should, in fact, I would say must, Iiana registries for crypto must have a version, if they are for a draft, must have a version number and it must be easy to get another code point later if it gets update If you don't have the second one, then there's a strong motivation not to fix things that are known to be lost. So, for instance, with the enter your prime draft, the IANA registry actually has the version of the draft as well. Okay. No, I understand, but many of them don't Many of the crypto algorithms that are our specification required are just the draft number are just the draft name and not the draft number. So if you're going to go forward with this, I think you need a strong must have"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:14:00",
    "text": "a version number to be acceptable. Yes okay. Thank you. Yep Hi, Mike St. John's, just curmudgeon. I got three items. First, thing here, I think what you mean by that first sentence is limit publication of RFCs containing cryptography to those containing cryptography that meet this requirement, as opposed to a crypto RFC versus cryptographic primitive versus cryptographic protocols, which was what I think Martin was headed down the structure so that crypto rFCs doesn't mean anything useful in this particular case One of the things that we've done for a long period of time, in the IETF is we use the RFC series as a co-publication series for things that may be standardized elsewhere, but they may be difficult to get a hold of national standards for cryptography are one of those things that I would really hate that you guys suddenly go, oh no, we're just not going to we're just not going to make those available in the RFC series So be aware of that particular nuance with respect to a difference between public cryptography community and national standards, if you will. Last one, could you go back about three pages? Back to where you were talking about special required Go right there Okay. When did we? change the meaning of internet draft? to allow this? This is a change the meaning of internet draft to allow this? This is, an internet draft is not to be referenced by anything permanent permanent Yeah, I agree. The gen area is working on"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:16:00",
    "text": "what the exact meaning of drafts are, whether they should expire or remain forever. I want to try and avoid that discussion here. I understand that, but you got this here as a as a fait accompli and that is not what I understand to be the case currently. And I'm not sure everybody does So if you go to SSA, and look up the latest and true prime. Yeah, I'm aware of that but I'm also aware that's an internet draft with a version of number I understand that but what happened but when I go looking at that particular model this basically nobody paid attention when you guys started doing this publication because it was just a red registry entry. So it wasn't a change that the IETF made consciously, and that's the thing that I'm concerned about when you start doing this. We actually made it And that's the thing that I'm concerned about when you start doing this. We actually made this very consciously. We didn't want to have a statement that said I the IETF now supports into U prime for SSH. We were saying they have a code point and they can deploy it if they want but it's not any kind of like recommendation from the IETF and unfortunately just getting an RFC number, the people outside the IETF see that as a recommendation by the IETF and that's that's one of the core problems are trying to fix it yeah and I'm not talking about that particular issue That's fine. You can do that But the question is, what is an internet draft? And there is a real reason, a really specific reason that we do not keep these things as reference Again, go to the GENDISPATCH discussion on draft for that So that's me. Hi I'd like to help sort of clarify and define the language here. If we go back to the slide we were just discussing would that have the bullet points. Yes"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:18:00",
    "text": "So as was mentioned in the last speaker and by by Martin, this idea of crypto-RFCs could be interpreted much more broadly than you intend here. So perhaps a simplification here or a specification to narrow this down to what you really want is not crypto but RFCs that define cryptographic primitives that fit into a known framework, such as signatures chem's, public key That is basically, that was what I meant, except I wanted to keep using a big font size. Yeah yeah, because as Martin mentioned, there's a lot of work that's done that's considered crypto that is one layer above a primitive including defining what these interfaces might be, as we're seeing in MP protocols and whatnot. So if we limit this to crypto, our RFCs that define instantiation, of crypto primitives that basically some this to crypto or RFCs that define instantiations of crypto primitives, that basically something that would fit into an IANA registry, that would be a narrower and more appropriate scope for something like this and avoid stepping on the toes of the work So stepping back, if this were more expansive, vetted by public cryptographic community outside the IETF, I would say that TLS protocol was, right? We incorporated papers from the formal analysis folks to help vet it and finalize TLS 1.3 but this is this is protocol design and it does intersect with crypto. So if this is narrowed down to just the primitives themselves, it would be a lot cleaner to make this proposal Short person, Rich Saul's, so"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:20:00",
    "text": "in the past, we've, first of all, thanks for doing this I think it's important that we have an IETF-wide policy that does that I'm one of the TLS designated experts, as was Nick, is Nick and it would really help. I think one concrete suggestion is I think you really strongly should say designated expert, not specular crime for the TLS registries the expert reviews that the document that is claimed to be publicly available is publicly available we have seen many cases where people say, I want this And they say, well, where's the document? Oh, it's a ISO standard and we can't see it so you can't implement it. So for interoperability, it's really important to have OK, just a quick answer that I think it could be that some of these strategies actually only have specifications required, which does not mean public specification. I understand Okay. No, I understand the difference, which is why I'm saying, I think it should be of these strategies actually only have specification required, which does not mean public specification. I understand. Okay. No, I understand the difference, which is why I'm saying I think it should be... Oh, ratcheted up a level. In the past, we have had, we've published documents on crypto which is why I'm saying I think it should be ratcheted up a level. In the past, we have had, we've published documents on cryptographic primitives because we wanted an I past, we have had, we've published documents on cryptographic primitives because we wanted an IFC reference for that. And I think it should be decide one way or another, whether that's still a possible Things we've done are MD5 x25 X-255-19, EDDSA was published as an RFC first so I think then you can run into the problem of archival versus, oh, here's a link, B-Crypt, S-Script, all of those things were published as RFCs. They were well known and accepted by the general internet community, but again we didn't have references That's it. Thanks My name is Mark margaret cullen in this context. My most interesting affiliation is that I'm the expert reviewer for CAPAP code points Hasn't come up in a long time. But it has come up in the past. And there are few things here, I think, are subtle"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:22:00",
    "text": "and that need to be careful with One is changing the definition of specification required will be confusing in some RFCs because some of them say specification required and the specification must be blah, okay? I would use a different word if you're talking about a different thing, you know? call it documentation required if it can be on a random person's FTP site or somewhere that's non-archival or non-public And I support that. I support that we move a lot of things to be easier to get code points for. All right but i i think we need to be careful about not changing words out from other under documents that might be using them in a specific way and even qualifying them. Also, I think we need to be really clear that expert review is not good enough in a document to say expert review Expert review for what? Okay Some expert reviewers are implementing the spec and making sure it's perfect. Others are going yes, that looks like a publicly accessible website to me And those are not anywhere near the same thing So I think we need to be really clear when we say expert review what are we looking for in terms of experts? review? So I agree with both of your points, but I also want to raise that the security area is not the area that can change some of the interpretations or meanings of the words, right? That's an IETF area wide area, I think. Yeah, I think there's a document, right? that defines these now and says specification required and what that means. But you're saying, somewhere that what it means is anything including drafts, etc cetera. I don't think that's what it means today. So I'm thinking maybe what we need to do is update that document to add a different category that includes all those things. You know, I'm not volunteering to do that, so I don't need to come up with the word. Lauren has something to say about that"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:24:00",
    "text": "Yeah, so actually there is work underway It's been on the IESG. We're working on it agenda for a while. It's myself and Roman and Barry LIABer and, you know, it's been on the agenda for like many, many weeks. Sometimes we'll get to it, but yes it's basically redefining that it's the ANA considerations thing Am I up? You are? Hi, Deerter from Sandbox Paul addressed one of my points that in CFRG we just discussed how there is a document that CFRG is not going to adopt. So it's just floating out as an individual ID And if TLS, this is X-Wing and if TLS would like to use it in one of its parts the encrypted client hello part, which uses H2 HBKEE, which wants a new chem, they could just get a code point for it and use it And Martin said, well, it's not a adopted, it's subject to change, so we're not likely to use it because it's going to change out from under us And so Paul's comment of registering them with document names and versions may help with that a little bit And then to Nick's point of limiting registration in IANA to primitives of certain categories, cryptographic primitives may help with what this is trying to achieve but I want to underline what some other people have said that cryptography is floating all over the place in IETF And just because it's not in a primitive primitive shape box doesn't mean that we're not doing cryptography in places besides CFRG and TLS and a couple of other places. So yes, clarify what kind of expert review is expected all over the place that is being touched by cryptography is important. TLA 1.3 got a lot of expert review"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:26:00",
    "text": "several years ago. It continues to change in TLS working group. We're trying to get more processes based on TLS working group consensus to make sure we get ongoing further review as TLS 1.3 as documented in all of our documents continues to change and that none of the security guarantees that we're provided back in the day by security analysis by academic experts of the protocol remain a guarantee as we change the protocol Thank you. Are you replying to that, Martin? You're in the queue. I just, I'll leave you where you are, but It was just a reply. I said that personally, we'd find it difficult to deploy something that's off a draft at any given scale for this sort of thing, particularly when we're talking about sticking records in data but we can right right that's off a draft at any given scale for this sort of thing particularly when we're talking about sticking records in DNS but we can right so that there is there on the thing that says why do you need an RFC? One of them is, because of then, won't implement it unless it is an RFC, right? we run into this a lot of times a bit of a silly idea but you know we have reasons for it. It is. You do. You have some have reasons for it and it's okay okay Oh, and to put the point on the first major bullet, X-Wing has been published in a cryptographic journal It has been reviewed So if it meets some of these requirements, maybe we can bypass this CFRG and get a crypto RFC for it because it meets a bullet right there and make everybody happy. So that's going to get you a code point But you already have a code point, right? We don't But you could. Right, but limit publication of crypto-RFCs to vetted by public cryptography outside of the IA IETF. Why can't we get an RFC? Well, you can go to TLS and ask them if they'll make an RFC for you"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:28:00",
    "text": "No, no. Yeah yeah, yeah. Really? Okay Yeah, thanks. So I'm really glad to watch some brought up that point about the sub-bullets here, but the concerned that it looks like there's disagreement on the dice there, whether this is and or or... Have you met us? Yes. I just want to caution against that being an and because this is going to create like a a cryptocracy that that will rule on what can be done. And, you know, we've already we saw this week. I mean, it gets CFRG wrote a refusal, right? Yes. Okay. We saw in TLA that, you know, the fat is blocking TLS, you know, the fat is, is blocking advancement of a draft where it looks like it is and that's causing some issues. If we were to do something like that with the CFRG, I think it was the fat is blocking advancement of a draft or it looks like it is. And that's causing some issues. If we were to do something like that with the CFRG, I think it would really be problems I'm just going to, the reason these are bullet points and other draft is because we're not even, and you're closed to formalizing all of this text right these are just like things we kind of want to wade into and bring up for discussion This is purely discussion for everyone. Nothing is set in stone, the security aides have no opinion we're looking for all of your input. OK. I just want to say that a very useful thing to do is you know, and I've done this. I read a crypto paper and I thought, this was really cool, I really want this, but I can't use this in a protocol because I can't refer to some random crypto paper written by cryptographers. No one's completely implement that So I wrote an RF on an internet draft and I got AD sponsored and now it's referenceable and people refer to it in CFRG today. They were like somebody who came up with ad hoc deterministic AEAD and they said, why don't you use AESSIV? It's 5297 Well, gee, where did 52-97 come from? It was an AD-sponsored"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:30:00",
    "text": "and if you get rid of that, step to get a crypto-RF I think it's going to really do damage to the community. So again, we'll not fully removing AD sponsored. We're not committing future security ADs to what they want to AD sponsor or not We're just trying to set a general policy and there will always be exceptions for good things That last point was something I wanted to bring up is that I think you should explicitly say that there will be exceptions because there's always going to be something that kind of falls in the cracks or whatever you write down and letting the ADs or the IRF chair or whatever push things out or the independent submissions editor push things out that don't match this policy is going to be required at some point if we want to get the right answer quicker and not get stuck in loops kind of redefining policies so that's one point i think you have to explicitly note that the whatever this says there's going to be exceptions. I agree with the points about the kind of in between fancy crypto That's kind of hard to tell if it should or shouldn't be covered by this kind of policy. So V-Dafs and so on I don't know how you handle that. Maybe you can as Nick suggests, say, you know, signatures, this applies block ciphers, this applies But then it gets along this, I don't know. And last point I don't know how you're going to get more specific about vetted by public cryptogram communities. I'm sure he's why it's written that way. Yes, Well, I think I think. You get better words I think no matter what way you try and write that down it's good but I'm not clear I don't understand what it was you meant by those words Well, I mean, I can't say NIST competition, can we? I mean, there's more, right? But the question is, where are they? And what are they called? And can I actually, can I list them? What was the password competition?"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:32:00",
    "text": "What was the password hatching competition? Do that count? Yeah, right, but they're all run by different people, different things, right? You can't like, how are you going to, how are you going to write this? down? Does a government count as a public community? Yep, that's a good question, right? I mean, I mean, what about Nessie? I'm not looking for the answers now. What about Nessie competitions? What about like there's all sorts of stuff, right? Yeah So, I mean, there's no way to pin this down that I know of. I'm not looking for a way to pin it down right now. I'm just saying that there's ambiguity there. There is Absolutely. Some of the possible ways of interpreting that ambiguity might not be what we want In a way, well, we're There is. Absolutely. Some of the possible ways of interpreting that ambiguity might not be what we want. In a way, what's meant there is that it's like the opposite point is clear right? Someone comes with a black box and tells us like, yeah know please publish this as an rfc and nobody's ever heard of it. Like that's easy though, right? yeah exactly well but but but but no because it's it's it's it's it's all informal right like like like there we cannot point anywhere and say this is why we're not 80 sponsoring you but it'll it'll starts to look very subjective to the people that come to us And what we're trying to do is just make this more objective, more transparent and more consistent. I understand. I just think that the look very subjective to the people that come to us. And what we're trying to do is make this more objective, more transparent, and more consistent. I understand. I just think that there's a kind of a big rattle there, but behind VETA vetted by Is that right? Is that you? Right It's Peter Liu. So here my question is, like right now because China is designing its own, you know, post-com crypto, can you explain in very simple and clear terms? like what are the procedures or reviews or endorsements? you know, that the China design PQC is could take to make sure it will be treated equally like as can compared to other national cryptos? Yeah So I think this is going to be a conversation for today and tomorrow I think you're going to want to come to tomorrow's IAS open"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:34:00",
    "text": "to see what Elliot has to say about possible publication of national crisis Yeah? Yeah, absolutely right National Crypto is a big topic It really is. And with PQ coming, it's now an enormous topic So we will talk about this tomorrow. I will now an enormous topic. So we will talk about this tomorrow. I don't want to have that conversation here now, though So please come tomorrow. I'd ask anybody who's interested the ice is independent but not intending to be isolated. So although it sounds isolated ice, anyway, the point being, the more people who can show up tomorrow and give me the advice, or if you can't email me and give me your thoughts as to what you think the ICE approach should be I'm totally into that, and I'd really love to hear from you if I'm you can follow you want to ask. Sure, let me just because we're sort of still on the previous mic entry and we're over time so I'll give you the last slot, don't worry. I just wanted to say like whether it was you or someone from NIST sending there or someone from Russia standing there, the thing is, I do not have a consistent pattern, I can follow. I do not have the procedure to answer that, and that's exactly the problem I'm trying to solve. Yeah, so that's the thing. Like, if we can have, like, very precise, procedures, like maybe number one, we can have some open competition, number two, we can have some publication that procedure is not very, you know, clear to us. Maybe we can help contributing in making this more fair and public And if we can have like you know, clear procedures, one to five, that would be awesome And you know, we're happy to contribute to the process. Thanks and an ideal work we would be able to write a really short document like that but I'm afraid that that would be, if it was"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:36:00",
    "text": "that simple that we could just write a five bullet point document read already written it, right? The problem is more complicated We're happy to contribute. Thank you right so um thank you area directors for uh having this discussion. I thought it was really good and just as an individual, not as ICE just me, Elliot. What I heard in terms of the feedback, by the way, was a wonderful set of GitHub issues, right? That could be, you know, resolved one by one. I think you're on the right track as they would say in reviews, right? So and I really like this as a good start The one thing, what I really am looking for is exactly Deb, what you said, which is as an individual, we don't want to be an you know, country specific in any way in terms of making decisions, like just because NIST did it right? There should be ways to replicate whatever approach. We should see what character is. What characterizations we can use for defined that external you know vetted by uh community crypto uh crypto uh crypto community outside so i think that's all really good and I look forward to the next steps And I think this has been really good. Thank you All right. That's it You're free to go go Thank you"
  }
]
