[
  {
    "startTime": "00:00:29",
    "text": "[Music] [Music] we\u0027re about to start it\u0027s true hello everybody this is IDR we\u0027re getting started so please find your seats or find the door or you know stand up and back at the peanut gallery or whatever su is going to put a note well on the screen any moment so that you can have seen it but I bet some people in here have seen it but I think yeah here we go it is our note well it is the ietf policy you did agree to this thing when you registered to come to the IETF if you don\u0027t know what it says you probably should acquaint yourself with it enough said we\u0027re gonna try to cut the whole comments from the chairs thing well short because we would rather spend our limited time on other stuff especially because sue has been doing a bang-up job of sending out periodic status updates so it would be kind of redundant to spend our time here and now sending out status updates but I realized I should walk around and get these blue sheets moving please sign into the blue sheet and whenever they get to the back of the room please someone bring them forward and so they don\u0027t get lost it\u0027s always a pain to have to find the blue sheets at the end of the meeting do you want to so here so this is sort of the last minute "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:04:11",
    "text": "thing that I put together because essentially I noticed that you know I guess I didn\u0027t just notice but we have a lot of flowspec related drafts they continue to come in every meeting I think we\u0027ve talked about this before but as a reminder if you go and look at flowspec flowspec does its thing using NLRA the NLRA contains flowspec components flowspec components are structured as type value pairs they are not structured as type length values just type value what does that mean that means you can\u0027t write a generic flowspec parser you know unlike unknown path attributes that we can just skip over and keep going and everything\u0027s good you get an unknown flow spec component and game over this isn\u0027t really good for flowspec extensibility there\u0027s an exception which is if you\u0027re defining flowspec over a new a few Safi that\u0027s fine because you\u0027ve got a demultiplexer up you know that you do know how to find that either you know you either you exchange that fe Safi in your MP bgp capability in which case you\u0027ll will know how to parse the components or you don\u0027t in which case you won\u0027t get the component so that\u0027s fine but you just get one shot you know once you\u0027ve defined your your new a fe Safi with your new components in it that\u0027s it forget about extending it later some years ago we had a flow spec v2 proposal that among other things represented components as type length values so obviously they wouldn\u0027t have this problem but instead we have not worked on that actively because we have taken you know did the quick thing of doing the bist document first with all quick things it wasn\u0027t quick so the thing that I would like to put out for you know potentially a couple minutes of discussion right now and I will also follow this up to the list of course is just it seems to me as as the co-chair that it doesn\u0027t really make sense for us to advance documents that define component types that can be expected to make peirong sessions fall over if you actually transmit them across the "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:07:12",
    "text": "session so that kind of implies that either we stop extending flowspec or we get back to work on some kind of follow on whether it\u0027s you know resuscitating the v2 draft or doing something else is up for discussion we have a few minutes for discussion if anyone wants to make a comment otherwise we can talk on the on the list later chaired much Akamai makes sense to me that we should fix the TLV oversight what which method doesn\u0027t matter to me Jeff has spent a lot of time in the last year actually working on flowspec code and some of the reason why you have the some of this stuff 255 something like this number one piece F actually picked up our format and was going to stick it in their protocol they received this morning they did the same thing except for their components actually include link fields so they do not suffer from this problem so we have at least one existence proof of change the format makes it happy thing number two we should gate these new things I believe and something that has a TLV I think that if low spec v2 makes sense I think the scoping of the faux spec fee to proposal may need to rediscover feet in place make it TLV flowspec v2 also try to advance it in terms of like firewall rule ordering have to decide if we still want that thank you thank you go fishing skiing Verizon Media Yahoo edge cast absolutely agree with Mike absolutely agree with what both Jeff and Jared have said we the current mechanism of we really cannot extend folks but because it will make routers fall over and govt is just an oversight and let\u0027s bite the bullet and fix it thank you let seems like consensus in the room so anyway we\u0027ll we\u0027ll discuss it further on the list but I think that will be the you know even though I\u0027m standing up here I\u0027m I do have a chairs hat on right now I I think that\u0027s going to be the position of the chairs going forward is you know you can you can discuss your your extension draft but I think that we are going to want to prioritize the groups time on getting the the TLV thing done so that we can actually roll out those extension drafts so as the author of the previous one I really don\u0027t care just as long as we fix the TLB problems so open proposals are are okay on this we have an a flow spec in working group last call the chairs wanted to make sure we knew what we if we had any sense for the room again we\u0027ll send more of this "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:10:13",
    "text": "out to the mail list but seems like it would be a whole lot better to fix it so speaking of flow specs are we ready for Donald yep and he\u0027s using a different a piece a FISA which is why we wanted to I think I\u0027ve got it it should be dance mmm okay hi so after that oh that\u0027s not quite right so I\u0027m gonna talk about two drafts in only 10 minutes hopefully with some time for discussion so I\u0027ll be moving along here pretty quickly layer 2 VPN and the tunnels so the l2 VPN flowspec draft has a number of changes from version 11 particularly clarifying that it applies to efi 25 Safi 134 included some stuff about validation so you can tell it if flowspec is coming from a source authorized to send that it has a very minor extension for the drop eligible indicator bit which is a bit in VLAN tags as I can be checked and so it basically defines new component types for l2 and those now have TBD values rather than fixed numbers which used to be in the previous version and there of course there are various editorial cages so I\u0027d like to resolve questions at the end because I want to make sure I get through the expository text on the drafts but the question arose on the mailing list with expert on whether this can use Saffy 134 so a fee 25 is defined as the a fee for l2 VPN and Savi 34 currently in the IANA registry says VPN v4 dissemination of photo spec rules the ipv6 draft is going to expand that to be l3 but ie then this staff proposes a change change it to VPN dissemination because you can tell from the a fee whether it\u0027s VPN ipv4 or ipv6 or lastly in this case level layer 2 so why do you need to use a new different Safi from 134 because the a fee tells you what\u0027s going on and you also might be able want to apply what\u0027s in this draft to non VPN cases and there\u0027s a convenient a fee for that you can use fe6 and Safie 133 an ambiguously from the definition of that affiant a fee would clearly make what case it was appliable too obvious to anybody getting that so that\u0027s the question people can think about it while I go over the other draft is there a good reason to have another Safi which i think is a burns one for no particularly good reason for this ultra VPM so the other draft the file name is unchanged and has n vo 3 but the revision to the draft I\u0027ve that\u0027s "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:13:13",
    "text": "been made from zero version zero six digital seven makes it really not nvo three specific the oh six focused there it didn\u0027t really say anything about sad it wasn\u0027t really clear what\u0027s a feat was being used or anything it\u0027s a matter too good a draft in that regard was I had lots of other good stuff in it it only supported VX land and envy GRE and it worked by having a delimiter component which marked boundary so it sort of was like adding a component which is we found least currently doesn\u0027t work at all and may not be the probably the best way to do it in this case anyway so the new draft of the sex 7 changes this quite a bit it\u0027s really a general tunneling or encapsulation kind of flow spec it proposes to use a new Safi you\u0027ve just TPD and it has in it details about the ex lam not just vehicle and env GRE but also l2tp v3 IP @ IP jerry etc and has a new NLRA structure which can contain one or optionally also a second flow spec so what applies to the outer header and that applies to the nested inner header which you would need frequently but not always so this is what things look like this shows the overall attribute at the higher level is the multi-protocol BGP attribute where it is a naffy Safi next hop information then there\u0027s the ml or I and it begins in this draft with a tunnel type so the hole type actually acts sort of as an additional thing if you don\u0027t understand the tunnel type you can skip over the hole the hole attribute so we you could add things for specific tunneling headers later even with the same a few Safi as long as they had a different tunnel type okay then there\u0027s some flags regarding discriminator and a second flow spec flag and some reserved Flags routing discriminator field and then the then there\u0027s the outer flow spec which is always there that\u0027s the next to the last box here and that essentially parsed or whatever based on the a fee that\u0027s at the top of the attribute and if the second flowspec flag is on then there is another a fee and the inner flow spec net inner a fee applies to the inner let\u0027s back of course so there\u0027s also this Rodney discriminator bit so if this is the VPN case you need a routing discriminator to tell what VPN vrf the stuff is in that you\u0027re trying to look for and right it might not be so that\u0027s an optional thing this way that you only meet once a fee rather than two different Saffy\u0027s for the VPN an on VPN case you could do with two Saffy\u0027s but it seems cheaper to use a bit which determines whether the routing discriminator is present so this just blows up the NLRA gives more detail shows the link fields and so forth this draft also has more components that defines because of the other kinds of tunneling it covers previously only was fee excellent NB GRE and only had added the tunneling header components for "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:16:14",
    "text": "those it extends the flow spec ordering rules so you can tell what precedence is if you have a tunneling and a non tunneling flowspec that both match or something like that includes validations based on entirely on the outer flow spec so whether the source of the flow spec is authoritative so here\u0027s two examples the first one is IP and IP so you could have in this case you would almost always have an outer and inner flows back because it\u0027s not worthwhile doing really for IP to simple IP and IP intersect which can match the the inner IP address and the outer one matches the outer one and in case of l2 VPN there might be Mac stuff there which case you need to use a appropriate a fee and you can have l2 stuff as well this is VX lamb so this is a little more complex but over at the right side it shows what would be covered by the outer flow spec they let us say the flow spec that\u0027s always present that applies to the outer header and what would be out of the inner flow spec so but he can either one of them can contain components that match on VX LAN content fields and in both cases there be a difference the tunnelling flow specs a fee would be there so you could you would only get to code that knows how to parse this additional field and you also would have to have match the tunnel type so I don\u0027t know I go over these different fields but I\u0027m not sure there\u0027s too much here that\u0027s obscure or anything so for once that\u0027s always what particular would like to have some indication whether the working group thinks we actually need to use a brand new Safi for the l2 VPM or whether we can use a fee 25 just l2 VPN and Safie 134 for flowspec and i\u0027m hoping to get to early allocation of the code points for that but he needed to resolve that question to a more Reb of the draft for the N via 3 full spec which I could change the name or something if people like don\u0027t like that file name because it\u0027s no longer fully specific to n vo 3 I\u0027d like people to look at the latest version of the draft and provide feedback I do think it needs another pass to polish things and improve it and the goal is to get Kol points they\u0027re also on a goal the code points of course is to get implementations and see what we don\u0027t we do that and so I want to underline that the the the purpose right here is to see if this is ready for lis allocation of code points so they can try out some of the ideas and make sure they\u0027re ready for having an implementation we are looking for feedback at that point jeff has so one of the reasons that a different efi Safiye pairing is a good idea no matter what is your changing "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:19:14",
    "text": "flowspec precedence rules so the problem would be like let\u0027s say that you just stuck this into what are the existing efi Saffy\u0027s as just a new component type you want the evaluation to be a different order than what\u0027s actually in there and that\u0027s the whole point of an athlete Safi the route selection is consistent across the entire domain so if you want to actually break that rule by changing and so your full spec rule adds slightly different comparison steps you discover that the prior slide well this is okay so that in the end vo 3 what everyoe 3 unquote flowspec rule yeah it does extend the precedence rule for multiple matches but that uses a new safiya TBD and that\u0027s my point there\u0027s one to have it happy for that got yeah but yeah my question really is for the for the l2 VPN one where I think we can us use 134 25 134 for a fee Safi and it has been asserted by at least one person that that\u0027s terrible and we have to have a noose a fee there I don\u0027t I think that\u0027s unambiguous and it\u0027s well define so well I knew Safi Ford the tunnel aspec I completely agree with you and the only reason that wait is sort of for the reason that we were talking about if you stuck this into the existing a fee a fee type stuff regardless whether the evaluation is correct a lot of implementations say I don\u0027t know what this component is and drop the peering session so your gated behind the v2 work or you go with a different Africa\u0027s having yeah well I would claim that it wouldn\u0027t it needs to will need to have specified the anafi with this noose a fee for the tunneled one and if it did that then it would understand that there was a tunneling type there and if it accepted the tunneling type but understand the components associated with that tunneling type hello working group member John Scudder in my opinion you\u0027re perfectly fine we\u0027re using the existing Safi as you say both a fee and Safie provide context so sincere you know contextualizing it with the ABI as well great don\u0027t burn the extra code point fine sounds good to me okay okay one of the things that again because John presented at first hopefully you\u0027re thinking about is should this go in a in a B to fixing the type length order my suggestion is to give him code points even if we make it to v2 decisions so that we can get experimentation going as soon as possible and so just to add I think that in the case of this pair of drafts in fact I had a bullet on my my one slide that but I think covered your dress which said that if you\u0027re defining flowspec over a new a piece a fee pair you\u0027re okay because it\u0027s it\u0027s fully "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:22:17",
    "text": "defined and I think that\u0027s the point Jeff was making it the mic to you so I don\u0027t see there any impediment you know on that basis to you know moving forward with these two drafts right it\u0027s actually the pairwise of the Fe and the Safi together that is the important piece the you know you could reuse the same magic number in Safiye if the fe is different the code is different so that\u0027s okay one other thing I\u0027d point out is that looking at the Safi registry 241 up to like 254 is reserved for private use you could just grab that and start playing with it okay for temporarily Cumbria\u0027s yeah but don\u0027t be shipping it I don\u0027t ship anything I\u0027m going to talk about the BGP yang model to begin with if we have a new author edition and Jeff has a agreed to join it and be an author on the draft and for thanks for his contributions I\u0027m not going to go through the status you can go through it look at it the tips are of course there if you have any questions feel free to post on the mailing list so I\u0027m going to talk about five issues that we are tracking they\u0027re being tracked and github at that particular location feel free to comment on any of the issues there if you or on the mailing list either one is fine I\u0027m gonna go through each one of them and if I don\u0027t hear any objections and by also posting on the mailing list if I don\u0027t hear any objections I\u0027m going to zoom it\u0027s okay to proceed and implement them all right so the first is should Confederation be a peer type currently we have three internal external and Confederation which was probably not the correct way to do it so the new two new additions are the Confederation internal and Confederation external it\u0027s any comments okay none so noted we\u0027ll take you to the mailing list also Jeff so I think the question is would you differentiate Jeff as the "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:25:18",
    "text": "question from Randy Bushwood to differentiate it yes so the motivation is hearing sessions are internal and external and are you appearing with your Confederation yes or no from upstate you know we\u0027ve always shown its internal or external and we need the show if it\u0027s Confederation because the rules differ but they\u0027re orthogonal so you could have internal Confederation external Confederation you\u0027ve got four right so our two choices for modelling this was to have no enum for internal external and then have a boolean that\u0027s Confederate which is sort of what you have but when you\u0027re trying to reflect the actual state of the session for what each EP rule you do you basically have to say which of these four things it is is the cross product so we\u0027re not saying it\u0027s no the best one we were the other you know that I said there is a second option in there please take a look at the model and see which one you think makes sense mmm differently one question to you we\u0027re talking here about operational state or configuration state this is strictly for operational state maybe that was not clear okay thank you okay the second issue that we are tracking is the list of s bad segments so s path will always be maintained as a four byte if riders started that are not four byte capable route update should consist of either year strands value the magic number is two by comments questions I see really good we got for Church telecom I think this is my standard comment and remark for something like fifteen years are we expecting that the young modeling is going to happen on Reuters that do not have 4-byte asn that was my say AC Linda I don\u0027t think you\u0027re gonna find somebody implementing the yang model that doesn\u0027t support for by a SS I mean what it\u0027s it\u0027s it\u0027s it\u0027s would be there how many implementations are there of this yang model I mean I know there\u0027s a few open camp 8 but this yang model so I would interpret both of those comments as supporting choice number one allows people to keep their comments brief just because we have a lot of material to cover yeah just a clarification comments they for bite capable in this case is not the this is you at 32 data structure this is supporting our C 48 93 for 4 by TSS okay the third issue that we\u0027re tracking is the a spat Lent container ill ill "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:28:20",
    "text": "contain the calculated s padlet four routes per 42 seven rules and this is mainly for the user to see the number that serves as input to the BGP route selection are in odd state yes okay comments support for authentication so currently we are tracking supporting authentication either over IPSec TCP md5 and TCP AO with the idea that we\u0027ll probably try to achieve this using IDF keychain model that they see and others have locked on AC is this work for you we\u0027re looking to use the cheat keychain model a selenium ha I believe we have everything you need if you look at the algorithms and the key role or know the key rollers is there ok here\u0027s an example how you would do hitless key role over the implementation just have to support it even we\u0027ve been doing it in the co not not the egg model but the CLI version for ages it\u0027s just that not all protocols support key change with the key rollover Randy Bush is the key role over 40 808 sorry is the key role over 40 808 well I\u0027m in trouble with care I\u0027d have to get back to you on that I don\u0027t know what for it I don\u0027t know the details of 40 808 I was asking you know says it supports key you over 40 RFC 48 oh yeah it\u0027s real simple so if I was Randy Mahesh does not know the details this is us reusing existing models so if the exam a ttle that is being defined by a C\u0027s yang module supports it then we\u0027ll support it by inheritance that\u0027s the idea okay yeah if that was the question [Music] yeah Stephanie kievsky are gathering CP md5 do we need to support it if we want people to move to display oh oh great Jeff yes so you want to make sure that this can support existing routers and existing deployments even if this is not something that we would recommend is security a solanum cisco systems so for IPSec as far as I know there\u0027s no native IP set for TCP you\u0027d have to define a an IPSec tunnel that uses that "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:31:22",
    "text": "as the top as the selector so this is orthogonal to this model you wouldn\u0027t include IPSec in this model so tier point AC our implementation juniper and at least couple of your flavors over at Cisco have direct integration into the BGP configuration for IPSec aesthetics associations that\u0027s what\u0027s being done here is to allow the keying of the session to be tied into the BGP configuration I I don\u0027t know if the existing keychain model supports every algorithm because the keychain model supports both key and algorithm agility for the rollover ok so I don\u0027t know if we have every algorithm that you might want to use the question AC is not whether you have every algorithm but can we express what you\u0027re doing in most of the current vendors if this time if you think that\u0027s to be true then we\u0027ll go on we looked at both TCP al and TCP md5 while we were doing the key chain mod right can I suggest that you know a few of you that have all the details in your brand sit down together sometime this week and just thrash it out and make sure it all works right so that the meta here is that we don\u0027t want to invent this ourselves this is something that I ATF is trying them standardize and if they don\u0027t have a standardized we want them to help standardize talk among yourselves ok quick North capital R cos the the King mechanism that is described here that sees his trough supports us as he said for md5 nao for IPSec you probably want to look at something which was discussed in carp working group that\u0027s close but you need a king mechanism or a key material to be exchanged okay and final issue is features and attributes that like references there\u0027s a list of them our su in particular to see this is this is where the chair I take off my co-author hat and put on the chair had this is essentially in order to get to be effective within the yang committee we need to actually define these so we\u0027ll need to put together a description there are two option in a chair model separate draft or this draft my suggestion is to make that clear and and easy for everybody to debate on we put it in a separate draft if you\u0027re from a vendor and you implement some of these features I\u0027m interested in talking to getting a small cadre of people to push this quickly very quick very quickly a "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:34:22",
    "text": "sealant of what we did for the IGP models is we put a lot line and we said no more features in them and then these features are going to have to come in in augmentations okay put this particular model one of the thing was we wanted the common features that this has the inheritance from some of the open config work where we have the common features these are as far as we\u0027ve been although yeah these are old as the hills yeah okay so this is part of the base alright this is part of the base model we believe they\u0027re widely implemented but they\u0027re like references I have a question now for the model how to arise to implemented for multi public instance not for we are all behind for I mean that if I have money for PDP incidence both wrong we came before or other adjust by then I have some way of instance it\u0027s also wrong P P for P to ze but L 1 for example 1 we have 1 I want to use the PDP instance the one to advertise beginning for roles and the reacted to I have a for another excellent point but not the focus of this particular model this particular model is just the base if did I misunderstand he\u0027s coming and Jeff go ahead and answer one other thing I don\u0027t think you said your name can you please give your name for the minutes standard male Meli\u0027s aha he is hypo yang yeah okay go ahead and we the partial discussion that we had was the nmda battle for the Rick instancing gives him a portion of what he is looking for we need to close the loop and the last piece of the component that he was discussing I think I remember the thread in question okay so just to completely complete on this slide so these are individually will be surrounded by individual feature statements so that make them optional to implement just wanted to make that so a question about anything so you\u0027re saying you\u0027re going to document what these features how these features operate somewhere else question Mahesh gave us a pre look at what the anchors might say that that these would need to have some documentation they can point you yes and I love references and I\u0027d love to see what this actually means the question is again the intent is to have a draft a separate draft one or more standards track draft the documents these features in in this case that we\u0027re all I\u0027m "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:37:22",
    "text": "treating it in my chair hat as a case where you have a document and for clarity\u0027s sake you break the document into multiple documents no that\u0027s that\u0027s fine so the observations that ever make is that we know how long the process can take for each one of these documents and if it\u0027s not one if it\u0027s multiple one six right maybe consider if there are features that you can define in there I don\u0027t know advertising active routes that sounds like a true sentence thing that you where you can describe what that is maybe that is something you could just put in the draft right this it\u0027s not normative or anywhere else maybe something you want to do you want to put there just surely the current discussion among the authors is a separate draft of arrow if you have more input please let us know a Celinda m-- so maybe not for some of these it seems like you could just put them in the description in the egg model and that\u0027d be enough I\u0027m not saying that applies to every one of them but like always compare met that seems like that would be a paragraph like this and you could completely describe okay in interest of time I\u0027d like to cut off further discussion even though I have some comments I would like to make about it - I\u0027m not going to make them so we can continue later thank you very much working group for active discussion here trying to do hey Percy hi everyone today I\u0027m watching okay-y much hang on the future way today I\u0027m going to talk about the PGP for ite allocation so basically we have adoption call from April then we we have a number of comments I think the major one is that some people don\u0027t like using PGP LS for SIDS and also suggested that using a new epistatic and then the other are commands so in this draft I we addressed all the comments so it\u0027s basically the first one the first of the important one so some people don\u0027t like this kind of extension to PGP lr s for s ID so we just get a "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:40:22",
    "text": "raved get rid of that one and then we use the suggestions so we use ur new at the NS a v4 s ID as suggested and then for those are other comments for example people says why you use a BGP why not it is a young and then those are stuff so we give more detailed explanations for those why and why not in the draft and also some people mentioned that we\u0027re missing something we straw if we want to withdraw these SIDS and we need to put something so we also addressed of the one in addition to that we ad the cap with the negotiations so any other comments regarding for this new version I encourage discussion on the list as well it\u0027s sense if it we made a Lunt option call and they\u0027ve tried to address it it would be helpful if if there\u0027s something you think still broken or still needs to be worked on ok thank you we\u0027ll go on to next okay thank you yeah I also go quickly yes go ahead so another why is a fruit spec or as rv6 so basically with very small extensions so for existing flow spec is for traditional IPS so we eat we extend that much infield to the I si D is in the s rh so just two component type so in last version we\u0027ve already talked about it these two new types so one type is for margin conditions to a whole si D so another type is for matching conditions so focus on the some part of that IDs such as a locator and the function or arguments so basically we the fact that the format of this one this is similar to the existing rules back so each one will contain at least of all OP and values so these at least will define the match conditions so has this much condition are satisfied so action will happen so both axes are at same as the existing one so the format of for the opportunity for in this version is that we just give more detail specific format "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:43:25",
    "text": "or the second component type which is a week we would like to focus on some part of SIDS such a locator function and arguments so any comments for this one so we recently improved the v6 flowspec by releasing it and making it and this thing had co-author on the v6 have you taken a look at it I realize we just made the deadline so maybe you didn\u0027t it might if you haven\u0027t if you I forgot to mention that yesterday that if you\u0027re looking for the v6 if you\u0027re only SR v6 that that may not be as germane but if you\u0027re if you\u0027re looking at regular v6 and you need to harmonize so I it does the SR v6 need to be harmonized with the regular v6 oh yeah a little bit different because radius ripple of physics is also focus on those kind of traditional IPS means yes for this one we extend this kind of a match domain inside those are SRH it\u0027s a word we\u0027re two different app apples and oranges that\u0027s what I had initially thought but as you were presenting I I wanted to listen is there any other comments how is the sr6 work coming are we progressed enough to look at flow specs easy later I just have a comment on all these flow specs and the idea of getting a flow spec for every end cap is the ID is there a framework for what you\u0027re gonna do if this is it seems like you\u0027re doing open flow with flowspec right is our is there some document that describes the requirement and what you\u0027re doing of this or is it just just because if there\u0027s an MP and that end cap exists we\u0027ll do a flowspec um okay see John\u0027s first slide our first thing is we think we oughta as chairs again chair hat on we have to go back and fix the basics of TLV then as to the rest that would be an appropriate time to say what if you think we should narrow our scope at the original definition of flowspec there was a very targeted audience and a very targeted focus the addition requests have "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:46:25",
    "text": "indicated that the same denial of service attack work is concerned we haven\u0027t done when I presented the original v2 I had called for a thought your exact question of harmonization the working group asked to put it off till we got the Bissau so your comment is germane and I think the working group should reconsider all these things the reason I asked about the SR v6 this is a new type of caring planter that seems to take the v6 control plane I don\u0027t know enough personally as to the deployment so that was a question I guess yeah ac Lindemann it seems it seems like the header document is at least done I don\u0027t know about you know locator it seems like there\u0027s only there\u0027s only a couple ways you could do it so so we have some time to discuss the v2 and to talk about this limitations go ahead and make your comments please keep them brief if you can line is closed after you guys because when though still has one more thing to go through care was up first go ahead Capitol artists I think I think we should hold this work till we have the flow spec v2 hashed out and you could then use this as a capability or new TLB and carried having once a fee would be a much better choice from an implementation perspective then to get a Sofia explosion within flows back yeah that\u0027s good feedback jeffires as far as the applicability goes the motivation that all these different authors have for trying to drill into the contents of various tunneled packets his flowspec is being used for two big cases right now the first one for dealing with standard DDoS type things at various number gauges which may be under some types of tunnels as an example you know if for example if I would pick a topic near and you\u0027re like Linda\u0027s heart fit so that\u0027s the UN type of implementation you may need to be able to do a flowspec filter targeting a specific port for a specific encapsulation and still do all the firewall type things that flow spec is good for so that\u0027s one motivation the second motivation and I suspect from some of the people in the participants is that they\u0027re using the flowspec filters to be able to be used for traffic engineering purposes this one Mia is about a extension to BGP for SR pass ingress protection so right now we already have SR policy draft is invoking "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:49:28",
    "text": "is walking walking with document so as our policy well sender s are passed to the ingress node of data pass and English not West set up that pass but when that humid in Lhasa fails so in order to prove in order to provide protection for the failure of that English node so we needed to also send up another by car pass through a backpack Harper English note so the path back a path will be from that back by coupling with note to the equals note unity so that we may have some kind of informations will for protections so basically in the previous version we already talked about these kind of extensions so the extension is the first small and then we just made stop at least this opportunity contains the information for the protections and then in this version we just make made a little bit change a damn war description as a subsidiary which described the traffic that a backup as well well we\u0027ll transport so this is the sapaterre of the details yeah that\u0027s all any comments so on all of this a couple of times i\u0027ve queried these bring chairs on some of the policy i also ask if you\u0027re working toward using this spring policy that you at least give me a heads up operationally what what this is being used for on the are pd acceptance as a draft i also call for operator input hi andrew here from liquid telecom we are using s or policy a fair amount of it primarily for steering traffic around places that how do I put this certain customers do not want to root over certain locations of a certain hardware etc etc and so we give them the option to steer around far away patch that is all done with s or policy injection and it\u0027s a big deal for us looking at this I I will admit that I have not read the drafts this proposal before this meeting my bad but my question here would be if I\u0027m going to send a backup off at the moment over the SR stuff why am I not just "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:52:29",
    "text": "going to send two separate paths using two separate communities to dictate which route or accepts them and send it like that rather than complexified my policy saying to the Ruta create another part when I can simply inject the two paths do all the calculations on the back end and then set the communities to determine which route or accepts to me that seems like a lot simpler option and it leaves the control in my controller to calculate all of those paths that would be my comment on this I would appreciate if that type of comment also went toward the spring chairs with the reference to this there there you know some of this is refreshment and that\u0027s very good feedback and questions okay alright so I think we\u0027re up to Europe and we\u0027re we\u0027re almost running on time I will ask people\u0027s indulgence to say just a few extra minutes so that he can have his is full ten minutes but we\u0027re we\u0027re darn close to being on time anyway so if almost on time you mean I have to go slow or fast perfect do I have a clicker [Music] job Snyder\u0027s entity I want to provide a small update on some work that was presented in ITF 104 in the Gros working group and my hope is that this work and transition to the ID our working group which is why I\u0027m here but some of you have already seen parts of this presentation the topic at hand is bgp maximum prefix limits HB maximum prefix limits are a very popular mechanism in the operator world to dampen the negative effects of mostly full table route leaks so it\u0027s a very crude mechanism or it helps against very common occurrence that we see in internet in the internet routing system if you look at the core BGP specification there is which introduced BGP maximum prefix limits there is no notion of whether those prefix limits are applied pre import policy or post import policy and I\u0027ve created an image where on the x axis we see a progression over time and the y "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:55:29",
    "text": "axis is the amount of prefixes that one network is sending to the other network and when a leak occurs the amount of routes advertised to the adjacent network goes up until it hits a certain threshold where the common operational procedure is to configure the device so that it tears down the BGP session and from that moment on even though maybe bgp session is destructed both networks are in a safer state than they would be if the leak persists now this is what happens pre policy well can occur if a maximum prefix limit is applied post policy is that between an e BGP prefix based filter that derive from say IR data or or in case RPI based HP origin validation is applied that so many parts are rejected in the policy that the amount of routes that make it through the policy does not exceed the trash hold in which case even though you have a full routing League full table route leak if you have high quality filters the a part of the leak still makes it through and the session does not tear down because the thresholds are not reached this is discovery we\u0027ve made in the real worlds where at some point we in NTT realized hey we were contributing to a route leak that lasted for multiple hours how come why do we even observe this behavior there are benefits to both pre policy maximum prefix limits and post policy maximum prefix limits the pre policy limit feature is very effective against full table route leaks and it is also very effective to protect against memory exhaustion in case a BGP implementation is operating with a fully populated adjacent grip in the advantages of a post policy limit could be to protect against rip or fit exhaustion or to enforce contractual agreements between parties an example of this could be that as part of a layer 3 VPN service only X amount of routes are allowed in into that that VPN the illustration here is that that both use cases exist in a world and I think they\u0027re there they\u0027re valid use cases "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:58:29",
    "text": "now if we go take a look at what is available to operators these days it appears there\u0027s a wealth myriad of interpretations of the particular sections of the core BGP spec on how to do maximum prefix limits specifically on iOS XR + XE the concept of pre policy limits does not exist at all and then on other platforms for instance OpenBSD is open Beach PD the post policy variance does not exist and I believe that the is this inconsistency between HP implementations a result of the lack of mentioning that pre policy and post policy limits could exist in the original BGP specification my hope is that by specifying that both exists and how they should how they should behave that we can encourage vendors to consider implementing both types of limits and I believe this will have positive impact on operational community a second aspect of the draft we would like to work on is the notion of outbound maximum prefix limits very very crude character stationed a character that\u0027s a difficult word from the concept of entities perspective being a simple internet transit provider the general case is that we will either announce a full routing table to appear or a subset of that full routing table say half of the full routing table and in the instance where to the piers where we only intend to announce our customer routes which is half if we would exceed a threshold of say 400 500,000 routes whatever is happening is wrong and we would be better off if we self-destruct our sessions on that particular ebgp neighbor so this the concept of maximum of outbound maximum prefix limits serves to to facilitate situations where maybe the peer did not configure any limits but we have expectations of what we expect to announce to the specific adjacent network and that we can opt to shoot ourselves in the head should we shoot certain high-water marks be reached now only birth as an implementation supports "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:01:32",
    "text": "this today and I if a battle of open Beach PD to to consider for testing I am aware that there are a number of complexities related to this feature we should this be adopted as a working group we will need to identify those complexities and see if we can resolve them so this I\u0027m not passing this off as a trivial feature but I think it is worth attempting to specify this so compared to ITF 104 I\u0027ve come to an important insight in that grow meeting back then and there I advocated that\u0027s only a cease notification should be applied if maximum prefix limits are met reasoning from the perspective of internet routing we\u0027re tearing down the session is a more desirable state of being compared to keeping the session up but stopping stop accepting new advertisements however upon rereading the core BGP specification it became clear to me that already today in the course back we have two options of dealing with hitting the maximum prefix limits one is keep the session of block new extra announcements I want us to go through the motions of tearing out the session so we will need to rework the draft to provide compatibility with what already exists even though as an internet operator it is not my favorite option I do not wish to alter that part I want to my goal is to to revise and clarify and not take things away sue has been very kind in providing a extensive review of our first step at this draft and she also provided the primary notes fish and who moved the word from grow to idea as she was able to articulate with some patience to us that these things can only materialize if we do this as a update to for 2001 in doing so I\u0027ve come to realize that there is a fair bit of spaghetti to untangle because the concept of maximum prefix limits is mentioned in numerous sections and well it is a very exciting puzzle and and yeah III we we would benefit from from help in how to not only "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:04:33",
    "text": "articulate what we want to accomplish because I think a natural language the notion of pre policy versus post policy is fairly easy to explain from from one person to another but we should also be very careful in not making the current text that we want to update worse and and foremost in this effort is to drive consistency across multiple BGP implementations and provides users of BGP implementations with a reference which they can maybe consider in their RF piece so the next step is to go through another round of cleanup to see if we can improve the language and undo some of the spaghetti and then I would like to move forward with asking for working group adoption and work on this jointly thank you I would like to say let\u0027s not have questions at the mic because we\u0027re at two minutes over our three minutes over so now we\u0027re five minutes over and I don\u0027t you know I\u0027ve seen people filtering out so I think it\u0027s you know sort of let\u0027s respect the group\u0027s time if you have points to make by all means please make them on the list or you know where to find job thank you again thank you [Music] [Music] "
  }
]