[
  {
    "startTime": "00:00:05",
    "text": "and I got enough however so I have etherpad here and then in this other corner I\u0027ve got yeah that\u0027s like you I don\u0027t move we know we know yeah and in what\u0027s even better it\u0027s recording there is no off mic in these words it\u0027s really funny you go to the beginning of the recording and it\u0027s there welcome to the second meeting of net mod we\u0027re going to get started we\u0027re going to be a bit tight on time because we had extended discussions I feel like we should all come in closer you got a big wide room but then you won\u0027t be able to see the free ends actually the room the room scheduling gods have lessons this session so thank you anyway we\u0027re going to get started because we are going to be tight on time I\u0027m actually going to ask invite everyone to join us in etherpad the reason for that is that is the place you will see the revised agenda we\u0027ve moved things around we had to carry over three presentations from the last session and we added a enemy dropped one at the the IQR s1 at Sue\u0027s request so time is going to be a little condensed oh that will also afford you the opportunity to take some notes as we progress the discussion and that is always helpful to us to get to the etherpad go to the tools page it\u0027s on the last URL here so tools that ietf torg /w g / net mod and click on agenda and then etherpad 98 as always we have the note well we\u0027re getting late in the week you should be familiar with it basically says whatever you contribute here whatever you say here is a formal contribution to our process I think we\u0027ve got over the Miss trivia enough but here\u0027s another opportunity to remind you to do as always we are recording audio we have video over there um and there is a box for the speakers to stand in while they\u0027re talking and when you come to the mic please state your name we\u0027re in the second session so we what "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:03:06",
    "text": "we\u0027ve moved here is basically from the the last four presentations we\u0027ve moved three of those into this session and on session too we have dropped the I to RS presentation if the order has also changed the right place to see it is in etherpad not on that slide we dropped you get your request yes it helps us on our time so with that I\u0027d like to jump to who\u0027s next yeah Rob Bolton with the interface model of fate but so also I just want to follow up on the pole that we did in last time speed obsession on the recommendation I understand there\u0027s some confusion about what we what was a recommended exactly so we will be putting out text that clearly specifies that recommendation it will be put into 60 87 biz so we\u0027re in poll sixty eight seven biz back to the working group to add this text into it the point of the recommendation in terms of using the top-level foo and not using foo state so expect that text to be sent to the net mod knowing list and will also invite other mail lists to join in that discussion and importantly since it\u0027s going to be text in a working group document the text is subject to working group input and review so what\u0027s coming out is in edik it is a starting point we kept but we\u0027d something we want to get feedback on very quickly and we particularly want to hear from folks who are implementing and who will be impacted by by the recommendation so please take a look at it and respond to it as rapidly as you can with that ok so I\u0027m ribbleton and I can barely see the slide so i might different stuff that\u0027s on the slides I\u0027ll do my best you could stand anywhere come we should stand anywhere you want I\u0027ll stand here because then I can actually tell you what I\u0027m klutz so um it\u0027s about to yang models and to drafting them forward one is the interface extensions draft and we\u0027ve had a review of Henry\u0027s Fork of them a couple of people and two good feedback most comfortable addressed there\u0027s effectively three issues that i would like to raise here I liat feedback here or if not here I\u0027m happy to receive it on the 8th it\u0027s but it\u0027d be good to try and get these models finalized and published and I\u0027ve added a new calendar for destination MAC address drop and I would like to add some ethnic histogram counters so this is interesting because it\u0027s some of the stuff that\u0027s come out of work on doing eighty two three four ethernet yin and the bits of that that they don\u0027t want to standardize their and retries televised here so I\u0027ll talk "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:06:07",
    "text": "about that later the end of the session so and the first opening issue is a forwarding mode leaf so there\u0027s a leaf we have to find in the model effectively says whether the service providing 140 mode is an optical layer or layer 2 or a layer 3 forwarding and the idea here is that some platforms some devices and optimize their Hardware entries depending on whether its lair to oil or less recording and so this leak is useful for those platforms 22 when instantiating these objects in the in their platforms in addition to that it also could be very useful as a sort of aggregation point for when you\u0027re configuring different features it might be either layer 2 layer 3 so the idea it could be that you want to put constraints and say I only wanted layer to ACL configured if this week has been set and or is leaks been set and it\u0027s been set to be later or the phrase in other ways if this leak has been set related to only allow on a layer 2 a-s ACL la tuque US policy to configure so I would like to get some feedback possibly on whether people think this is a good idea to have in the model or whether it should be dropped so does anyone have any thoughts here there\u0027s no feedback I I probably intend to leave it in the model is my default position but I\u0027ll also ask these questions on the list yeah there\u0027s one a ceiling of cisco systems i think from our standpoint at least everything I\u0027ve been used to I think keeping in there for constraints if nothing else what what is valid on that type of interface it\u0027s it\u0027s good to keep it in that but that\u0027s my opinion yes and I think the way you would model that is you\u0027ve been optional thing so really it\u0027s configured you would check against that can strengthen its not you wouldn\u0027t so doing party so the second open issues to do with the bandwidth the parameter that I put in so this is this the cisco s has this and uses it and some other oses I think I checked also have this but it\u0027s a bit ambiguous as to exactly what it means so when AC conferred on this he pointed out there\u0027s a reserved bandwidth as part of OT PF te extensions and I think similar one in ice ice as well so at the moment my question was whether i should try and include this keeps in the model and if i do then i\u0027ll rename to reserve will bandwidth or should this be included just in those in the area tea and iced tea me models is that better place for it and or do i drop it all together so again does anyone have any thoughts on this i\u0027m not sure which way to go here "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:09:17",
    "text": "case you\u0027ll end up I think it etiquette ah Ronda can figure it in the eye GPS I can\u0027t see a reason if you are running te both protocols each other not sure why you would be why you wouldn\u0027t want to put it right on the inner place instead because it\u0027s a attribute of the interface not something not something of the protocol right not in term it\u0027s all right so Christian hops so to that end um it seems like a TV thing wouldn\u0027t it be great if some tea model was augmenting things to add this to add this in the TV models yeah this is an interface model right yeah it\u0027s extension spin spin smoke yes yeah so I mean it\u0027s a key attribute you would think that a te model would augment the interface to add not that I jeebies ok I don\u0027t know I don\u0027t zoom in ya yes on via because people that key quite a lot us we do have it at the interface which oculus negative and you have the Sanskrit yes ok then I then I think the answer long as you drop it and yeah ok thank you open issue 3 is about the loopback configuration so i defined the loopback basically around layer 1 loop back and so like a internal it back on external or line basically back but also notice that we have a data plane loopback service which is resource of layer to feature allows you to loop back on the sub interface or loop back on tip of the lens I acts a bit differently in terms of being such more time base of session based so there\u0027s a couple of questions that sort of came out from that is whether it\u0027s worth trying to align these two into one common yang relief or the yang container i think if you have the data plane move back and and then the second question again is you to do that or it applies generally is whether this loop back configuration ship something\u0027s bit more ephemeral in nature the way i\u0027ve modeled at the moment it just as a configuration leaf that meant that you\u0027d naturally get written to start up conflict but other devices I think potentially have this is something that you could figure and then reboot the device it wouldn\u0027t actually go away and so does anyone have any thoughts on are those two points as to whether aligning this make sense of the data plainly back or whether I should look at make us and femoral configuration on some wine and chocolate Ricky so my preference i think if i don\u0027t hear even that would be to keep it as it is and keep it as at the moment as just a physical into basically black future right so that\u0027s covers my three issues had on that one again the sub interface VLAN model that\u0027s become a working group document after the last nite chef has "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:12:19",
    "text": "anybody had relatively minor updates and there\u0027s one issue that I would like to discuss now and get some feedback on so in terms of how its structured at the moment I argue as their heads up you\u0027re running out of that I mean ok so the moment we\u0027re structured is is with a list and that\u0027s designed physical essence on index and there to identify which Taggart ease and it allows extensible so at the moment you had a two tags you can extend to three tags or more future I\u0027m not sure how likely that is the alternative way of structuring it would be to effectively hell explicit out to tagging it and second tag retainers and then use groupings to break the extra bits together which looks like potentially simple simpler model in terms of configuring so and I wanted is there any opinions on to where they\u0027re having a list based structures better or more explicit but sort of sites simpler based model would be better if there aren\u0027t any comments here maybe people think about this they could post back to the list and give me some direction if they have any opinions right I is shaken and Danny I would think the list would be a better option just allow extensibility in weight of someone monster for whatever reason add a third day okay great so the next presentation will be on tree diagram and since Martin has already gone back to Sweden blue will be presenting and by the way i change this together the pink boxes down there down so I\u0027m presenting a paragraph that i put together that really is what content on tree diagrams but I really do have to set up so I\u0027d actually spend most of the time on the motivation and not talk about too much under detail because we\u0027d be all familiar with you bring the microphone closer we all are familiar with tree diagrams and that most most documents start out with a definition about the tree diagram is and that\u0027s a little bit problematic because it means that every reader has to go and see whether or not there\u0027s a difference in that particular document version of the tree diagram and it gets a little annoying and it also means it takes time and then we have non standard stuff so the purpose of the document is really to establish a standard format that we agree upon and use and then tooling can match that\u0027s really it the definition "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:15:21",
    "text": "here that was hard with is an old 19 camacho since then there\u0027s been depth of business and discussion on the list that we like make some changes perfect that\u0027s the reason to do this in one place that\u0027s it so what we\u0027d like to do it is take the stockinette adopt it as working with doc you need the discussion on the mailing list in the group and we on a format auto-ship push it out we do expect that there will be changes in the future for example the scheme amount bird thinking there\u0027s a good way to represent that if we get that document done in time that this document still the working group will change it here if it\u0027s not done in time we\u0027ll do an update or abyss the whole purpose is at one place everyone references and we know what it says what means most importantly what someone makes a change you can discuss whether it\u0027s the change or whether it\u0027s just because they\u0027re confused Jeff I was two quick comments number one you should eventually end up with some sort of boilerplate up in front just like the 2119 here\u0027s what questions that are amines and says we are using RFC flies version of its comet number two probably should think about what this looks like an SVG because you just lean over looking SVG okay um yeah and now that sixty eighty seven this is back in the working group maybe we throw that reference and get a point to hear ya approach cute Google I think to Jeff\u0027s pointed you we need to be clear why we\u0027re going to change things here because there\u0027s a lot of documents that already use this format right so that i\u0027m pretty sure that most rooms are going to come from Kang right now and if we change them it should be very clear that this is this version so I don\u0027t really see the point of changing like why do we just a drop of them is there anything shipping so my personal intent speaking as a contributor is that the only changes are additions sonu representations did represent new things we would not go again speaking as an individual I wouldn\u0027t be interested in just changing things that were no apparent music what we have works we have cooling that does it why change it again contributor so what good Christian hops when you say that I the last things I saw on the list were like changing from to see so instead of our WBC / config so you\u0027re not supporting all that stuff every but that kind of got kicked it off once it becomes a working group document it\u0027s a working group decision and it\u0027s the job of the authors to document the working group decision not their needs I\u0027ve stated a personal opinion so Rob Wilson the common line without is I shall light inside their culture in this one place I personally updates i think the scene making consistencies perhaps the final you have a very much so the trade-off "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:18:22",
    "text": "there is that means that what we define is incompatible with existing documents existing RFC\u0027s I think there\u0027s some downside to consider their coast if I already redefined in a list of this anyway sir so I think this is all good discussion for when it\u0027s a working for docking it because the cool thing is so this becomes working for document I don\u0027t know anymore Martin doesn\u0027t know anymore you on it so it doesn\u0027t matter what we think so take adoptive and take it over yeah and to once it becomes an RFC the versioning will actually solve the incompatible property because old documents or refer to the old RFC and if you change the stuff the new documents are further ado RFC so we won\u0027t happen and they have obsolete or update so you know they\u0027re going to the right places I\u0027d love to give back time but I\u0027d also love to ask that that question but I can\u0027t because down here on the tree oh but watch as just for information i put but look back sorry 60 it\u0027s been this within documents we\u0027ve got another place where you can do this change yeah that gives us an opportunity to pointer into this all right so thank you lou um so i would like to get a sense of from the room if you would i\u0027m going to ask a binary question if you would like to look up the document as a work group of a treasured item yes or no so first if you would like to adopt the document please raise your hand a fair number and if you are opposed to adopting the doc this draft is working for document please raise your hand there\u0027s nobody thank you will be noted and confirm venomous and with that lot of we present the mark-up presentation i am aruthor can\u0027t i\u0027m going to talk about this in the widow draft and the aim is to twofold first to define a metadata item or specifying type of marker bet may be used in certain in arguments of certain statements these four statements contact description error message and organization the choice is quite clear by these four statement because they quite often have structured argument structure text with multiple paragraphs and so on and then sakoon provide some guidelines for reasonable use of markup in those arguments some markup some primitive "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:21:26",
    "text": "markup is already used in the eng we do have several paragraphs white buf list lustrous bulleted or numbered lists and so on and if a money needs to process such as descriptions for example programmatically it becomes quite important to know what the indentation rules are and it\u0027s quite important to be consistent as an author module and follow some rules for for markham perhaps it might useful to use other markup but as well and so it\u0027s quite important to know what the rules are for very large number of support lightweight markup languages mark double in the first place with actual extent so on and people males all of them are I mean of them so this draft basically introduces a one young extension that allows for specifying I can mark up dis use it\u0027s perfectly global statement globally statement me that it can be awake it can only appear at the top performer you and them specifies the mark-up polemic for the entire module or sub- I must stir that this is just method metadata information so it doesn\u0027t allow anything you were cordial out i yang and use a markup in yang already know for the arguments have to remain valid and global angles and of course the document recommends to use only lightweight markup we could do something more complicated but the goal is goose stay readable giving unprocessed form so corrupt Rob commented this laughs and from the discussion to your open issues arose first so far there is no restriction on the set of hermetic formats so basically anything you that let\u0027s say as iono registered media type "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:24:29",
    "text": "in the text registry reviews disagree but maybe it might might make sense to respect this a bit so that implementers of please don\u0027t have that much work to do and one put one option one reasonable option will be x mark down perhaps uh perhaps hello different variants of this column format so i don\u0027t know other who have any opinions on that it reasonable to restrict it or who may want a fails japan so for that second case of f of both our cups and the time of saying it poses that the whole module is that lead into something bird for example C code fragment or specific treatment it\u0027s stuck in the mouth counts segment it get interpreted as funny ways need end up to having you a crazy amount of escaping to think that happen and not show up that way being able to selectively turn it off course that really change them are down and actually website sure those techniques and SME I did near are notable with per minute at the optimum any opium content but it makes them be restricted to fix tomorrow as long as the registry it you know gives you the ability to add new stuff you have the powers into an end why not however it just suggest something even as any shape ague something even simpler which is just for you know the document to suggest a recommended format a single one and then have others as optional so it makes it easier than saying it\u0027s any of these format but I did want to comment overall this is something that would be really useful because having the ability to generate documentation from the modules is maybe easier by this so we have plugins that have to play funny games with paragraph text and unstructured text as you said that with this would solve some of those problems so basis analysis needs to actually I like idea it\u0027s good i can see school I China streets the d4 market lanky one start off with the loud you mean 111 a variable ya ali also visible eyes of you that it is really on board is very difficult language bits music will move using mediawiki right Anna so William lunch and go before I think I said this on the list but yeah I also support my fam but i also would support some means of having more formal links so that links within the text can be formally validated and potentially conversions things like hyperlinks in HTML and songs i think that will increase the quality of the modules i can understand it might not be popular and so we have this "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:27:32",
    "text": "significant issue and as I said the extension is intended for the entire module sub-module potentially it might be useful either to use it a layer on very specific statements so that it\u0027s turned off on the rest of the document and perhaps sometimes if I even be useful multiple formats for example for some initial module metadata but so the idea is that as an alternative we could consider restricting the scope for such a statement to follow some some rules that are normal in the yang that means it\u0027s inside a container it will be valid or the entire container and so on so this is not a really difficult thing to do so if the thing that this might be useful you can first do it and it Opium\u0027s on this one Roger Ames Ashley over time that\u0027s the elevator wasn\u0027t I think I\u0027m done it is what would you like to do a spin this possibility can if it can become where you fight them the right side of movie with it I think it might be good if additional input on the list and corporate that version but it\u0027s still worthwhile to see interest level in the room and if we could gauge that how many think that this type of feature would be useful it\u0027s a it\u0027s a reasonable number how many think that it\u0027s not necessary one-half little voted for both so easy to look for okay that\u0027s really helpful actually how many have read it he were then have given opinion so it clearly indicates that we should get more feedback on the list it seems that there isn\u0027t this worth pursuing it so we\u0027ll keep it going thank you yeah chiffon next is a configuration schedule "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:30:34",
    "text": "okay Freddie keep it about private from then yeah this topic has been presented the last cup of IVF sessions and physically we\u0027re talking about the schedule confirmation so we can complete a schedule and the cycler a period of time so during this time we can configure certain completion object on the mood and from the confusion database so we have culture growing interest on this topic this is our regional come from kita poly model in the keys working group and currently pc new group is also design and enough from results schedule in canada so it is cookie useful and there are some of those cases in advice last I ETF session the key kyun working group expressed some interest because they are putting something similar work and also some operator expressed interest so since like last IETF we made some changes the author there\u0027s a similar FC which is about remote procedure call scheduling the authors of their taxi has the work with us on some of the tax decay some contribution so that particular he\u0027ll have a security aspects and with some time synchronization effects and also try some comments from the mint more working group but the text or interaction in meditations tensions interaction with the mouse and authentication so we added some sections and and also that there are some little bit of model changes I to the operation I\u0027m ready I hi I\u0027m this off notification I did here\u0027s an example so we can have escaped confusion scheduled at the particular time for the particular period and we can also modify existing confusion with the schedule so that\u0027s about it so we hope to move it forward we had some other models hope to use this so we don\u0027t have this Sir Percy further and back so Kent has a contributor last time when you present at this I\u0027ve mentioned "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:33:35",
    "text": "the similarity to previous expired draft called conditional enablement which was the original idea was to have like a metadata inactive tag that a way of commenting out nodes but it could be expanded to be a boolean expression which potentially could include time so there is no collapse this work I think the discussion at that time was one that it if you use that approach it could it solves the same problem but it may be is less predictable from a implementing implementers perspective because then what it is that being counted out it could be anywhere in the whole tree we\u0027re here I think it\u0027s very specific spots where the model designer gets to choose where the schedule is appearing is it so what so I think as a contributor I actually think they support this approach we\u0027re going to scheduling over the additional Nadelmann approach I mean mate not to say the conditional naval month approach could not also be added but it makes a lot of sense to me that the model designer will be able to choose where scheduling years at the last meeting Andy has common it sounded like when your boss meeting andy had some comments it sounded in your description that you were addressing them is that true work at all such virus though yeah we\u0027re trying to address them and we know fully satisfied and this comment enough that the for some section there to accuse the way of trying to know okay so at the last meeting we paged interest in this function and the type of capability and there would seem to be some reasonable interest will ask again the same question how many are interested in supporting this type of function within the working group I guess I asked the wrong way because we have far less interest than their lives are you interested in this graph yes or no so yes a very few no none I think folks who are asleep there\u0027s clearly not a whole lot of interest today I think we should discuss it a little more on list and go from there thank you should next we have Lyle burps on type inside model types Chris hops hi so we present on something called module tags which is basically a simple "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:36:36",
    "text": "way to associate metadata with models or modules so the use cases are basically organization and classification of modules but any other future module metadata can also heat incorporating this is an example this is one use that we have an example yang tree where you know we tried to add sort of this organization classification through a tree structure right so in routing that routing control protocols control plane protocol and then the name is is and then is is augments below that right well that\u0027s really just trying to say that it\u0027s a control playing protocol for routing right so the new way to do that would be that is is is at the root and then in some list for example yeah so then in a list you associate the tags routing and control plane protocol with ice is that way you could also find all your control frame protocols by looking for that path so uh excuse me we have three creation points also of tags the module creation point the author of the module and add tags sort of loosely do that with the description the implementer can add a vendor hags and then finally the user can have their own tap the key points I love that title sequence here I was like what I was saying my head fix the fixed structure of the routing and vice model the problems with that are that the modules depend on an ikat standard parent module the parent module will be revised to add new structure and that\u0027s a big process and that the only the authors of modules decide the classification organization that\u0027s kind of the key the authors are the only one the tags that you have a loser coupling which is kind of how net mob is how we always approach this better non IETF organizations can add tags and users can add and remove tags of the move was sort of contentious on the list I see very important and it allows for additional types of metadata so right now if the document creates a registry for prefixes the prefix that creates three of them ietf vendor and local these are the ones I just described locals for user and the allocation pilot of policy for prefix this kind of process too but it\u0027s special usually required which means like I Triple E could just write their own i triple e document the preserved I Triple E is a prefix and that iono would then use that to store that Professor then we allocate this IETF registry so we have a registry for any tags that are standardized in "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:39:36",
    "text": "RFC question is the reason you\u0027re doing it to the model of the module instead of to the individual node in the module doing what sorry a tagging are you tagging individual nodes are you takin home on the whole module okay is there any reason we did go down to a more granular level no but I so you would tag every I mean doesn\u0027t that look almost like namespaces know we could talk more authority ok so the root level editions of we originally had a dread tags remove tags and reset tags the was pointed out that add tags are rude rude tags are and runs around not comp and other normal configuration mechanism so we remove those reset tags we left and the reason for that one is because we allow users to remove tags we thought it would be useful to have a RPC to reset back to the value that the things shift with and there\u0027s no easy way to do that in the normal protocols Chris of good aesthetic but you get it ok almost 0 so we have an addition to a read-only addition to library tags that\u0027s kind of sad you can\u0027t actually put the configuration there but it was created read-only there\u0027s nothing you can put under a tree right so we create a list of our own modules with tag bliss we also have a proposal with a grouping so that modules can put a tag list for themselves that could be a read-only list and the primary use for that is it xpath right so you can you can actually embed an XPath reference that checks the tags so the open issues are basically where where do we access all these things you know do we have the eng library list we have the read/write list we need because that gives us a oh by the way i\u0027m gonna start the read/write list also allows us to tag modules that were became before this superdraft i don\u0027t know and that there was an argument about users removing that and the authors from and support question vodka I wonder how this is related to meta data allocations it seems to be quite similar concept so you don\u0027t know what you\u0027re referring his ax sorry I don\u0027t know what you\u0027re referring to so it very well could be I actually couldn\u0027t hear what you said it\u0027s be closer to microphone it\u0027s it\u0027s similar to and then you fade it out okay i will just ask you about the relationship between this these tags and meta data elevations defined them for banana data yeah oh yeah I didn\u0027t hear you yeah it "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:42:39",
    "text": "is a far business navigator hoping so it could it be quick I mean who expected to be carried in and say except I attributes no i mean it\u0027s it\u0027s more classification organization though right i mean you know metadata is associated with tight with nodes right and this is more like I want to find all my modules that are controlling protocols are I GPS or a routing protocols right and you\u0027re going to keep that listserv offline I see it tying into the the other thing that a nice presented but I think that we could very well work hand in hand with that offline library to going to our class so actually I went to your last command except you want to say because we start understand that the metadata mean with the data for modules are getting more and more important so somehow what you there are stacks to be exactly one of the fields in the catalog there so we will need to come somehow combine an instance of this catalog your module which is something that will need to be done now there are different views of the catalog right they are things that are of course musician across modules but there is specific aspect which is permit you okay so Chris what do you would like to do with this document well it\u0027s really fresh but it\u0027s also a pretty well-known concept for a tagging so I wouldn\u0027t mind a simply because you would I\u0027d ask for something with me to document all right I\u0027d like to get a sense of the room I mean it is a very fresh document but it seems so there\u0027s a comment of Mike before we get us the room can i get a difference between listen annotations because I kind of I don\u0027t have a stake in it but I kinda see the same thing another comment I\u0027ve seen my understanding the difference between this and the ladders are annotations so this is a module Allah doesn\u0027t know and this is a I\u0027m schema the mothers on the data so I see clear differences between with my life I deluca of AC in the draft are some our pcs that are designed to set or remove the innovation so I I would expect that this can be done in some instant later so maybe I really don\u0027t understand how these tags are no so removing tags is not a data issue it\u0027s still operating on whiskey where are they remove or edit edit from the server I think we should "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:45:46",
    "text": "take this to the list actually you can get given such a fresh document to end the discussion as the way it is and right now okay thank you for calling I just must say I like idea tight young it\u0027s pretty good I sort of question whether i should time more than cattle on that they don\u0027t quite get the signal tagged and survive it but I don\u0027t expect whether this is either stored in the client systems or in some surprising obviously yeah it\u0027s in the library but the library is on the server right I mean that\u0027s why it was in the library list it\u0027s okay we can talk about other lists okay great thank you Thank and now Lyle can present common argument Oh ash argument you know we were saying what about good catch myself too yeah I just like it was introduced probably correctly so i\u0027ll try to run through this as quickly as possible um just cutting to the chase this example is kind of set up so you can understand a little bit our problem with the FPC document that were actually develop it and yep and so a lot of our work really centers around the RPC model so we have a lot of structures coming into the input we\u0027re then filling in extra data sending it back and then you\u0027ll see the structure also in our operational side of the story inside the controller and then we\u0027ll also send subsequent notifications with the same data structure back and this has more to do with the fact that we\u0027re really using this for call processing so everything\u0027s highly asynchronous and inside the design so we ended up running into a few problems and I\u0027ll just give you some statistics so the document itself has 10 modules two of them are core and you decided to keep it pristine there\u0027s the technology selection and then there\u0027s no 3gpp or payment for anything they have the base control user point consoles we have six other documents or modules that we actually use kind of set up your particular technology that you\u0027re after and then we have two modules that are solely meant to augment the core respects of FBC and tie in technology specific so currently FPC sports 3gpp specific attributes for control user clean separation and it also supports your standard IETF commit mobility attributes so as we started doing this what we found was by doing this we kept the core clean but we ended up with quite a few long minutes in fact just really through statistics statistics we have 63 augments just between the two files or 3gpp and he met and this didn\u0027t "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:48:48",
    "text": "seem like a big issue until we started generating code and what ended up happening was we ended up with an interesting situation which was it was hard in a in a couple of different controllers and I\u0027ll pick on specifically to in this case open daylight and honest it was hard as we we tried to generate the code to actually have these compilers take advantage of the fact that these would be actually from our point of view the same augment we wanted them be the same structure what we found out was really that only counted in these particular implementations upon instantiation of the objects inside the code and we tried to do updates unfortunately when we did subsequent updates we couldn\u0027t do a lot of the copies over so we started tried to code this what I\u0027ll call the hard way and about two thousand lines into the code we stopped and we thought well maybe we\u0027ll just change the compiler and will actually use the comment on an idea so the the base idea is that we would pick one of the augments and at least flag with an extension to say yes there are several other augments but but we really intend for these to be the same and so initially the idea was we would get rid of the other augments and maybe we would just go to a de facto ruler just said hey look at the body is the same it\u0027s exactly the same augment and then about a week later we found a counterexample this and what we found out was because the the container mattered in basically was the same attribute the same augment is same structured we were using nothing but because where it was placed in the tree really wasn\u0027t semantically the same augment so we couldn\u0027t treat them the same so we ended up with this compromise which is basically do as many arguments as you like it\u0027s backward compatible use this extension to basically treat it as a compiler hint so what the compiler know it\u0027s safe during any time at lifecycle these objects to basically interchange them or more importantly copy them now what I\u0027ll say is our final contribution is about 10,000 lines of code trying to read the number here about yeah well almost 11,000 lines of code inside open day lights and keep in mind we stopped at two thousand lines of code going kind of a hard way without the common augmentation approach so I wanted to really just bring this up for your attention because I know we talked a little bit on the mailing list about the fact that maybe we should wait for a language update those sort of things and I know in the first session we talked a little bit about extensions versus waiting those sort of things this is not the place to hash that we\u0027ve already discussed it but I just really am here to bring this to your attention and so as far as next steps what I\u0027d really like is more discussion obviously not here but on the mailing list about this particular issue and I think it\u0027s one that that we just need to consider going forward and that\u0027s really the intensivist at this time you actually I would like to know yes "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:51:49",
    "text": "comment akshay Google sorry I think I didn\u0027t quite get the problem space so the problem space is that you\u0027re generating code for this module and you want to reuse exactly the same data structure you build at one location in multiple other locations well the fact is we did right we use a grouping so so semantically when you actually look into the argument the ugly the body document looks exactly the same the same user statements the the problem was because when it\u0027s not so much an issue when it\u0027s inside the store itself what we found was when you\u0027re using it and passing it inside the system basically receiving the RPC and the outputs and the notification and the store we didn\u0027t realize that these were treated quite differently inside the controller\u0027s much we thought you know if I just put it in as an object right its object oriented it should be easily transpose ax belen we found out due to some system limitations that I can kind of take it off long because some system limitations that was not the case in fact really what was happening was even though I had a common interface it was really treating the schema locations almost hard mapping them if you will after the constructor as completely separate objects so and I think we take it offline it\u0027s it\u0027s a much longer discussion yeah sure I guess I just don\u0027t see the need for language change here because because this we have this problems facing quite a lot of different places I think but we augment the same structure yeah yeah it\u0027s really an implementation detail as to how efficient you are internally I think it\u0027s interesting it\u0027s interesting if you do reduce the amount of cogeneration we have to do because of the commonality but I there\u0027s a bunch of different complexities you come to when expanding the tree named Brian guess what\u0027s common I absolutely agree because we like I said we were going to go with the cheat and just said of the bodies the saying that it must be the same argument we immediately found a counter example that are the modules pre and prior to these this change public um yes okay can you let me know bout me i\u0027ll do it on the melons i would like to written cogeneration against the public order yeah yeah absolutely binoculars so you have an idea of the game that\u0027s of code doing that well so yes so unfortunately wear two hats so not only am I developer I\u0027m also a manager on a team for developers so what I can say is I I stopped the route the hard route after about two man weeks and we had the level of effort initially at nine men weeks and and then once we were advised it was going upward I\u0027ll just leave it at that we had some estimates of nine men months I think that may be a real high but the entire agents right it was developed in a 12 week cycle so even nine man weeks is significance for this so in general arguably at least fifty "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:54:49",
    "text": "percent of the time you shaved off it can take the best estimate approach all right thank you sharing this I mean we need more people sharing their spray on there and there is something you could do to optimize the code because in the end we do this for code then that makes sense thank you I\u0027ll I just want to get a sense from the rim how many people have read this draft raise your hand okay and does anyone I mean who understands the problem space raise your hand all right great thank you and next start Rob Wilton please datamodel definition task force okay so I\u0027m doing some work in 83 to transfer the dyes anything live yeah no issues also participating as well and as common thing to want to bring up here actually this bits of this where we don\u0027t stand the bands in 83 and what to bring it maybe try to yeah other the sand disclaimer here for my trip Lee that bottom Rhapsody he is actually my own views are not what a lot Forbes ish practically having said that the people working on the yang 1383 wicker chair has reviewed these slides and they\u0027re okay with it so they\u0027re defining yang models and the key thing here theta 2 got three is that they have an eternal API between the management layer in the hardware for Klaus 30 that defines a set of registers and values for purging the hardware and what 82 @ 3 would like to do is restrict and yang modules that get created and standardize a native of 32 only use those registers so they want people only to write yang models in 1803 that can guarantee to work with a hardware that\u0027s already been already been effectively and shipped or is like some shit there may be some issues where there\u0027s some rich is missing from Klaus 30 and those will be fixed up and as appropriate but the ones here is a couple of things Littleton don\u0027t quite well fit into cross 30 very well that so the two bits I want to particularly pull out one is ethernet statistics there\u0027s the arm on statistics have been trying to pull together and that some of that doesn\u0027t fit well into a teacup three some of those counters they\u0027ve been defining needs don\u0027t actually mapped out any hardware counter there\u0027s a couple of cases where we only loads in but there\u0027s some ones where and we would like to blow that standard eight standardized those in ITF as part of my interface common module and that\u0027s things like where you have some historical statistical data back statistics but if your size of packets way to do it three says that I recognize it frames over 2,000 points whereas a lot of people rush you run you\u0027re afraid of this so we "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:57:50",
    "text": "would like to standardize that here and and we don\u0027t plan 30 panties all the way all the arm on mid any bits of it so someone\u0027s here cover and then there\u0027s also one case going the other way which is great power over ethernet and in that particular case the mid was in an ITF went to I should believe and they think only harder than it should be no I Triple E so but again they like to standardize the bit nitro free that directly maps those hardware registers the stip is more stuff on the power everything it\u0027s more general they\u0027d like to standardize here so yan\u0027s with draft forward in net want to do that and hopefully get some feedback and we\u0027ll approach approach I think there needs to be some changes to that module at the moment it should probably automate the entity angle and be basically amazon so really sort of heads up of what\u0027s going on in 82 3 be interested in internet level yang I\u0027m along and review those models but it is also a feeler from the room if there\u0027s any concerns when you\u0027re trying to standardize bits I can\u0027t do need to talk 3 yep so Alex we don\u0027t have time for a full presentation but if you just want to come up and just quickly only know if we bring up your slides yeah just yeah exactly that\u0027s it okay anyways I had a static but you\u0027re almost out of Planet just not to mention basically if pier mount this didja get drafted we\u0027ve had key you coming okay all right so basically this concerns a yang mount or Kimmel and we just posted actually opted to the trap and basically the purpose of presenting this year we in the past it was actually the original mount event before we started a dark on the scheme amount work the trap has been capital deployment here but the question is now that that scheme amount is almost done it\u0027s a fresh beta to gauge interest in reviving this verb and also pointing out actually the difference speaking about schema Martha\u0027s and but what gang mom does essentially the the purpose of young man was to define amount instances so i can write stop it there actually and because right with a limit but i will just go ahead and give Alex some quick feedback how many people in the room have read this trap or at least familiar with the concept that Simmons traffic please raise your hand okay and and how many people are interested in this work was important we\u0027re not conquered option just interesting with having this worth moving for your a "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:00:50",
    "text": "level of interest rate please raise your hand so the first one had a reasonable number I would say the second one has a smaller number right yes okay great thank you so a key feedback that you want in the group asked on the list all right okay i\u0027ll do the sum riedel the perfectly actually this slide the different this is i think this may not be tiara exactly healthy food really they\u0027re different things it\u0027s okay does it then both to perceive like let\u0027s talk about on list thank you very much we know that there\u0027s a lot of interest and the what to do next with revised data stores expect to see text on the legs again that will be proposed text for inclusion and working group document so it goes through the normal says so discuss it and whoever\u0027s blue sheets please hold up thank you and see you in Prague Oh you "
  }
]