[
  {
    "startTime": "00:00:05",
    "text": "does anybody wanna do you ever keep her head scribing good please Bishop okay so blue sheets so when you\u0027re supposed to can start right ok so it\u0027s 540 so it\u0027s about time to start so welcome everyone this is ADHD working group welcome to Chicago so this is no 12 if you haven\u0027t seen this you are doing something very wrong but please take it seriously ok so the briefs glow sheets are secure I think that\u0027s like maybe 20 people in the room so it will be a quick thing we need to jabber scribe and volunteers come on people ok I see mark is volunteering so thank you it\u0027s too like yes yes it is thank you ok so if you are first time in the room and you don\u0027t notice the co-chairs of this working group is this is baron valen time Tommy Gonski we used to have a working group secretary but unfortunately and shanklin left for other and topics and he\u0027s no longer able to contribute to the obscene so he stepped down ok so a bit of an announcement there\u0027s an article in the eye TF juvenile about the DFC so if you are interested a bit about the HTC story it\u0027s there okay so this is what we have from the agenda so right now we are going to the admin suga then we are going to discuss the security gtv6 and rayon rayon an agent option and after "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:03:06",
    "text": "that we have a presentation about HP option for NSA chain sfp have another presentation about young data model for dhcp before and there are two more presentations after that so the first one is multi requirement extensions for dhcpv6 and we also have a last-moment edition so Jordie will represent and draft about a dhcpv6 option for configuring and not 624 so that\u0027s a draft that is in interior but it\u0027s a DGP option so if we have time it will be present exhale okay so any comments about agenda no okay let\u0027s go on then there is open box so you can stay whenever you are so I\u0027m Bernie voltas previously introduced by Tomic and I just want to give a quick update on 33 15 vis because that is a you know major effort by the working group to get this done um you know if you recall back in the late summer we been working to blast call where we had approximately 270 issues that were raised some reminder you know and a lot were duplicated but we had 270 issues that we tracked that crew a little bit as we were going through to add a few more so we\u0027re close to about 300 total issues we did publish the 07 version earlier this month before the deadline and it pretty much addresses all but about a dozen issues and so you know we\u0027re getting very close the and the remaining issues aren\u0027t necessarily you know complicated ones or anything like that it was just those just didn\u0027t get done on and you know so we hope to finish that up pretty soon we also have one new issue which came about because of the failover draft that we\u0027re probably going to include here is to clarify that you know well well the failover document uses the EVP message space so use the same number space we want to just clarify that relays shouldn\u0027t forward those message codes because they\u0027re they\u0027re not UDP anyway they\u0027re over TCP and so there\u0027s no reason for a relay to forward them okay um so that\u0027s something that will probably just wrap into this because we\u0027ve already incorporated forget what that RC was that talked about those the the that relation forward anything it doesn\u0027t know so um why you as his tech lemon sounds like you\u0027re saying that relay agents should a filter any packet "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:06:10",
    "text": "they don\u0027t know which means that real agents will not be able to support any new dhcp messages that we might invent in the future no see that quite the opposite what we\u0027re saying is is that unless right now we specifically say a real agent must not forward in a traditional sense the just two messages and that\u0027s the real a forward and really reply because those are real a specific okay and so the question is do we want to add the failover space which is I forget how many messages there are you know 10 12 message numbers that were signed from the dhcp message space do we want to say don\u0027t forward those as well is there is there any particular value of doing that that\u0027s a question I mean we could either just ignore it and say you know we don\u0027t care yeah the reason i ask is because it seems like you\u0027re placing a new requirement on real agents that probably doesn\u0027t actually make life any better for anybody yeah so servers and ignore it anyway yeah exactly the conservatory for you know if it\u0027s coming over UDP right and they don\u0027t support fail yeah so I mean that may be the best thing is we just are silent about it and don\u0027t mention them and that\u0027s the way it is right all right say you know may discard that way that way people who want to have a implementation that\u0027s slightly more you know parsimonious with packets here so again our plan is to publish an 08 very soon probably in mid-april and as soon as that\u0027s published and as soon as we\u0027ve done the working group last call completes for the relay port 1 which is next one we have to go out we\u0027ll started working to a blast call on you are even though you know we\u0027re not we\u0027re not yet done with the work we do encourage people to go look at the 07 and you know if you find things there that we broke or didn\u0027t don\u0027t you don\u0027t agree with it you know or it\u0027s change you ask for that didn\u0027t happen to let us know so that we can address that before we publish the 08 all right thanks any other questions comments so consider poems this morning we discuss about you use of dhcp your perfidy dication for host in the sixth man working group so I\u0027d like to someone perhaps six man to judge shake we don\u0027t need to update one or two details including in the way pavesi negation is implemented in the service and client to to not have bad surprise trying to use the participation and this new context yeah i mean that that whole "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:09:10",
    "text": "work is kind of interesting and you know one of the things that i was i haven\u0027t raised yet but i was going to send some email to the sex man group isn\u0027t maybe that they shouldn\u0027t use the word prefix delegation because they\u0027re not really delegating the prefix in the way that it used to be you know that the pd kind of delegates it okay and so maybe there\u0027s you know some verbiage there that could be changed to make that a little bit clearer that this is not the traditional pd that that pre you know that that 3633 provides yes but as is not a traditional pd there is open the door to have problems including not in suspected said but in implementation so it\u0027s something which we should care Tim owners you hol an author of said draft um yeah I think we can talk about this I I totally agree you know when you put dhcp PD people think 3633 standard and that\u0027s obviously not what we\u0027re talking about here I think we can do a myriad of things whether it\u0027s try to clean it up somewhere in this document in the biz document to clarify that there are hosts that will be doing PD and what that means or we can just say something to node requirements that go read those drafts the other option is to go read all the drafts that it said to do PD in this way right I think either works i think you know tim and i are opened up making any of those changes and it\u0027s maybe since your co-author the biz documented maybe something will want to discuss under this team okay um suresh krishna and so like yeah keep me posted like I I want to be involved in this conversation whatever you okay yeah okay so if there\u0027s something to be glad if I\u0027d make sure that happens okay thanks a rush Eric line weather changes from the 3633 texts that were like meant to sort of make PD work on hosts yeah the chart the wording in the biz document now stays away from you know requesting router delegating router for the most part there\u0027s no there\u0027s a little section in the beginning that we talked about it just so that you know we can draw the parallels to 3633 but then we\u0027ve replaced it with client and server okay so with the so since it theoretically non router devices could do prefix delegation right and with if I don\u0027t know France was you know was also renting with respect to the pio xdocument with Pio x and p dr like orthogonal like both can coexist at the same time so that was not really yeah i think i think is just making sure that you know it they\u0027re not confused right yeah thank you brett templin from boeing so I\u0027ve been doing prefix delegation to hosts for about two years now on handheld devices works great but to make it secure you need this stuff that you\u0027re about to talk to you right now okay all right so I guess we\u0027ll start "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:12:14",
    "text": "the discussion here so um the secure dhcpv6 draft is out for working a blast call was supposed to conclude yesterday we have gotten some comments but you know it would be appreciated to get people more people to review it and provide additional comments on the document um you know I think there\u0027s still well well the latest draft is is very good now there\u0027s still a few holes and obviously you know my little things to clean up here and there but i think it\u0027s looking looking very good I don\u0027t know you know comic and I haven\u0027t sat down to discuss what the working group lost call status is and we probably won\u0027t do that early next week so people you know if you do if you can read it and provide comments we greatly appreciate it um I didn\u0027t update it because there weren\u0027t that many I mean there were some comments that we discussed but there\u0027s on the mailing list but there\u0027s nothing or shattering you know just a few things for clarifying so in just to encourage people to review this draft technically it has 30 pages but almost 10 of them is and boilerplate references and there\u0027s extensive section about changes so there\u0027s maybe 20 pages of text and so it\u0027s really not that much and the overview of the protocol it\u0027s like two pages and a half so if you don\u0027t have time to read 20 pages just read those two budgets and say okay did this make sense to me okay or maybe doesn\u0027t all right um so one of the comments that June May posted and got some discussion is this issue regarding confirmed because when a client moves from or might have moved you know as a cable disconnected Wi-Fi session goes down and comes back up or whatever and you know the clients are supposed to send to confirm but if this is encrypted the problem is is that only if that server or the servers that understand that encryption are available will the client get a response and so there\u0027s a question about how we might tweak that and there\u0027s been some discussion I think we you know I think people should go look at the discussion read the draft and then we can maybe have some more dialogue on the mailing list about that particular issue okay um so as Fred had gotten up he has been asking us to revisit this old work that expired in about 2010 and this is the asian topped document and what this basically did was provide the server a way to tell the "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:15:14",
    "text": "relay specifically what ad verses or prefixes were delegated to the client and a lifetime\u0027s or you know even if the client released the the prefixes are addresses that you know they would get zero lifetimes to be notified and it did it in the relay part of the packet so that the relay doesn\u0027t have to snoop book down into the clients packet and the problem is with secure dhcpv6 that that client packet is going to be encrypted so there\u0027s no way the relay can look down into the clients packet to understand what\u0027s going on okay um we did raise this issue at the less ITF and people said well let\u0027s wait for se gtv6 to progress a little bit further you know it has progressed a little bit further it may not be done but I think it\u0027s time to start this particular work again to solve the relay agent problem because there are networks where you\u0027re going to have relays that especially for prefix delegation that need to be notified when it prefix is delegated or released so that it can do whatever it needs to to advertise that routine at the routing system or whatever so you know it it died in 2010 because we didn\u0027t really have a strong argument for it and cablelabs which was the main driver at the time had been using dhcp v4 snooping for a long time and so they just said hey you know the ITF is taking too long on this and we\u0027re just going to use dhcpv6 snooping because they could do it okay now they won\u0027t be able to so that\u0027s why we\u0027re bringing yourself um so you know works pretty simply by the real agent includes an Oro with a ran option and the server responds by adding the R an option with any of the I adders or I prefixes that have been assigned or removed from the client and the benefit is relays no longer need to peek into the clients message next so there were two issues or there was actually one issue sorry that came up and that was there were some concerns about potential issues without of ordered packet delivery but you know snooping has the same issues and so is this you know really anything different or new do we need to solve this problem and you know to date it hasn\u0027t been known to cause any problems you know there is the option for a really agent to always do a lease query if it wanted to validate something you know if they got some strange patterns or something that you know it saw a client getting a lease releasing it and getting the lease "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:18:14",
    "text": "again it might think that you know was that out of order delivery or something and do a lease query to ask the server well what is the state of this particular set elise\u0027s you know maybe it\u0027s maybe it\u0027s a non-issue I don\u0027t know what people think about it next slide so is it finally time to start this work I have a draft that\u0027s ready to go if we want to make it and it would I on what I do is tuck the 0 for 1 that was the last one that was alive converted into XML to RFC and then added some motivation to talk about SED GP v62 to the draft and also mention the out-of-order thing as you\u0027re something that needs that relays need to be aware of as a potential issue so the question is is it time to start this work if so is this the best solution does anybody else have any any different ways they would like to solve this problem um and if we should move ahead with it should we just publish this next version as a working document or do you want does the working group want to so to say well let\u0027s restart and you know do an individual submission and do an adoption call and stuff like that so in comments Ted lemon I just I think we should just do you know what you just did is great not that reason not i\u0027ll do an 05 as a working group document i was gonna get preachy but i\u0027ll just say that I agree with Ted just said okay great any uh any objections to doing that okay we\u0027ll do it alright thanks but I mean to everybody today I am going to present the draft on dhcp option for NSH insufficient fourth this draft expense how we can use the JCP option for providing the service function both in the solution may consume X like this the background and motivation so in an elevator service janpath basically are different elements like a service function of forwarded and serese function shine service functions on different elements requires the service function path so basically up manually providing this option to two different elements may not be scaled because in cloud kind of deployment cases applications will be going up and coming "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:21:14",
    "text": "down so so that we need a mechanism to dynamically provide this information so we are we are following the approach of deceit option to provide this of the information dynamically two different elements of service function path which tells you to expand all those acronyms because I don\u0027t think that most people in this room know what they mean oh we don\u0027t yeah okay this a service function for SFO phase that is function forwarded and SF is service function and there is a classified these are the different elements of service function pot and what about an SH ah knit sorry i sir n sh is the failure imminent yeah yeah isn\u0027t it was service headed yeah so so we are going to provide the this service function path or the different elements of this service function shine using a DCP option next I\u0027ll stay please so this draft we are going to propose both in DCP v4 and v6 how we can provide this service function path information to the different elements in this eres function chain so we are actually destroy so we are considering this service function controller basically this will provide the service function path information to the different elements in service function shine can act as a DCP server so using the DCP adding or putting a new DCP option we can actually whenever the DCP clients so basically the services function forward air service function so when they are coming up they can request this rubbish function path information so this will not add any extra overhead on the data plain sight like so because most of the network elements will be having this disc civic plan to running on it so in case this city this information DCP client is already up still later with it is configured for service for a function part we can we can still request using the DCP inform message and and the updates are we can we can get from the DCP server using the DCP for three new messages yeah have you got a diagram with a slide deck of just how this is all moments of work boy how would the understanding if we could look at that first and you could count it give us a bit of a primer on saying so okay we haven\u0027t deployed the diagrams but we have the headers a CPR option before and visit sleuths and their citizens in later just after the auction of what the architecture is like or what how this all come come ah it\u0027s so basically this this yeah this "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:24:14",
    "text": "presentation I haven\u0027t given that complete picture I thought like probably it\u0027s a of solidity issues is our weight of and let me just add you know the the norm normally we expect options for a particular you know functionality to be done within the working group that\u0027s working on that particular technology so this is a little bit more informational to us and I think we have to you know I think we\u0027ll we\u0027ll discuss with suresh but I think this probably belongs to the sfc working group and this is just let us know that you know this draft exists and that we may want to monitor it it is using the standard RFC 7227 guidelines at least for sort of the other encoding um you know there\u0027s stuff inside that might not be you know I haven\u0027t looked at in detail as to you know how well it conforms or whatever but again that\u0027s really their their area of expertise as to what that information is yeah there\u0027s Christmas oh I agree with you money right so I Catholic the thing is like in DHC right like we don\u0027t do the options for specific things in this group so we don\u0027t take it up here but we take it up in the group that it\u0027s done then we review the document to make sure makes the guidelines like either at the end or like it\u0027s really good that you bought it here and presented it okay and so this immediately something wrong like you get that feedback but if you reach 7227 that\u0027s kind of like what we are expecting the work is taken up in the group where it\u0027s needed so like for software options we take it up in software for sfc you need to take it up in slc and i can probably send a note to the chair saying hey the he presented it here and if you are up this and like send this forward like we\u0027ll do another review and you do that when you\u0027re done okay okay yeah so the sse would be the right home for this okay okay yeah well thanks something why aren\u0027t you just can\u0027t I just want to set the at the backgrounds people understood office isn\u0027t something we have to bless per se yeah yeah as I said earlier like this a SF SF new information dynamically changing because in cloud and deployments kisses cause these services will be going up and coming up on the path information we need to be updated accordingly to the different elements of service function share so this can be achieved using the days if both in v4 and v6 before we can use the resource use message and v6 we have the reconfigured message next slide please this is the format of NSF NIH header be full this is you can see a bit code still it\u0027s not decided the length will be in 32-bit words of 8 bits and we have "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:27:17",
    "text": "this history information yeah you tell me what the reserve field is for as we haven\u0027t decided anything but does just we have deserved something probably in future we click bad we can use that information so in the future you might have a an sfp option code with the same option code number that has 4 i\u0027m sorry is this is this is this part of an effort sfp data structure yeah no no this is the option headed how it looks is it a cpp food option head at how it works yeah so i just don\u0027t understand why you would have a reserve field there because if you\u0027re going to have a new header with a new new option with a new format with different data in it wouldn\u0027t you just use a new code oh ok actually we are looking for the years because this stopped depends on the another word of any such a draft so like we are just looking with anything we need to give the further information so just you had reserved but yeah your feedback is it will definitely take care and we will we will take it taken next traffic rush Maxie yeah next slide please this is the how the apartment of n sh for reduced shipping basics I can see the section bit option field and in 16-bit length and is followed by the variable length SF information yeah so this current status is like so there is a one more draft analysis header in a sexy group still it is under progress and is not standardized so this is our draft very much in line and it depends another tough where we are also just closely monitoring that one once it\u0027s good go to the arc stays like we can we can make of further versions of furthest from yeah I\u0027m a metronome of China Telecom I remember that I sexy working group that\u0027s working with document of sfc control playing control control planes this is a working group of documents admissions add to the sfc surface function is set up and maintained and recovered by the control plane so I don\u0027t like to know the relation / of this dhcp with the control planes I need to I think I need we need to clarify this yeah basically this sfv sfe control plane yeah so "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:30:21",
    "text": "control plane basically still that is not standardized the thing was we don\u0027t want to put any control plane information in the data pen side like so you need to avoid this shield that is also in rough shape because there are two different kind of opinions on this control pen okay with my culture cut off I have a question yes so how big is the sfp information that you are thinking that will be sent so basically the sfe information if we have as satisfied index so the service part index is derived from the classifier so once you have a service spot information you will have this service function that could be the same node or it could be the different node which is exit so that actually tells how the packet supposed to process during this there is function chain okay so are we talking about like maybe I don\u0027t know 20 bytes 50 oh yeah yes so say it could be around yeah it\u0027s a depends on how much what is this Ari Spotland basically how many elements are involved in packet processing during the life cycle of this faggot ok so this option may or may not be appropriate if you have more data in before you know that the Lance is limited by by by length of the lunch feels right so forget the biggest option can be 255 but no sir is very uncommon to get those that kind of big options in this before so sorry us thing about this before yes to make that\u0027s actually not correct because we have ted\u0027s concatenation capabilities so you can concatenate multiple options into one long one okay so if I can do this to about if you need to use it then you might be experiencing other problems yeah yeah so what makes so we are actually looking for the more comments on this draft so that we can incorporate in the next version of the draft and probably we are aware since so we actually this is in the experimental stage so we are looking for the with some University students and to start this ought to have some working kind of prototype yes and yeah we were feedback and questions and finally I would like "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:33:23",
    "text": "to say my synthesis thanks to ted who has provided these feedbacks our review in the draft 00 so all these things we have incorporated in the current profit thank you i will assume that this work will be done in the sfc working group and will be updated from time to time just to let us know house progressing oh yeah thnkx billion thanks to me okay hello everyone I am young gone from Holly due to changing his base I have some problem I have him to make his presentation next please ok it is a young model of dhcp v4 is included server and the relay and grant three-part include the configuration and the operation or data also we also define some up CC and it is whistle its structure the true sub tree at the HCP configuration and that the HTTP state in each part included work relay and then plant three sub tree finally we also define some IPC to clear the aesthetics of food server relay or plant next line yeah in order to support a different device with beta phi sorry if future for the for the function pruning is learned different as device can support a server or client or relay along yeah next yeah it is the server configuration young tree include the basic configuration like last this time pin number and a timeout and dhcp options the most important is dhcp IP for the pole configuration and like understand the mapping the manual a mapping my car drives an object rise under subsection actually at the beginning we want to define so I people as a separate model but finally we cannot find more usage so we just that if I I people here later if "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:36:25",
    "text": "somebody feel it in the we needed I were separate IP port if I maybe they can\u0027t discuss next line okay it is a option if I server server ID and the two min name and the server IP address and so on so we just at least here next class okay really configure subtree included group name in the face gateway address and the server twice right now it\u0027s just included almost the basic configuration we don\u0027t have to start more desire usually yeah okay it\u0027s clan next one yeah it is a state in the it will record almost all packages static information and the host a locket status and also ratified it for server relay and cleanse repot next Lance please it is a packet that if I each factor we define one parameter server and the client it is separately and ness okay well hi with the packet aesthetics but sometimes the user want to clear this information so we define three as you see here for servers to clear so our statics and the release tactics and the clan statics ok next please so I actually here it is not least design still not so good they still have some problem the first is it\u0027s still keep alignment with dhcpv6 young data we don\u0027t know later we need to put either or not the other because in our young i will van tosh.0 the one not one version due to wonder why they don\u0027t many usage so about our CDs I right now they only you\u0027ll select I\u0027ve see we don\u0027t use action now they also way here we only define the configuration and understated information right now we don\u0027t they defined notification maybe later his part also it is a custom almost basic dhcp function and later maybe some new function your message edited to new worship so sorry in Farah I\u0027m one of the "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:39:25",
    "text": "colors only dhcpv6 yang craft um so when you showed a list of the options that you\u0027ve got an EV for more what was that was that just an example or was that\u0027s the complete list of the the options you\u0027ve that you\u0027ve modeled at the moment that was the slide yeah yes that\u0027s the complete list is it not oh so so have you tried to model every option so apologies had conveyed its castle after yeah I mean it well it isn\u0027t the reason I asked the question like I\u0027m deliriously I\u0027m not if I\u0027m not if part of it is to live so I don\u0027t know the reason for that for the question is that we had we\u0027ve had a lot of discussion on the dhcp is this how comprehensive do you make your modeling of the options yeah how do you provide future extensibility and I mean I think I think we\u0027ve got some kind of consensus on how to do this now so you know it might make sense that it would be we keep it to a line there okay okay okay then they can come from yeah yeah and hopefully will this is Bernie volts hopefully we will get an update on a v6 gang model sometimes because and and also that we were hoping to get a presentation here on status was but the i guess the primary author whatever couldn\u0027t travel so hopefully it\u0027ll be in prague ok last us all so quick on my time the rest here so i don\u0027t think you need to worry too much about you messages in dhcp whore ok son less that they want to fix almost objects of initial just like sorry I know okay name also we also need to welcome new more comments yeah so they will keep our update and yeah this this still is an individual submission the working group hasn\u0027t adopted this work because we were going to focus on the b61 first and so you know it\u0027s just a you know maybe the v6 one were a little bit further along than it would be an interesting question as to whether we we should consider adopting it but I mean I guess it is a question for the working group how do people feel about you know do we want to revisit that is that consideration to begin work as a working group on the v4 document or should we just leave it at individual submission for now yes no comments we\u0027ll just leave it as an individual submission for now thank you thank you "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:42:28",
    "text": "okay so the next presentation is about multi-year current extensions this is an individual drop that is looking adoption in DFC hello everyone and my name is a linghu branch my university and am honored to have the opportunity issues share our work with you\u0027re here today and as you can see i\u0027m going to introduce our work Multi multi requirement extensions for the HSE pv6 the motivation is which inspire which inspire us to tap into his work is that we find some problems in ipv6 address assignment and management the first one is that is a mixed operation problem of a multiple actually a six addresses generation mechanisms there exist when the ipv6 address generational mechanisms in ITF standards which bring about diversity and flexibility and multiple requirements of generation just generation exist including manageability privacy transition twist back the current situation is that for this hostile act different operating systems have different reports adjusted generation mechanisms and some adjust generation mechanisms are not a pitiful particular networkers dinero\u0027s for example some enterprise networks may disable the use of temporary addresses 4236 I am a option and ITA options shows the requirement of the clients a requirement exists for dhcp with six servers to configure just generation mechanisms for different local networks so with draw conclusions that mechanisms for I\u0027m figuring or just generation mechanisms and requirements are needed as a second problems that stink realization problem with the changing ipv6 addresses as this problem means that some network until you want to keep up to date the changes of the changes of ipv6 addresses there exist many adjust the reality the network entities including switches the HTTP basic servers in the current situation for gage cpp six active list queries of the part of this problem by allowing and other network and it is to keep a remap "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:45:30",
    "text": "to date unzell dhcpv6 these days and four however the part of the problem caused by slack and manual configurations remains unresolved for example without a synchronization track addresses in with network-related Network Angeles errors may occur when a billing kill awake Rick accounts traffic and charges hosts the cert lines design patients a problem when processing large-scale concurrent to occupy six address requests or those of the current system Ned is not a very large and now and the address generation function should be designed to accommodate up to 64 to the power of two concurrent address generation required or requirements as a current situation is that the rooters or switches handle and handle and do forward of the newest messages in the current tid process however youth we had a central idea to manage your tabs or purchases in the network for large-scale concurrent requests that come current processing mechanism of server clustering techniques can be taking the consideration and the unicast a new custom message can be utilized next please the first problem the general model problem introducing external services into the address assignment process as I think Paris IP IP addresses can be mapped at your other requirements or spaces to support multiple functions such as authentication traceback and RF since 1737 introduces introduces a radio service into the acct basics exchanges and the late 90 tjs and his a system which in bed user identity in tues addresses to trace back the user identity later nati TJ or so you introduces authentication servers into the dhcpv6 exchanges so some interoperation is between gates EP additives and the external service the external service additives are designed to provide precise and the fine grain services Oh to summarize "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:48:31",
    "text": "they need to work out some general uniform protocol extensions or models to introduce X external services into the adjust assignment process next please and we we we summarizes three design goals and provide some possible solutions the cool one is the first goal is that addresses in the network should be generated according to the user or network requirements the second one is a or tab so much as a just like a location information your network should be using the central management the possible solution is that we first define general Jess generation type and the uniform adjust storage structure but this sleepy basics we define the extensions for new options and the exchange process or slack way modify prefix information option or bar a message and the daily process which is also can be used for which it is also used for many configurations the third ago is that generally reform protocol extensions and models for introducing external services into the process of will address assignment should be built the possible solutions that weighted by external service request an external service reply messages between dhcpv6 relay or server and external service client and the server next blue you guys all can see more details in the following dropped this is a personal job to engage the working group and most of the extensions can be achieved by extremely dhcpv6 under the premise of changing the current protocols as little as possible and thank you for listening any comments oh ma Tatia could you go back to the fried of motivations two or three not this one may stop something talking about the eye at this one yeah probably this is not the main issue of this proposal itself but to to clarify things I don\u0027t think on any messages forwarded by ladders it\u0027s it\u0027s reason single name protocol so um anything if you are just trying to say da da is not very scared "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:51:31",
    "text": "of all that follow very tragic you should be accurate yeah thank you Eric line broadly speaking I think this is kind of a bad idea specifically for the RAS yeah that\u0027s a very bad idea I mean I think that if you are a network that\u0027s allowing slack at all then you really don\u0027t have any business telling the device what kind of addresses that can or cannot use furthermore if you want to have an RA option I think you\u0027ll need to bring that part of the document six-man where I\u0027m pretty sure there will be other people who will tell you it\u0027s also a bad idea at least in the RAS I don\u0027t really care too much about what you do in dhcp and as far as the ND exhaustion attack issue I mean that\u0027s the sort of well known but the solution around that is to solve it with layer 3 routing and not with more locking down to this l2 l3 pair state management problem let\u0027s see what else well there were others if I think of them I\u0027ll be back we propose this is and we know this work may include a several working group the content may come we will present this ideas here we just want to know how to deal with this work and maybe some of the work can be divided to other working groups or we just want to suggestions yeah Eric Lanigan I remembered the other thing I want to say that was after reading your document you were talking about for slacker dresses nodes that had formed addresses by a slack or sorry via temporary dresses or auto configure dresses Esther to say yeah they could register them through dhcp through some message yeah and this had been proposed before by suresh and it was shot down by Bernie in part by saying dhcp is not a logging protocol so you might need to have that to contend with as well okay thank you yeah suresh krisshnan author of the set draft and also currently Eddie but the thing is um yeah so we had that discussion before and yeah there\u0027s a bunch of concerns right and and what we were appointed to was like using something in the ops area kind of like you know use some kind of logging stuff either like um use something like savvy or like some kind of collection protocol to do this rather than DHC to do this right so like like my original thought process was like if you\u0027re going to register your DNS name you might as well do this right so that was like the original thought process for that but yeah I kind of see the point like and "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:54:31",
    "text": "what Bernie said so it\u0027s not like for that so I think you will have some difficulties here but either way like I think the split 46 man Andy it seems to happen no matter what and then take it up on individual merits but i think the sum of the parts and dhcr certainly suspect but maybe can have better luck to the rest of the possible I don\u0027t know right but I\u0027m just saying it\u0027s just us six man needs to see some part of this ok ok and this all right and I think we won\u0027t take any action on this document and you know because I think it\u0027s a broader ratio with the sex man and potentially other working groups okay thank you and we have one additional presentation that is not on the agenda originally so here we go very very shortly because i think we are out of time I really apartment is from basically basically this this work has started I think it was about one year and a half ago the problem is that well the question is that this work was introduced it only for for 64 X lat and I run into the same problem which when deploying for 64 X letting customers and then I realize it that the problem well you can switch to the next slide please I realize it that the problem is exactly the same for all kind of not 64 usage in any kind of protocol nevermind is stateless or the state so basically what we have done is developed a way to inform the clients about the possible not 64 boxes that they might have so they can send traffic depending on the destination of the ipv4 addresses so they can get information about but the pairs of ipv6 and ipv4 addresses manage it by by each not 64 box that\u0027s basically the idea we know that this could be done by some kind of policy based routing and so on but we believe that this is the more straightforward way to inform the clients and not not needing other other options I can show you basically what we have in the draft is the flow that diagram of the interaction nothing new for the HCP options and then the x1 the information that we have in the traffic\u0027s and so on why we are working in area because we already check it with basic shops well we believe that this work belongs but of course basic substance standardized protocols and in the HCP in general there is not work first and rising "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:57:31",
    "text": "options so we decided that we need to progress in in a area it was presented already in at this meeting in in area and while we are waiting for for more inputs because I think I didn\u0027t get any any comments in the mailing list maybe only for one person in private and that\u0027s it Eric line I think maybe some other people said this something in int area but I don\u0027t that personally I do think that if you\u0027ve reached this point where you think this is what you need I mean like at what point do you maybe think like you design the network wrong or something this seems like maybe like one of those hey flags like hey maybe I did something like a little too complicated you know this seems complicated in kind of obscure well it\u0027s not just how will you sign the net goes but also we we understand that that this is needed in many other similar scenario so it\u0027s not just the case of my own customers I sorted out the problem there already so i have not a real problem but i think it will be more simple to do this way is there a document describing how you sorted it out so that maybe you could share that with the other people who think they need this um well basically using a just a single nat64 which load balancers and missing a lot of features that we could provide otherwise so it\u0027s not really sorting the problem but skipping the problem or jumping over the problem right now not really if you if you have a bigger network this was a network for customers that have between 3,000 and 55 thousand customers you have a bigger network that will really not the scale the way we have done right now but this is a bigger Network where you\u0027ve got a whole bunch of v6 only client side would be for only clients like already I think you\u0027ve got a problem no no because it\u0027s b6 only only clients so it\u0027s not a problem it\u0027s going away from before that\u0027s the nice thing if you need all this message for then you\u0027re not going away well work in the indic clients lands you still need to deploy before you know I mean there are boxes there you cannot tell them hey throw away your ipv4 cameras or whatever they need to stay there for a while smoke a ho let\u0027s not make this discussion about the usefulness of net 64 okay I was not in the interior discussion so maybe this was asked before but we already have an at 64 prefix discovery mechanism yeah why doesn\u0027t that work because that mekinese "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:00:31",
    "text": "done allow you if you go to the second is light I think the exact text that you did the previous one ah support for destination destination basic routing that\u0027s the key that\u0027s the kissing maybe I need to put that involve the sill ballot that cannot be sorted out which the actual mechanism if you read the draft you will understand perfectly all that okay there is a reference to to a couple of drafts that happen describe it all these and and actually 21 draft that was describing the usage of I don\u0027t remember the RFC and they were missing exactly this scenario okay make sense thanks okay thank you okay and i think we are out of time so thanks for the presentation then thanks for all the comments thank you thank you and see you in prague and thank you to the etherpad scribes about that your yeah might be my confusion just seems like a lot of saying I know authentication kind of translations option to the server is that true yeah it seems like a lot of verification of message happens after decription it goes right wait wait because we kind of have the decrypt before we can do it wasn\u0027t obviously in the drop is and I\u0027ve only started reading it i apologize i know it\u0027s in grayling again with us one point but it wasn\u0027t obviously for any portions of the frame that were just integrity protected as opposed to you "
  }
]