[
  {
    "startTime": "00:00:29",
    "text": "Testing 1, 2, 3. Good morning to you, Chris. Morning. You wanna run the slide? You want me to. Can you speak up for us? Do you want me to run the slides, or do you want to run them? Yeah. How do we start Yeah. They move stuff around. It's On the bottom, Oh, yeah. Share slides or stop sharing slides. It's one of those cases where going to the working group shares test out your media code thing would have been helpful, I think, for me. Alright. See the last people entering the room. That's fantastic. Welcome to the grow session at IETF 118. Global routing operations working group. And today, we got her in prague in in Central Europe according to Wikipedia. Knows well. specific importance is there is a code of conduct that applies to our IETF interactions with each other"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:02:02",
    "text": "In essence, to create interoperable software, the act or aspiration towards interoperability is social behavior. And while we're interacting with each other, it would be good to strive to be excellent towards each other. We have some resources, a mailing list that is fun to subscribe to. Our agenda, chat room, you can pull those up if you note the slides. Please make sure to scan the QR codes and log in using your data tracker accounts, this way we can plan the room size of the next session. And I'm gonna need a minute taker oh, here, your volunteer to keep track of the notes. I see somebody is pointing to someone else. Well, Warren, I'm afraid I have to appoint you, Thank you for volunteering I will monitor the chat room No problem. And then we go to the agenda. Today, we have an exciting mix of topics some of it specific to BGP operations, and some of it specific to our lovely protocol, the BGP monitoring protocol, My hope is that we run, under time to allow for a vaccine to present them some work and Next time, I will request a instead of a 60 minute slot. So my apologies for this agenda being a little bit cramped. I think we should start with Martin Pills, is Martin virtually in the room? Yes. I am. Can you hear me? I can hear you loud and clear."
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:04:05",
    "text": "And I'm gonna do the Slide sharing thing. Alright, Martin. Please take it away. Alright. I'd like to talk again about modeling BGP Communities this is work that builds on the idea I presented last year in, in london, and the aim is to define a structure for operators to describe BGP Communities Next slide, please. I guess I'll have to push that myself. Okay. Thanks. So I'll start with a short recap of why this, is useful? First of all, currently, there is no structured way to publish BGP communities, operators put this information somewhere on their websites or they put it in the remarks field of their RPSL objects. And this makes it really hard to find community definitions and it's next to impossible to do any form of, automation with them Next slide, please. And that brings me to the second point, so which is parsing communities, so parts and communities based, found in BGP routes, and attaching some sort of meaning to them, based on the what's in them, so this example is from the, a normal glooping glass"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:06:01",
    "text": "which tries to collect community descriptions from various, different ISPs, and then attach meaning to them. And it uses its own statically defined mapping of communities to descriptions And ISPs can update that these mappings themselves by sending it a full request but, obviously, this is not really ideal and it scales very poorly. Next slide. Next slide? There this is your next flight, right? Yep. Yep. And, this is the 3rd use case, which could be, configuring routing policies So if routers are able to load community definitions for, ASNs. It becomes possible to help the user define routing quality is towards these ASNs. So in this example, we have a s 6501, And, if I want to configure something, with the routing policy for that a s? I would be able to tap, complete the various sub fields of the communities that this ASN has defined. And this makes life easier for operators. Next slide, please. So to find out what is needed in in the model, together with Jeff Haas I, looked at various things operators currently actually put in their communities so first of all, there are display communities used to tag advertise routes with additional information. For example, a country where a route is advertised many different encodings are used here some u operators use, ISO 3 166 some news, M49."
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:08:00",
    "text": "And some people create their own mapping of countries to, numeric values. Other examples of things that are encoded are peer ASNs and self defined values like, city of origin, or if a route was, received via pairing or via transit, things like that. Next slide, please. Then there are action communities, which led customers influence routing decisions in a network these sometimes use private ASNs in the global admin field. Another thing is that, they may be statically defined, such as a black hole community, or they could contain, customer supplied values. Such as, a number of times a route should be prepended. Or they could contain ASNs for example, to signal that a route should not be propagated to a particular as an Next slide, please. So in summary, communities are generally used by, splitting the local parts into various sub fields And, generally, this is done on, decimal digit boundaries. And you a model that we define for this should also support private ASNs because they are used for the action communities. And we would have to support some kind of, patterns or wild cards, for, user supplied, values it's Next slide, please. So the draft describes a yang model for modeling communities"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:10:00",
    "text": "on the left you see the first part is, that's some generic fields like a, serial number of the community definition a publication URL and contact information for the network that, publishes, the community definitions. And the second part is the actual definitions, for, regular large or extended communities, that a network wants to describe. So here on the right, I'm showing the model for, large communities, its community has a name and an optional description, then global administrator field, which could be an ASM that network controls it could be a privatization. And then since it's a large community, there are 2 local data parts. Which in each of them, different sub fields that an operator defines And then each sub field has a name, an optional length, an optional description, and it has a pattern script. String that defines what's supposed to be allowed in the next slide. So I'll best describe this with, an example, So on the left, we have a JSON Community Definitionformatthed according to the Yang model, and this is a community that AS6 39 defines to mean do not export this route to a specific ASM. It has a name and a description. And the global admin field is set to, 65539. Then we have 2 local parts. The first, is called function"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:12:01",
    "text": "by the operator. It has, one sub field which we expect to contain a decimal that would mean, no exports and, the second local data part again, has one field with the ASN that the route should not be advertised to And, in this case, that is a regular expression that allows any of these and so then on the right we have the community 65539 for 65598. That a, that could be attached to a route and seen on the network, then a parser could could take the JSON definition forested community, and see that the name of this community is our C8195. No export a is in. It could see that the function is now export, and it could see that the ASN is 6 5598. And next slide, please. So for more examples, and, some codes. Please look at the drafts I've also created the GitHub repository more examples and a, small Python parser that can take a list of community and, derive their meaning based on JSON definitions according to the model, this morning, I've posted a link to the draft and, the GitHub repository to the working group mailing list And, with that, I'm looking forward to receiving feedback. You so much."
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:14:00",
    "text": "Any questions, comments, concerns, suggestions, observations, poetry, tomatoes, tomatoes, Jeff, you were first. Okay. Hi, Brandon. It's Geoff. You conveniently avoided one of our hard parts of the discussion about what's a token. You chose all of the very nice these things are integers and skip Did that why did you do that? Because I didn't want to make things too complicated for this introduction. There are more details in the in the draft such as, indeed encoding things with bits instead of, decimals. Okay. So I I think it's worth raising to the room to just pull their attention to no pay more attention to this One of the things that, exist already is a set of, collection communities that are aligned. And it boundaries, which don't nicely turn into easy asking. And this is one of the reasons why these things haven't been I'm drawing everybody's attention to this for two reasons. Reason number 1, you know, for this, bit of work, it will be interesting to see if he can solve that as a challenge. And for reason number 2, speaking as a vendor that would probably have to do something about this. I think this is true for other vendors. We may eventually be pulled into the case where we provide something in the communities to let you talk about things on a per bit basis. You know, we talked about this is the way we could do it. But we'll need broader support from multiple vendors to do so. Look. Hi. Luke Hendricks and Allan Labs, Roy Martin, thanks for writing this down."
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:16:05",
    "text": "I read the draft in the afternoon, and I was a bit confused about a sentence in 6.1 regarding deterministic Parsing, you mentioned the patterns, the pattern leaves should be ordered from most to least specific I thought it meant the same as saying we, take the first match and be done with it, then in section 6 or 2, you actually say that, if there's multiple matches, we take the first one. So I guess there's something more sophisticated going on with the first one and six foot one. I just saw your slide on on the patterns. Is there is there a relation here with patterns being greedy or no, and and that you should order accordingly, or I I was very confused by what's in there. Okay. So, it's actually, supposed to mean exactly what you said. So if you have, multiple definitions that match the same community, we I think we should order them from most specific to least specific so that if you find a most specific match, you take that. And if you don't find that, you go to the least specific match So, for example, if you have a pattern, that matches on the value 4 and you have the pattern that matches on the value, dotstar Then if you find a 4, then you take that 1. And if you don't find a 4, then you take the more generic one. Yeah. Okay. So that means the first one that matches were done after finding the first match. Right? Exactly. Yeah. Okay. It was a second second small thing I think you describe"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:18:02",
    "text": "regular, large, extended communities, but not ipv6 specific extended communities. I'm not sure where do you want to do that? Whether that's a omission, I'm not sure whether we talked about this limbets, It's not in there, I think. And I'm not sure it should be, but something to maybe think about, think about Yeah. It's something to think about. So currently, only, ASN communities are in there for 16 bit agents and 32 bit agents. Okay. Thanks. Alright? As chair, I, I think this type of work is of interest to this working group and It addresses a problem space that has existed as long as speech have existed. But gluing that up together with with Yang possibly as a way out of the, unstructured interpretation of each fee community definitions. With that in mind, I, would like to, issue a call for working group adoption somewhere in the next few days, And if the working group confirms interest to work on this, then we will jointly continue this work. Thank you so much, Martin. I hope the weather is nicer in Amsterdam. No. Drain Alright. Next up, we have So bias, who is gonna present on a update of BCP 194. I Don't think so. Then we do the next slide thing. Next slide, please."
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:20:00",
    "text": "So, quick recap, BCP 194. Or RC 7454, BGP operational and security from Sorry to talk too much time in the Netherlands. From February 2015, best practices for TZP layer. So, actually, the session is a BGP speaker itself on a network layer. And actually protecting BGP so what to import and whatnot next slide please. I personally took some offense in, basically 194, making some, relatively short statements about, what you should do with Ixplans. I know a couple of Ixt people, and I know that they prefer something involving furchase and pitfalls. If I start announcing their land prefix, so well. And there's also been quite some developments since 20 in terms of the text you can do with BGP and also in terms of defenses. As per our PKI has actually taken off, etcetera, etcetera. Next slide, please. The general sentiment was, well, somebody should maybe some help to Something about this, maybe. Next slide, please. And, I thought about, like, That's the time on my end. I give it a shot. My current idea was, added from the original towards a version that contains everything that has happened so far. This current version, which I have uploaded, takes a very maximum approach. So, it's it's basically many things because the objective of like, hey, this is like the ideal situation for maximum security, not yet caring about what is feasible, and let's work from there by cutting things down. And it also takes a wider perspective on secure also talks about reliability making things more robust. Next slide, please. So what issues did we see? In terms of check monology, BCP 194 users, some terminology was different meanings with the same actual words. So peers sometimes, used"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:22:00",
    "text": "to describe a BGP neighbor, and sometimes it's used to describe a peer relationship within BGP. Which is, of course, difficult. Also there has been some development terms of terminology in, RC 9234 and in the EspatterF. Some things in the document could use a bit more exact or more concrete definitions. And, Actually, biggest criticism I received of my, Early stage changes was that there was like this definition of what a tier 1 is. And that would probably stir up some people. Well, that is actually something that was in bzp194. Next slide, please. So what I did about that in the current version is, unified terminology. So BGP neighbor instead of here for things that are connected with whom we have a session and peer only for the topological peers. Import the terminology from 9234 and the Espator of more definitions when necessary and drop the reliance on the Tier 1 definition, next slide at There have been some newer tech since 2015, so there's this Pulse MTU prefix injection stuff, which, well, questionable, real world applicability, but well, there's the stuff was blowing up the GRT by, levering reaching, the aggregation of IP physics prefixes. So next slide, please. The idea is basically to, discussing these additional attacks that have come up and also something to later discuss. start Is, how this specific defense against this de aggregation attack should actually be implemented are recommended to be implemented. Next slide, please. the thing about the XP lens I had already mentioned that. There's The notion of announcing ISP lands is probably somewhat controversial. And there are also new use cases for XPs. So, in Berlin is operating in IXP, which is providing upstream to community, projects using the route server actually like giving out full tables. There are some operators like our electric who offer, upstream buyers, these, which changes a certain model."
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:24:00",
    "text": "And, of course, your RPF is generally broken. Next slide, please. There, the idea is to clarify that, only one entity decides whether an Ixp prefix turns up into GRT, which is CIXP. Removed the BGP example from the appendix of pzp194 and, noted and discussed the additional EXPLAN use case is, for example, app screen and how that affects our next stop filtering. Next slide, please. So in BCP 194, the, main an item is, the filtering types, so prefixes AS plus, etcetera. And, what what I personally think is that in the end, it's ultimately about LRI gets imported given that it has specific parameters, like a specific next stop or invalid next stop or a specific AS pause, which might contain indications that it's good, etcetera, etcetera, etcetera. Next slide, please. So with the changes, I focus more on a general frame of import I'll arrive. And, spits of prefix filter based. Approach to importing NRI to, the kind of staticness of the source lists. So, the more static ones, like what are boggins, what like RCA, not in 18, etcetera. Versus things that more frequently might change. Next slide. We also got a lot of things we can filter for always. Next slide. And there it Aspar, and, the only 2 customer attribute, they the thing was a community based filtering. And, if if you if you if you don't have OTC and you don't communities for filtering your downstream and filtering to it like where you announce it, you can get into funny things where you start announcing experienced from one of your upscreens, which has a leaf AS of 1 of your downscreens. Because your downstream started pretending to you. Actually, happened to me or rather one of my upstreams. I also introduced an emphasis on on filtering, because more filtering is better filtering,"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:26:00",
    "text": "right, if both sides filter, if one side makes a mistake, it's you know, not an issue either. There's a reference to, RC9319. There's more on community scrubbing. Also including large communities, which weren't really a thing when, 194 was initially written. And, there's, of course, the addition of the next prefix limits. Next slide, please. In addition to that, I added a note on this suggested shortest and, longest prefix links. What you should accept. So you probably shouldn't accept default route, but you should also not accept like slash force in ipv6. There's a note on AS Paul's max length filtering as something, tronic was dealing with with SAS. Which had bit of equipment, which didn't really go well, was as part of, over 64. And I'm also suggesting that I realize that this might be a bridge to fog. Doing some basic filtering on IBGP. So if you make a mistake and one part of your AS. Doesn't propagate to the rest of the AS, right, kind of making sure that things can burn down on their own. Next slide, please. Then there's a thing about rule generation and ordering. So BZP 1 and 4lakhs reflection on the algorithmic complexity of, the rules you apply. And, yes, that has beaten me. Simple example, if you add communities to, NRI you're sending to your upscreens And you do that. You first do that to your full table and then you filter it down at least in many BGP implementations. And the idea would be that you first say, like, I only want to export this small set of prefixes, which is like my cone, which might be like 50 prefixes and then you add communities to it. Do that the other way around, you can you create a lot of unnecessary computation, which depending on abilities of your routing device might actually be a problem. If you have too much money and RTO 1 and buy from, like, The big one. That's not an issue. Let's be honest, we probably all the permissions the last seventy to go 6,"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:28:00",
    "text": "not that long ago. It also does not, discuss the impact of, like sequential processing in a filter import. It's also something that bit me. So it's basically when you have to heavily loaded BGP speaker, and you immediately apply the rules or if you apply a for change It that. sequentially goes through those changes. So the problem I had was I had basically a rule 1, which, denied a lot of prefixes. Then I had a couple of other rules. And what I wanted to do is move that rule 1 a little bit further know, well, when applying the configuration, rule 1 was deleted. And the tool was happily going through all the other changes. Waiting to arrive at whatever rule 10 where it would add in the reject rule again, but because of the, control claim being reloaded. That took quite some time. In the meantime, I was leaking prefixes. Again, of those things which should not happen if you hold it correctly, but let's be honest, the internet is not made from holding directly. And also the filter generation is not discussed in-depth. And, BCP 194 still recommends IR tool, and I think we all went to be GPQ4. Next slide, please. So, what was I actually done? I, discuss the impact of order on filter computation time, how ways for generating filters, especially in resource constraints environments. So for example, only, validating the prefixes you are sent and rejecting everything else. Which of course needs more frequent filter updates, but might reduce, computation at also recommend the use of each queue. 4 instead of IRR tool. Next slide, please. So, there's also the community storming thing. So bcp194 operative terminology on what you can do with harmful transitive attributes because you should, of course, not scrub everything you don't like in terms of alternative."
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:30:01",
    "text": "Attributes, but only specific ones that can end that point cause harm. Next slide, please. And they're, may make it way in. Next slide, please. So at the moment, there's of to do items. So there's some more unifying of terminology on the to do list. It's especially moving more towards MRI. There is a general question, which I would like to whether it should be must or should the moment, it's from EZP 194 should I personally have the opinion that a few, write it as a must. It's a BCP that should be followed Whether that could be reasons that are valid to not follow it. But to fully follow the BCP, you must do it. But that is, I think, a technicality It might be good to have a point on, having preparations in place to, filter specific thinks. Like attributes. Like, I think some major, Tier one recently got toppled over because Juniper Rogers joked on some BGP attribute. And like being, prepared for such situations. It's about figuring out whether if you would want to proceed with such a draft, it should be an update or an obsolete. And there's a lot of knits in it. Next slide, please. So far I got several comments, and there's already tickets for it. There's the note on honoring G shot on IXPs. And also the use of local preferences on IXPs. Some people getting really frustrated when, they try to drain a session. People on the other side have just, well, no respect for Giza and, relatively low local preference. And therefore, just, you know, keep piping traffic, even though you signal, they shouldn't. There should be more emphasis on the, like, individual judgment required for implementing a DCP. There's MEDD based oscillation, which might also need a discussion. Community scrubbing should also include, extended communities, and, the attributes scrubbing also has to be extended slide, please."
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:32:03",
    "text": "Discussion points I see is BGP, IBGP filtering going too far. What is about the global max prefix limits? Is it too unreasonable or more about monitoring. What else is missing in this document, should I should or should I must of course, in general, is the working group actually interested in this draft and would like to adopt it. You. Thank you. Thank you so much, Tobias. I am very pleased to see that someone beside something must be done and, stepping up to the task. I suspect there is there are multiple people in this room that are like, yeah, it's somewhere on my wish list to, you know, right to definitive guides on how to do MGP filtering in 2024. We never got to it, but you did. I will allow a brief comments? Well, it goes I can recognize that it's perhaps appealing to go through each of these discussion items now, and we don't have time for that. So go ahead. Jeff, as I do not have a giant list, I actually gonna start this with Thank you for putting this into Git I'm going to strongly suggest that the working group file issues for all the interesting things so they don't get lost. Thank you. And as a quick response, if you've write me emails, I'm also filing a so that the boundary is even lower. Right? Right? Like, we we will keep the issues. We want to actually have to back and forth of the working group. I'm gonna throw in some things that are not in here. I have that's it's not the same list about the rest of So those of you who are you're fortunate enough to actually see me chatting in best earlier about attribute escape. Spent a lot of time saying, hey. Rose working on, you know, fixing a lot of the BCT issues. We should talk about some of these things. There are 2 I wish to specifically flag for attention to which"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:34:01",
    "text": "Number 1, which is this document has historically been written for internet service providers. And this be you know, it was many of you know, at Lowe's. BGP is no longer used just for internet purposes. Which means that, you have opinions about what should be cleaned up from the messes from all these VPN protocols. I would suggest one of your document sections should be, you know, one part. You know, how to scrub things that don't belong in the internet. And the second part, what should be the templates that all of these, you know, different BGP working group things should have in there as a operational consideration for cleaning up Second thing that's interesting for me, dealing with attribute escape. And this is very short. Path attribute filtering is scary. This is a good place to discuss the problem. I suggest we add it to it. A queue is a discussion for So next steps, I will issue a call for working group adoption in the next few days and to pull working group's interest to jointly work updating the the BCP. And I would encourage the working group to either use to get up issues or, email to the mailing list, when they have specific recommendations or opinions son. Many, many things this document is suggesting. Hello. You are next up. You know, So slide before. Yeah. So, for I'll start from I have updates on 4th draft. I will start from the the quickest one, which is the the Europe."
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:36:04",
    "text": "Test the line, please. So this draft is about you know, splitting up the, in it and pick up, registries. It's a work that was started by John, and then I promised some help, to integrate lock ribbon, Audrey, about, RFCs into that. Next slide, please. So essentially the only thing that happened here is that, you see, currently, we have 1 registry and, where we have those code point 0 to 4. Next slide. Yeah. I swear I'm not doing that on purpose. And so this draft essentially makes 2 registers where you see you have on this one, the initiation 1, you have a 1 and 2 defined. 3 and 4 hours served. And next slide, And, in in in, and then you have, in the 2nd registry, you have 0 1 and 2 reserved 3m4 defined. Right? So I would say super simple. Actually, 3 Sonoma Magic. You know, in this slide, in this draft. So could be also good to go for last call to be honest with you. As far as seeing I would say. So next slide, so we go to this, so to the support of a TLD in a BMP and so bumping to version 4. Next slide, please. As well, I'm not doing that on purpose, you know, So next slide again. Please. So what happened, and what is the current status of this draft, is that, we did something major recently, which is moving the BGP PDU into a Tlv. Like, in route mirroring,"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:38:00",
    "text": "we do it also in route monitoring. So we justified there was a lot of discussion like, the stateless parts in TLD should we do it or shall we not do it? We should do it. Because, we cannot put add part and the multi labels into the flags, the pure flags, because they are per family. So you need really, something more fine grained, so you can just have a global flag like for for a, for bytes ASN. Right? So you need, Tlv which is indexed with the angle that you are addressing. We did bump, to the version 4. One one thing, I got a comment from Luke about that. And today, there was another comment from calling I didn't process, that other comment but, the input from Luke was making a lot cents. So instead of going, one kiloby per let's see, capability that we should do 1, and, we do you know, we assign bits, right? I like it any input is welcome. So we bumped the version to 4. That was another big item of conversation. And finally, I think that you know, we are revision 14 of 13 of the draft. And there has been a lot of work and also there has been a quite some evolution from where the draft started. Dang, week, took a few turns, I think for good. So, now it's really time to post for one second. I would say the major items of work, they are done. There are a few things to refine here and there. It's time to reflect post one second to implement it and so that, you know, we can see that everything sticks together before doing any lost call. And speaking of that, next slide, please, of you know, making, you know, starting to"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:40:00",
    "text": "see that everything makes sense, something that sons did during this hackathon was, to write the Wireshark Disector for BNP version 4. So for all the content of this, of of this draft. Right? So, you know, we are already starting to march forward in that direction. So we should now apply that in a exporter in collector or make see that everything makes sense and and and things like that. So that's where we are at the moment with this draft. Slide, please. We have the EBIT support for TLVs. Next slide, and the next slide. Again, Yeah. Yes. Super short, like, so what we you know, all the items, you know, all the feedback was processed. I think. I don't know. Maybe I have another bit from Luke as a feedback to this draft that I didn't process, but the major item was like whether we should have EBIT support also for stats types. I think, in the last meeting, we said, like, it makes sense to. I added that to the draft, I would say there is some feedback to process there is no much, things going on. Like, I would say this draft is finished, but this, of course, depends on the previous draft on the TLV draft. So I would not ask for a for a last call for this one until we last call other one. So this probably now goes a little bit in post mode. Next slide, Yes. I anticipate So, Yeah. To come. Please. Yep. Next slide. Yes. So let's go a little bit now to the meat to the last draft so a root event, the rail draft route event logging Next slide, please. So what is the idea? I will recap it because it quite new this draft. So the idea is that, like, in BM"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:42:02",
    "text": "be, we have, you know, states synchronization with the monitoring. We have debugging. We have reporting. We have stats. We have a lot of stuff, but we don't have anything that is event driven. Right? And so, this draft is a compliment so this new message type that we are proposing is a compliment to whatever is already existing in BNP. So, for example, you want to report on events. So you want to for for for for for very different use cases. You may want to use this like alerting, reporting, or, facilitate on change analysis where essentially like the portal is already telling you what's changed and you don't have to do comparison off just huge tables like pre policy and post policy. But, you know, the exporter can already tell you, oh, this thing was filtered out for example, Right? So this is the intuition, the idea behind this draft. Next slide, please. So what happened here is that, like, I, made a first, very need attempt to after starting to explore the policy discard the TLV. Right? Currently, it's just a string. I already got some video full feedback from Jeff. Thank you, Jeff very much. Jeff, was saying like, this string with a limit to 250 five characters should be at least relaxed, right, to include or maybe we should go factor of strings and things like that. I think it's very useful feedback. This is really a question to all of you like, if you have policy discard, what is the information that you would like to receive? Like, what, in which format, what will be useful to you. Right? And it's a question to both operators and, of course, vendors. So we have to mediate what is feasible versus what people want. Right? So the goal is not to F Thirty 5 this, policy, this car thing."
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:44:03",
    "text": "Because we should always have a vivid memory that we had the previous incarnation of trying to have policy discards in a draft, and that Jaft was quite complicated, quite complex. And in fact, it be really never really took off. So we should really find out what is balance between what we want to achieve versus, what is feasible and not make things you know, too complex. Right? So super open to feedback from anybody about this. And especially from maybe also from Rudiger Rudiger you were, like, the first one, Chicago 2017, saying I want to see why, you know, something is dropped. Right? So maybe you know, would be very curious to hear from you. Still a lot of work to do, as per Jeff Swartz yes, like, we have a number of recent codes and each of those they should go into a Tlv, where we explore you know, each of those, like, locker lock reason, logging and other stuff like, you know, validation issue and whatever. What we want to see there. So I will do that work. It's to do for me. I have some feedback to process still. And, working group adoption call is ongoing. It finishes in 2 days. If you are interested in this draft, please, at the end of this session, go there and support the adoption. Thank you. You, Paolo. This? Lukendricks and other labs, Hello. Thanks for doing, all of these, on index DLVs. What do we do"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:46:02",
    "text": "for a PDU, which contains both conventional and NRI and and pay reach and Larai. So the So if we have a a BGP updates Yeah. With conventional fee for unicast and LRI, right, at the end. But also, whatever Afi Savy, in the attributes. How does the indexing work? Which is the first one. Is it, is it, is it the convention Like, what is one? Xero is 4. Cool. Cool. All of them, but that's a mixed bag of, of, of office office then, right? What is the first one? Is it the first one from the conventional parts, or is it the first one? From from Yeah. It's it's it's very good to specify that. I my intuition would be, like, the first in the packet. Like, you know, I just parse the packet and, I, you know, I the number one for me would be really the first you know, if it's the unique unicast one that It's, that would be the one. If it's a dumb and be that would be the the the first one for me. So that's Yeah. That, that would be my intuition. It should be specified, of course, totally. And then, yeah, that So there's also, touches on REL, where the PDU, the BGP, a PDU will be synthetic. Right? Right. Do you think we should allow both conventional and the Larai and if they reach in there, as well, or, yes, I'm not sure if it makes sense, but it's, again, I guess we should Yeah. We should specify it. I think, it can it can make sense. Also, because and I tell you why not much for the synthetic one, but for example, Jeff brought, to the attention like on the malformat packet. Right, reporting the malformat packet. So in that sense, you are probably not doing anything synthetic. So it's a a packet."
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:48:03",
    "text": "In this small format and this there. So this is why probably I would not go and, like, for the synthetic one, be restrictive and say you should have one or the other. I would say it's a BGP PDU you want to putting there. That will be, again, my intuition, but I'm open to Yes. I'm not sure if that's the same thing. Right? You're talking about we observed an invalid thing, and we we put it in yeah. And the REL message with a recent goat Right. Inverts. Right. But I don't think indexing has anything to do for those. Cases, right? Oh, yeah. In in the in the realm, there is indexing as well. Yeah. Okay. Yeah. I I'm yeah. I'm yeah. I also, in in that case, for the for the policy, this card 1, I I can see the I can see this Yeah. Small. Last question, if I may. Tiny question. Okay. For these region codes, so for example, for policy, this card 4 mail forms packets. Set the bits in a recent clip, right? That's one tier fee. Yeah. If one of these bits is set, I assume I can expect another TLV, for example, with the BGP CUDA unit is invalid. I think we should define how strongly, that assumption is. And I guess we should be flexible because there's so many implementations around and that information might not be available. Yeah. I agree. In all implementations at the points, but I guess we should. Yeah. Yeah. That was already on my router. You're totally right. Yeah. Okay. Thank you. Thank you. Hello? Thank you. Of course, I would encourage the 2 gentlemen to further explore this topic in the hallway session. Next up, Jeffrey Hass, DMP, BGP, rip rip statistics. That's a lot of acronyms"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:50:01",
    "text": "Yes. And this next episode of the BMP Working Group, I am not polo. Am instead booked both. So Yeah. We're we're gonna be talking about adding some additional statistics into BMP. This is ideally boring conversation with exactly one interesting note of you know, we haven't added a lot of new statistics and, you know, can venience. John Scudder finished some work recently. The make them first come first serve. So people could just ask for whether they want to. But but but we went to standardize some of these things. So what does that cadence look like? Next slide, please. So just, as I just said, sticks in there, and this is a nice telemetry stream for things that are right alongside the rest of your data. And They're not as exciting features. A lot of the other things that, like, Palo is adding into BM key, but they're very helpful. So the question is, you know, what do we add for things? And been a late vocal has some useful cases where went to throw in some things that are not packet counters. Haven't received this update. We haven't received this note. Prefix. We haven't received this x or y. Actually tracking live status of things on the router and those in terms are called gauges. So motivation here. A lot of these things, like I said, are cheap to implement. They're cheap to stream alongside. How many pieces of infrastructure do you want in your network asking the same damn questions about what status of things are. Well, if you have it in EMT, let's throw it in there too. Next slide. So the proposal's boring, but highly enough that already present. We don't have ribbon and rib out gauges. We have counters. We know what we've received in things. But, you know, what's the per Afi safi that I've actually received? You know, I was like, 20th have these things be 64 bits. And the stuff that we want is going to be per athlete safi. Next slide. What do we want? Well, things that are boring, like, you know, number of routes that are"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:52:00",
    "text": "currently rejected but are still in your rib. This goes back to the policy cases of, you know, what has actually been rejected and why. What are the current number of routes that we've accepted my policy? How many of these things are active? The number of things that have been dampened by broke lap damping or other damping procedures in your router. And, you know, if you're in the middle of graceful restart, You you have many of these things are marked stale. 10, go one step further. If you support long live grace will restart, you know, keeping track of those things, especially, you know, people that, I remember the controversy when model if Grace will restart with, you know, proposed. Well, these things could be stale for days. So this could be a scary thing. Next slide. Rip out less interesting than you've been. You know, we just basically want to know how many things they're then rejected you know, on a outbound policy basis, know, because, you know, maybe you have a whole bunch of routes, you know, I have, you know, most of a million routes worth of internet, I've advertised 10 of these things. No. Some things probably not what you're expecting it to be. So No. These are things that are all showing up in your favorite router's show commands. Let's stick them in BMP. Next slide, which I think actually there is no next slide. So Like I said, we add counters, what we're asking to be done is to adopt this as a bit of working group. Those if you conversation here is we could, as Juniper, just go out and say, we want a bunch of first come first serves and just start shipping this stuff. But ideally for this type of thing, we want to actually get Review. Part of this, you know, process is also to give the chairs a chance to say, for things that are useful how do we not only let the developers move fast but also make sure that we don't have, you know, 10 different companies doing 10 different counters for exactly the same thing. Will drive the operators crazy. I have enough operators went into me already you very much. Thank you, Jeff."
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:54:02",
    "text": "I noticed a 2 item to, initiate call for working group adoption. One tiny question for you. I kind of assume that we want to avoid a router that emits a PDU, a BMP PDU for every routes that it receives. Right. So is there some kind of sliding window or or recommendation on how often to admit discounters. So 7854, I don't think has any specific vice about this sort of thing, but pretty much every implementation I'm familiar with will spit out a counterset on a regular cadence, like, you know, once admitted, once 30 seconds. I can go grab the source code to figure out what we actually do. That's sort of the relevant point, and this is sort of actually streaming telemetry analogy if you're getting this no bias, a GMMI or something like that, can get a completely unchanged, which doesn't make sense. You could do it on a periodic cooling basis. But protocols that are out there asking questions over and over again on its demand rather than the capacity and availability of the router do its actual job, forwarding packets, as a little bit harder So things that push on regular cadence for very good other questions are an easy thing. Now, clearly, we don't want to put in, you know, Meg's worth of stuff, you know, every 30 seconds. But a lot of these counters are actually a lot smaller than that. Thank you. Alright. I am super happy to report that we managed to get through all 60 minutes worth of presentations in 55 minutes, And that means Maxine and Pierre and, Paulo are lucky because we still have, time for the the last presentation so please come to the stage you you have, roughly 5 minutes And I think this is your first time presenting and grow yeah. Exactly. So Welcome. Welcome. Happy to have you here."
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:56:02",
    "text": "Let me know when I should push for the next slide. Okay. Yeah. Hello, everybody. I'm Max from, in Italian. Today, I'll talk about 2 drafts, we're working on with, Pierre and Paulo. The first one is the lock repair. So you've already published it. Just, quick update on it. Next slide, please. We do not, keep the BNPV 3 support the the behavior for it because we need more states, than the BMP version. Trick and, allow us to percent. So we're using BMP V Four with the all the TLvis that can now add. We also added some figures and rephrased, to increase the the the clarity of the of the draft. And next slide, please. Then, the local ADs. So that's a new draft we're trying to push. Basically the the goal is to identify the path in, a router and then report it, in BMP next IPs. So, first, I'm going to, explain quickly the the issue we're trying to address then the solution, which is the local pass ID and how we're going to export it in BMP. XIPIS, basically. So the the issue is that, our collection, has to rely on the, on the use of network modeling to identify the past, which is an issue because sometimes it can be a bit, sketchy. You can have some ambiguity, and this is this is a problem when you're trying to to do some the correct collection. So, the idea is, that now we're going to put an ID on the past so that we do not have to rely anymore on the network modeling"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:58:00",
    "text": "talk to walk talk talk talk talk talk talk talk talk talk talk talk talk talk talk talk talk identify the path in between the the ribs, for example, next slide, Chris. So this ID is called the local pass ID. It's just a number that's, used to identify a path it should be unique on the router, and and not only, for example, in BGP, but across all network protocol, demons, if possible. We want it to be, no bake number so that the collection doesn't have to to understand how it was generated, but more, we define the properties. That, you need to guarantee when you're implementing it. Those properties are, mainly needs to be unique on, per, an NRI basis. That we keep the value small. It needs to be unique on the router, and needs to be preserved, in between the VRF and behaves and everything like this. We do not specify, how you should implement this and how you should compute or determine this, this, local pass ID on on your router, but, we give recommendations because if you want it to be global in a router, you don't want to, you want to avoid interprocess communication between the the different demons, for example, the OSPF and the PGP analytic So, ID is that we have a path discriminator it's a subpart of the local pass ID. And, one process is, it's goal is to keep it, unique for an an a path of an an LR. Right? And then, to that, you'll prepare the the process ID so that now the dispatch discriminator is unique for this process. Is unique for the whole router. Thanks to the the process ID. Next slide, please."
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:00:05",
    "text": "We didn't want to, export this, past ID. To, the collection. So we're using the PMP before TLVIS. It will be carried in the route monitoring messages. So that's why you see the index here. This index should only, target, single NLRI, So no global, 0 value. And no group deal. We also want some input from you guys, about the TLD links. That's a tricky question. We don't know, if it should be a static links and then what's the value, like how 32 beats, 16, depends probably on the use case. So maybe we could go with the dynamic lanes. So that every implementation can determine the the, like, the the lengths it wants for this local path ID. And then on the collection side, we just, like, compared hyperbyte. So, yeah, that's it. Next slide, please. And, yeah, thanks, Laura. If you have any questions, Thank you so much. As working group participants, I have a a small suggestion related to your, Secondness slide. You ask whether it should be 16 minutes or 32 or larger. I think aligning it with RC 7911, the at path RC, which stipulates the path identifier of 4 octa or 32 bits. Might be useful And then as a side effect, you can use commonly available functions like ARC 4 Random to very quickly pull, identifiers out of your hats Cool. Maybe. We get that. But Jeff, it's your turn. Oh, yes, Stefan. So I am not at the end of this proposal."
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:02:02",
    "text": "Understand completely why you want this, gonna give you an analogy. Maybe if you I haven't read your draft. Maybe it's already in there. This is like a UUID. Let's see. Unique thing that you can use on the router that theoretically can tell you, you know, what the instance is. The reason why I'm not a fan of it, completely side of how big you make the magic space to actually uniquely identify these things is you're effectively asking the router to try to track potentially on a long term history with changes a magic number type per route. To have the unique dis properties that, are necessary to get this done. You have to keep a bit of magic with each one of these routes that allows you to preserve that unique this and you also have to maintain some sort of collection that allow to see if the number's been either used or have a scheme that allows us to make sure that you don't have reuse. If you're not actually making use of the number yourself aside from just storing it, you know, it's less computationally expensive But This becomes a challenging thing for implementations. The track especially if you're on a box with types constraints. So Certainly, this is a optional feature. So maybe other people can decide they want to do this. I think you're going to find implementers or less happy about this that you may think. Okay. So to to summarize your feedback, your concern is that introducing this feature would be additional state for the router to keep track of top of all the other states, that sounds like, fair feedback So I would encourage the offers to, consider this feedback and maybe see if there is a mechanism to reduce the burden tracking the state, maybe there isn't, and then it becomes a cost of fend their smells either absorb or nuts. I I think this is, a good point to, consider,"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:04:00",
    "text": "and, then, come back to the working group if if if if if if if if if if if if if improvements are possible in that space. Super. 4 minutes over time. Very proud of the presenters. Thank you so much. The next IETF, grow session will be in Bristol in other side of the planets and I hope to see you all there. You for attending. Like, how can you fix the Right? For this year."
  }
]
