[
  {
    "startTime": "00:00:09",
    "text": "okay it's 3m. but I think we can wait a couple of minutes because to wait some someone to join so many people attending exactly yeah I got up I went to get coffee I went in the rain for you guys just think about it what time is there Michael 8 8 AM yeah well I drove people to work in school because it's like you know just dating not a good dating just Frozen SP yeah thank you for joining Mel do you know if Pascal will [Music] join I know of nobody intentions okay so I don't know okay thank you I know that Aris and cor cannot join because they have another meetings so yeah"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:02:04",
    "text": "well then it can be a quick meeting yeah I'll ping pascals just to know thank you so which is a procedure if nobody joins so we just uh go through the slides because it's going to be recorded so people can watch it later or we just reschedule I think we should be rescheduling okay I don't think there's any point in going through the slides that you've you guys have written and I don't know if I read but probably okay yeah there will be Ed for next interim in February so you can just jump there e"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:04:28",
    "text": "e I'm surprised John is not joining is ignoring us all together okay beware the meeting is recorded okay no problem I think we can wait until 310 and then we startop the meeting we wait 10 minutes right yeah another five minutes yep good"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:06:14",
    "text": "hello pasca Ian can you hear us hello Dominque hey good to hear you so I think we can get started and that's going to be a quick meeting just run through the slides okay great um thank you for joining uh welcome to the ITF Ro interim H please understand that this yeah you can make it simple just skip through all that we all know that the okay we just align this meet is aligned to the not well we will not read it but please uh be aware of"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:08:01",
    "text": "that okay you are aware of how we have to trade to respect and how's the the rules are specified okay the the these are the materials but you already know that so this is at the agenda we go to the introduction then the projections and then rftd mopex en priority and NSA a extension a comments on the agenda no okay so uh the draft status so how the ver was submitted to theg and waiting for comments that projection as well was submitted to the isg and the version 34 should address all the issues of the routing directorate um and a extension is submitted to the but there was um some comments addressed but still some open issues are there was Return to the working group um then enrollment priority all the issues since um be addresses so it's ready to go forward mopex is in progress addressing open issues NFD as well as we have reviews that need to be addressed and the waiting for attentions R capabilities and storing route at acknowledge then the M were changed as suggested in the previous [Music] ITF uh okay we going not go into details on this then the open issues for mopex we have two tickets for rnfd we have four"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:10:00",
    "text": "tickets basically on based on the reviews and for n extension it should be not number one should be number 28 that it was reopened today then uh we suggest to have regular meetings every two months since today is very low participation well we propose as well to have a next inter meeting in February there is a doodle that we will share after the meeting to the m list so we can have more quum and uh we were discussing about the ITF in brisban but it seems that we will not have ITF meeting in brisban do you have some comments on it I don't know that I'll be there okay yet so yeah I'm happy not to do that okay thank you then I think the trade office if we have a meeting in a different town time zone we could attract new members uh specifically from the asan Pacific region but if nobody else is there and it will not be very attractive anyway so I think we could have a virtual inum in the different time zone yep that going work [Music] yeah thank you for the comments then the interim in April will depend of the dates choose on [Music] February then well the rata was verified this is a correct uh point to notice that the the artifact the r information at the RPI H will be typically be non zero when it arrives to the doar route so this is correct then Dominic you cre Chata for this Mr Hof yes yeah I read Mr"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:12:01",
    "text": "Huff again as part of the NSA draft uh NSA extension draft review and so oneata is just purely editorial misspelling the other one is this one I think is just a a few words that were forgotten in the sentence so to me it's editorial but the RFC editor wasn't too sure so they referred it to John and I think John is going to come back to us sometime um but you know if you want to discuss about it we can discuss it later maybe in the any other business or on the mailing list I'd rather not be talking too long because I'm not in a convenient place to to be talking sure right then for this as well is just a typo then for to projection while admitted to the I as we previously mentioned the version 34 should address the Susan comments of the roting directory review we have not seen any replay of the mailing list you got something Pascal from Susan from November well no I um there was this meeting I think was interim where Susan Suz she came and she said she would address my resp my responses my replies and I've not seen anything so if there was a way to maybe just ping her and say you know where are you okay I will be here my remembrance of that meeting is that she said she stands by her comment and then but but we're free to um do differently she she had a comment she made her point and I don't remember that there was something more than we were were expecting from her am"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:14:00",
    "text": "I mistaken and John second you're correct right you're correct we uh she said things I answered my point of view and and for some reason for some of the questions it was like just as you say I mean she thinks what she thinks and I think what I think and in particular one of those issues was should it be experimental and I said no because we tried experimental for uh the first P2P draft and that means nobody will look at it uh so that's not what we want and and we'll never work probably on a dow projection Bast which would not be experimental anyway uh so either we publish it or we don't but I don't think experimental helps at all um now in her environment like b or things like that experimental has a much different meaning but but in role I mean the experience we have on experimental is that it means nobody looks at it um so so that was for the experimental thing but then there were another uh set of questions and and answers in my uh replies and I did some fixes and then I think she kind of said she was okay with the changes but I've I don't think I've seen an email saying okay on the changes so so I think we need to to agree or disagree as a group on either or point of view or my point of view on experimental and then for the other subjects I mean I'd appreciate to see if she's okay with with the document I think she mostly was but that's that's where I am I'm not 100% sure everything is okay beside this experimental story yeah you do the version 34 some clarification on inreasing targets but I have not seen from your email from"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:16:00",
    "text": "November a reply from her so we can pin her anyway and let's see if she's agree with version 34 which I like Dominic say I think she she was okay but we will can confirm that for the version 54 yes and for experimental she kind of you know yeah yeah she she lets the group decide so as a group I mean what do we do and she has a point I have my point and now you all as a group we need to de I think on this one is clear John said it's okay with me to be standard strike so nothing to do and but you're saying there were other uh points uh other comments that you responded to so who is willing to take the action point to double check on that I I can I can ping here good thank so you can replay the email from okay thank you um okay and then for passport order of PR detection in Trio we have got so far for reviews from Anan cars security and routing directory review and those reviews are being addressing addressing so the summary of the an review many thanks Anan for your review extens review uh he comments on the lar scale for the root the deployments and how will be the the detection as well if he the if contract can provide some experimental result result specify energy consumption which is the impact of different type of networks and as well he provide some other Tech suggest some other techniques like overhearing can be used uh detecting border from failor um and then as well some comments on provide some reference algorith with when the the stage change just"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:18:03",
    "text": "to minimize the fs positive and negative um as well some question on the threshold values how how is it up then uh as well we got the cards review many things cards basically as well trying to do some clarifications um explain some concept uh explains as well some rational about some sentence in the text and some typos as well we got the review from the security directorate which H def has ready with some minor needs and then the RO directorate by Victoria well as well she proposed to have some uh further explanation and to and it Clarity um what happen with the old nodes can participate in the algorithm um suggest as well some ref of description for negative or positive CF crfc Conflict Free replica counter as well request more clarification on the rationally behind to use prime numbers and and the proc of selecting bits and then as well more clarification about the to responsibilities when have to choose the bits and some kind of bit numbers I'm reorganizing some text um yeah so since all these uh reviews are and so in in those in all these points do you think I haven't taken the time to go through each of them and check is there anything any hard point any anything difficult that we need a discussion on a technical"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:20:00",
    "text": "discussion I mean or is is this mostly editorial do think we need work on specific that I think Anand and Victoria made some points that need some time I think uh the opinion um of cor for example if what we use what we don't use overhearing and for example compare with the the method of Border root failure detection with fit iot lab how they use it so I would like to have the opinion of uh um contract on that and as well for example when they have to use the threshold why we use this method or provide more um content some kind of content is not very good clarify but I think um there is no important big issues it's more clarification why he used what he use um basically on that I don't see bigger like issues and I'm just a want to know why he's using the method that he's using and not another ones basically on that and some kind of clarification from some concept yeah basically basically it's like that okay thank you um yeah so next step after addressing the issues will be issue the working gr last call to the shepherd Michael you are the [Music] shepherd just to let you know that the work is in progress um we hope to have some uh Advance on February but let's see I hope we can present in the next inter meeting um then for"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:22:00",
    "text": "mopex many yep [Music] um so last time I I discussed um the idea of you know being more accurate in our description on reusing the old values for the new MX field I think we agreed on what to do um and so my main question is uh who's taking the action point to implement the change and well uh I'm willing to contribute to the the text of the document if that helps otherwise is there an intention among the current office to actually Implement that thank you very much well since we have the offers within the meeting I think Pascal Michael and R are the three current offers so would that help if I contribute some text to that or do you handle that I mean I I would be delighted that you do to be honest because you seem to be clear on what the changes is or changes are I don't remember exactly what the consensus was first all okay so since this is fresh in my memory I can just do it rather than hit somebody on his head to have it done okay I'll contribute to the to the GitHub thank you very much Dominic um then for enrollment in Ripple networks um all the issues were closed the last issue was Clos in November related with the mantisa Chang from 12 bits to four bits so we think that it's ready for Publications and then the the next steps will be assigned to internal reviewers we have already assigned the routin and security directory reviews we hope to"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:24:01",
    "text": "have it early February and then after that we go to working Group Las call Sheer and some additional comments suggestions so I think from last time I had an an action item to check some with Trickle and since again I haven't taken the time to do that work I'm still willing to do that so I've reread the the draft and I want to reread 6550 as well to check on the trickle reset conditions and I think the question was uh do we need to specify a new reason for resetting the trickle timer or does it fit into the current existing conditions for trickle timer reset but again I'm not too clear exactly so I need to go back so you're saying that maybe the document has to update 6550 trickle reset criteria is that what you're saying that's a general question yes I'm not totally C [Music] on okay we can create the ticket on that okay great thank you very much um then for NSAA okay so my time to talk sorry it's pretty loud here I'll try to make it short um so last time we had this discussion on uh M Max PA cost and um Pascal wrne mentioned that this was a notion introduced in Mr Hoff the max PA cost variable and um and so I went back and looked and and so we want to set the cost to mark C inis can you mute please you're breathing into the mic and it's pretty loud on my side as well so let's save noise uh thank you um and so we"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:26:03",
    "text": "have two avenues for thought one is uh uh you know is setting the cost to Max paff cost uh enough to mandate that the neighbor will not be chosen as a parent and so I went back to Mr Hof RC 6719 and interestingly I noticed that there's no normative language that says specifically that when Max PA cost when cost is equal to Max PA cost the neighbor shall not be used so I think I've uncovered a little problem with RFC 6719 however the text uh un formally hints at you know if you set it to that value it will prevent it from being used which is nice we get the idea but the text is not normative uh so that's one little issue for 6719 and then the other idea was that we could uh make NS extension independent of 6719 anyway so we don't have to deal with that problem by removing the reference to Max cost and make it a a supplement to an objective function that limits the selection of uh neighbors as uh um parents and rs had accepted the suggestion by Pascal to uh propose a new text in GitHub in a separate Branch uh to try to formulate n extension without reference to Mr Hoff and so we pinged him a few days ago and he said didn't have time to work on that yet but he promises he will do that by next week and so far he has been diligent in delivering his on his promises so I I trust that will appear"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:28:03",
    "text": "uh so let's I suggest we just wait for a few days see what he produces and then we have something to discuss that's my report on this any comments okay great thank you very much Dominique um no further comments or questions okay um okay open floor so basically we will go through we will share a doodle for the next inter meeting and do you have some additional comments well I think um Michael made a suggestion you know there's so little energy in the group what do we do so I think in general I agree with Michael we need to uh focus on what we really want to deliver uh what are the most important points and and be really focused on moving the documents through the door the the few ones that we think we can handle um and then decide what we do with group in general okay yeah sure so again as I said I can spend time within the next few months working on Ro then for the whole summer it'll be uh unavailable and and so we're considering replacement as a chair position we have a potential candidate interviewing probably last week for the position and um well yeah from my point of view again we need to focus on what we really want to accomplish within the next three months okay that sounds"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:30:01",
    "text": "good and I can't thank you enough uh Dominque for all the work that you've done for this working group so deep thanks yeah thank I hope you enjoy your tour in summer I think he's going sailing this is recorded yes anyway okay uh it sounds good to me I I would say you know maybe we can just finish before your time is up and that would be enough um and then maybe you know the isg process might take longer for some of the documents but we don't have to be work we don't have to be meeting we just need uh someone to push buttons right and talking about is and process for publication I don't know if we can do anything to expedite the the processing just I mean like Char send send the a send the ads good documents right that's the that's what makes it fastest right so okay we'll try to do that yeah okay but anyway I think with the interims we can advance as well every two months yeah so and I think the the new as well the new chair has a lot of knowledge on Ripple the potential new chair so as well I think we can advance awesome yeah okay if there is no further Comm questions uh thank you very much for your participation and I hope to see you in the next inter meeting thank you thank you to soon to you soon bye"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:32:02",
    "text": "bye-bye right"
  }
]
