[
  {
    "startTime": "00:00:07",
    "text": "hello everyone hi hello i'm here hi spencer things i late enough you're late enough yeah probably excellent"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:02:03",
    "text": "well you got to remember this this is this is why i uh always uh sign the roll call first when i'm doing the uh putting it in uh hedgehog so that you'll always be there listed as being present first oh no no that's that's that's cynical [Laughter] i mean i mean more i mean more like so that uh i i don't have to get here a minute early so i can sign in oh i see okay i get it now all right martin hello welcome glad you could join us today yeah so one of the catches about the audio about this is that it's a little bit slow to actually um pick you up so if you hit unmute and then say something and then unhit on mute it usually hasn't actually turned your volume on first so you'll actually find that since we're such a small group that there's another mute button on the lower right um the mute button the mic button on the upper left uh asks to speak and then sets up the audio channel and the mute button on the lower right uh is just a local mute that turns your mute on and off so i just use that one for now and since we're such a generally such a small group and leave the other one open okay yeah it's not like we don't behave right yeah so we can chairs we can actually revoke your we can revoke your uh um uh your audio um if we have to do that if we had a big group it was becoming unruly or something like that but um i don't think we've ever i haven't seen that used yet but in theory"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:04:02",
    "text": "it's there excellent hmm so actually i wonder whether we have much in the agenda actually to do given that as far as i know um uh spencer and i are behind in getting matraska reviewed um and uh uh martin is making significant progress on flock so i wonder about uh what it is we have to do today since petroska is stable and uh well i won't say there's no no issues open i just don't know what issues we should bring on to the agenda at this point we had one uh because it uh ffv one i think uh that is getting close to expiring uh one one worthy reduction um you know it was posed it was posted uh november so it may expire like"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:06:01",
    "text": "in three days or something well i missed it last time i was wondering why uh the milestone review isn't done anymore um yeah so we try to do that actually with our ad one answer is that we don't we can't really change the milestones on our own we have to ask our ads to approve them so it's a bit of a high latency activity um but um we can discuss milestones as a group and update them in the minutes um it just takes some time also our area director has been on uh a month of leave i think he's back now officially yeah he's he's officially back but this was the deal where he gets a month off every five years for sabbatical and he's coming up on 10 years and he had not taken his five-year sabbatical yet so so that's that so that's why that's why we're not very smart about what rad thinks since the last meeting i think he showed up maybe a week ago okay yeah i was just wondering i i don't think flock will make the milestone that's now set for july yeah it's getting a bit maybe maybe not um okay so that's an interesting [Music] all right well i wanted to just to bash agenda as we were uh waiting for people to possibly show up late uh not seeing dave rice here steve have you heard from him in the last few days i haven't heard much at all from him last month to be honest um i would love to have more of you on a chat somewhere"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:08:00",
    "text": "if uh but um no no so they announced the next no time to wait for october so we'll probably meet there but no no no news so jerome i think was active on flack lately but i don't know why he's not on today he's on slack is that what you said there's a slack channel that i don't know no he joked on the flick well he worked on flat okay you know [Music] i saw it on twitter i can give you the dates well no time to wait.com is definitely not the right website it's october 26-28 in the netherlands huh october 26-28 well that's annoyingly up opposite ripe 85. um annoying because i means i'm already next i'm already in that part of the world but i'm going to be somewhere else how how how far are you then yeah go on"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:10:00",
    "text": "ripe 85 is in belgrade i believe um and um well anyway um okay it's close if you're looking sitting in texas looking at the map but still all right so i'm sorry let's let's uh are there any objections to the minutes from last time let's let's start with there actually first of all no no no objections i wasn't there but still no objections no objections to what you read okay um so um let's just put this i don't know can we make this bold um yes that needs to happen uh so flack was posted a few weeks ago matraska was posted and it's been updated after working group last call and that is i'm sorry that is my fault and spencer's fault we're supposed to review it and i know i haven't done a lot and i blame my ear infection but there you go um uh tags chapter and control they're in a state of status so um i think that's okay um i actually started working on tags lately because i was waiting on the my main document so i started working on tags and look at the backlog of issues and all kinds of things but yeah most of it is still waiting for my trust camp okay um anything else may not be a very long call in the end michael nedemeyer has joined us open your mic and just chat if you like there's not a lot of us"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:12:08",
    "text": "and i.e not that right probably not hey the same song might also have missed the meeting because i i thought it would be the 31st 30th next week and then i check on the ietf website that will so it was today maybe there was some confusion okay so does anyone have any other issues they would like to bring up today in this call uh so so could i ask a quickie uh i did not remember us seeing uh anything popping up on working group last call for matraska did i miss it we probably may or may not have pushed the button that says that we're in group last call is over right i am i am poised over that button now so that's why i'm asking pl please please push that button then ah so i am i we are working group consensus waiting for write up that's right cool excellent and [Music] uh expected we push expected uh i'm about to uh the next thing is expected weeks in state three three cool three you're adorable and because we gotta get through that we just got to get through that document as a shepherd to make sure that we don't see any other nits ah i don't think we need any tags for this"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:14:01",
    "text": "one so i'm submitting that yeah i think i can update the tags anyway so we are working group consensus waiting for right up on that one yay um so that's so that's awesome and um i can stick that in the update the thing so that's awesome [Music] okay okay well let's um let's make sure let's uh get put um ffv1 maybe the focus of june call okay and um maybe we can get some some uh motion on it to uh there um okay i i think you i think that i think that probably should be our focus for the june call because we don't have a july call right martin steve and michael anything else you'd like to bring up otherwise i think"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:16:00",
    "text": "we'll just close this call as soon as uh yeah i have one issue sure the flock document is well the things that are really flock related are done i think i have read the document a few times and got some nits and you know finishing touches but jerome posted an issue that we should include the container mappings so i started on that one last week with uh i don't know how to pronounce it ogg oh i don't know um and for matroska i can just refer to the codex rfc or the um id yeah um but i'm not sure about mp4 um i don't know anything about mp4 really um i don't know whether it should be in there maybe it's a good idea to have it in there um why don't you open an issue about this and uh maybe and then maybe we can discuss it on the list as to who has the the knowledge to um fill that connection well there is an issue actually i i did a reply to the already open issue but um yeah i can file a separate issue for that as well what is the issue that's now open well the issue is that um dave did two months ago i think some something about ffv1 he talked about uh having uh ids in a registry for mp4 uh there's nothing on flag in that registry should that be before rfc is published or should it be sent in"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:18:00",
    "text": "afterwards what should we write it because um for all i have now two paragraphs for matrix cards one in the id that the current mp4 mapping document is like 8 or 10 pages i think that's a bit much i think that should we should be able to put it in much less text but i don't know i don't know what is important what isn't so first just walk me to it was one of these issues yes document mappings into containers the second there we go second okay good all right so i just want to capture this as a into the minutes here um so what i heard you also say um so if for mp3 you're wondering whether or not there should be entries so if we need to add it may be that we need to add new entries into an iana uh registry is what i hear you're saying they won't be there until our document is no which right now not an in our registry there's an mp4 registry um that has nothing to do with i'd now that's the document the draft mapping that exists currently uh yeah i should have posted the link in there okay so there's somewhere else's registry that we needed yeah that's actually apple's registry apple registers uh mp4 related stuff um yeah but you know i don't know how and when but they've talked about registering something for ffv1 two months ago um i didn't really understand what what went on but"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:20:00",
    "text": "what he did i don't know whether that should wait until after this is published i remember him saying that this is published as an erration to the ffv1 version 123 spec i don't know where to start and that i don't know what should should happen first i don't think it should be included in the itf documents from what i saw it's uh it's uh document that exists that would describe the mp4 mapping but basically it's not well it's official because it's xiv but it was never integrated properly anywhere so i don't think it's i mean if we want to describe what currently exists that thing is just experimental so it doesn't really matter and for me the container mapping should be different documents and then that document actually exists at the xif website so either we want to integrate it into an ietf document but i think it's a different process just like when we took the actual respect for flack and turn it into an ietf document it's for me it's starting the process again from another document so this is about embedding flac in an mp4 container yes yeah okay and so the itf is not authoritative for mp4 um but as you're saying is that apple is and there's someone that we could ask for this so whether we ask them the now"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:22:00",
    "text": "uh and point them at our internet draft which is going to become an rfc at some point um or whether we ask them uh well so the advantage about that is that now we could actually list the the that value in the rfc so that would be better um but if they're not happy with that then we would have to ask them to um allocate a number and then at the last moment we may be able to slide it into the rfc just before it's published um so i would say either way um put me in the cc and we'll figure out how to do it because presumably um those apple people probably have some connection to um uh or some knowledge about that the the ietf exists um and so we can figure it out if not um there are some apple people we can talk of two that do ietf stuff and they may be able to explain to them what's going on yeah i think you know i'm extrapolating from things that i know about that are not apple but i would assume that that uh the nice people at apple would have some idea of you know like what what are they looking for in order to justify allocating something um you know basically you know like we you know we have some registries that don't even require a specification we have some registries that require an itf standards track document uh you know so there's a yeah there's a whole range of things that you can ask for when you're running a registry uh but just to you know tell them this is what we got and uh and um do we you know what do what do we need to do next you know"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:24:03",
    "text": "okay well there's a step step in the rfc publication process called off 48 and it's basically everything's done but it button hasn't been pushed and so the very worst case if they want to see that the document is really stable is really about to be published then at that point we can quite reasonably say yes it really is fully reviewed and published and please allocate a number but probably they're willing to allocate it before that point um so as i said just put me in the cc if you find out what their email address is and um you know we can we can communicate back and forth or you know i guess i've now touched this uh touch this issue so i guess it'll blather to me when it gets updated as well okay um well there's the question uh oh where's the right ah steve just pointed out he thinks the mapping should be in a separate document in that case this is not really an issue anymore um why would it be a separate document steve what document would it be and then because it's big and uh basically it doesn't describe flack it describes how to put flak in mp4 basically i did the same document for everyone which is on the the website i agree that that big one i i agree with you that this number belongs in someone else's registry in someone else's document and um and it's outside that document is outside the itf so it wouldn't be in fact an ietf document what i all i'm trying to say is let's get them to do the allocation in their document and and"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:26:02",
    "text": "then we'll reference it that's what i'm trying to say it's not it's not just the allocation of the number it's also the specification as a whole the issue number 112 that jerome opened uh said well for ffv1 we included mapping into common containers into the rfc and he suggested to do that with flock as well um [Music] is that indeed something that should be in there because it's not exclusively flag related and it's not um really necessary for the flock format as no it's not necessary if we can't do it then we won't do it we won't we won't get stuck on it all i'm saying is that if there's a if if if it's a reasonable thing to say that we should ask for this allocation for our stable specification of flack then let's do that right and if we can't do it because something whatever we're missing something then maybe we won't do it and and steve is right it's not it's not technically part of flack but um it's good to connect the dots is all i'm trying to say yeah well yeah i think the idea is that it needs to be someplace and it's long you know for if we can figure out where it should be and make sure that it's think that's that it's someplace uh that you know earlier rather than later that's probably a good thing okay i don't have any more issues for flock okay michael yeah yeah you had it i'm sorry you had a thing up at the up in the milestone review about uh what's realistic for flack um do we need do we need to try to figure"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:28:02",
    "text": "that out now no i don't think so i'm not yeah i'm not i just think it's it's i think it's useful for us to acknowledge that we're not going to make july okay um let's have the conversation of what's realistic um and um but i don't i agree we don't have to have it right now um yeah i think that that probably need to read the document again and figure out how close we are to done and then throw that at someone else yeah sure right so this is there's some connections back and forth i don't hope these maybe these flat guys will uh these zip flat guys will answer this this uh new study i just uh registered these are actually people with the uh w3c yeah who commented in a flag issue i asked them what's the status of this they didn't reply yet it's you know i i really don't know what is what and what is important and why so you you connected this you know uh 27 days ago so you know uh we might get a reply or not so i don't know um i i will come back to this um and try and and poke them um and i watch this can i watch this one issue i don't know i never know how to watch one issue right there you just scroll over right here we go yeah subscribe that's what i wanted yeah um okay"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:30:01",
    "text": "good anything else for today i emailed dave rice wondering what happened to him and uh i don't know yet but um given that he couldn't magically appear we'll see okay so the next meeting is uh june 28th okay and no confusion i guess because we don't have five weeks of five tuesdays in june um i should have come to have beer with some of you last week because i was in i was in the netherlands below um i did stop for beer with several other people i haven't met before so maybe may have met my my uh quota for i did i did mess up with my ov chip card and and i did it didn't it didn't tap in twice twice i was unable to properly tap in and the first time i didn't even notice it at skipple and then the second time i was in arnheim and it just didn't tap i don't know why and and then they told me that they could fix it but only the next day only after 48 hours so we'll see um 48 hours at an airport is not this is not the the service level of agreement you're you're hoping no you have to wait for that you have to wait for the for the point is that they can't assume that they haven't got all the data like the data might be slow to arrive into their database from you know from stations that maybe don't have intermittent connectivity or something and so so the point is that i i paid 20 euros"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:32:01",
    "text": "three times for uh what should be a three euro trip and um and they can apparently give me that money back but i have to come and bother them uh later on in the next two years so that's good but wow the point is that i will have at that point you know at least 30 euros of beer money available so um at that point it is it's important it's important to plan ahead seriously yes that's right okay all right um good um let's uh say goodbye and talk again online and um thank you martin and steve and michael for all the work and uh uh let's i think we'll make that's it spencer and i need to do some reading and i know that i didn't do it because i'm because i was supposed to be doing it on the train and i just didn't do it because it didn't happen it's okay all right good day then don't ever kill us it's okay spencer makes good choices until next time all right all right bye bye"
  }
]
