[
  {
    "startTime": "00:00:27",
    "text": "[Music] howdy everyone welcome to Chicago for those of you who are unfamiliar with Chicago this is Wrigley Field home of the Chicago Cubs we were going to include the other baseball teams park as well in the interest of fair play but it turns out one they were not involved in the ferris bueller\u0027s day off movie and two they foolishly renamed themselves a guaranteed rate field no I\u0027m not kidding and we just didn\u0027t want to put that on a slide we can\u0027t really explain why but it made us uncomfortable you are here in the Acme working group if this is not where you intended to be and you\u0027d like to just relax and sit with us that\u0027s fine but we also won\u0027t be offended if you cut your agenda and go find out where you\u0027re supposed to be this is the note well if you\u0027ve already seen the note well this week please home now if you haven\u0027t seen the note well this week please come now delightful so I won\u0027t have to go into why you care okay so here\u0027s our agenda for today the 10 minutes of an administrator is mostly me blathering up here then we\u0027ll have a discussion of the changes in the acne internet-draft and going to the rest of things as you see here we do have a thanks to give out already to dkg for acting as our jabber relay and to Thomas is acting as our scribe so you won\u0027t have to sit here in stunned silence while I stare out looking for them please thank them for their work are there any bashes to the agenda before we move into our main presentation wait you\u0027re gonna bash the agenda yeah I bought search of a shemale for reading you can incorporate it no no yet so if you look at the daiquiri that you yourself uploaded the changes in the acne ide draft has a few points for discussion that might have known actually that slot get her give her just steal from the 40 minutes oh yeah sorry I wasn\u0027t too worried about how much time each one of pigs because these are all false estimates as we all know they come "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:03:29",
    "text": "out of number Wang a great game if you never play so if if there are no bashes to the topics on there I think we\u0027ll go ahead and ask Richard come acne acne so we\u0027ve been at this for two years in two years since bones County something like that so since the last time so I\u0027m hoping next slide I think a theme here is is that there\u0027s nothing too big because we\u0027ve been through last call now we\u0027ve got a bunch of good issues and hopefully we\u0027re getting about done and I can send this to the iesg so the reason we didn\u0027t want to have nothing big is that big things require realized calls and so we\u0027d like to avoid that and keep the document movie next slide please so quick review what we\u0027ve done since the last IETF meeting next slide the usual graph of commits as usual the ID deadline is very clearly indicated by the commit graph over time as usually we\u0027ve kept up our pace of having a bunch of different contributors and thanks to all those people who sent for requests or reviewed pull requests help keep this pace pretty lively through the winter next slide please so just a quick review here there\u0027s a bunch of editorial PRS that improve grammar and commas and terminology and things like that slide um several PRS that we agreed at the last IETF that we would do some of these are pretty technical and pretty significant but it already been discussed so I\u0027m not going to discuss them further here yes um one of those major technical changes was to name to change the names that we apply to things changing registrations to accounts and was a new certificates a new to new order there were a few PRS related to just kind of cleaning up terminology from that and making sure that we were consistent in saying everything the same way throughout the document yes finally the a bunch of what we got in last call was comments about the kind of general data model of the protocol has and had kind of accreted over the couple of years we\u0027ve been working on this and uh some of the reviewers noted that there a bunt there were several things in there that we weren\u0027t using anymore and could safely take out so for example on the account object had a reflected the public key associated to the account so that you know if you requested your account object from the server it would say here\u0027s the contact information I have and here\u0027s the public key I have the observation Jacob made "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:06:29",
    "text": "that convinced me this was not useful reflecting the key wasn\u0027t useful is that the client needs to have the key in the first place to make the request because it requests for count objects or access controlled and so there really is zero utility and reflecting that back because the fact that the server is sending this account objects the client is already proof that the client has the key that goes with the account so we took that out and similar arguments for these other things so just lots of cleanup going on that\u0027s why we do working a lot of grief last call\u0027s is to discover what we\u0027ve done wrong so far next similarly a bunch of small things like changing content location to location revising how Pina native we were about HP KP and redirects and tweaking Xin HTTP response codes so things that if people were being super precise about things like response codes might require some code changes but you know just changing from like 2012 204 so not major stuff but still you know if you\u0027ve got an implementation going you might have to tweak to address these things next all right that\u0027s that\u0027s the entire history the summary of the history to hear any questions comments on what we\u0027ve done in the last few months yes I don\u0027t think there\u0027s anything major there are no major we are connecting they mainly just streamlining and tweaking things to be a little more consistent nicer all right so let\u0027s let\u0027s go skim through the open issues um so for each of these open pr\u0027s open issues in github and mailing list issues I\u0027ve got kind of started those three bins kind of triage those into things that look like things that Jacob and I could just triage intimate decide for ourselves and things I thought merits and discussion here for these you know those are the PRS we have open right now that are mainly just editorial fairly minor things that I don\u0027t think we need to spend meeting one here unless someone has a really strong opinion about your eyes vs URLs I know that something see people get exercised about anyone would go to the mic on that and not seeing anyone leaping up um the one I wanted to discuss here was to decide once and for all which challenge names we use once this goes to RFC next slide so the current document says hey we\u0027re attaching draft numbers to these challenge names right now because we might revise them as we go through the internet draft IETF process but dear diana GRC editor once this becomes an RFC please script those version numbers and just use the bearer tokens the idea here is that you know these are nice clean human intelligible names that are cleaner for all the future usage post RFC and you know there are likes to say the future is bigger than the past so you guys will make it clean for the big future and not constrain them with the legacy of the early implementation we\u0027ve done here well and pointed out that this is kind of silly on causes breakage for the non-trivial number of clients that "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:09:29",
    "text": "are out there already um and it\u0027s kind of handy actually to have these version numbers around on challenges because we might discover some future date that were unhappy with precisely how the HTTP challenge works we might want to upgrade it to have another version of the HTTP challenge does anyone have a preferred color for this bike shed okay i think the direction we\u0027re headed right now I think Roland is pretty enthusiastic about keeping the version numbers around and I think he\u0027s pretty well sold me so there\u0027s no objections that it just be good the first column that they would call her the same right yes okay that\u0027s correct haha yeah it says the proposal is to keep what we have now we might we might have to change the semantics because right now it says that the version number is the draft version in which the change was introduced so we might just have to register things with with the version attached but yeah if we were voting Air Force crolla if we were voting I\u0027d vote for features bigger than the past but I also I\u0027m not like willing to like go to the mattresses for it any other opinions Daniel your nurse tonight any McCarney I kind of counter with our agree with role in this position on here i think that the state of the ecosystem and the number of clients that are involved i\u0027d rather just keep it the way it is i don\u0027t think this significant justification of that breakage Mary Barnes yeah i mean i agree keep it the way it is and i don\u0027t think it\u0027s a big deal whether or not you know version number of applause just use these those the identifier court all right the shed and shelby blue then whatever color the version numbers are okay yeah welcome to know the true yes the show shelby versions shall we say I\u0027m to let the minutes reflects so resolved next slide please so that was PRS there\u0027s some issues in github as well most of some of which have been already been addressed by PRS that have already landed so I just struck those through for now and a couple of which are just minor text tricks there were three I wanted to run past this group real quick so next few slides um let\u0027s encrypts ping me with an issue they\u0027d had with some clients with bugs that would they have clients had some bugs that would create a bunch of pending authorizations as they were trying to get the client working and because let\u0027s encrypt a great limits pending authorizations as you can hold them have only have so many outstanding authorizations they on to the state where they were wedged in like they couldn\u0027t try anymore to get their client working because they\u0027ve already created so much state on the server and to compound that yeah well so we built in this nice deactivation of authorization so that you could kind of deal with this situation if you had the URL for the authorization to say deactivate this authorization but these clients because they were still trying to get things working weren\u0027t keeping those authorization your l\u0027s grounds they "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:12:29",
    "text": "couldn\u0027t use the deactivation thing um so josh from watson cook called me and said hey we have this issue question is should we address this bottom bolts are kind of my opinion here i think it\u0027s probably not worth addressing this super specifically but it seemed like a one way you could address this while having a fairly high degree of generality is reading this authorizations field to the account objects so that you know an account holder could enumerate all the authorizations that have been attached to this account over time um that seems like kind of an okay idea to me just in terms of exposing server state and it would have the Hindi effect of addressing this I\u0027m dickham thank you oh hi so someone else from let\u0027s encrypt omelette I have a friend and I can\u0027t really talk about it but I think this can actually be solved by Oliver I\u0027m living with fergie cycle and then authorizations in other words and this is actually a comp it part of the latest version of the stack so if you ask for a new order and there\u0027s already exists a pending authorization or one of those names the server is free to and its continued to you we use that same authorization so I think this will just become a non issue with the latest stack and they don\u0027t think any filters part taken do you have any objection to adding this authorizations field two accounts just for completion um you can get to the authorizations through the orders so it seems like extra complexity for not a lot of web so too pretty um I was actually going to say something quite similar to what Jacob said but slightly different my thinking I think you can also deal with this by having either a timeout for an overflow on pending authorization so you want the right limit to keep you from just getting overloaded by with them but you could also have a simple time out that says they age out of the queue if unaddressed or if a certain number of coming and this would keep you from having to add anything to the protocol to do it especially since this is caused by buggy clients adding protocol probs to deal with buddy clients doesn\u0027t strike me particularly useful we\u0027re at least adding an age to old things so that they HEV anyway can also be able to failure modes in the network or somebody request something and there\u0027s a network breaking they can\u0027t actually come back to a thing yeah I believe that pending authorizations are already required to have an expires field in which case so I think this is because this is at worst a temporary wedge yeah I can\u0027t a given that they have already have a expires field I think adding more props because doesn\u0027t "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:15:29",
    "text": "Eliza first ok Daniel did you had any further on them and I McCartney no I just wanted to echo that we do have an expires field on there i think presently for let\u0027s encrypt it somewhere around seven days and so this is really just a problem for people that hit that limited don\u0027t want to wait seven days and don\u0027t have the authorization URL yeah and obviously if ca\u0027s had concerned about this they could tweak that expired window downwards okay so i\u0027ll take i think this is a no action on this one we can just close the closed the issue alright um this is a super minor thing I think Jacob suggested this right now this is kind of this is kind of the entirety of the recommendations we have for client behavior in terms of how you go through the sequence of requests getting a certificate and the recommendation here is that you know once you\u0027ve gone through the whole submission in order and you tried to respond to the challenges you need to see when it is that the server thinks it has validated your challenges or it\u0027s made of its mind this recommendation is that you pull the authorization URL of which there might be several for a given certificate the suggestion here is just a change that\u0027s pulling the order URL which is actually more efficient because that gives you the certificate URL just wanted to put this out there on the floor because it was a is kind of a technical change that seemed sensible to folks not seeing any dramatic reactions Oh Jacob back to you alright so I don\u0027t actually remember recommending this it might be somebody else I recommended this one possible issue is so if one of the authorizations they\u0027ll also connected to the point Google raised about retrying individual challenges if we allow that the order won\u0027t transition when challenges fail so you would pull the in the case where the challenges fail you point upon the order forever so I think there\u0027s some interaction there and then favor continued recommend get off see for now but I could totally be convincing so Jacob where that then end up for you okay with this change or did you want to do something different um I think we should leave it at it for now based on Hugo\u0027s feedback about tribal challenges okay so maybe let\u0027s table this until we get to that which is a little bit later um this the end not a huge change it\u0027s not really normative anyway so you can always tweak all right next issue here um resource relations so someone pointed out I forget who exactly it was that we have this link relation between an authorization and the order that created it but authorizations can be used across multiple orders so you know I assume it in order for example calm and I get authorization for example calm than I issue 200 more certificates using that "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:18:30",
    "text": "authorization which link what do I set this up link relationship to when i get that authorization resource on seems like there\u0027s kind of three obvious answers 1 you set it\u0027s the order that created the authorization you provision 200 link relations to each order that use this authorization or you could just delete this entirely and rely on clients tracking which orders go which with author authorizations um I think my preference would probably be to just drop it because I don\u0027t get the sense that there\u0027s a lot of usage of these linked relations going on but if people thought this was valuable in terms of tying all these resources together I think there could be some argument for keeping them does anybody have an implementation that\u0027s currently relying on this link relation Jacob I see you with Mike do you have a comment or that\u0027s just legacy okay all right not hearing any one standing up for the continued presence of this link relation I\u0027m going to go ahead I\u0027ll propose we go ahead and plate it okay we\u0027re on to mailing list issues these are kind of the threads that I saw on the mailing list that were not filed as issues and not resolved there may be some where I think the chairs have a couple on the agenda that are bigger issues so yeah let\u0027s go through these real quick looks like these defining revocation were clearly so Erika port no I suggested that this was this our description of revocation is kind of ambiguous because it\u0027s got a leash should scattered throughout it about what the client has to do to prove that he\u0027s authorized to revoke a certificate now our default you know we are fairly conservative in the specification about what we require a server to do because servers are bound by things like the baseline requirements and route programs as to what exactly they can do can\u0027t do um however in this case you know you are within the scope of the revocation mechanism that Acme defines and so it seemed to me like you could um perhaps safely within that box say that change these shoulds to musts and say the revocation method that Acme defines within that scope the server has to consider one of these any of these three keys to be valid Erika suggestion was that we require at least one of these three um which is a little bit more limited in terms of burden of places on the server but it seems all so confusing from the client point of view because you don\u0027t know which of those three a given server is going to support so I\u0027m kind of looking at the ca guys in the room you have to be next to the mic if we were to change these two musts and so that would require that if someone shows up who had it was the issue of the "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:21:31",
    "text": "certificate that seems kind of obvious but someone who has proven control the same set of domains in the certificate or the private key with this it goes with the certificate like would you be willing to accept revocation from any of those three entities I don\u0027t see any issue with these 38 please Oh Clint Wilson did you sir I don\u0027t see any issue with any of these strategies requesting reputation does that generally match your revocation practices today yeah outside of the be out of band report mechanisms that don\u0027t come from the certificate or the account holder this Maps directly via counselors ok and then that\u0027s a good guys I think you already do all these things yeah Daniel McCarney we already infinite all of them so as far as I\u0027m concerned requiring all of these inside me okay so okay so the upshot here is you know will change these two musts and then it\u0027s kind of a take-it-or-leave-it forciers so like either you do all these things and you get to use acne revocation or you have to invent your own revocation thing all right so people are okay with that um we\u0027ll just change those two work two sheds to musts get resolution thanks um so there\u0027s prison in here that service should validate should make sure that they kind of like the you are eyes that are providing these contact fields and counselor registered there was some concern about interoperability impact because there\u0027s not any way for the server to advertise what urls might be acceptable to it i think general practice among the sea is that have deployed acting so far is it male 2 and tell our kind of the obvious ones to accept but you might have some other scheme that some cas might accept some might not and if a client wants to use that it doesn\u0027t know whether given CA is going to accept that and accept it or not so there\u0027s a request to add some stuff perhaps to the the metadata section of the directory to indicate what schemes would be acceptable Daniel I think you\u0027d come in with someone a list yeah Daniel McCartney again so from my perspective I think the the main criticism here was that it was difficult to determine whether the contact was invalid or unsupported and I think we added an arrow type and supported that seems better than me the metadata aspect of it I mean right now the spec says that the metadata element in the directory is May and so I think if we\u0027re really looking to clear out all the confusion we would have to change that normative must and I think this is probably not the only place where an acne client it\u0027s meant to be generalized across multiple acne ca\u0027s we\u0027ll run into you one feature another that isn\u0027t supported and so I kind of land on the side of having a simpler server and a smarter client that\u0027s able to handle those errors I think the other aspect here for this particular one is that this is likely to only come out during account registration and contact update and so I think the UX downside you know submitting multiple contacts finding it back that one of them is unsupported not really a big deal Ted "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:24:33",
    "text": "Hardy so there\u0027s a general point here that you\u0027re going to have multiple different permitted your I schemes you run the risk of negotiation failure we\u0027re the ones that are supported by the [Music] client of one supported by the server do not have an intersection point typically we solved that by declaring a mandatory to implement that everybody knows would be supported yes and I think a single one of male 2 is probably sufficient if people want to have to mandatory and implement I would have agreed it sorry I reflect to the record that my colleague repertoire Allah prefers Moz colon as the second one I personally believe that would require a little bit more discussion the proof of interoperable implementations a few other things but I think a single MTI is probably sufficient if we do want to have to tell us but the I think that also means you could for this particular thing although not only for Daniel\u0027s larger point still leave the metadata thing as optional because you would be able to use the MTI there may be other cases that he\u0027s thinking of where you wouldn\u0027t have an MPI I met then the other thing you could also do is have a little bit of a negotiation mechanism where if you guess wrong and provide something that the server doesn\u0027t like and it provides you back an unsupported scheme mechanism you should that you could set the server could say here\u0027s a list of scheme that you like in that the arrow stage as those two yes you could do it that way both provision and produce and obviously in that case the server would always include the nti in that Liz Danny McCartney I just wanted to mention that if we require us that right now let\u0027s encrypt only supports male 2 so I can I would probably be the best one to go so I think the minimum op minimum approach here seems to be just to add male 2 as a minimum required scheme seems like that would address most of the issue here because you could just you could always fall back to just mail to so unless folks think we need some more metadata or this negotiation seems like we all could also add those in extensions in the future so I\u0027m inclined just to scope down and declare the MTI all right I\u0027m seeing some God so we\u0027ll go with that all right next yeah this is this is the the challenging one um so Hugo Landau observed on the list that you know you can end up in these situations where I submit an order for certificate has ten names in it I try to go fulfill the challenges for those names and nine of them work but in one case the DNS didn\u0027t propagate quite fast enough and so that challenge failed that authorization I got invalidated um in that case right "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:27:33",
    "text": "now the the best the client can do is to restart the whole order process and create a new order which consumes a fair bit of server resources um it\u0027s not it there\u0027s you get some benefit because the nine that did succeed should carry over and be reused in the new authorization although that\u0027s not guaranteed it\u0027s up some ca\u0027s policy and so the question here is should we do something that makes that addresses this case a little more elegantly on Hugo posited three potential mechanisms one allowing a mechanism for retrying a challenge so that if a challenge if CA tries to validate a challenge and it fails the client could maybe kick the server and say please retry this challenge we try to validate again um another option he proposed was to allow challenges to be regenerated so an authorization comes with a list of challenges um if one of those gets invalidated maybe we want to give the client way to say please give me a new list of challenges just prove that I on this the same domain you could also do similar dance at the authorization level letting getting a new authorization for within a given order one thing occurs to me we could also do here is kind of address this just from the ca side it seems like if ca\u0027s weren\u0027t quite so aggressive about invalidating challenges if they don\u0027t work the first time then you might not need somewhat such mechanism here so you know if the worry were things like DNS propagation it you might avoid a bunch of these errors if the ca were just willing to try again in a couple minutes or maybe you have some expanding window of retries of validation over time um and that wouldn\u0027t require any protocol change we would we could just add some you know non-normative recommendation where we recommend ca\u0027s retry some of these things in order to allow for clients getting everything arranged properly Jacob I so I agree that your fourth entry that maybe is we try validation queries that was an outburst and I think that this seems like the best way to fix this the problem is you do want to kind of have exponential back-off like try again in a minute try again in five minutes an hour a day or maybe even up to a week we do actually have some clients who you know create authorizations and then on order and days to play something oh and the problem with that is if you are in the window where we pried it at the one-hour mark and now you\u0027re waiting for the one day mark for us to try again like that\u0027s really hard for you to debug and you actually want to be able to say okay I fixed the thing try it again now you end up getting back you try imagine mechanism was that what that would look like I mean if it were something like um you know I take the same payload that I "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:30:34",
    "text": "are the same yeah the same payload that I posted before I Reese I knit and I posted to the challenge again see a verifies that it\u0027s the same payload and if so reach drives the validation is that something like what you\u0027d be imagining here for the mechanism yeah and so also the question is during those automatic retries by the ca what\u0027s the status of the authorization you know it\u0027s not invalid yet but most clients probably you know the straightforward case most clients want to return to the user and say this was the error we got that\u0027s how you fix it it seems like you could I think my opening offer for that would be to keep it in a pending state but then have like a list of error results that the CIA had gotten so if you observe that the challenge is still pending but it now it\u0027s got an error attached to it then you can infer that the ca is not succeeded at validating it and provide that error back to the user yeah one problem we have then is associated error results with attempts so you know if you have a list of these are the error results we\u0027ve gotten so far and the I am just try it again how does the client now based on this recent tribe did I get a feta yeah so you want to like define an order to the air results or a time stamp for something like that yeah that seems pretty lightweight to me you know with the repost and keep pending having a list of unsuccessful attempts um probably big enough to require a new last call but this seems like a problem that is likely to come up for people i\u0027m worth resolving so and does that approach seem sensible to people seeing some nods hmm okay so if there\u0027s anybody who objects to this approach now would be a good time to think it will cause us to recycle the working group last call it\u0027s a big enough change for that so understand that that\u0027s a consequence to make this change I don\u0027t see an objection so it sounds like the next step would be for the editors to make this change and then when we issue a new working group glass hallway we call it out as one of the changes I think Kevin I should have a triage and land bugs called the next few days that\u0027s the last one that\u0027s there anymore here oh yeah this one um I got no dog in this fight but I shaunt is sean leonard in the room he actually noted on on the mailing list that he had a conflict for this so i\u0027m going to actually ask russ have you followed the mailing list discussion of this ok so well so yes arguing that what we\u0027re what we\u0027re proposing here is functionally equivalent to doing a text plain encoding and that creating a new listing "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:33:36",
    "text": "for text plain is not sensible and he\u0027s suggesting that we go to ad er rather than a pen concatenated de are I believe so rich do you want to comment from the floor on this sure yet yes colleagues talked with shimano\u0027s yesterday um this two issues one because the other RCT reference in his email phone call hem a specific format that names of the format right that\u0027s just an editorial issue the other thing he was suggesting and we\u0027ll have to do a consensus I think is rather than have yeah base64 some support character encoding on just out put it in say any kind of arbitrary gurr order for example the one the one he recommended that the end was used the TLS certificate lists order it right and put it into a JSON structure so that you\u0027re not serializing this is that lets us a ski in any point the counter-argument I gave to him sorry oh he changed it again oh sorry yeah the counter-argument I gave was a text file with a bunch of hem sorts in in an order is accepted by the most popular but breath but servers out there so he\u0027s changing it for geek aesthetics as opposed to pragmatically yeah i think as i recall that we originally had just dürer as the way you return or certificate reason we changed that was for developer friendliness to match what was accepted as input by most of the industry it turns out there is kind of a de facto standard there and so I agree with rich that I\u0027m hesitant to move away from that unless there\u0027s some agreement there\u0027s some other state are coming up so yeah what\u0027s the lightest so Carl manor at the latest about two hours an hour ago ish is to take the dirt same format but in between the certs have us quoted as base64 comma-separated you Jason it appears yeah yes but still don\u0027t call it him since that\u0027s not a pin okay yeah what what\u0027s your name hi Erica scroll up I don\u0027t care if we call it cam or shmem more quick or whatever but like let us use the format that people who\u0027ve back expect their servers to accept press would you like to chime in on this so it seems the top one pound is highly offended right I don\u0027t care what you call it if there\u0027s an RFC that it calls "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:36:36",
    "text": "a pen that you can reference the next one is you\u0027re just kind of be flexible in the order which I don\u0027t believe perfect and posters second the third one is to encoding of the same structure alone with the mine referendum oh yeah yeah I meant the second bullet as a clarification first so so showing his email um listed that that mind type out and I was I was just trying to do the work in your favor of saying what does that actually indicate which is a sign data struct right degenerate Lunger there\u0027s no time yeah yeah we have implementations of the first and the third either one of them is okay with me making up something new doesn\u0027t seem to encourage the whole let\u0027s direct the editors to fix the terminology so it matches the RFC that was referenced in cozy alright so the proposed resolution to the Thornton group at see if anybody objects to this is to adjust the terminology as was originally suggested in Sean\u0027s first message that\u0027s not quite as simple as changing the mime type there\u0027s also some character set stuff that has to happen Jacob book you want to propose a different resolution or a comment on this proposal well yeah comment so very recently on the left in the last like hour or two John Ray\u0027s but I actually thought it was a really good point which is that if the client naively copies the pen certificate chain into a file to be loaded by say Internet\u0027s or patchy which is what we expect them to do it\u0027s obvious thing the ca can slip a private key in there and those web servers will interpret that to say oh I should use this private key rather than the one that I was configured with so that\u0027s potentially a big issue with lighting straightforward Pam even though I like the idea of providing what blood servers will use that seems like something perhaps we should verify empirically yep that sounds so if so perhaps a warning yeah it\u0027s okay I could we call that in the engines or perhaps miles and bugs on some web servers at there\u0027s around already in that most of the web servers will take one name for the cert list and another name for the surfers private key which presumably the clients done so I think calling it out is don\u0027t do this is more than enough all right I would hope that these web servers with regard these is untrusted input anyway Andy validating there are the right things yep so back to the proposed resolution the proposed resolution here is a textual adjustment to correctly identify the mime type here which includes character set and the other issues that go along with that and secondarily to "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:39:38",
    "text": "investigate and potentially add text to the security considerations on the insertion of a private key attack which on raised since we are already going to have to go back through working group last call that was the previous issue there\u0027s still some time for on list discussion of this should folks want to refresh themselves on the apparently changing up to the very minute discussion gosh I knew I shouldn\u0027t have had lunch and we can revisit that resolution on list if there a reason to change everybody ok with that resolution that is okay oh I don\u0027t this big things are so does the other items in the agenda ok yeah so we should probably deal with this issue but can really not this probabilistically much as I despise ever discussing whether or not promising dairy advice or random um um okay uh Matt judo that like pick this text I looked at this PR right it didn\u0027t require like a minimum length so I mean if we want to tell people I mean so is there an issue for this I could bring up and although he our number 29 okay I\u0027ll bring it up and I mean so okay prefer to restate that be it when people generate that we routinely refer to 128-bit randomly generated values as you do i do not think that telling that the pretending that they are not unique is a useful like waiting age of the universe um if 160 if you prefer to like have you know a if you\u0027re really feeling nasty um so um i don\u0027t care how we specify what people do but i think that like if we\u0027re going to but if we\u0027re organism so we\u0027re going to say they should be unique and leave it entirely the server discretion that\u0027s reasonable if we\u0027re going to say they should be rich suggest a random narration then we should vacuum and guides now so so a construction like saying that they may either be random of a certain length or more or constructed to be unique seems book could be bought yeah but that seems fun to me i could and if you\u0027re right this is daniel i think you may have been writing the texture on this maybe not let\u0027s seem to recall seeing a PR danny mccray no i think you\u0027re confusing it with the token thing i thought oh yeah jacob lew zealots yeah any case that seems like a sensible resolution to me so i think we can make text that I think yeah oh okay so it\u0027s too slow you guys already fixed it in yeah I think we can we can address this so with that river is going to discuss that we will change that to require that the nonces either be constructed so that they are always unique or if they\u0027re randomly generated then they must have a "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:42:39",
    "text": "certain length this 128 bits seguin I believe that that\u0027s on I can\u0027t remember is it the Nazis or re-hydrate visit entropy probably does numbers should be the same number yeah that\u0027s fun yeah I if people feel like 160 is important I\u0027ve no fee for 160 but liking those of you to save your work that\u0027s not me right that\u0027s that\u0027s you it\u0027s the sea a requirement a big thing okay oh yes body shaming um okay so yeah um there are a couple items raised on the list um one was discussion of whether CAA should be mandatory as part of the validation ah I\u0027m not sure what to say other than let\u0027s have a few minutes to discuss that Richard no would you care to elaborate sir I mean I ready is not the domain it with that it is not a level at which the specification addressed cas do any number of things that we have makes you have a list at the back of the spec of additional things beyond acne that is EA\u0027s should probably do to meet their obligations to the world before the issue a certificate checking against hi my name\u0027s looking for you know PayPal calm like domains ah things like that and yeah this is this via net profit for that list I think I offer them a mailing list to add it to that list but it\u0027s at a comfortable level and we shouldn\u0027t be requiring things to that level that\u0027s that\u0027s more the scope of something like the cab for parts that\u0027s true it said Ted Hardy just pointing out that on the list in fact Hugo who raised this issue or as one of the folks who raised this issue has pointed out that the cab forum has now made it mandatory in an in it in a document that was issued in march of this year as a result the marginal utility of us requiring it as well seems at modest is a good description is there anybody who wishes to argue at this point that that modest utility is worth it ok so this maybe not quite as big an issue as we thought it seemed good no one seems to be sure we put it in the list at the end asking the chairs for okay how do you want to talk to be in that sector yeah so the customers should we add this to that list in CA considerations yeah yeah yeah okay sure yeah will do inna sec isn\u0027t it ok ya "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:45:44",
    "text": "then ok so the other issue recently raised on the list was requiring DNS SEC for domain validation ah frigates anybody I don\u0027t have any slides I don\u0027t have it I have a dog in this fight but he\u0027s sort of peed on my DNS SEC zone so it looks like Victor you\u0027re in queue yes I can hear me yes we can we don\u0027t see ok I\u0027m not sharing video d but we don\u0027t like to see you anymore right so it\u0027s my contention since i think i\u0027m the one who raised this issue that while requiring people to sign their own domains is perceived quite onerous and many people haven\u0027t that running a validating resolver is rather routine these days and i think that for folks who have signed their domains and are then going to be using dns challenges to obtain certificates it is a very reasonable expectation that the ca would do you the courtesy of validating your dns responses and not accepting forgeries from any man in the middle attacks and that the burden on the ca of just spinning up you know their favorite resolver and configuring the trust anchor is very minimal so I would expect I think reasonably that the ca can join the millions of people who use a today today today tour very science version and so on and are already using DNS SEC with no noticeable you know impact the DNS a client that the ca would also be a DNS at client and that they should just do that and that this should be mandatory room what I believe your proposal there and could come with you you\u0027re proposing that should the information which comes back from the client ed NSX sign then the ca should validate the signatures but you are not that it must be so sign is that correct a correct but a little bit clearer if the delegation from the parent domains are ultimately from the root you know has DS records so the domain should be signed then the ca will only accept it if suitably signed right so the acca runs a validating resolver this also seems like a question for camp form um the Acme is very much focused on automated you know DV with very little human intervention a sort of certificate "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:48:44",
    "text": "issuance and I think this is squarely appropriate for the kind of mechanisms that at least consider it Tiffany\u0027s come as a sort of a similar clarifying question are we aware of any CA that would do this check manually if we\u0027re doing manual checks now are you aware of any CA that would do this in their current process or whether manual or automated okay Victor if this were sent in as a suggestion to have forum instead of handled and acne what would the functional difference feet I don\u0027t know who the casr who aren\u0027t already in camp forums I\u0027m not sufficiently aware of what what the difference is in practice would be it just seems to me that if you\u0027re implementing the specification you ought to be aware that the DNS challenge or can be verified this DNS and if it said multiple times I don\u0027t see the harm of saying it multiple times just like I don\u0027t really in the previous topic see the harm of saying that CAA is mandatory even if cab form already said so there\u0027s no reason not to say so if it\u0027s if it\u0027s the case tohon Baker well one question will be whether we\u0027re talking about a should which I think an easy thing to do or a must in ITF bill I don\u0027t think that this could be a must because it isn\u0027t actually a necessity for interoperation but I could be persuaded otherwise the issue I would see from the cab forum point of view is that we have been very very careful to avoid endorsing the I can root as the root of everything and for us that is a showstopper because we do not know who will be running I can in 10 years time we do not run oh who will control it and there is absolutely no way that we can establish an administrative guarantee that he\u0027d be running an acceptable fashion so I think that\u0027ll be very difficult to get a statement in cab forum that bcas must be subservient to I can see a as the root of all things oh that\u0027s why I don\u0027t think that\u0027s what\u0027s happening here I think this is a little bit different in that what he\u0027s talking about is if you\u0027re using the DNS challenge um sorry Eric would you like to explain sure well though I I mean maybe the DNS challenge that doesn\u0027t make any sense if "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:51:46",
    "text": "you\u0027re reading this thing says UD NSX I\u0027m then it has to be all the challenges because they all depend on the DNS for verification but that\u0027s true I mean the question is what when you\u0027re doing DNS set to say that you got to check it it implies you\u0027re going to check it against some roof at some point and then you get into root of all roofing and that\u0027s problem so let me suggest an alternative hear that dead love me a little bit of progress instead of describing this is a requirement why don\u0027t we write up what the threat is and include the threat in the security considerations such that somebody in the security considerations sees the potential threat and knows that if a DNS SEC signed delegation is available the threat threat is mitigated that doesn\u0027t put a requirement on it but is information to the developer community of what the threat is and what one meeting each other yeah i think this completely fails to address the issue you know if I am the if I own a DNS SEC signed domain I\u0027m expect certain security properties for my domain and I\u0027d like anybody petitioning for a certificate for my domain to be prevented by my signature from easily forging the DNS accor various other challenges so the DNS or various other challenges this needs to be a mustache should is largely pointless just as should for CAA was pointless until the cab forum finally made it a must then s2 fills point you know I can is the root of the DNS tree it is not the you know it doesn\u0027t anoint it as the super CA or anything it just means that I cans answers you know ultimately friken through it speak to the authenticity of the DNS reply then that\u0027s all it speaks to and certainly not doing the NSI clarification doesn\u0027t improve security all right it doesn\u0027t take way or step on the toes of any other CA they\u0027re not in the business of authenticating DNS responses Jacob get stepped over sharp thanks feel free to run back so Ted\u0027s point about documenting the threat here on mitigations of believe we do you have texting security considerations about such threats and there are some text in error and I think has been there for a long time about how you can reduce the threat while not the dress gate as part is the NSF does by doing validation from multiple vantage points to reduce the risk of getting that responses um to Victor\u0027s point I think it\u0027s dramatic overstatement to open sort of this setback you tips when I think adding a recommendation for DNS SEC there and the description of how that counters the "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:54:46",
    "text": "reversals do a fine idea after that that size if it\u0027s not already there is that ok we can we can check and make sure it\u0027s as good as it can possibly be I think to Victor\u0027s point about expectations of what I could expect when I sign my domain to say that I expect my DNS SEC signature be validated before some requests certificate is unfortunately hugely optimistic in the world we live in today I\u0027m given that there are a number of CAS out there only a small number of which even are doing at any flavor of acne today um there\u0027s not really it\u0027s not really sensible I have an expectation the NSF makes any particular difference like now now that we have a CAA requirement you might add a CA a policy that says your ca please check verify the DNS SEC signature for you doing that that I think would be a fine thing to do and we should it might be worthwhile to write up an extension of CA to do that but I think um you know given the world we have today and the policy landscape today we have today the insurance levels we get some days it\u0027s consistent with all of that to have DNS SEC validation be optional as part of this validation process next or all right so yeah we definitely we have a normative recommendation for DNS SEC Victor said that\u0027s not enough I stand that fun view um one thing that might help them form the conversation let\u0027s encrypt does validate dmsx today so like all the publicly available acne servers implement this um and so then the question is but is this the right lever to get more cas to implement DNS SEC I think if another CA were to prolong and say we really want to implement acne but we don\u0027t want to bother validating DNS SEC or more like you know if there\u0027s some reason why they don\u0027t want it validate the MS sec I think they won\u0027t say wow we want to implement acne so badly that we\u0027re going to start melody didn\u0027t DNS SEC now um they would just go ahead and implement acne and ignore this because it\u0027s not actually an interoperability concern I think more likely hopefully most ca\u0027s are operating validating the resolver but I don\u0027t think we have data about that Tom Dickinson um I agree with the victors comment that it was a good idea to validate and in SF DNS challenge if possible but I strongly disagree with the statement about by signing my zone I have an expectation of everything everywhere in my zone will be about validating that\u0027s be unrealistic and it\u0027s not anything in the data spec in a "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:57:49",
    "text": "sec spectral says that generates I just want to keep pretty much but the thing that John is just said I 1.8 that what you\u0027re doing validation in DNS sake it\u0027s not necessary to use the ones you trust anchor from the I can administer fruit so about the to resolving server could if it chose to set up a suntrust bank here in quality of that as realized or instead of yeah I can just don\u0027t get it sure just quick I certainly have no expectation that every dns query from my domain will be validated what I\u0027m trying to get to is that the Acme cas who might want to issue certificates from my domain would validate the DNS responses that contain the the challenge verification bits that\u0027s it oh sorry one more thing I I haven\u0027t heard yet a reason why I CA would not run a validating resolver it\u0027s not like it takes more than two minutes to set one up Phil hamburger yeah as far as I\u0027m aware i\u0027m pretty sure that most people do runs out dating service but this isn\u0027t a technical issue here this is a practices issue and it\u0027s a business issue and we have to be quite careful about what requirements we have on taking trust from other places because this is our business and so whereas we will make a lot of checks in the real world against databases like dun and Bradstreet these or whatever when we actually make requirements we do not create a level that means that we can be forced to pay royalties to dun \u0026 bradstreet I can charge is half a million to apply for a domain name that\u0027s verisign sells for six bucks a year so this is not an organization that I think it\u0027s completely beside the point Phil could you stick to the technical point no from this point from my point of view it is to the point because you are creating a technical time that creates a technical risk for my business and so whereas you can check in to the top level domain DNS SEC is a particularly objectionable if you have a requirement to check and it doesn\u0027t say what somebody come come along and say well you\u0027re not checking to anchor so it\u0027s one of those things that it Mase you can say it\u0027s easy for us to do technically but having a requirement to do it is a very different thing separately I the point I was "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:00:52",
    "text": "trying to make is that focusing this on the costs to a particular thing I think actually hurts your earlier and stronger argument about this is a discussion of where we\u0027re requiring the system to import trust and I believe Victor\u0027s point is essentially that it is the person who has created the DNS SEC signed domain who has made the linkage and that person would like that linkage to be honored by the CA and I believe that the point that Richard made a few minutes ago is making that part of the discovery process of does this CA support my linkage or not would be a valuable extension making it a permanent part of the protocol i agree with you is is not a necessary thing for this group to do but making it part of an extension that would allow you to discover whether or not ACA honored this linkage in this way or not I think it\u0027s quite reasonable I also don\u0027t think that it is necessarily a wonder go in right now sort of thing which leads us and I\u0027m going to change from this microphone to the chair microphone to our what are our next this is dkg I just want to point out that it\u0027s already possible to tell whether a certificate authority does this by creating a false record in the DNS a badly timed occurred and submitting it and seeing where the birth of a passive thank you for this practical information I was serious this could be a sensible thing to add the CIA so that you could get the expectation uh uh Oh No agree actually think that was Richard with the last call this is victor uh the CIA suggestion actually might cover it if CAA could specify don\u0027t issue with that DNS SEC that might be another vehicle for this I don\u0027t see anything in CA that can do that but you know me being able to check the weather my chosen CA you know honors DNS SEC it\u0027s not sufficient because my concern is that some attacker who is not me might choose some other CA and that they being a neck me CA no longer obligated by the spec to check the NS a-- quill not so it\u0027s not a question of whether i will wisely choose the a\u0027s the validate it\u0027s an issue that the attacker will choose the least restrictive see the main problem i think everything we said right this is already been said can we please humming move on he turns do not detect sufficient consensus to even hold a hum so we\u0027re going to move on yes we\u0027re staying as it is as you noted from the previous thing we are going to go through another working group last call because of the changes to this so the first question to "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:03:54",
    "text": "the isg yet that that\u0027s not what\u0027s going to happen now we have to have at least one more Reb of the other document and one more working group last call before we take the isg so the working group last call comments that have come in and the resolutions we\u0027ve seen today do seem to us to require that so re working group last call p the second item here seems like our most sensible path board here but there is then the question we will we after that continue to hold for implementations of these changes and i think that the the question really is although these changes are significant do we need to call them so significant that we need for interrupt to be demonstrated on what level button that this richard i don\u0027t think we\u0027ve had our not demonstrated on any recent draft of the stack um so I\u0027ve wonder if those folks who might be implemented would you want to comment on with your timelines of Google genom curry so uh I think that statements accurate the implementation of Boulder that powers the production let\u0027s encrypt environment right now I was kind of closely to draft 03 we\u0027re in the process of catching that up but we\u0027re ways off yet and say two months is probably optimistic at this place I don\u0027t want to be idea microphone Upton net we\u0027re also not caught up so we don\u0027t really don\u0027t have the current draft and blended but we are working on that timelines are probably similar i would say three months is optimistic so I guess the question then is given that timeline do we want we will run the working group last call before Prague obviously as soon as the editors give us that do that and on the list work through any new issues which come up or any which are revisited by new information and then it sounds like people wants to lie quiet for a little while and just before Prague perhaps decide whether we\u0027re ready to send a very blessed fall does that make sense as a time frame for people Prague is in July everybody said three months and handily Prague is in four so we any objections to that as a proposed way forward from our area director woohoo so in parallel to the working group last call then we will probably then "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:06:54",
    "text": "entertain on the list any suggestions for what work items might go on to a recharter and then we\u0027ll make discussing such a recharter the primary work of Prague assuming that the base draft has gone to the isg in the meantime mari artists just one click clarifying question so the second working group last call will be finished before cock right yeah we anticipate that that would be finished fairly quickly so that it can inform the implementations anyone have objections to that way forward okay sounds like we have some marching orders for our editors and a plan for the working group between now and Central Europe so we will see you on the list thanks everyone please bring the blue sheets up everyone else is free leave by richard has got to write the draft yeah the ignition i lose ya good Oh Carl girls trying to set speakers completely obvious oh look at me oh yeah look that\u0027s argued it move show no more yeah yeah but that sitters view it\u0027s that secured oh so those blue sheets up front please inside with you haven\u0027t you "
  }
]