[
  {
    "startTime": "00:00:04",
    "text": "buddy to the working group chairs forum at IH f 99 next slide so this is transitioned over time it\u0027s now on me deco it\u0027s now an official part of the agenda so I am officially also putting up the note well because we are still in the IETF but the intention is still for this to be a working group chairs discussion forum kind of thing next slide our agenda for today Heather is going to provide us an update on the RFC format project Greg is going to talk to us a little bit about IETF comms and in particular the website I am going to talk about this particular forum and where we want to go with it and then it\u0027ll be our our standard open forum so with no further ado heaven I bring all sorts of stuff my whole office is in that bag um hi I\u0027m Heather Flanagan I\u0027m the RFC series editor I have a very important question for you all how many of you know that I\u0027m actually working on changing the RFC format so the first time I came to a working group chairs lunch was about two years into the project and there were folks that still had no idea I was changing anything and started to lecture me on the needs for things like SVG and non ASCII characters and I smile and not it yeah you think so great a reason I\u0027m presenting again today is because it\u0027s it\u0027s becoming less than vaporware and a fine idea in my own head we actually have tools not all the tools and these these are things that are still requiring some testing and I hope that you all will be able to help with that so we\u0027re gonna talk about with a really annoying flicker a little bit about the project status what tools are sort of in use what tools are in testing other things that we\u0027re looking at and then the overall course of the project so the first tool I want to talk about is ID 2 XML this converts a reasonably formed plaintext internet drafts or RFC\u0027s into xml v2 if you want to create a this document this can be that doesn\u0027t actually have an XML file this can be really really useful we don\u0027t expect we expect it to produce parsable well-formed XML but it\u0027s never going to be a hundred percent perfect or your money back that\u0027s ok we just want to get it most of "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:03:05",
    "text": "the way there this was not free no but we don\u0027t want all of Henrichs attention to to be on this particular thing as much as we want other things and henrik watson excellent timing so the source code is available at the link at the bottom of the page it\u0027s also available if you\u0027re more used to working through the web interface the xml RFC experimental page has this as well as the some of the work going on in the the v2 to v3 converter so xml to RFC version 2.7 point o if any of you read the release notes you\u0027ll see that this particular version of xml to RFC does v2 to v3 conversion takes the RFC seven seven four nine compliant XML and writes actual seven nine nine one compliant XML we\u0027re pretty sure it does testing is a little on the challenging side because of course there\u0027s nothing that consumes v3 at this point in time we\u0027re talking about the the ongoing list of tools that will make v3 a reality and we\u0027re talking about shifting things around a little bit so that we at least have something that can consume this and enable testing there is I think one tool set out in the community put together by Julian rush key that can do some of this work consume v3 spit out the three output which is which is great but for solid testing of course you need you need more than that you need more than just this one example so persistence and creativity are definitely appreciated I do have at least one person that\u0027s starting to look at this it\u0027s a bit mind-numbing staring at the XML but anything one can do is greatly appreciated this isn\u0027t a tool per se this is this is more of a the implication of a change so we\u0027ve talked about allowing non ASCII characters in a very prescribed sense what that actually means all these slides are already posted I finished them for the most part last week so you can always look them up they\u0027re actually on the agenda page so they\u0027re out there so one of the things we thought is if we started taking examples now of of internet drafts with non ASCII characters and sending it through the RFC production centers tool existing toolset we would see okay what what do we already have that needs to change and there is quite a bit the database itself needs to change when it it was originally configured as a latin-1 database well that\u0027s not going to work "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:06:06",
    "text": "with utf-8 characters so so we\u0027re talking ground-floor on up in terms of the changes that have to happen there are a couple of tools that are used today that are fundamentally necessary for producing RFC\u0027s that will have to be if if we want to publish anything with non ASCII characters right now these tools will have to be updated and then thrown away because they\u0027re not going to be used in the v3 world so that\u0027s one of them is the N Roth to text converter because we\u0027re not going to be dealing with n rough anymore and the other one is the text - PDF given some of the libraries it uses to get there from here we\u0027re talking about how important is that to get some of these documents published as they are these documents being one of the HTTP bists documents as well as the pre see drafts the precis drafts are particularly near and dear to my heart given that they\u0027re kind of why I think the non ASCII character stuff is just so fundamentally critical to to the RFC series and moving forward getting off our names right is important getting the actual technical standard itself inspect readable it\u0027s really kind of I think a useful thing for us to be able to do and those drafts are I believe in last call right now so the sooner I\u0027ll be able to publish non ASCII characters the happier I\u0027ll be we did have some questions about there are other checkers that are used the mid check or yang checker a B and F found out this week that the mid checker will be fine because while you can\u0027t use non ASCII characters there anyway the Yankee is compliant no problem a B and F that\u0027s gonna need some work I don\u0027t know how many people have gone up to Bill Fenner and said so Phil bought this AV enough checker and associated document this week and he\u0027s like wait no that was 15 years ago stop um but I think enough people have started poking it and that those brain cells are starting to come to the floor and we\u0027ll see some changes on that one um the SVG checker I don\u0027t have that available for testing yet Sean Leonard is the one behind that and hopes we hope to have something ready for ITF 100 I\u0027ve heard tell that there are some working groups that have SVG files that they are ready willing and able to start throwing at this when we have it if you\u0027re working group is even thinking about this that\u0027s really good because we\u0027re going to need those files and we\u0027re going to need people to test them through the checker to make sure that what you want to have is actually supported in the SVG profile that we\u0027re going to be using there are more tools on the list if you remember the first slide that actually had content it has the tools wiki that "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:09:08",
    "text": "gives you sort of the the rough outline of plan of what tools were having an in what order roughly what what range of dates we expect to have them available so that includes this list of what are the other tools that we\u0027re talking about rewriting idean it\u0027s actually getting those PDF a3 and HTML outputs as well as the new text output doing a kind of difference anity checking with RFC lint the SVG checker taking that ID to XML as I said now it spits out v2 it will need to be updated to do v3 that that made logical sense under the cover so it\u0027s not as crazy as you might think so that\u0027s where things stand definitely will need community assistance the RSC production Center are known to be detailed oriented folks otherwise we wouldn\u0027t be able to get through some of the drafts that you all send us but this is a lot to be tested you have far more use cases than actually end up submitted to us we need your help in the testing as as these things come along there is a mailing list that has been revived to focus purely on v3 tool testing that\u0027s the XML to our C dev list I think the last time that list was actually used was like in 2013 or 2014 or something like that I\u0027d sent a note to the list saying we\u0027re about to revive it which I\u0027m sure surprised any number of people who said oh my god I\u0027m still on this list but the list is open for your subscription um if you want to sit in lurk chime in it\u0027s always very much appreciated and just for reference I don\u0027t expect you to read that but it\u0027s in the slides for you later if you want to just double check what RFC\u0027s are even talking about the define the format this is the list obviously it\u0027s not a smallest and the design team that put it together did an epic job in thinking all it through and just about no not just about every pretty much every one of those documents has to go through this process because this is what we think was supposed to be and then we\u0027re gonna see what reality does to our beautiful shining ivory tower and then fix the documents to match reality so that\u0027s what\u0027s happening with our FC format these days does anyone have questions for me or maybe for Henrik because I might need his help David black first Heather thanks for all your hard work and at the risk of making more after you get this under control is anyone thinking about tracking the upstream tool chains that are being used to generate our the XML that you\u0027re going to be visibly processing a lot of these are community maintained I mean things things like things like markdown tools or XML mind and it\u0027s it\u0027s not so much that we\u0027d expect you to do that but if somebody could track sort of the "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:12:08",
    "text": "state of those tools across the v2 to v3 migration that would be incredibly helpful I know at least some of the the authors of those tools like Karsten Borman he is actively aware of this and while he\u0027s come up to me this week and said I can\u0027t work on it today I said can you work on it next week oh yeah yeah so it was and it\u0027s not so much motivating people I\u0027m sure people motivators they as part of this somewhere a place simply track we which one is external tools are where in terms of being able to generate V 3 V 3 XML Thanks okay happy to help testing cramdown so it was plus one awesome sauce Thanks all right so I\u0027m sent a question and I noticed in the your your RFC about the use of utf-8 and or Unicode in RFC\u0027s the text version did not include any Unicode Isetta limitation for the current tools or is that the intended okay so the intention is eventually the text versions would also be utf-8 just you can\u0027t do that yet right that was I I had a little bit of a chicken and an egg problem with that draft know how to describe the thing that we\u0027re not allowed to do yes so for what it\u0027s worth there is there is a PDF that I generated it\u0027s it\u0027s not perfect because I can\u0027t get the darn bidi characters correctly but for the most part it actually has the content and is it\u0027s readable but the text yeah that was we can\u0027t do that yet how about us I just tried to package ID tax melt for fedora and there\u0027s a buck in that the man Bates installs and use a local instead of an user so if you can fix that and refer do you want them to post that kind of stuff Henry kept Corbett\u0027s if there are bug reports against XML 2rc there is a issue tracker you should go to tools dot ITF the dork / to\u0027s / XML to RFC you should be able to find it and if they want to submit bugs against ID tags enough so I place that under the other tools tracker that tracks data tracker but it\u0027s probably more appropriate to also file those in the XML to RFC cracker I think that\u0027s going to be more intuitive I\u0027ll add the component for ID - XML ok any other questions for me if we were to be planning a draft that we really would like to use SVC or names can you give us a time frame when you think we might be able to do that so that we know what kind of workarounds we might need you know depending on one when we think these drafts are coming out in terms of starting up a draft I know people that "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:15:09",
    "text": "are doing that right now with with the SVG in it they may I don\u0027t know assert some of them are you doing that storing them on github if you\u0027re talking about when can you expect to be able to do a draft have it go through the process and I was actually thinking of publish when can I publish what publish work yeah well as an I think we\u0027re willing to do lots of work beforehand it\u0027s one can it get published next year next year okay with the possible exception of just straight non ASCII characters because like I said I really want to get at least the documents that we\u0027ve used for testing out the door any other questions for Heather thank you very much do you want to use this for the rest of the session Greg where\u0027s Greg Greg Greg Greg if you\u0027re presenting you don\u0027t sit in the back of the room Greg Greg doesn\u0027t actually have slides so I\u0027ll say okay and while Greg is getting situated I heard somebody ask at the beginning of this if there was materials part of the making the working group chairs forum official on me to echo and all of that is we do actually have materials up as part of the materials page now I think the agenda link is now working Oh Alison is shaking her head that they\u0027re not there well I know if you go down to materials they\u0027re down there like like on the data tracker left-hand side where it says agenda and the next button down is materials they\u0027re there they I don\u0027t think they\u0027re properly linked back into the agenda yet but you know we made a lot of last minute requests to fix this to do not to fix this but to make changes so we are thankful for the changes we\u0027ve gotten and still trying to figure out because this is not really like a working group and so that the way it was designed to fit into data tracker doesn\u0027t quite align so we\u0027re you know we keep changing the requirements underneath them and saying oh well we really want this shiny thing over here after they\u0027ve provided us the shiny thing over there so anyway so the materials are up there somewhere you can find them go ahead Greg do you want to put up the web page yeah so my name is Greg wood I\u0027ve been working on a few things including trying to get a revamped dub-dub-dub IT org sort of front pay or front door of the for the ITF in place how many people know that there\u0027s a an effort to make that happen excellent I don\u0027t think I beat Heather but that was a good so I\u0027m gonna do a "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:18:10",
    "text": "real quick it\u0027s gonna be pretty brief but I\u0027m gonna do a real quick recap of how we got to today because I know folks have heard it before but I think it\u0027s important to remember talk a little bit about where things are going and then answer any questions or take any feedback folks have so just a long time ago in a galaxy far away far far away there was a scope of work that was shared with the idea mailing list there\u0027s input taken and the scope of work was Shabazz was led to the actual project plan sorry Russ Housley is the is the project manager for the for the project now after this kicked off by Joe Hildebrand and the project very high level said a lot of nice things about what had to be done but in particular had talked about the fact that this front door needs to work for idea of participants non-participants but people who could participate in the idea and non-participants were people who will never ever participate in the ITF so think of managers or policy makers or anything or folks like that who still need to know what the ITF does and why it\u0027s important so we went out and talked to a lot of folks from those various groups got input created a design document out of that and started implementing it with with a vendor that was selected I\u0027ll say in in parallel what\u0027s happened I think the data tracker has evolved quite a bit and changed so we tried to line line things up with that skipping ahead last ITF meeting ITF 98 there was sort of a soft launch preview where we had sort of office hours and to feedback from folks we adapted the the draft site based on that feedback and continued working on it and just before this meeting started Russ sent a note to the ITF lists and hey you can go take a look at beta about ITF dot org poke around let us know what you think it\u0027s still work-in-progress so we definitely wanted to share it early and get and get input and we\u0027ve gotten some input some further input so we\u0027ll be taking that into account it\u0027s actually you know all the input is useful so that\u0027s that\u0027s where we are I\u0027ll say going forward the idea is to take the input we\u0027ve gotten so far do some more testing back with those audiences that don\u0027t show up at ITF meetings in particular make sure that we\u0027re sort of on the right track and and things are working well and then hopefully move pretty soon next couple of months - to production so I think it\u0027s an opportunity personally speaking as a not a not a direct participant the "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:21:13",
    "text": "ITF process I think it\u0027s an opportunity to make that the ITF site the dub-dub-dub side anyway work better for folks who don\u0027t already know what the ITF is doing you know but of course it needs to work for for all Dion audiences including current participants and and potential participants so I think that\u0027s the quick rundown oh I should say that feedback there are a couple of ways and Russ in his note mentioned that there\u0027s a email alias thing called webmaster daityas org there\u0027s a github issue tracker that we\u0027re using to track issues and people could some issues there and so we are we are checking that and there are still office hours during the meeting this week so Friday morning I think that was also in Russ is known but of course you should feel free to stop me I won\u0027t volunteer Ross but you can definitely stop me in and I\u0027m happy and would welcome conversations so yeah so if there any other questions or comments I\u0027m happy to take calculus now as well hi Tim Chan you probably remember my email right yeah I think what we\u0027re gonna have to come to is the realization now that ITF dot org is basically the place that non participants will go to to find stuff I kind of accept that it\u0027s the way that modern web pages look I like the fact that it\u0027s it works well in responsive mode on a phone so it\u0027s still quite presentable there I think the realization is those participants we\u0027re going to have to basically the data tracker will be our landing page I think the important thing is to make sure that the important thing is to make sure that everything on the data tracker and particularly the left-hand pane is captured from the existing IETF home page which is where I think a lot of us maybe still go to do common things like a submission of drafts etc so it\u0027s kind of like the corporate front page as opposed to this sort of intranet which is what the data tracker and the excellent tools pages I think that\u0027s my interpretation of it and it\u0027s it\u0027s kind of okay I\u0027m sure I\u0027ll get used to it and it\u0027s just like a female doctor who I\u0027ll get used to that as well so it\u0027s all ok I think it\u0027s just a bit you know once you\u0027ve seen something and being familiar with it for so long it\u0027s just a bit of a shock I think yeah it\u0027ll be a shock to the doctor as well when he regenerates something that as well yeah I\u0027ll say I think one of the things we heard for sure at the last IETF meeting was that people came to dub-dub-dub the IETF that org idea of participants came and what they used was meeting registration and the left hand set of links I won\u0027t call it navigation because it isn\u0027t actually navigation to the dev site it\u0027s a set of links to resources that are commonly used so I don\u0027t know if it\u0027ll work on that but if you hit the the tools menu item up there and that\u0027s something new you\u0027ll see that there\u0027s a "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:24:14",
    "text": "drop down link to some of the commonly used things right and if you click on Tools itself that takes you to a page which is still being refined that has essentially a replication of links that are currently on this on the left side yeah I understand and the scrolling is for example is a really is really good point so it\u0027s something that\u0027s a great example of feedback that we need to address Thanks hi Bob ended first of all I\u0027d like to thank you for you know doing this it\u0027s a completely thankless job because whatever you do people will find things to criticize so good and so my go-to the scroll back I have one comment dart to the top yeah I I hate that picture for the IDF that\u0027s sort of not how we do business good well we\u0027re replacing it great yeah I\u0027ll say that one of the questions has been so why do you have this here that\u0027s not going it\u0027s not a question but you know like this is not the thing that you would have on your front page once you find a production and maybe a clarification is that we wanted to have something up there that definitely put this site in context about where it is now it\u0027s not the front of home page so don\u0027t think of it as such but once once it goes into production we\u0027ll have images of from the hackathon or people having discussions or perhaps images relating to current current blog post there\u0027s a recent blog post by I\u0027m gonna forget it but it was basically about automated calling capabilities for vehicles and it was there\u0027s a RFC few RFC\u0027s that were published and then the authors of the RFC\u0027s wrote a blog post explaining them so again keeping in the idea that it\u0027s the work of the ITF that\u0027s really really important but some people need help understanding what that work is hi Greg um Allison Lincoln i RTF chair I\u0027m I just want I also want to thank you you\u0027ve been very communicative and very clear to various the stakeholders I knew about including myself when you put images up will so I\u0027ve been through a number of corporate type things I know we\u0027re not going to get close to corporate but well you have a panel of folks who kind of I test them to make sure that that you know you\u0027re aware of different paths reactions of different you know people people\u0027s sensitivities and so on because I\u0027ve had a lot of interesting experiences with that not happening in environments yeah I think I think that\u0027s that is definitely the plan it\u0027s something that I know Alissa is interested in is making sure that there are there\u0027s the opportunity to have these kinds of things sort of reviewed with more eyeballs and maybe not solve issues but highlight issues to say hey "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:27:14",
    "text": "you know you really should think about that and go talk to that person to figure it out so yeah that\u0027s definitely part of the plan thank you any other questions for Gregg okay thank you very much thank you so so the next item on the agenda is actually about this particular session so I had a couple questions for how we wanted to actually I\u0027m going to stand up so I can see you all Oh much better um so what I wanted to know we used to do tutorials we did full day not full day we did full hour tutorials and then we migrated to this open forum format and you know we have covered a number of the fairly obvious topics thus far and so I\u0027m trying to solicit a little bit of input on where we want to go with this particular forum I have a couple of topics for next time but I\u0027m wondering what the best way to solicit input going forward on the MIS so the first question I have is how many people have gone to the working group chairs wiki recently oh that\u0027s better than I expected so so I added an entry all the way down at the bottom of the Working Group chairs wiki which is a pointer to an edge you team wiki which basically is a collection spot for ideas for future topics for the working group chairs forum now the ones that I currently have in mind for that we\u0027re pondering or that were probably going to do in the near future one of them and it was most mostly because we wanted a little bit more time to properly prepare it before this one is what are the implications of the you know whether the change is what are the differences between the new IPR RFC and the old one based on the that I mean obviously I never you have probably seen the blog would have come out another one and she\u0027s not in here so I\u0027m not gonna put her on the spot has to had to do with interactions with the the Secretariat like what can you what what questions and what can they what do they want to know from you all and also any questions or comments that you have from them so my first question is how many people feel that these forums are efficient and you would like to see them continue okay that\u0027s true I guess I should start with how many you think they should continue that would that would probably be a okay "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:30:16",
    "text": "excellent and I won\u0027t ask the efficient question because they\u0027re not feeling very efficient at the moment so is a valid question how many people are here because they like the Friedmann well you know I wasn\u0027t I know the last I saw panel that I organized we did a survey out of that and I actually I add one of the questions one of the responses I added was I\u0027m only here for the free lunch but people don\u0027t tend to answer that very honestly I\u0027ll have to say I guess I could do that how many people are here only for the free lunch I\u0027ve got to say if you\u0027re here only for the free lunch and beautiful Prague in this rather dark conference right then there\u0027s something wrong it\u0027s beautiful and sunny and there\u0027s good food outside all right so some what I\u0027d like to do is sort of open up the floor for suggestions for future topics and then also encourage you eventually to go to the wiki so I would like a brainstorming session on what you all would like to hear or what you would like to discuss and I think we\u0027re stick we seem to like the 15 to 20 minute per topic discussion but if there\u0027s a specific thing that you think we need a full tutorial on I\u0027m interested in that as well this is Barry liebe and I\u0027m gonna push back on what you just said I actually liked it when we had one or maybe two topics that filled the time rather than here\u0027s a list of things that we want to chat about for five minutes each or 10 minutes each or whatever I don\u0027t have particular suggestions right now for topics but I will know that over but I thought we did really well when we said the topic this time is going to be X I like that okay Robert sparks I\u0027m going to agree with Barry for if we continue in the format where we\u0027re all sitting in chairs and staring at someone in the front of the rim I would suggest that we consider having this session in the lounge with a bunch of tables and breakouts around topics where smaller groups of us can talk about the smaller topics that we\u0027re more interested in so something like an open space type of activity that would be really interesting and of course I immediately jump to the logistics challenges of that but that\u0027s a very interesting idea I mean we currently have a lounge this time we have a lounge that might accommodate that but we\u0027d have to think about it so let me do it just a general poll of the room then of when we were doing tutorials people were complaining that some of them were that they some of them needed to be more hands-on and that people just didn\u0027t want to sit and listen to a presentation for an hour in the middle of the week so how many would prefer how many think "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:33:19",
    "text": "it\u0027s more useful to do like a full hour-long tutorial let\u0027s do it that way [Laughter] so so then I guess what I would ask is that we get a little more discussion on the working group chairs list about what the topics should be and I know a couple of times ago I asked for help with the co-chair and I didn\u0027t get any volunteers maybe if I just asked for volunteers to lead topics that would help um go ahead Barry I think Spencer was before me sorry I didn\u0027t even so that\u0027s mr. Dawkins you don\u0027t have to make this decision for all future ie TFS right we\u0027re gonna have topics that require an hour and it\u0027s okay for us to do that but I really like the idea for the working good chairs to be able to have conversations that are more structured in the working group to be R nights but but not classroom style I think that you know I think what Robert was talking about was somewhere in the middle and I think that\u0027s a good default if you don\u0027t have something that\u0027s you know like tutorial material I kind of like the concept of the open mic some point in there but go ahead Barry well my comment dovetails with what Spencer just said we don\u0027t have because we pick a topic for the day doesn\u0027t mean it has to be a lecture and we\u0027ve had some of the topic for the day things in the past have been more interactive with sort of a brief introduction and then let\u0027s talk about it and that that really is the kind I like best and I like Roberts idea but I would be loath to tell everybody they have to leave the lounge because the working group chairs are coming in I agree with it the people that are saying that doesn\u0027t have to be all one way or all the other but I do think we need a little bit more community participation and what the topics are and what and what\u0027s a go ahead Robert I was busy editing what I was going to say so I\u0027ll jump into a half one thought I guess the way I\u0027d like to skin this is you ask people to brainstorm possible topics you have alluded a couple of times that tutorials are a rich topic space could we get people to come talk about kinds of tutorials in particular tutorials that aren\u0027t about tools it\u0027s obvious to me just because of where I spend a lot of my volunteer time that having tutorials around tools is something that when a new tool comes around a dead obvious thing to do are their tutorials that we know that we can run on things that aren\u0027t tools it would be useful I got a topic maybe having one "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:36:29",
    "text": "be a quick introduction from a few chairs of things that they\u0027ve done in their working groups to manage their working groups that they\u0027ve found to be particularly effective and then turn that into a general discussion among the chairs of what sorts of problems I have with my working group how I\u0027ve solved them what\u0027s worked in what hasn\u0027t general sort of working group management session so I\u0027ll add to the list that I asked about the thing to thing research group in Chicago tried a set a breakout session this was slowly inspired the suggestion that I made about how we might approach doing doing this session I wonder if having somebody from thing to thing rgp run a description on how to do one of these breakout style sessions Braun gondwana s a new chair and person new to the ITF my needs are probably quite different to someone like Barry who\u0027s been here for quite a lot longer just to to pick on you Barry with your additional things yeah for me certainly understanding more about being a chair and understanding more about the process is something that\u0027s really quite valuable I wonder whether everyone in the room has the same needs or whether it\u0027s worth having different focuses different years for my first year obviously or second year it\u0027s all quite new I think there is a couple of different categories I think there\u0027s the new chairs that are trying to glean all the information they can about running a working group I think there\u0027s also you know reminders and you know refreshers for existing chairs things about processes that they might have gotten a little bit slack about or that they might never have actually paid attention to and then the the I think the third thing is though that what Barry\u0027s talking about the you know the sharing how you deal with various issues what are the kinds of issues you encounter and how do you address them I think that there\u0027s at least three categories of things that we could do go ahead Barry riffing on Robert how many of you as chairs have tried running your working group sessions at least sometimes as a multiple breakouts where people already did our ari is the only one it seems so up we have a couple yeah I think it would be interesting to have a session discussing that and seeing if that would work for more working group sessions rather than our usual model of somebody up at the front of the room reading slides Bernie volts as one possible suggestion for a topic it might be to ask the iesg "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:39:30",
    "text": "you know do they have something that they want to talk to the working group chairs about to help ease their process or things that they\u0027re seeing on a regular basis that would be beneficial for us to be aware of in our review and in our work you know to advance documents you know so that would be an opportunity for the ISP occasionally to come in and talk to the working group chairs about issues that they\u0027re seeing or concerns they might have or areas that they\u0027re you know going to focus a little bit more on in terms of when they do their their reviews and documents or acara and so yeah we had that you Gago thinking our two breakout sessions and just wanted to share some experience on that so I think a lot of parts been fund very useful it\u0027s very different style we usually run very loyal discussions etc some things you really need the rescued facilitators with no takers because those are always of course it\u0027s hard to come by but and also the logistics of the room so you need to be people to have close enough to each other but all in all those very good experience and we\u0027re planning to take one of those later on you want to try it it depends of course what kind of discusses you\u0027re having but maybe for the for this kind of discuss what we having here definitely worth trying and if people want to discuss me more details of some of our experiences we can have a break on that someday thanks rich sauce I think one thing that we should make explicit in the planning is that we we want to grow them the leadership pipeline so that people like Barry you should probably be bored almost at every one of these lunches and happen and and meet half of them you know and other people like find something useful out of every single one and that we should not feed we should definitely have deliberate repetition because we\u0027re always gonna be newcomers yes so hi Natasha rainy and so just a second the new chair section I don\u0027t know if it should be the whole the whole the whole time but at least a bit for newbies would be really great like I chair two groups but I could still do in some of that that little bit so yeah some more of that would be fantastic sorry can I insert myself yeah we used to have on the Sunday after and the tutorials anymore overall a tutorial session used to have sessions on how to run a working group and now how to be more efficient working group chair things like that more procedural experience exchange and tutorials we haven\u0027t done that in a while because it was kind of replaced by this but would this be something that we should consider doing again as a tutorial on Sunday afternoon maybe a bit more structurally than having discussions here it\u0027s a plus one from me I don\u0027t think it has to be sorry Rick Taylor I don\u0027t think it has to be every every "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:42:30",
    "text": "IETF because okay I can take over as a working group chair survive one or two meetings leaning on my co-chair and then maybe one in three would seem fairly viable I imagine those metrics on how many new chairs have come in and sort of try and catch that wave every soft and would be worthwhile so can I ask you a question before you step away so I I think we haven\u0027t done one in a very long time so it would be worth doing it but we\u0027re doing a much better job now of capturing these and putting them online and me echo provides a nice they provide nice recordings are all up on YouTube so is there a I\u0027m wondering whether we\u0027re the trade-off with how often we should do them versus do people I let me ask this if there was a one-hour tutorial on how to run a working group video how many of you think you would actually look at it well your attention spans are much longer than mine might not pay attention all the way through the one hour but I\u0027d leave it playing I mean there\u0027s so many top possible topics you can put in I don\u0027t think an hour is that long actually for that\u0027s true I Karen now come more to none this time of the Sunday working group chair tutorial I I remember going to my first one and I thought it was just a really great up and the best part was my co-chair who\u0027ve been doing it for about seven years came with me and having some actual chairs there who you could interact with and ask questions of and get down into questions details if you haven\u0027t especially haven\u0027t want to work running working group yet it was valuable and I think in the past when we ran these we opened it up to perspective working groups yes absolutely yeah so we would absolutely need to do that this time just to get enough numbers to do that and I think we want to encourage if we go this way we want to encourage some number of existing working group chairs to go and then go right from that three o\u0027clock to four o\u0027clock session right to the newcomers or something like that I think that would work okay David black just one quick plus one with Alice 802 what L said okay great Brian Rosen I\u0027m gonna change the subject so oh it\u0027s fun so I\u0027m gonna riff a little bit on this this idea of sessions that are breakout and suggest that a good subject for this thing would be an interactive brainstorming session on alternate ways to run a meeting so that we would surface ideas like that like the breakout session but there might be many other ideas that we could do and one thing I would add to that is there isn\u0027t any reason it has to take the whole slot right you could have "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:45:31",
    "text": "two-thirds of the meeting run conventionally and one-third of the meeting running in an alternate way but I think it would be interesting to have this group brainstorm on alternate ways that we could get our work done other than people in the pink box I think that\u0027s a really good idea I know it\u0027s something the iesg has been talking about but perhaps it\u0027s a conversation that the all of the working group chair should have as well go ahead now\u0027s hi Niels H RPC I have a problem for which I do not have a solution and that is that the hackathon is growing at a frightening pace which is which is which is a great thing but it coincides with our newcomers work and when Charles asked at the hackathon how many people attack us on worse first-time IET efforts it was a huge number of hands getting up going up so that means that we\u0027re having the same target group which is bad so we might consider doing some stuff maybe other times during the week maybe during other breaks I do not know but conflicts are going to happen but this seems particularly a problematic one I had Robert so Robert sparks while people are absorbing that I\u0027ve had the idea a few times this week I\u0027ve been talking to a few folks about it I am increasingly of the opinion that what is happening at the hackathon is at least as if not more important than what is happening in many of the working group sessions that tells me that we should allocate our time differently I realize we\u0027re getting a little bit out of scope of what the working group chair should do but as working group chairs let\u0027s start thinking about how we\u0027re using our time across the week maybe we should have fewer working group sessions or shorter working group sessions and a bigger chunk of time that is unstructured for people to do hackathons all week long [Music] shifting gears in the list of things that we might talk about if we actually had someone come in and give a day dedicated in the front of the room lead a discussion kind of topic we haven\u0027t had anyone yet come to the mic to talk about while I\u0027m working in my working group and here is hard thing X that I\u0027m having to to deal with I\u0027ll pony up an example hard thing X that I\u0027m just pulling out of a hat I don\u0027t have this problem right now but sometimes you have to replace working group document editors and the current editors don\u0027t want to be replaced I think maybe having a few sessions on one or two topics like that one so that we can get some shared at least anecdotal messages about how to "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:48:34",
    "text": "healthily get through those situations would be a good use of the time okay thank you Rick Taylor again can I just say a plus one for the current format I actually quite liked it if you look at what we\u0027re doing now we\u0027ve had a couple of presentations on you know quick to the point presentations about a couple of things which are relevant you know the website is changing and RFC formats changing its kind of stuff we need to know as chairs and then we\u0027ve got a good open mic a lot of good ideas we\u0027re discussing how things can change over time this is this to me seems to be working reasonably well and it\u0027s it\u0027s not just throw this out so that we can change something actually it\u0027s a bit of a plus one for this format so Ben Campbell first responding to Robert IFG is actually actively discussing how we allocate time during the week in other experiments we can try on that sort of thing so that\u0027s a good thing the downside of that is apparently we found out today we were also actively discussing that in 2005 then what I actually came to the mic for was talking about Sunday tutorials for the chairs or potential new chairs or that sort of thing and this is I think Barry is the one who told me the second hand that we did one of those not too long ago a couple years ago something like that and there was a several years ago several years ago time flies and at the end of the day with asked ok how many of you are actually interested being chairs and with raise their hand now I don\u0027t know if that means that we scared them I think more likely and this ties in now with the conflict with the the various coding events is that I think a lot of people don\u0027t didn\u0027t know they needed to come early on Sunday and people make their travel arrangements months in advance for this sort of thing and if they find out a few weeks in advance that there\u0027s going to be a tutorial they care about they may not be able to change those plans at that time so if that sort of thing could be he announced well in advance when we plan to do it perhaps with some outreach to specifically targeted people that would probably be helpful on the other hand the potential conflicts with weekend time might suggest we do it some other time in the week anyway right you know what Ben was talking about was specifically the tutorial I did on separating document shepherding and I think it might have been the last Prague meeting but yeah I asked people in the room how many of you are or will be document shepherds and no one raised their hands so I don\u0027t know who was in there and why and they were they were engaged and interested but they weren\u0027t the people I was hoping to get in there "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:51:34",
    "text": "okay okay a few comments are first on the combining breakouts and and restyle that\u0027s that usually works exactly well usually if you want to have breakouts you want to start with an oriental dinner first to set the stage and in the end to wrap up across all the different breakout so that it makes a lot of sense they don\u0027t the comment of getting best practices how to handle a hard situation sounds very good I think one common theme across many working groups how to get stuff working faster because of various reasons you know kind of okay if this then do that and here\u0027s a few ways to do that and then on the time allocations that weekend before the IETF is getting extremely crowded I don\u0027t have solution for that except for maybe from Singapore things in our teas can start on Friday before the idea sorry about that but yeah maybe want to work on some guidelines on like how do we actually make the weekend also work better okay thank you Spencer mr. Dawkins so we probably need a section of this meeting where people can stand up and say I agree with Robert sparks but he he may he may have been thinking this all by himself but he talked about he talked about the the lounge thing and we\u0027ve talked about the hard problem thing and thinking that the breaking lounge with breakouts I shouldn\u0027t space on a topic that that were those two things would work together really well so I mean like the is G as we said the is G is thinking about this so we\u0027re doing experiments almost every IETF cycle if you\u0027re paying attention so this is something that matters a lot to us and we really appreciate the opportunity to listen to other people who have what twenty times as many brain cells as we do just just mathematically because coming up with things will work for the community is it\u0027s a hard problem all right Charles yeah Charles uh Cole Robert also mentioned about the the hackathon and and thoughts about that and you know when we first brought that it was it was certainly an experiment right and just giving some leeway to do it now people are getting used to it but it is growing and now they just eat up people\u0027s time but it also costs more to run it so um just the feed people so it is something that I\u0027m glad you know Robert mentioned it and that people will start thinking about it I\u0027ve also worked with the Secretariat of bid we thought about ways we could address this and just like the hackathon was a experiment the first time we did it we were thinking of doing something very light touch where people could much like they asked for a side room you know to be scheduled they could ask for space where their team could work on coding stuff that\u0027s not to be a hackathon but really not so much about this about getting the "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:54:34",
    "text": "space but more about getting people\u0027s calendars and their times synced up just to see if that was helpful and if there was demand for it so that is some type of experiment we\u0027re thinking of doing if you have thoughts about it come see me I\u0027m happy to hear what you think might make it work better so that you know when we do the experiment at least has a chance of succeeding okay excellent and very sorry this isn\u0027t really the it\u0027s a little bit of a stray but talking about alternative ways to run your working group sessions how many of you know that when you request a session you can ask for an alternative u-shaped room layout okay most of you do know so then I guess I just that they\u0027re gonna try it again there were there are none that way this time because there weren\u0027t enough requests but they\u0027re going to try it again in Singapore really think about whether you\u0027re working group could benefit from that kind of layout to generate more discussion and less presentation all right all right so we have six minutes so last last Sprint\u0027s to the queue we did not get loads of comments from people from participants about the u-shaped experiment last time since we\u0027re thinking about doing that fixing the stuff we heard about last time if there was stuff that was broken last time that you thought about but haven\u0027t said or even asked your working groups if they were in one of those rooms please tell us because we would like to be smarter rather than dumber I\u0027m following up on that one there was some weird dynamics in that you share room with questions of with people\u0027s backs and chairs not facing the groups and all sorts of stuff that was weird so we could probably use the room well but let\u0027s figure out how to use it best I\u0027d like to also ask advice from other working group chairs on scheduling conflicts and when to ask for rescheduling and what is the best approach for that so now we\u0027re Friday morning against quick it\u0027s gonna be fun but so what where and how is should you be using the rescheduling and doing the conflicts that probably people have some advice and guidance on that does u-shaped room thing how many chairs would be in that room so I\u0027ve got a hundred and fifty people come into my working group can I have a u-shaped room with a hundred and fifty people in it maybe yours isn\u0027t the best part the idea is that the u-shape you have a u-shaped arrangement for some people that that will you figure that that\u0027s where the most active participants will tend to sit and then there\u0027ll be chairs around that other people can sit and it might not work for your working group I don\u0027t know all right so we have four minutes left "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:57:36",
    "text": "this has been a very helpful conversation I will post a note to the working group chairs mailing list like I said I\u0027ve set up a wiki page where I\u0027m going to try and curate ideas for sessions going forward and any other comments that you have and so that we can also on that same page is a list of tutorials we had a tutorial this time generally we have to talk we have obviously the newcomers tutorial we have tutorials that are about IETF process and tools and we have ones that are about you know new technologies that are in the IETF like the quick one we had last time DNS privacy and we also have tutorials about technology that\u0027s coming from outside of the IETF and this time we had a tutorial that was requested by a group of people that wanted to get better exposure to something that they want to bring into the IETF and that was the t p-- tutorial and we obviously have limited you know a limited number of resources and slots that we can put tutorials in but any thoughts about I don\u0027t want to think in tutorials just in terms of process and tools and and that kind of thing I think we also have an opportunity to to introduce new technologies or to better socialize technologies that were or technical concepts that we\u0027re working on ourselves so I strongly encourage people to either mail the working group chairs mailing list or to contribute to the wiki and the dialogue will continue we\u0027ll see what we\u0027ll do next time I really like the small concept idea of at least once doing a you know a roundtable one I think that would be really interesting to try don\u0027t forget to take your lunches and take your bags your garbage your groceries and clear the room for the next group thank you you "
  }
]