[
  {
    "startTime": "00:00:44",
    "text": "Tony Weber six furthest back takes notes can have a pair until two tickets sorry that\u0027s not my grease it\u0027s me I want my kids activated up on the stage yeah I spent a few days in Berlin all right good morning morning we do need them and take up yeah so Tony "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:03:44",
    "text": "thank you all right so good morning and welcome to Cirque event I\u0027m Aaron chef unfortunately the card couldn\u0027t make it this week people of just comment please fill in the blue sheets let\u0027s take a quick look at the note at the note well everything that takes place within this meeting is covered by the note well specifically IPR concerns so where are we as a working group but between Bangkok and now we had an interim meeting plant that unfortunately didn\u0027t happen we had to cancel because authors couldn\u0027t make it we announced the working group last call for our next upcoming document push delivery didn\u0027t get enough responses if I remember correctly we only had three responses to the working group last call which was insufficient to announce consensus and so this is where we\u0027re at right now we have a document that\u0027s back to the working group no consensus announced and we need to understand together em what we can do about it so this is what I planned to do it at the end of this session before that Annabel will be talking about the latest changes to their post protocol just prior to their working group last call and then about the subject ID draft that\u0027s moving along and Mike will talk about the recent changes to the poll and then we\u0027ll talk about process wise whether in how we want to move push delivery across the finish line and with that on a petal no you don\u0027t doesn\u0027t work good morning everybody names Annabelle Backman Amazon I am here to talk about push based hook and delivery as Yaron just said it so just "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:06:45",
    "text": "quick run-through of what we\u0027re talking about here this is the goal here is to be able to deliver sets via HTTP posts from a set transmitter to a set recipient the protocol is pretty simple the it starts with a post from the transmitter with a set in the body next and hopefully ends with a 202 response from the recipient alternatively it ends in a failure response pretty straightforward you\u0027ve all probably seen this before because you\u0027ve read the spec right where we\u0027re at right now we had a go for draft published early this year with the working group last call that yarn mentioned in January in February and then we had the most recent oh five draft published after that with updates from the few responses we did get and to that last call hmm implementations are about where they\u0027ve been one update on that as Google has actually gone live with a set transmission for risk events for there oh I DC clients so there\u0027s actually a live in the wild production implementation of this out right now next so talk about what\u0027s changed since oh three one of the more significant changes was adjusting the language or unvalidated the validation requirements are a few things that weren\u0027t clear there so you added a couple of statements there one to make it explicit that the set recipient should be validating the fact or must must validate the fact that they are willing to receive sets from this issuer so in the example diagram there the recipient should check the issue or make sure they they know who set that example.com is demo com they trust us they expect to receive sets from those issuers they like that they don\u0027t know who set unknown commas so they don\u0027t want to receive offence there separately from that the recipient also needs to validate that they\u0027re willing to receive this particular set from the transmitter that\u0027s transmitting it they might want to receive set example.com sets from example court but they don\u0027t expect that from demo Inc so they\u0027re gonna reject that set this is two different kinds of failure modes that the recipient needs to watch out for next the next noteworthy thing is we reworked the error codes this was based off of discussion from last ITF in Bangkok we went through the list of error codes and significantly reduced the number reduced it to this set of four that in the "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:09:47",
    "text": "opinion either the author\u0027s represent meaningfully distinct types of error cases where the an automated system receiving this error message might be able to take some useful action based on it so there\u0027s a lot of different ways that a set could be rejected or by the recipient but it turns out that there\u0027s not a lot of ways that it could be rejected where the transmitter could actually do something useful in response to that other than just notify at the administrators that hey this was reductant we don\u0027t know why something\u0027s wrong so he came up with this this set of four cases primarily it\u0027s the latter three that where if something useful can be done in in the first case the system just has to punt and say I don\u0027t know what to do about this next I know a few miscellaneous changes there as a comment about language specifying the language for error descriptions so we added accept language and content language to support that and then we clarified some of the requirements around TLS to specifically require at least 1.2 instead of exactly 1.2 and also to require beyond 1.2 whatever a latest version of TLS is out there that meets the requirements for the for the use case and then we\u0027ll ignore that last bit that got copied from previous slide so where are we right now there aren\u0027t really any open questions that are before the working group there that are before this spec so the question really goes to yahrens point earlier of how do we move forward on this draft how do we get engagement get people to read it comment on it decide if it\u0027s something we want to push forward with or or not ace you want to have that discussion at the end of the time so we can punt on that for now I\u0027m sorry if there are any questions about the technical content we could take those now seeing none I guess we can move on yes okay item number two is subject identifiers for security event tokens hmm quickly summarize what we\u0027re talking about here a subject identifier is a JSON object that has a subject type and contains a set of claims that whose meaning is defined by that type what is "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:12:49",
    "text": "a subject type let\u0027s look at the next slide a subject identifier type is just a simple schema for representing a or identifying a subject by some set of claims the use case here is that in sets we sometimes need to represent or identify a subject in a variety of ways and even within a single use case you might need to support multiple types of identifiers so we want to be able to know what type of identifier this is how are we supposed to have process it so here\u0027s an example from risk in the account disabled event we have within risk we have a subject claim in the event payload that identifies the subject via some subject identifier in this case it\u0027s an issuer slash subject identifier and it\u0027s just a way of expressing subject in terms of the issuer and subject claim pair that you would normally see in a job okay so oh three draft published a few weeks ago the one main application we have for this is in risk but we expect a lot other use cases or from anyone who\u0027s using set for the most part Google and Amazon are both doing this as part of our risk implementations updates from last ITF by a Mike suggestion we added a account URI subject type so this is to represent subjects via an RFC 75-65 account URI and there\u0027s a example there also from as I talked about this last I 80 F based on the feedback I made the change to where instead of having this ID token claims subject type as a way to try and handle multiple types of multiple identifiers for the same subject we replace that with a more generic aliases concept so in the event where you have a number of identifiers for a subject and you don\u0027t know which one your recipient is actually using you can put all of those together into this meta subject type in a sense to say here are the ways I know how to identify this subject use whichever one you use one of these hopefully makes sense to you so that is new in the spec and then we also added this brief section on email canonicalization which basically amounts to we are not going to try and standardize email canonicalization in this spec because it\u0027s way out of scope and recipients should be sure to apply "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:15:51",
    "text": "the canonicalization rules that they normally apply in their system in order to kind of D dupe email addresses to accounts or subjects in their system and then I think the last thing here is this note on semantics this was discussed somewhat last IETF is kind of another iteration on trying to clarify the meanings of what exactly these subject types are supposed to refer to based on feedback from last IETF updated these to use this identified with language on so I think that that makes it a little clearer we can happy to have more feedback on that as well I think the the one open item we have is this question of a defining a jot claim for subject identifiers mmm this is something that I think Brian suggested I don\u0027t see him here to talk about it unfortunately but the the suggestion is basically that mmm we define a claim in the claim space to generically represent a jot subject the subject of the the job as a subject identifier this would be presumably as an alternative to the existing sub claim which is just a plain string an alternative subject or sub ID claim would be its its value would be a object that is a subject identifier this is something that was brought before the working group raised on the list there wasn\u0027t really any discussion I\u0027d be happy to hear opinions on it now John Bradley yubico this actually came up at the security workshop last week Vittorio has an almost identical use case for John access tokens probably not surprising so I suggested that he also have a look at this so it has the need for such a thing has come up in other contexts besides just set the need for a subject claim there be like a subject identifier a subject identifier not in the scope of the issuer okay I\u0027ve been connect I guess one thing that we would probably have to keep in mind if we did you know specify such a standard claim is you know how is it gonna interact with so like if they\u0027re both present does this one take precedence what happens if you send such a thing yeah we\u0027re both so and the new thing or present to somebody who only understands sub you know there\u0027s just some education is to make sure that we think about and "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:18:51",
    "text": "write down right yeah and I think that\u0027s a good point I think at the very least some language around when and if you should send both would be helpful actually the more types we define I think the more Alice\u0027s we\u0027re going to see because this and doesn\u0027t always know what the recipient understands so they might well send bills an account URI in this sub subject issue or stuff like that even god forbid email Canon canonicalization they might send different things just in case and regarding this this one I really don\u0027t like the fact that we define it by syntax versus semantics I don\u0027t have any problem with the job being the subject but I think we need to define the semantics and probably at least some of the contents of this job I think that the problem is that jots defines sub specifically as a string so if we want to have anything more complicated than that then we have to have we\u0027re either violating JA or were defining a new claim for that so so I guess we should define a new claim or or if does something around already let\u0027s use it I don\u0027t know that there\u0027s anything else around already that would fit the this is kind of an alias I don\u0027t see it as being mutually exclusive to sub so in the example of an access token that Vittorio had was that you\u0027re using Google to authenticate the person to an a s the a s may have a subject in its scope that it knows the user by but it may be useful to the RS to also know that you were foo at gmail.com was the original federated authentication so essentially I think thinking of it as an alias this is what somebody else knows the person by as opposed to sup which is what the issuer knows my person or and/or thing III think it\u0027s would be safe to say that in the event that a jot contains both sub and whatever claim this is that they must both identify the same principle as long as that\u0027s the case then there shouldn\u0027t be too much in the way of confusion as far as how do you process that and which one do you prioritize okay a different topic if you could go back three slides I think and my apologies it\u0027s been too "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:21:54",
    "text": "long since I actually read the draft shame but when we have an aliases array like this that give you know sort of different ways to identify the same actor are there any privacy considerations that we might be like exposing some identifiers that they didn\u0027t want to be exposed so if memory serves they\u0027re still in the the specs some language around that around privacy considerations that a transmitter should not be should should take care when transmitting subject identifiers to make sure they are not revealing information that that\u0027s a shouldn\u0027t necessarily be communicated or that shouldn\u0027t be shared with the recipient I think there\u0027s a section in there that specifically mentions that in some cases even the subject identifier itself can be perceived as sensitive information so I think we have guidance for that in the in the current draft and in fact then if you have almost specific idea than this vague language that would be appreciated any other questions or comments on subject identifiers seeing none I guess we can hand it over to Mike good morning I\u0027m Mike Jones from Microsoft and I will be talking with you about the other delivery draft which is based on polling next so what is this this defines a way to Paul for events which is something you might use if you\u0027re in a context that you\u0027re not able to push them maybe because of connectivity or firewall relationships this complements the push delivery draft you could do one or the other or both depending upon your use cases next so what\u0027s happened since we last met our heroes I did a major editorial pass mostly continuing to simplify the exposition the precursor drafts that we started with was pretty wordy and it\u0027s not wordy anymore we also better align to the language with both the security event took and draft terminology and the terminology used in the push draft I and others had "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:24:54",
    "text": "made a bunch of review comments on push which Annabelle applied and I\u0027d applied some a few drafts ago and this sort of catches the language up in the poll draft to what\u0027s in the push draft the one tweak I made is I pointed out two meetings ago that there was a strange inter dependency between the semantics of two fields where if one had a certain value you ignored the other one and that just complicates implementations and thinking about it and in fact the case where it used to be ignored did make semantic sense so I decoupled the semantics almost no implementations are going to change as a result I believe finally I did something which I\u0027d also suggested for the push draft which is that used to say that TLS is required and that language has been softened to say that if there\u0027s PII you have to encrypt it you could do it with jwe you could do it with TLS you could even do it with both but tried to get it what are we trying to achieve rather than saying this is the mechanism you must use to achieve it next for the discussion that\u0027s about to occur I will note that this draft has a normative dependency on the push draft and so in order to finish this it would be tremendously helpful to also finish the push draft next so this is now a chair conversation but I don\u0027t see anything left to do on this other than working group last call and as long as I have the microphone before I sit down I\u0027ll say two things about push one is I believe that Adobe also has an implementation in deployment as they\u0027re receiving events from Google so that\u0027s another implementation in the wild and I was one of the recalcitrant ones that didn\u0027t produce a working group last call\u0027s feedback on time I did eventually pop it to the top of the stack and produce a detailed review which Annabel acted upon and I think there\u0027s others that we could kajal in to do a review of some kind to move this forward but now I\u0027m being an individual and editorializing so that\u0027s the end of my presentation are there any questions "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:27:55",
    "text": "about the poll draft or its status or next steps so two questions your on chef do we have do we have any implementations that can be okay Tony nedelin we are using this within Microsoft today so this is something that we are very interested in we\u0027re using it for directory synchronization processes and stuff okay so said I believe there are couple other companies picking it up also okay so some Mike Oh Mike and Tony can you please add an implementation status section to the draft and then a question about security you mentioned either hdwe or TLS are we in sync between Paul and push on this we are almost the one difference in push is the requirement for supporting the latest version of TLS that meets requirements that language is it in poll that\u0027s something that I need to in the next minor revision sync that language because you did a better job than leaving the existing language yeah I think there\u0027s there\u0027s no intentional difference between the specs at this point correct all right so so with that let\u0027s let\u0027s talk let\u0027s go back to the push protocol and I would like to hear from the room if other ideas there\u0027s sort of exhausted their ideas by opening working group last call very traditional IDF waiting for people to chime in seeing nobody and yeah despairing so the I believe the working group is actually empowered to come up to come up with our own process to declare the work ready for publication but I\u0027d like to hear a proposal for an action process well we can make sure that everybody is on the same page that we have enough interest in the room to move forward benkei darkus responsible ad you know just to clarify you it\u0027s completely up to the chairs how you want to determine that there is or is not consensus you only carry out there is that if you do something really crazy you\u0027re probably gonna get a feel but you "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:30:56",
    "text": "know we are definitely open to hearing suggestions for things the working group can do to give you more confidence that we do have consensus one thing that other working groups is often done is used the opportunity of such face-to-face time to try to elicit or draft volunteers to do additional reviews so I don\u0027t know if there\u0027s those in the room that would be willing to sign up on the spot to at least do a skim review and make sure that things are saying from their perspective for instance Tony NAT alone could do that I\u0027d be curious to see if there\u0027s people in the room and the working group in general but in the room since we can see them who have reviewed the spec and did not comment on the working group last call because they had no comments Oh in fact people who think that the draft is not ready or should not actually be published I have read it I didn\u0027t find any issues and I\u0027m too lazy to comment on the list but John Bradley yubico yes I I thought that was what we were doing which is why I didn\u0027t wasn\u0027t motivated to make extra comments on the list can you please before before the session ends so before 11:00 at chime on the mailing list with a plus-one that\u0027s a limit to do anybody else it\u0027s a pancake another thing we can do is if we have people that we know if you\u0027ve amended this we could just arm a little bit and say you know can you look this over is does this match up what you\u0027ve implemented because yes people are are using it that\u0027s sort of an indication that they think it\u0027s it\u0027s worth publishing probably and I in this case I wouldn\u0027t worry too much about multiple people from the same organization we shouldn\u0027t overdo it but it\u0027s not terrible mcjones idea that Adam does at Google was one of the ones who said we\u0027re using it please publish Adam does his identity group lead at Google yes "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:33:58",
    "text": "yeah he actually went public yes but I don\u0027t believe we heard from Adobe for example asked does anyone know who the Adobe contact is maybe I could ask the risk people and probably find out in in general I think the risk group should be interested in moving this thing forward yeah so so again there\u0027s no problem if people who are not regulars go on the list and say something so let\u0027s try in the next month or so to to get it to a close with a few more people saying I\u0027ve read it and it\u0027s okay Thank You doc I don\u0027t even know if you--you\u0027ll gonna need it for months you could be able to do it faster two weeks ray stupid anybody else in the room who\u0027s willing to read this document and publish review even a high-level review John yes know your name please thank you just to clarify are we asking people to review push poll or both we\u0027re asking people specifically to review push thank you and someone note on implementations Allen Dawes did comment on the list that Google has it in production yes okay Mike back to your question about the poll protocol any opinions in the room whether we should move Paul the poll protocol immediately to working group last call Johnny that a yes Tony Madeleine I think we should move this to last call based upon it actually "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:36:59",
    "text": "working and deployed and stuff so we have some references that it what\u0027s in the spec actually works I think my only question about it is whether we have interoperable implementations is a visit Microsoft doing this with Microsoft or do you have other partners that you\u0027re that you\u0027re you\u0027re using it with I don\u0027t necessarily know that\u0027s a blocker it\u0027s something for us to consider yes we do but I can\u0027t disclose at this point in time because so I don\u0027t know if it\u0027s and as an individual or working group sure I think we should actually wait with this until we have closure on push because there are more constituents for the push protocol as well as push protocol is anyway a dependency of the poll protocol so I\u0027d rather wait for these few weeks get more people to express their opinion on the post protocol and then move forward to a working group last call Mike Jones I kind of disagree with that procedurally because in terms of motivating human beings to do the work if people are motivated to work on the Paul and we tell them by the way we need reviews for push to finish Paul you\u0027re more likely to get push reviews whereas if you\u0027re waiting for push reviews and then saying then we\u0027ll consider Paul we don\u0027t have the same forcing function to get people to review those so in fact since we since we have this dependency people who review push should know that also contributing to pull Plus there\u0027s nothing stopping them from reviewing Paul and given the procedural changes that we\u0027re making these reviews will actually count when we get to the more formal they\u0027re working to a breast call I don\u0027t see any reason not to move this to last call and along with along with a push and have them both at last call so we get the proper reviews that we need on both of these guys are their opinions "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:40:05",
    "text": "benkei duck no strong opinion but sometimes it is convenient if we get a group of documents together that sent to mom to me and then we can put them out to IETF last call at the same time some reviewers can maybe have a little bit more context when they\u0027re reviewing both of them together but it\u0027s not I don\u0027t think it is a huge issue in this particular case so if you still think that you guys do actually I\u0027m not gonna tell you to not do that okay so speaking for the chest we will hold them on pole and we will target to have a working group last call and later so before the next IETF I do hope to be done to get push pushed to publication in the next month and then move forward with Paul and with that I believe we are done thank you everyone let\u0027s encrypt or use transport layer security should be like in a referenceable easy here something because it\u0027s like it\u0027s the same guy does it happen so many other places "
  }
]