[
  {
    "startTime": "00:00:13",
    "text": "hello everyone this is the lp1 working group session so we just have one hour on a very dense agenda so if you don't mind we'll be rushing to do it uh alex will pass the the slides hello everyone yes take it take the sauce okay so we we have uh challenged the network a little bit this time because there is some emphasis which is uh being uh given to the code of conduct so let's go through that uh as usual your reminder that there are number of uh not next like previous slide please uh as usual you you must be aware of the not well of the itf which which involves involves uh ipr in particular so if you're aware of any ipr that that is being discussed in your ipr that's been discussed today please notify the group or the chairs after the meeting or refrain from discussing the ideas in this apr next slide so yes the super network has to do with uh the healthy harassment guidelines and procedures so uh you as you know we have a number of best practices in the ietf and in particular we care about respect and respect others and and uh do not harass others as a baseline for the relationship within the atf so there is actually this group called ambulance person which you can join if you feel that you have been subject of harassment are treated discourteously so please don't hesitate to to join them a husband will not be welcome in in this"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:02:02",
    "text": "group in this main english next slide and all these ipr anti-harassment and kind of conduct are all best practices i see so you can find them or online if you wanting to to discuss with the chairs or the id please do next link so as a reminder this meeting is being recorded we are actually uh recording it and publishing it on youtube if you don't want your voice to be published on youtube please refrain from speaking that's the only way presence is loved automatically so there is no blue sheet um metico takes care of the blue sheets for us but mitigo does not take care of the minutes so please um don't hesitate to join the the code dnd the the link is is given on the page here it's on the ietf agenda that's where the minutes are being captured if you want to make sure that what you said was captured correctly please go and validate the text or rewrite it yourself just to make sure that your message passes correctly and the helping of the minutes is welcome next slide please okay so do we have a jabber we don't have jabber sorry go ahead yeah i was about to ask we need to get a minute taker ada now somebody that commits to do it after based on the recording so yeah i'll contribute to the notes if somebody else could join that'd be great thank you dominic for this and uh of course we'll be pitching in for for the taking"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:04:02",
    "text": "everyone is is welcome to to join the minute taking efforts thank you damian so as usual now that the chat will happen on the webex on the mythical itself so you've you probably have found that on the left of your screen you've got those uh two buttons one shows the people like 35 people and next to it there is those feel like those things if you click on that that's a chat and that's that's that's what replaces uh jabber next slide please so the engine as i said is pretty down so i don't have much more time to just go through it uh we'll be having a few words on the state of the architecture and where we want to go with this then 15 minutes with loho giving us the latest on the young daika model then to draft which derived from the world on sick fox by juan carlos next slide please then that will be anna showing us the progress on shakeover and the iot an interesting status of how sheik is being adopted now at the lower alliance that will be dominique and then the last few words and the the work that we tried to to move to interior the chicago ppp the status of making decisions of the future of this document next slide oh any any anybody wants to change anything in this agenda before we move on i'm hearing nothing so so we will stick with this agenda um so here is the status we are good on uh chic co-op as promised um the baseline technologies we have covered uh laura one and now we have uh six fox on the work so we're pretty good"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:06:02",
    "text": "um the data model we appear to be a bit late um before we we decide for another date uh maybe we should assess the progress and and the work that has to be done so we'll discuss with laurent during his talk and then we have uh lp1 uh chic over sig fox which which looks in good shape so juan carlos will tell us about that next slide please so that's pretty much where we are as you can see the uh architecture has not been worked on and alex will discuss that but we we plan to to kick it again and uh well the other documents are evolving nicely next slide this one is the last one oh i'm sorry so the next slide will be actually you uh one one quick information before we uh we go to the different presentations the way we try to do it this time is that everybody will own his own slides but we uploaded already the slides to mitico there is this new feature that alexander is demonstrating right now um if you look at below your name on the top left of the screen there there are there are slides and the speaker will be uh allowed to uh if the second button from the left you you have join q and then you've got this this page which is kind of right now about with this you can select a slide deck within the preloaded slide decks and so we'll ask you to select your slide deck within that and that will allow you to do the navigation without sharing your screen okay we that's the way we plan to do it and that's exactly what alexander is doing now with the lp1 architecture which makes under the believers yes thank you thank you and of course if you have any difficulties with uh actually sharing"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:08:01",
    "text": "your slides you can just tell tell me and i'll be changing the slides for you um so with this one uh and actually before jumping to the lpn architecture overview uh i would like to [Music] to say a couple of words for our progress since the last time so uh we didn't have any we didn't held any interim meetings and uh of course work progressed but it progressed at a pace that's um let's say uh less visible than uh when we had the interims so this is why we'll be having interims uh starting the month of december so there are already two that have been planned and more will come right after uh so um we are profiting from this itf to actually give up give the status of of uh uh give a little refresher of the oklahoma architecture and uh so i think i have a little bit too much slides for the a couple of minutes that are left so i'm just going to go through like you know the the general architecture that we have we have the devices they get the radiogate with the network gateway and the application uh server so uh uh this is the architecture that we have seen the start and just as a slow as a refresher so we have different technologies and in each of the technologies you have like the specific uh uh terminology per technology and the the technology the the terminology that we decided to use within uh in in the itf documentation so this is like a pretty high level overview uh of course i'm not going to go over all the details i mean you have you have that in the in the slide so you can you can get back to it to review it but basically what we have in this document as of today's the the point is that we would like to provide the reference architecture when we have two modes the one is that the"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:10:01",
    "text": "chic will have the sig device in the sheet gateway that's like in the in the more uh traditional iot setting and then when we have the sheet peers uh such as in the pvp uh uh in the ppp document but yesterday on six law there was this also this discussion about okay how we how are we using this uh terminology and how does that work in mesh networks where uh uh there is no uplink and downlink uh uh uh that is as clearly defined you know so these are things that go into this chic architecture and of course how all these things bind together and bind together with the yang data model so these are things that are discussed and that will be discussed more in the sheik architecture so uh um don't be um also one thing that uh the authors of the of this document would like to express is to not uh to not hesitate to also ping us to if you have like if you would like some issues and some questions treated before the other the other ones right because we also like there is this a lot of things that we'll need to describe and um getting some input on what is precious for you on the first time is is of course uh um quite important for us so uh yes i mean you have like the device talking to the network application how everything works together and you know that when the device talks to the uh to the she gateway you have the rule manager that manages the rules and then we have the the compressor the compressor and the fragment fragmenter refragmenter and we have the same setting but you know like if it's uh in a more symmetric view and if it's uh in a shake peer setting such as the ppp document so uh with this the next step in the architectural document and in an architectural draft and with pascal uh"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:12:00",
    "text": "we are really um ambitious about this document so we would like to get it out i would like to to to get it fast uh uh in its next steps is really to go through the life cycle of how uh how the the whole chic life cycle uh works right so please don't hesitate to to ping us and to ping the developer and working group on you know what what's important for you uh and in any case we'll be advancing it with it in uh like in in in this general order so um do you have any questions or any suggestions or remarks i hear no questions and with this then i will give the floor to our next presenter thank you i was about to so lauren i tried don't see it okay well you you you select one and you click on it you should see a list of of slides right a great list but i click and it opens another window so can you share it and it will i can i would have liked you to do it did you double click do press it and share that i don't see it so when you when you open when it launches the window you can okay has to share but then i where i do i go conservative i don't see my sites there's a list so so you press the button"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:14:02",
    "text": "a new window yes which says choose a deck to share and then it scrolls yeah and here you should see data is the fourth maybe yes i click on it but it opened a new window yes sir it opens something new and then on the bottom it says shareholder dismiss sharing blue and dismiss in red please press share i don't see it okay i will do it okay sorry uh or it's here maybe i'm not in uh okay so you are sharing maybe i did not allow you to share let me check because i was not clicking on so yes i i'm gonna present the new version that has been uploaded into the github repository and so it's a version that is published in august and i will give you the difference between this version and the previous one that has been presented at the during the past etf session so next slide please all right so here so there is a very some cosmetic things like adding a dash between the name to be closer to be better understood and be closer also to what we find in rfc 8724 so next slide so here we have also something that has been requested is to use the acronym instead of field id type we use feed we use fl to be very close to what we have in vrfc so that's another difference next slide so more important change is that for the"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:16:01",
    "text": "target values definition we had a union before between binary and string and here we remove the string and we keep only being a riff for two reasons the first one is that it's simpler to manage and when we will use the data model it will be easier to determine it's if it's a binary value and we it will be and we will know the type by the field id so we don't need to have two two things so it's a simplification on that next slide uh on very simple uh thing also we remove s to target value because to be current with the rest of things so next slide if i may can you see below the slides like a line with the numbers no okay because i pressed something called shelf preloaded slides so you should grant preloaded slide or something okay let me let i'll try we'll try with the next presenter so let's keep on okay so beyond the other change in the the container chic so first we remove what's his dashed ear there was a version number but this version number is not in the rfc so we remove it to be coherent with the rfc and we add a new type for the rules which is no compression which is used when no rules are can be selected okay next slide so we had also l2 world that was missing and is present in the rfc next line here we add something that was"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:18:00",
    "text": "required by juan carlos for the company hack it's the definition of the behavior and how the the acknowledgement is done either using the rfc8724 or to use the component act that is defined by the the draft that will be presented after next slide so here uh that's the definition that has been added also in um [Music] questions at the end or would you like to have them oh right now if you want no problem okay so chair hats off i would like to ask a question if you go back to the previous slide uh so about the compound deck uh if i if i remember correctly we said that this extension will be actually in the compound pack draft as a young extension of the baseline yang data model do i remember correctly or maybe there is two two possibilities so what i understood but maybe i'm wrong was to ask in the compound arc document some to add things to the young model but the other approach could be to extend the pure the young model only based on 8724 and then we add we augment the model with a new draft so i don't i don't know what what's the best to do i i think that we decided that it needs to we need to have extension"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:20:02",
    "text": "8724 and 8824 so either we we expect the other one to be published soon or we just base it on rfc maybe it's a better solution but we can change it it's not a problem so as long as i remember that that was also what we discussed was that this will show how extensions are done okay yes that's a training for the future yeah i also asked that question on the mailing list but i had lost my memory about that point and because yes i saw that you you are doing something and juan carlos is also doing something in his draft uh and it's so maybe effectively just as alex said just to to show how you extend we should not consider at all um that one carlos is draft in here and do everything in one galaxy's draft okay surprised to show how extensions are that nasal except okay no problem can do to that next slide please okay so here is more a question but i already talked to with dominic of that and we have to update it is that we had a maximum window size in the past which was uh right now when you define uh fcn size you can use up to two power fcn size minus two for the value but you can also reduce this value and this is given by this and i didn't find it in the llc but with dominic we locate it in the rfc so i will have to update also this this field if i'm correct so next slide so what is new also is that we put relation between the different leaf in the model"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:22:00",
    "text": "for example here what we say that if you have a matching operator so if it's ignore it doesn't need a target value and any of the other cases a target value has to be defined and same thing if we have matching operator matching opera if we have uh sorry lsb uh msb it requires also to have argument after that so we have this uh two tests that has been introduced in in the young model on next slide and same thing for uh era test for when we have icon error we force only this value tile size and all these things to be present only if we are in akon era next slide so maybe we can have over relations so one of them can be for example to test if the msb argument is less than the field length because the ride is not possible but i don't know how to do it in young and maybe also to check if we have a lsb and msb are map send on match mapping so there is a link between these two ones so we can check it but it's not specified in the rfc so i don't think it's useful to to do it and if you have other ideas of relation between information in the data model so please tell us next sign so in conclusion we we have something that is quite stable now i accept what you say about uh componek but uh it will it's very easy"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:24:00",
    "text": "to to change so it means that i think it's very mature now uh it has also been tested during the acaton so we introduce the young model into open chick and now we're able to transform json open cheek format to the young model the format so and we use also yongsan which is a python module to check the variability of the rule and to check the link between the value in the data model and it works well so it's uh it has been pushed to them to the open cheek repository but it needs to be finalized but it's in a good way and finally next slide so the next slide is an example of this i think yes so here is a cheek data model on next slide is what we get with the young data model to represent part of the rule and the next slide is the relation between all the the draft so here we have to change but my my view was to integrate things uh if we just keep the thing in green so if we will go to the young data model and what is in the range so who i am and the component will be extension of the basic data model that's all and here is a summary of what we we have done an unchanged in the in the young tree [Music] do we have any more questions um about"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:26:03",
    "text": "so for me it's ready to be shown even if we extend the model and remove component and we put it in over the things it doesn't change the philosophy of the model so we it's ready to to be reviewed so do you so think that you can have a working group last call by the end of the year or before before okay so actually a question to to our heidi here eric what's the step when we want to do a group let's go and we want to have a validation by the young doctor can that be done at the same time or do we need to do first young and then the last i call or if it's background noise but it seems that you're far from your microphone and and sometimes it works sometimes does not it was not coming very well to me i don't know for the others okay i will try to come closer and speak slower it's good now process wise you can do both at the same time and typically during the working group last call you can ask as well the young doctor's review if we are confident into the young model that's the way to go else if you are unsure about the young model itself then it's better to think to go to the young doctor first because if they need to change uh then we need of course to to do everything good class called other change it's basically a matter of confidence"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:28:03",
    "text": "it went through the yongsan tool um and and anyway the group itself i mean we can check the data but the structure i know we cannot give much feedback so and it went to the young doctors right a couple of months ago well that was what it was yes it went to a young daughter but i uh i think he has no more time to review the document so we have to find another doctor and i think it was with your help right you were the one who actually triggered that so you you did it but i explained you to how to do it oh that's what's how it happened because i don't remember i could have done that okay so should i do the same again then i guess yeah my understanding is lauren will need to make a minor fixes in the coming days so once it's done then ask the young doctors okay my suggestion and do you know how much time that takes approximately is it a matter of weeks or a matter of till the end of year you should you should ask uh for let's say two weeks revision okay and that's they really do it right it's pretty much like any directorate they act like a director it depends on the goodwill and normally it will be easier because i follow all the comments he made about the presentation and also to add relation with between data so i think it's in a better shape than before the first review"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:30:00",
    "text": "cool many thanks lauren i guess we need to move on with the next and uh the next will be juan carlos can you jump to the q1 carlos i will try again to give you uh the the access to the decks so uh yeah it's coming it's coming yeah right it works all right so hello everyone um juan carlos here and i'm going to present together with sergio about the the latest updates on the shakeover sick fox just as a reminder since uh what has happened since ietf 111 we first made a revision from five to six where we added the sheet compound dac mechanism then we had the discussion about what to do with this compound act to make it generic and following the decision from the group we made it a separate document so from six to seven we split the compound dac as a generic mechanism and the young model description was added to the sheet compound deck and just as a reminder we are going to talk about the compound like right after this but now we are i'm talking about the the chicory sig fox so then uh after doing that split uh from revolution seven to eight we added some uh more normative references to the compound dac of course and the usage that has to be done in chico versus sigfox together with signaling examples and abort uh definitions so that's mainly what we have concentrated in this last version of the sheikh overseek fox then there were some events in the hackathon and i would let sergio"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:32:00",
    "text": "speak over them hello we did a small hackathon with the cheek over sigfox draft the idea was to to propose a real case scenario in this case we talked about a mini weather station and the objective was to measure at least temperature and humidity and send it via a json file to well while using check over stick fox in this case we use the dilopi and the pythons and the codebase that we use is the one that is in g top right now that is the cheek over sigfox project next slide please uh in the results that we got well we implemented the solution using two threads one thread was used to to do all the sensing and the other thread was used to handle all that she covered sig fox communication all the fragmentation transmissions retransmissions and we connected both threads using a list in this case there you can see the json file format we use two examples the first ones the first one also send temperature humidity battery voltage and light and the second one on this then only got that temperature and humidity uh the first the first case we got seven cheek fragments that is exactly one window and in the second case we got four cheek fragments and well on the right you can see the the results in case one there are there are the fragment compressed numbers and uh and the payload and in case to we can see the payload already reconstructed and how we were able to graph all the temperature and humidity and we got like nice results thank you thanks for healing uh so yeah with that what we are doing now is verifying this latest details on the implementation we would like to probably test one more"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:34:01",
    "text": "use case which is the asset tracking but otherwise uh we believe it's advancing well this um this draft uh something that we need to keep in mind as is the dependencies and we just spoke about the the the one for young in the sheet compound deck well we have to bear in mind that this draft also has dependency on the sheet compound act so there's a triple dependency there that we need to advance um i'm going to share now the the the next slide for the compound knack on and meanwhile are there any questions about the chic oversig fox so yes the the maybe the question is do you think that the document is now ready for working with glasgow because it seems to me that it's being you know it's being quite steady and with some implementations already you know for some time now um the document i mean we still added a few a few more details and i guess once we have the other two documents stable the young and the compound act or in our case the compound neck then then we will be able to to make the the changes and and do a last call so we're really close to it we just want to make sure that the the dependencies are are stable enough so that we can make the correct adjustments okay so so you're making reference to the compound ack in the sequence document yeah that's right so we make it a normative reference and then we want to make sure that compound lack is stable enough so so that we can move thank you okay so now moving on to the to the compound deck again this uh it started as um as uh definition"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:36:02",
    "text": "examples that were added to she covered six folks and revision six and then this um decision was made to to make this draft uh separate we implemented the chic compound dac and we have tested it over sig fox uh we posted the draft applying to generic lp1 technologies in july and we may we did a small revision in october 2021 so since then we had a last call that was held uh at the end of october beginning of november 2021 and uh we got um some feedback from dominique uh just recently so um oh and from me actually um in my review there's this discussion about the data model and and we discussed it again today uh what i would really like to see is is lauren to actually look at the data model piece that you have in the component hack as part of the war group let's go laura if you could please do that go ahead just just speak low yeah here so we already did it okay so you're happy with because i see that you still kept in both places i was like uh is is this is this thing no yeah i was confused because i thought in the component we just say you have what you have to add to the young data model and here it's to have something that is independent so we will change that okay okay because of my comments that will be part of the one goplus call resolution actually right so um"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:38:02",
    "text": "otherwise we we well there was a last call then that would just ended and um as i was saying that there besides these dependencies there was some feedback from from dominic she made a couple of interesting points i don't know if dominique you want to yes yeah i don't know do you want to discuss it now do we have time and did you have time to read the comments otherwise we can take that offline but i was curious for example if you use the compressed version of the bitmaps in your sigfox implementation because i don't quite understand this how this would work yeah circuit do you want to comment on that yes i wanted to to comment uh yeah actually i think that the compressed bitmap is not supported for the intermediate windows in this case as the bitmap should be a fixed uh field size so yeah uh we need to to fix that to to make sure it says that only the last bitmap can be compressed actually we were looking at that the last bitmap can be compressed but intermediate bitmap should be off right because it needs to be written in in the draft yeah yeah we will we will check it thanks for the feedback in my review there's also this question about nxd are you the famous straightforward xd of the chic rfc which says what you need to provide in the profiles and in the document you seem to indicate that there are some things which should be in the profile but then there is no no such list as you know here is the extension to an xd and it would be nice to see it more explicitly remember the list of things that have to be in the profile for every technology at some point you're saying uh by memory um what was that"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:40:00",
    "text": "oh man i forgot but but look at my review and basically i believe there should be a little section that would be complete nxt that's pretty much where i am okay yeah you're talking about the thing about that yes the company draft there should be i'm sorry because this is yes that's about the company the last call of the company okay okay thank you all right so we will respond anyway to the to the comments from dominic in detail on the making list but if there are no more comments uh i think this is it okay so thank you very much juan carlos so yeah that that will be the the next thing the respond to the comments and uh you know integrate the part that comes from the on the yang yang model uh yes and eric would like to uh maybe you can add a point on on this so do we keep the working group the open class call open or do we yeah just just remember my email of yesterday uh i have at the point of time there were no review then dominican pascal has done some review but having a third review by the working group should really show that the working group is behind these documents and i understand that's very focused and very initial document but if having anybody not specific in sick fox reading it and commenting yes it's nice it's enough right i mean but do it right review it then say even if you don't need to have comments very long comments to make a review so please review yes and and thank you eric for for for that uh uh for that precision for that uh clarification um do you think that we'll need to to to to do a second working class call"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:42:01",
    "text": "if there is a yang part included in that document or is this i don't think so it's it it's kind of minor uh exchange i don't want to diminish the value of it right but it's not changing the protocol itself yes yes yes yes exactly and then so no need to do a good class call address the command and then request publication okay perfect thank you very much eric so thanks uh thanks a lot carl so that was uh that was pretty clear so next step on the meeting is uh recovering the iot and i'm going to switch to to to present for for and i'm going to just show the slides and tell me like next um next slide whenever you whenever you uh want it to be changed thank you alex hello uh well i will present this new version for nviot next slide please uh we received some comments from the mailing list principally from evo and lauren so we have put all these new inputs in this sixth version next slide please the the most important changements are the terminology where we use now the terminology from ietf so instead of user equipment we put device and for the node v we put radio gateway and then for the network gateways i leave the i put network gateways together with the name of the get get the network gateway of the nviot because if not uh i have to put uh network guideway one two three four five and so forth so it was better to leave i"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:44:02",
    "text": "think it was better to leave the name together with the network gateway for these devices next slide please the other changes is that instead of putting i i eliminate the idea of uh control plane and use airplane and and the stratus so i the architecture now is very flat but this means that um each network gateway will be a very principal device in the architecture and so the network mme and the network gateway csgw that normally are in the same uh are in the same device and now 2d device different devices because their connections are different one will be for a very small bandwidth with the mme and the other is a normal radio connection with data for the csgw so that's the most important changes in this new version next slide please and what we want to add to this document that we want to work now is the manage for some profiles in order to take into account the delay tolerant transfer objects so this is something new that we we plan to work from now because we think that is is something that can be uh interesting for 3gpp in order to [Music] to take chick in the in their"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:46:02",
    "text": "in their architectures and that's it do you have some questions and thank you for doing all that work uh together with your co-authors i'm actually simplifying in the 3gbp architecture and expressing it with uh itf terminology on my side i i like this the way it's presented um i i'm not really sure about the the future work that you that you are saying it i'll be really interested in following up to that so thank you [Music] yes he's here just some noise ah so maybe he'll he'll reconnect so uh uh anna uh if i understand correctly uh you've addressed a lot of the the detail a lot of the issues until now and uh one of the points right now is for you to address new element and you will then consider that it's ready for working ursula so one point that we were discussing with edgar this monday is that this new this version six is really ready for rascal but if we want to work with light color and transfer objects then it's not ready we need to work this part so we work in a new document in a version two documents or we do it in this version six so"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:48:01",
    "text": "okay so there is also edgar that is joining now yeah yes can you hear me now yes now it's good thank you great yeah the the idea is that uh i think we are having a challenge to get chick in narow van iot into epp it has a little bit to do with the ecosystem adoption of narrowband iot in general because um somehow the ecosystem is some is behind the um let's say the standard so the implementation of narrowband iot and in general uh the the implementation of cellular cellular iot is uh is behind what it has been standardized so then uh somehow um there is a reluctancy and again uh maybe this is a personal reflection there is a reluctancy to standardize additional features for cellular massive cellular devices because they haven't been catch up by the implementers with the current standard so we would like to bring some kind of carrot for chic so that we bring to the standard to 3gpp reasons so that we say hey guys if you take chic there is this additional motivation for you so that you can include it in the standard and"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:50:00",
    "text": "in addition to that you are going to solve a big a huge problem that right now the terminals are having in cellular iot which is firm firmware's update over the air and that's the reason for the delay tolerant feature so we thought that if we helped to solve that problem which is a huge problem at the pro at the moment so then we could have a uh one additional um let's say motivation to push this feature through three epp so that that is part of this uh motivation to bring up this to the to the draft many thanks that's that's very enlightening now guys we we have 10 minutes to finish and we have two more presentations we are straight on time but we need to move on um dominic if you don't mind the floor is yours okay can you can you try to present your slides try to go to share preloaded slides that's two share slides yes sharp related slides no top left yes okay oh perfect working okay so now you see this on the bottom you can move the slides um okay you should be thinking about yeah with girls does that work yeah um so yeah after years of working on chickens this is a happy time where you see adoption and so i wanted to report about that so that we can celebrate um so we're not it's not quite complete but pretty good shape at the royal lines and the the first driving use case is uh dlms over lower one so the lms is widely used in the energy metering um world for electricity and gas meters"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:52:03",
    "text": "and the dlms association wanted to be able to use r1 as a transport for energy metering and the question was how to do that how to standardize that transport and so there was there is already a dlms over udp of ipv6 stack and so the proposal was set to use check over r1 to compress udp and ipv6 and that's what was adopted and so the nice thing is that you hardly have anything new to specify everything is already in place just stitch the pieces together and so a technical speed specification is being written right now at the lower lines and just to say how this works and basically the spec is just a few pages it says you shall use rfc8724 rfc9011 and that's about it we do a few additional specifications that you might be interested in uh one is to recommend shorter inactivity and retransmission timers and then the defaults expressed in 1911 to sharpen the latency a little bit and also we recommend to as you know 8724 doesn't doesn't say what to do in case multiple compression rules match it just says pick one that matches and so in this document we say pick one that minimizes the compression residue so that the messages are shorter um and that's it that's what's in the document and so the status is that we're going for adoption at the technical committee"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:54:01",
    "text": "meeting with the laura alliance next week exactly a week from now so the deadline for submitting the document was right in the middle of this meeting and i was doing two things in parallel another one at the segment in that document at the laura alliance and after that the that would be the writing of the uh certification document because the lore alliance does certification which the atf doesn't do so that's an expectation before this gets in place and future work uh i'm not sure how much how far we will go into that direction but would be to investigate if lauren can be used with matter and you know the connected smart homes under the csa alliance and so chic would then also be used to carry ipv6 over r1 in that context so that's the work at the lower alliance i forgot to mention the editors of the technical specification i think it's uh important to highlight the contribution by clicking aclio semtech people that you know some of the archers of this working group for example and contributors by many companies and institutions and family to to most of you in this working group that's it for me thank you thank you thank you and so go ahead please uh you have five minutes minutes yes i will present chicago ppp [Music] so basically we we we discussed how we can do shake"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:56:00",
    "text": "about pvp so we can do shake over the ethernet using pppoe and see if we have ethernet we have wi-fi so basically doing pvp gives us gives us all the serial links it gives us point-to-point ethernet and gives us wi-fi so that was kind of cool to do shigeru rpp but the prime was uh ppp is not part of the charter as one of the technologies that we support so we we decided to try our luck at interior so we did and the document has spent pretty much a year at that interior and i failed to get any command feedback return from from interior not much interest in check and probably not much interest muslim ppp that's this even if interior is supposed to do everything i mean this is this looks like a thing of the past almost people doesn't seem to raise a lot of interest so we discussed with um the eric and um we wondered how to to best proceed with with the future of this document and the advice is probably that that we should um we should try to to review it within this group and once we pass past reviews i mean eric please correct me if i'm wrong but plus we once we have passed those reviews we would ask eric for um eddie sponsored so as to to move on with this draft do you have it right eric i simply want to second what you said and that's correct so the expertise in shake is obviously in this group so why this document cannot be adopted by the working group because it doesn't fit the charter the experts are still in this working group so i count on this working group to make a review and then when you are basically done the kind of working group classical doesn't say its"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:58:01",
    "text": "name because there's not a real group last call but everyone is happy with it pascal then just contact me over email and i i i will do the follow-up so basically eddie sponsored his ietf stream so it's pretty much like any uh working group rfc except that there is no group last call but the rest is the same right there's an itf white that's called isg evaluation and you can be a standard document so basically one other release pascal if everyone is happy because the knowledge is in in lp1 then contact me and i take over that's that's perfect so so that's pretty much where we are so yes i will post again on the mailing list asking people to review the draft i think it's it's expired or getting expired it is expired so uh i will republish a note 4 and ask you know post to the rp1 mailing list to ask for for reviews and with this we are concluding this meeting so oh question by the way go ahead dominique yeah um just uh technical details uh there's one little auditing in this draft is that you put the padding between the rule id and the compression residue so i wanted to discuss that uh maybe we should have something in the rules themselves that tell that the the rule id is padded or something we can do it in a cleaner more flexible more extensible way than the way you did it so let's talk about that that's something we started to discuss with with lauren as well so yes please please help help let's do it i see a list of possible co-authors here to your question oh yes go author would be welcome as well time is the problem in any case speaking about time thank you very much dominic for leading"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:00:00",
    "text": "the minute it's really really appreciated we're always happy when you're in the working group and thank you for being here thank you and thank you eric thank you thank you bye everyone bye bye you'll take care you"
  }
]
