[
  {
    "startTime": "00:00:04",
    "text": "foreign got some uh good uh feedback from Carlos we're converging and they will only few remaining uh items that I responded I think I sent yesterday um yeah so something yeah yeah so uh I hope that we will converge might be by end of this week early next week and I'll upload the new version Ah that's good thanks sure"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:02:12",
    "text": "hello hello hi hi hello hi everyone so we have six people that's still a little bit low yeah we didn't send out a reminder this time is that the reason I didn't see that you sent a reminder no I didn't I can't be kind of busy so okay let's see let's give it some more time then yeah I'm waiting at least for Nick and um I know that Matthew is not coming so that's oh so is my is my audio okay I'm getting some fairly rough audio from other people do I need to reconnect no I can hear you well but there's a little bit Echo somewhere no I'm going to reconnect I'm going to change ISP and reconnect okay foreign"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:04:08",
    "text": "yeah okay we can hear you by the way I haven't seen my slides from the medical machine materials so uh do I have to share my own screens later hi yo your slides are on the session material uh the link I'll paste it but I'll be sharing it oh I'll give you the control okay okay let's do the link in the chat"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:06:01",
    "text": "so I'm sorry I was muted uh lower and Tony I responded to g with my personal view on some of his comments some of the I think some of his comments or we should respect me discard but I think others have substance I'm doing a personal sort of last look through it I'm wondering whether we might want to have um a voice call amongst the authors at some stage just to go through them uh sure if you think that's necessary I was talking why don't I just send it around to the authors and then um um if if they're all accepted great if they're um if there's any need for discussion it might be quicker to do it with a voice call rather than lots of people I'll send them out to you first anyway okay that's fine um we can take a meeting it's often quicker do it that way but uh yeah whichever way we want to do it all right I'll send out uh my view of the changes um in the um uh to the author team first and then we can share it with the rest of the the working group fine indeed we may have a lot of difference my responses to uh Dong's comments so again we should discuss okay good"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:08:00",
    "text": "Greg do you know if the Joel will join the meeting okay so as you know we have uh two proposals for uh supporting IAM with m a um I think that would be good to have a discussion uh about uh working group adapting a solution okay so the plans for next week is to discuss use cases we can do it the week after okay yeah it makes sense because I am is one of the use cases and uh I believe that there is interest in uh finding out uh what would be the solution because um it seems it will help uh overall discussion of uh ISD and PhD okay good so it's Rakesh is one of them and who's the other is that it's is it that are you talking about the direct export draft or okay fine look I don't know"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:10:22",
    "text": "the Tariq do you want to continue waiting we are eight at the moment uh yeah I'm just wondering if I mean it's it's it's still good audience we have eight but uh do you think we we should proceed with uh um with this little attendance or what's your thoughts I think yeah we need to we need to have the discussion um if we identify that we miss some input we need to correct that some way uh probably through mail or something but yeah I think we need the discussion I had that hope that we should have some LSR people with an LSR hat on but I don't think we have okay okay I'm going to progress on this in you know there are there is some in LSR expertise on this call oh yeah I know that there's no one with an LSR working group candles strong profile is it"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:12:04",
    "text": "okay um all right um shall we um I guess we will get started this is uh anemone interim and for the usual attendees they will know this is a collaboration between the three working groups and um we will note all the this session is being recorded and the material is being made available publicly links will be provided on the subsequent slide uh this is the note 12 um that governs the ietf contributions as well as policies and again a little bit of pointers administrative pointers here um we have the the meet echoed session there um and the agenda can be accessed from one of the bullets I'm sharing um today's agenda is short we will review the action items and then I'll give the ball to uh Yao so she can talk about signaling uh rld and then we'll close off if and no one else has any other business to talk about sorry I have one thing at the end and that's the announcement of the next week's meeting I will send out the mail yesterday closes this meeting off so just talk a little bit about the window sounds good I'll remember to bring it up after"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:14:03",
    "text": "anyone else has anything to add to the agenda okay so we will get started by reviewing the action items outstanding I have one action item that I'm tracking it's open and I don't see the authors of the m a header solution draft but it was to address all the comments that we we had this uh this draft the open issues in that draft was presented last time we met in the interim and the the authors were supposed to take some action on outstanding comments and we are tracking so they were supposed to work with Joel as well and a couple of other comments including the rld MSD discussion that we will have today uh uh I am not sure if anyone can give me an update on the status of these discussions anyone attending now but feel free if anyone has any input I think there were some discussion on the mailing list okay I may have missed it so any closure you noticed uh there is some there is some let's see if we can push put it in the chat um I got the new version of Thunderbirds things is not working as it used to do um where do I have the shot"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:16:00",
    "text": "there no ah there um try to fill out the message was like this but it said maybe two weeks ago one week um it was sent now it's August okay now it's probably not the right thing um but I thought I thought I thought you will send a message to the authors yeah and it's suggesting text yeah I can look at that a nod from the authors that they're consuming that uh whatever was sent I don't want to record it as closed I don't want to close that uh with this uh okay that's fine with me it might be you know the text need to be consumed still like okay um that's the only open uh action item I have in with this uh um I'll pass the ball to yeah to talk about rld and possible renaming that as well so let's see now let me see if I can give you control as well okay yeah you should be able to flip slides as well if you want oh yes I can do it now thank you hello good morning and good afternoon and good evening everyone um as we know there are many discussions around IOD recently and I've proposed an"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:18:04",
    "text": "area star draft on secondary signaling IOD via rgp before so I'm gonna introduce the draft and kick the discussion on IOD as required by the chairs and sorry I didn't put the name of the draft here and but I put the link in the chat please interrupt me if you have any questions or something else to discuss uh here's the agenda although the areas are drafted doesn't Define the IOD but I suppose that women want to discuss about it so I put put it here and the m a framework defines the concept of IOD it is the number of lsds starting from the top of the draft that a router can easily read in the incoming amperes package by the word easily as for my understanding it roughly means that a router can read the areases without or recycling so to make it more accurate there is an alternative descriptions provided in the list in our item list all of them here here are some opportunities but with no processors no performance impact a perfect process that language line rate processing or processes for forwarding rate and it seems it seems like with no performance impact has the most suitcase for now here's the definition part and and comments"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:20:01",
    "text": "yeah I think we kind of um agreed on one of them but I don't remember which one Tony do you remember so we've gone back and forth right now with no performance impact is what I have down that's I think I think we can go with that for the time being and change if if necessary when we go to working group last call for the framework so I think we can put we can pose with no with no performance impact in the text and then we can revisit at working group lost course sure okay I have a question please so we are different we know of readable label depth but routers in practice uh have something called readable depth they actually go beyond the label stack and uh why are we not defining readable depth uh in bytes for example or you know uh in going beyond the the just the mpls header or or is it defined basically my question readable depth huh but in practice Tony and thanks for answering it the the routers are actually inspecting sometimes the payload of mpls to do some uh some smart decision based on the payload or first nibble and so on"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:22:00",
    "text": "and I'm not clear why we only track rlb then yeah so that was I'm not sure about that I I'm trying not to Define terms that nobody references agreed okay let's see the other what others have to say okay is readable label that the same as writable label depth no wait keep to it again though it's Greg hey Greg go ahead you're at the top of the cube with your question so uh tarek if I understood your question correctly um uh it caused uh ethernet sudaware a lot of pain uh when uh control word made an optional because Transit notes uh what we have found at the transit nodes are trying to do load balancing guessing the payload and without uh control word at the bottom of the stack uh there were uh cases where they interpreted the payload as uh IP traffic yep that was that could be one case Greg I agree so do we have such a term readable depth so that anyone can assert uh we we have a readable label depth entropy and uh what it says that uh it's very close to what we are coming for Rod but it says that uh this uh stack of labels may be used for load balancing so"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:24:03",
    "text": "um that's an excessive that's not what we want to uh convey in the in this so uh this definition uh seems to be more aimed specifically to the case of um just reading um and analyzing the content of this substack okay thank you Jimmy I think you're next it takes a little time to the mic to come up can you hear us Jimmy your mic is green but we cannot hear you we still cannot hear you hello hello yeah now I can hear you okay yeah I think that is a good question actually previously we only think about the label depths well should we have the scenery uh there may be PSD in the packet also so maybe we can have a more generic term to cover both I stand against the and the question is whether if we call it the readable doubts whether it is uh still belonging to it it belongs to the smoking or it's a more"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:26:01",
    "text": "generic thing not only for mprs correct in yeah indeed and could be a a GRE header that we're trying to read and we don't know the capability of the router and that's correct and yeah so I I think there is a big difference between readable label depth and readable stack depths and um I don't know whether we need both parameters or not but readable label depth has got um certain um you know subtle is associated with it such as Hardware detecting bottom of stack and all those things um but there was another comment I had we've spent most of it we spend most of our time talking about readable labeled that but for m a we may well need writable versions of these and I'm not con I'm not sure that those parameters are the same value foreign do we need to Signal you think uh the writable I mean I think are you asking specific yeah I mean I went to the side note at this point I suppose but yeah if we are Mna is somewhere where we may as opposed to uh concept and the writing characteristics may be different for example Reed just appears as a cache piece of data doesn't it um"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:28:07",
    "text": "probably very Hardware dependent but we are planning to write in the stack sorry oh I'm writing uh sorry my writing is the basic MPS imposing MSD can have this function because it it represents the maximum number and those can impose on on the package yes kind of sorry I'm sorry oh yeah I all I almost finished it so it is it uh the base MPS impulsion MSC kind of the right or labor gaps so we already have something like that so yes so um there's the imposition depth there is the readable which applies just at the Ingress there's the readable depth which has to apply along the LSP to make sure that you can see certain parameters that have been popping imposed in this in the stack but previously mainly Elli but in that in this case the m a information but the I mean but unlike anything else we've ever done to the stack before the m a information may contain writable parameters may it not and the writable"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:30:02",
    "text": "parameters um are I don't know whether the hardware will be able to write as deep as it can um read I have no idea In classical yeah that's another capability exactly I mean classical sort of implementations it's probably the same but in the highly cached Hardware assisted world we live in in high-speed forwarders that someone needs to tell me whether it's the same so I can't speak for all Hardware but from the hardware that I have seen yes they are the same got it we have how you in the queue Wilson sorry yeah I the mic took a while uh why uh why you please go ahead hello uh are you yes um uh sorry yeah I'm late and um I just see this uh this slice and uh uh I'd like to give my comments on that actually uh in the email discussion I have said that um in this slides I think the easily uh should be removed it's a kind of subjective here it's um some revealed"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:32:03",
    "text": "through much information and actually from the hardware perspective there are two kinds of situations one kind of Hardware is um um kind of Asic based is has a fixed the functionality and cannot be changed then therefore it has a harder limitation for the readable labor depths which means you cannot do more than that it's basically impossible to do that because of the hardware is designed to not support that another situation is some kind of a natural processor based device which is programmable and it has also has a readable labor depths means it can can do that with the acceptable performance trade-off which means under certain assumptions of the package size a minimum package size and the current feature set it can somehow realize a wire speed forwarding and but if you want to read beyond that that will require a significant uh you know reloads package package data into the uh into the memory buffer to do that that will incur significant performance penalty so um we should avoid that so I think this is the two different uh situations uh that's why we have this readable label depth uh we call that readable it doesn't mean it's only readable which actually means it can be parsed and processed at the same time"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:34:01",
    "text": "um so that's a in my opinion it's a very the same thing but the lower you want to comment back uh how are you what we said before you came online was that for the time being we put The Window performance impact in the framework and then we say that it's open to re revisit all the time up to closing the working group last call if we need to add packs to the framework yeah please help us and do that foreign okay okay go ahead should I continue oh okay for now please yeah we don't have anyone else in the queue go ahead okay uh the next page is about the advertising scope and the protocol must support both the link and the note advertisement for ild and Tony and Gian provide good use cases in the mailing list for requirement so the link advertisement so the first is the modular node consisted of a number of different line cards which are based on different forwarding engines and the second is a virtualized virtualization case"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:36:01",
    "text": "for virtual routine instances on the same device owning different virtual supports they may have different capabilities yld uh and of course we could advertise iot node which is the smallest IOD on a note and if there's any there's not any questions I will continue to the next page and about in the advertising protocols while the concept MSDS first introduced for Sim peers to indicate the maximum number of six is applicable for in Long smps case a while the MSD defines the maximum maximum level depth and igp already have the mechanism for signaling different types of MC so the protest protocol extension for igp is simple just a New igp MSD type for ild direct place yes yeah sorry I wanted to ask a question about the previous slide um you're defining link and the node uh scope rld what's the relationship between the two like what then you know the per node be the minimum of all the links for example oh yeah the penult uh the panels already would be the smallest audio out okay and yeah and it has already defined in the m a form framework"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:38:02",
    "text": "that both polinkamp nodes could be signaled at the at the same time and we should choose pulling uh first okay thanks I lowered my head and lower you go ahead next yeah we have two terms that are kind of similar we talked about per platform labels per interface labels what are the relationships here oh those are old mpls per platform would be very similar to per node and per interface would be very similar per link right we didn't measure ment per platform here I agree you haven't done that but why why not uh go back and use terms that are we haven't already used um oh I didn't check the purple platform uh terminology in fact I didn't know well that and the reason why we use Berlin camper no because for yesterday they already use this so just use the same link yeah of course okay and I think we but I can go back to chapter platform technology yeah that would be"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:40:03",
    "text": "great Tony is at the head of the queue um so please go ahead hi so tarek to answer your question um the my intent here was to allow a node to advertise per node level rld if it has a single rld value and then in addition if there are multiple different rlds on specific interfaces then they could also advertise per link or it could also just advertise per link so basically per node becomes a default for the Box okay I got it thank you okay there's boom okay we still have one you know one one hand raised and then lower all right Tony said is not exactly what's on the slide you use the per node if you have the same for all interfaces and if you have different on the different interfaces you need to announce the per link right correct if you uh the slide is not exactly what I intended or have written um if you want per node and there well"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:42:02",
    "text": "if there's variable rld on the Node you can and should specify them using per node and per link so you can be accurate you don't have to lie to people and using a smallest rld probably not optimal could you could you help us with the text and work with the Jiao to get get it somewhere where we actually most of us agree on it uh the text in the framework document has already been reviewed and everyone thought that was acceptable okay to Point Joe to that to that text it's in the framework craft as published yeah I go back to check that please proceed here okay and we'll continue with the advertising protocols as we said before in the political extension for igp is simple we just need a new igp MSD type for ild and in the centralized scenario the controller or PC needs to be aware of the iot of each intermediate area model for BCPS there's no extension and your model needs a small update after the igp extension being accepted so the yacht model is not included in the draft um they have their own draft and"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:44:02",
    "text": "the question is since the protocol extension for igp is simple well we do we request for the New igp MSD time in the framework draft or in the separate airsr draft because currently both drafts have done this hey yo I have a question if you are ready to take it now okay okay why are you talking about segments we started with labels and now you're talking about SIDS in Sr and uh I don't know what brought in SIDS to the discussion um it could be that since our mpls or non-mpls in segment routing so just calling it maximum Sid depth is is confusing uh to the least so that's that's about the maximum sit depth naming but altogether I think we should stick you know not bring in segment routing yet so keep it to label why are we talking about SIDS because uh because the concept MSD is originally come let come from and uh and it is also mentioned that although the MSD is called maximum set depth it can be used in the noun Sr scenario in this case the MSD represents the maximum label dams so determine MSD"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:46:05",
    "text": "its originally means maximum set depths not maximum labeled apps phones right yeah I'm not debating the maximum set depth that's already defined but I think we should not we were not defining another set depth so we are defining a readable label depth oh yes um and then you know yeah that's what I mean I don't think we should overload that term at all the problem is that the existing mechanisms already are defined in terms of an erld MSD so you're saying that the protocol extensions are defined already for in or are we defining new protocol extensions the code points are defined in terms of MSD okay maybe we should take that offline of it I I still think that we should have a genetic label okay okay all right if I may uh so what um y'all and Tony uh referring to um we have Ariana already Ayana registry for MSD types so uh we can uh assume that uh the new uh"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:48:04",
    "text": "uh foreign so so one question I'm I'm going to raise my hand so we are going to use that igp MSD type so we're looking a new type from igp MSD type not a new yeah that's the plan yes it probably because we'll get a new uh MSD type uh it will be uh it can advertised in igp okay I've put a link in the chat to the Ayanna MSD allocation yeah thank you thank you Tony I just clicked on it uh and I'm still Mike was on yes uh and I see it's all segment routing specific um so I I that's my concern again but I'll I'm happy to take it offline and see if"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:50:00",
    "text": "I'm mistaken anywhere um it is yes it's defined in terms of segment uh SIDS but it is not actually SIDS it really is label depth and so it's a terminology problem that was created when this concept was introduced and nobody caught it and so if we want to use different terminology we're going to have to replicate all these mechanisms which seems extremely wasteful okay okay all right thanks I'll take I'll take a look offline no problem okay uh Loa please go ahead um I engraving Tony that we shouldn't produce duplicate so what already is in Diana we might want to have a text explaining the situation that arising with the with m a uh and where we should put that I don't know really maybe an update to the document that actually Define the register but we need to give a look and see what we want to do but I think it's kind of clear what Yao want to do with respect to the registered list okay thanks okay y'all please proceed okay and uh I'll continue that the discussion about"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:52:02",
    "text": "uh where we do we put this registration because as I mentioned before um currently uh both the framework draft in the arrest object I have done that have both requests for a New igp MSD type for IOD and uh in in my opinion in the currently in the m a framework by saying IOD is advertised by a igp MSC type is it is there an assumption that igp is the only advertising protocol for m a maybe in the future there are other existing or new protocols need to be defined and it needs to be extended to support their money so um so is it better to in the framework to say that the ild value can be advised advertised via protocols and less than examples like IDP and here are some basic iot advertising and processing rules so no matter what token needs to support M A or IOD it can be extended following the instruction in the m a framework so that's my point of view one please if there are new protocol Advertiser rld I don't see we need to say anything so"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:54:00",
    "text": "um so to be honest I have Android too many framework drives but as much for my understanding normally in the framework specifies some general rules so I'm sure is it uh is it a usual way to define the protocol extensions in the framework draft a story at 20 I can't hear you uh please progress further I don't see anyone in the queue yeah I believe uh Tony was speaking but I can hear him okay I don't see him in the queue now so I'll go we can go with the assumption that uh he will come back okay I think he went offline to be honest he got disconnected okay so so I uh here's some okay Tony if you can hear us and you want to speak just raise your hand and we can interrupt you out thanks go ahead yo"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:56:01",
    "text": "okay uh yours um related to work uh currently there were two types of IDP MSD for MPS one is based appearance in potion MSD It prepares a number of labels that can be imposed on the now the link so it is not related with IOD another is Eid MSD for entropy level readable depth and it is related with the router's ability to process EOS if a router is capable of reading um labels but not using any or located within those own labels in crd is zero so reality is not a review so yeah I already MSD is not reused for IOD and another observation is that there's there's other work action there's other network actions specified.ld and the amperes in band PM encapsulation draft defines the flow ID readable label depth similar to yellowd and with ildmst to this MSD need to be defined further uh for my personal understanding possibly not a node can signal social network action capability and the iodmd to indicate that it can process this network action within the IOD and how to process and when both iot and network action specified ideas received and in the areas they have Sr draft we didn't talk"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:58:03",
    "text": "about that and leave the decision to implementation and a comments uh yes hi uh I I think the capability of a network action is independent of the readable label depth so being able to read yes and and it doesn't it's not you know tightly coupled with uh people being capable and I think we need a separate you know way to advertise capability of a network action from a node uh and I don't think yeah in the same track yes that uh what what I mean is that uh we if we take Eid as an example because the file is defined is defined is defined three examples by erity and so um yeah what do you mean yeah I mean ER LD has two meanings first we can read and labels a second we can process uh the entropy label located within those labels so ERD itself means uh it has that it has the ability to process the entryway label but in fact we have the advertisement of eiod as well as the advertisement of ERC which is the algebra label capability so what I mean is that uh tell this MSD related to the Network action only to be defined further because uh if we have IOD MSD"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:00:03",
    "text": "advertisement and when we Define a new network capability we advertise it both the network action capability and IOD and it can present but it can present the node is able to process the network within the IOD so it seems like we in the future we don't need the network actions specified iods like similar to reality that's my point of view okay so just to understand you are going back to erld and the way it was defined and that's fine we're not changing that but you are yes rld is something not it's not ER release something different and I don't think it's tied to any capability or action rld so just you know this is how far I can read and that's it but this is my opinion let me know what do you think so the intent in the framework draft is that rld is general and in fact it's not even specific to m a yeah yeah that's in line with what time yeah yes uh I I I I totally understand that and what I mean is that with IOD in the future network action specified iods seems it seems like they don't don't need to be defined for example the"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:02:02",
    "text": "F flow ID readable depths MSD because we just need the IOD that is enough am I right um so again I think I'm you know I think the capability of an action regardless if it being m a action or a flow ID uh you're referring to which I think is still possible to do it in m a it's still on the plate but going back to m a i think the capability of an action uh will have to be advertised somehow and it's not yet defined so and that's separately to be not separate now okay yeah okay that's my opinion the fact that erld overloads both its capability and its rld into the same value was a bug and that should have been fixed this should never have been allowed this is why we have to go ahead yes that's what I mean right so this is why we're General defining a general rld now we're fixing that problem and we should not repeat that mistake so we should not have an m a specific or even flow ID specific rld that does not reflect how the hardware works um okay uh that's that's all for the slides and uh and I think when we talk about where to put this igb extensions um Tony put and link on it"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:04:00",
    "text": "so it where to put in the igb extensions I think is the first first point we need to decide so do we need a separate uh igp draft or we just put all this in the framework draft so what's in the future right now what's in the framework draft right now Define crld and requests the code point and we already have existing igp drafts for how to advertise MSD erld MSD but allocating the new code Point allows us to just reuse those mechanisms so I'm not aware of any need to allocate new mechanisms in the igp oh yes it was so so my point is similar so because in the protocol extension for igp is simple we just need a new idpm state type so if we put the IDP uh MSD requests in the framework draft we don't need and separate rsr draft but it's all best basic too the working group's decision I'm okay with both I I think this um yeah that Ayana is managed by the LSR working group um so um either way we have to engage them to tell them we're we're intending to allocate this new type for this purpose um"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:06:00",
    "text": "the draft I'm I think we need to uh um we need to decide to keep this Ayala location in the framework or uh or have a short draft just to do this new type allocation um I'm okay either way but yes uh type allocation and to mention that on the igp MSD said via pgb OS so that's the main point of the IDP drafted now if you want to Signal it in bgpls then at that time you have to there's no extension yeah right my understanding is bgpls will carry those dlvs as is um you know igp defined ones um you're not going to redefine igp ones right in bgp yes so I mean currently in the high GP drive to just mentioned that we can advertise this New MSD uh type via BJP just like it is okay so I think you need to work with the framework authors draft to see if um you know this uh the the this allocation needs to be done in LSR working group and pgp uh working you know and the IDR depending on if you want to do it in bgpls or not but that's my my take what do you what do you think lawa and others I'm not sure about keeping the MSD type the igp MSD type allocation and"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:08:01",
    "text": "framework draft I'm having mixed feeling on that doesn't sound so since you're asking me I was kind of rather comfortable with us in the in the framework but so what where would we put it if we don't put it in the framework foreign I think I think the definition uh of your rld can definitely stay you know and they you know utility of it and to to M A on others can stay in within mpls but we need the type uh in a sub you know that's my opinion and a separate draft with LSR working group for igp and I'm gonna stop right there maybe someone else has their perspective different I agree that we need LSR approval but having a separate draft just allocate a code Point seems excessive let's see so yeah that's how we've done it before earlier and we have been assigning code points from other working groups registers and other working group has been assigned to now registers and that hasn't been a problem it never had been required to actually write a a specific draft we asked for the"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:10:00",
    "text": "allocation even though I think we've done it one at one one time but that were other reasons I see well if we are located in the framework and allocate from an LSR manage registry we need to tell the LSR group what we're doing concerning the allocation and they need to approve that that's the process we used before right that's through and I need to double check and you know that um it needs to become a standard strike document rather than informational if it is not already uh are you saying that the LSR the registry says that code points are beautiful allocating a type right uh you don't want to make it the document will become the framework draft document will be standards track right I kind of I need to check Kevin you know if it is not already um I don't think so but the it is not in fact it is informational at the moment but the the allocations procedure from the IDP MSD types are expert review"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:12:01",
    "text": "so I if I remember correctly expert review does not require a um standard tracks document um okay I mean with my limited uh knowledge I think if you're allocating that pipe can be informational well Stuart do you remember what the requirements because you were on the ISD at that time when that was decided do you remember what the requirement for expert review are uh expert review is just that the experts agree to it I don't think that's a current one is it but anyway experts just require the experts to to review it they don't require even a specification you can have an external document yeah that's what you're saying I think that's true but the Google would also allow a informational document and if an informational RFC right well hang on a second it depends on the register what we've actually we talk about what exactly you're talking about igb MSD types assessor registration procedures expert review and nothing else well that means just the experts have to agree they don't even you don't even need a written specification available to anyone else it's a very very loose one you just have to get the experts to agree okay I see okay will likely want something written down of course yeah they normally they need a document but um who are the experts it's Jeff and Uma right"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:14:03",
    "text": "well you to get an expert review code point you just have to convince the experts okay Lord go ahead you're still raising your hand uh well that's because I haven't taken down thank you I will do that uh are we converging on uh a an action plan to uh you know keep it in the framework it seems that it's loose requirement that that registry um so it doesn't require standard strike document are we saying that this is the the plan forward I'm I'm trying to help out Yao here to see what is the next step um uh uh yeah I think what what I'm trying to ask is uh you know you're presenting this draft in the LSR working group is that what your intention is um yeah so if if the decision is to put the registration in the framework craft so I think there's no need to uh to this IDP draft so so it's based on the working group decision whether to where to put the registration okay there were things that I wasn't aware you know like the the idea of"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:16:02",
    "text": "the framework remaining informational and still allocating uh so given that I don't see that uh we strictly have to uh have a draft to just allocate a type and uh and maybe we can rely on the framework to do this allocation and Loa will is uh yeah the I I think that a week we as the mpls shares can say that we are willing to have the allocation done by the m a framework and if the anyone has a different opinion we need we need to discuss that is that reasonable summary of our discussion I'm fine with them yeah okay all right uh okay I think we have to present then whatever we presenting now as uh on the behalf of the framework graph to LSR working group so we have to tell them this is the rld definition and this is what we intend to do and uh is that the plan uh do you want to work with uh with the framework or or maybe the framework uh authors will uh so I'm asking this question in the context of the framework draft now and being it ready for a working group last call we are putting a requirement now to engage the LSR working group and I want to see that uh engagement before we progress"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:18:02",
    "text": "the document further so I want to hear from the authors of the framework draft now yeah I'm finally without saying but actually Tony is the editor and he might might have more information but I thought that Tony was okay with this I will be happy to reach out to LSR okay fine then we say that the author of the framework draft will reach out to LSR and tell them what we are planning tarek you okay with that yes I'm fine with that we can okay summarize it like that no problem okay anything else you want to add you are clear on the next steps no not okay great thank you uh going back to the agenda I think we're done for today unless someone else wants to bring up I had an oh any other business do you remember you did go ahead okay uh that's just an announcement the meeting next week we'll discuss the m a use cases and I'm preparing a mail telling the authors to uh prepare outstanding issues and questions to the working group and I'm asking the participants to review the document and participate in the discussion so I have the mail more or less ready and we'll send it out within an hour"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:20:01",
    "text": "but use cases for discussion next week okay thank you all right with this thank you so much whoever attended and we look forward to seeing you next week on Thursday have a good day okay thank you bye-bye bye now"
  }
]
