[
  {
    "startTime": "00:00:10",
    "text": "We're just updating that one too. I've not So we had a That's what they have. it's in eat, Yeah. That's exactly correct. but there's a way to carry a super I thought was what we conclude. You thought correctly. of this is ethernet. Yeah. Yeah. Why do you need ethernet? I don't. I need to project. You you wanna protect. But my point is ethernet's not the thing you want. Oh, okay. Okay. Is there a different thing to say? There's gotta be an HDMI, I think. One thing that I can plug into here right now is I'm not going through my docking station. Unless you can perchance. I got a pleasant here now, but I only project Yeah. We do it through this. When I asked AV people, they said that's only for you. So they've changed it?"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:02:00",
    "text": "I'm just telling you what what you call me. No worries. Yeah. We're getting a transcript. So what that is going to the Ethernet. Okay. that's a easy way to verify that. before that happened. well. Well, doing that didn't change that. when you plugged it in, nothing over there changed. Yeah. Yeah. Right. Right. Right. Well, No. I don't know how to progress. This is you. Right? No. It's gotta be through this. Because, Luke, there's that cadence. Yeah. Yeah. So -- So I'm thinking they were saying, Don't plug in and send me in. Yes. Join the me tech over here and project into the session to tell yourself presents we guess. Yeah."
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:04:01",
    "text": "And way. Yeah. I I was presenting for pretty much all of the last session in this room, and so I haven't had time to do anything. I -- That is the percentage of Thank you, Rowan. Somebody that started chair section knows how to get video projected in his next part of that. wanna come up here Appreciate it. -- take some help. I'm I'll make sure I'm doing it right. So, no, I'm not yet. share presentation. Share people responds. Yeah. It just changed. So clearly, it's work you what, okay. I'm gonna do it. tell Thank you."
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:06:00",
    "text": "So who else is helping me? Does he lose that off? Alright, everyone. Welcome to suit. Let's get started. So by now, you've probably seen this once or twice. This is the net well. Please let us know if you have any questions. additional notes about the NetWell. Few Please give them a quick look. So there's a change this time and how blue sheets are managed. So if you're in person, We'll be passing around this QR code, Please use that to to register with the blue sheets. If you're remote, that'll happen automatically when you join on Mead echo. I believe if you're in the room and you also join on me to echo, you'll be also signing up with the blue sheets. We have a notetaker. Thank you. If you wanna join us, if you wanna on Meet Echo or Etherpad. can see the links up here. We have a pretty full agenda today. We'll start with talking through the hackathon, discuss some of our current active drafts. Yes. You can advance."
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:08:06",
    "text": "And if we have some time at the end, we'll be able to have some up in discussion. I doubt we will because it's gonna be a pretty full Time this time any agenda bashing? I'd like to say that a few minutes at the end for us to go over our current mile stands. We have some that are out of date. that we need to update. I've proposed a few And new milestones, So I'd like to come back and maybe save 10 minutes at the end to to go over that quickly if we can. not, we'll cover it on the mailing list. So with that, I think we wanna start with the the hackathon summary. used in Selecting that one. Let's scan. words now here. It doesn't show up as the preshared ones, and so I'm gonna show my own Yep. Yep. Hi. I'm Kent Takayama from Japan. Oh, So edit Hackerson Maybe only or maybe with Lawrence and harris, Harris, and Yeah. I have to wait. until you're This might be shown Sorry. We're having some technical difficulties. Doesn't matter. Yeah. Thank you. Yeah. Just this ride is over. Yeah. And"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:10:02",
    "text": "So I've updated the latency suit, should implementation and it can process and encode Sud manifest. and it is written in c language because an old fashioned programmer, so I can only code, seek programs. So yeah. Just joking. Yeah. And now it's support, suit encrypted payloads, So it it was or called also firmware anchors and draft, and it the theft, a feature the the news feature is ephemeristaticecdh. encryption. So Oh, the old the firmware author increase and send it to the device. with wire. with encryption. And the key is exchanged into in the suit manifest. So the device can correct some public key and and public key of author, and some similar keys NKn it is it is wrapped into AES Keywrap. So the only need for a also so firmware also is the device's public key. So he he can encrypt with it. and the device can decrypt it. It is submitted to the the disdraft. So maybe where you can see the the example in the next or next next session next next presentation. Yeah. Thank you. Any questions?"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:12:00",
    "text": "Alright. Thanks. Yep. So next up, we have a discussion of the suit manifest. honestly, are you doing that one? Or is Brandon doing that? I can say a few words about this Yeah. this document? if if that's okay. next slide. Where is that clicker? Do you have the clicker? Oh, just pushed about Yeah. Thanks. Thanks, Roman. for doing the detailed review. I know it's a long document, so you really read through it carefully. I can tell it from that review. like an unbelievable number of review comments. took me some time to create the PR. The Yeah. hasn't been folded into the draft yet or merged into the draft yet to submit version 23, because there are still some issues sort of that need to be resolved. In time for the deadline, I created the list in the GitHub we have the a separate repository for this document and in the in the issue list, I I added those issues, which I couldn't address right away. So if you go if I go next slide. Okay. Can you see, like, 23 op issues And and I'm sure my courses are happy to work with me in resolving those. was a little bit overwhelmed to to put it mildly. don't want to go through all of them. I think they have all the same sort of spirit. You retro it, and there were some questions and and"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:14:00",
    "text": "clarifications needed where sometimes the language wasn't as crisp. and clear as you assumed it to be. So I I I don't think there's That wasn't any major blocker, but if you was just like, Maybe a little bit to relaxed writing style. I would say, yeah, Huddl. So Roman, the AD to review that. I completely kind of agree didn't see anything show stopping in there. Again, it's just a long complicated document as you would expect something this important and this kinda sweeping and most of the things I had were around just like, let's tighten it up. Let's make it consistent across all the things we specify. Yeah. Yeah. You even went through the document and checked it against the requirements, and the the security considerations of the documents we wrote earlier. Of course, like, we are like politicians where once we got something published. We immediately forget what we wrote. we we promise all these sort of things in requirements and then security goals, and then when we come to the solution, we write something totally different, and you went back and check it and, of course, found that there's some inconsistency. But Yeah. So that's It's a long list, and we'll have to go through those in like you put on the milestones in in August, we'll have to address stores, Yep. There's I looked through it again yesterday, and there was nothing really I I I would want t sort of, like, there's nothing really to discuss the group, just improve the language Okay. And you're sure that's gonna stay that way? You mean, we we plan to cut down the issue list red Okay. Okay. ideally to serve Do we do we need to set some time to talk interim to to work through anything? Or -- Yeah. It probably wouldn't hurt to scheduled an interim meeting not just for this document just as a as a sort of as a milestone to see whether we actually working progress on this and whether there are some issues that weren't working group time. Yeah. For the for the rest of the group to discuss,"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:16:04",
    "text": "On this one, I I don't expect it to be, but maybe on some of the other minutes that are also in either working group last call or or pretty close to it. Okay. I don't know. Brent do you have anything to say on this if Brent is online? Print this online. Okay. Yes. I think it would be a good idea to have an interim Yeah. I think one of the things we're shooting for is maybe to try to wrap things up by November. I think that'll help us make good progress towards towards that goal. Yeah. I'd like to get it wrapped up as well. So Absolutely. Let's let's get some interims. Let's get this done. Perfect. Thank you. What's the next presentation? frustrated. Next up, we have trust domains. said Brennan, Oh, it's Ken. You still have it. Yep. Yep. southern corner. Okay. Yeah. Kentacayama again, and Yep. I want to explain about client status of this draft since IETF 116. There is no frank, you know, multiplication, but there are a lot of How can I say that? editorial. fixes in this on this document. Oh, Oh, okay. And I added 3 sued manifest examples, and now we are sophisticated that text, in the document. And"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:18:00",
    "text": "Yeah. And we are going to add some use case explanations. Yep. First example is here. And this is key dedication chain. maybe a summer similar you someone some you some of you know about x 509 PK. I don't know. Yeah. So for for example, there's 22 all sorties that one is the firmware also And the other wiring is through my best creator. So So the firmware also want to delegate to sign the suit manifest to another party So The the the also delegates the Okay. Say that. Dedicated is the right to find the sous manifest. And So with with this case, This -- This This public key is the the dedicated party 1, So and the also the original author signs with This public key, So with with this public key, the the Okay. So a dedicated party can creates a suit manifest and it can be trusted by the device. And there is also another use case for where I can say that, like like, PKI. So longtime trust anchor for example, so called certificate authority like like that. Yeah. So create the public the signing key and create this key that key dedication chain part. And So and after that, trust anchor delegates through the suit, manifest signer."
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:20:01",
    "text": "So it's it's like So there are some use cases. for this function. And another example is here. So this is the main feature, I think, of this document. this is process dependency. And For example, there are 2 manifest And one is 1, dependent manifest. refers, another dependency manifest. And the dependent manifests have to identify. the dependent dependency 1. So there is a suit digest of dependency manifest. And it with this, We with this other other condition, dependency integrity, They're monitors processor checks, the validity and integrate integrity of their dependence in manifest. and then triggers the dependence in manifest For example, install section or validate section. and it can be combined combined into They can be combined into 1 manifest. So I said that there are there were 2 manifest But the the dependency No. No. No. dependent manifests, can, contain that can integrate dependency 1 into So in in the bottom of the suit manifest, So maybe some can read these bytes. It is actually a suit manifest, and it is hex hextamped Yeah. So Maybe custom can read this. Yeah."
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:22:02",
    "text": "So I as as I said, we are fix sofees can tell our draft. there there were a lot of fixes somewhere caused what? by Dave's review comment. Yeah. I found some so we have found some bugs in CDBL. So we we fixed it. And now we are fixing ion a consideration section as all goes there are some manners, to requesting IAnad for registering some numbers So with now now we are tackling with this. And several days ago, Hannes raise this issue that I'm sorry, but I couldn't complete this one. And so the issue was there are there is no introduction, to explain the use case in this draft. So Actually, it's it's indeed, there are some use cases, but it is scattered into the draft. So we have to summarize it up into introduction section. Yeah. So we are we will do this soon. So Yep. The draft is last call in last call, so yeah, review is welcome. So Please comment and provide some feedbacks on that. Yep. Thank you. So I'm the document shepherd for this one. So let me ask you question or 2 since We'd like to I think our deadline for working your last call were now past that. I think we ended up by week to end."
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:24:03",
    "text": "roughly as of, like, right now during this meeting here. I think so far, if I remember, right. Besides the authors, Brendan and Ken, I think I've seen comments from Hana and from Ross and from myself. I don't remember if anybody else has commented there, but Michael Richardson. Yeah. Thank you. Other other people that plan on reviewing it that haven't yet, we could rear you into? In other words, do we expect other comments to come in before the end of the week? If so, great. I'm looking for any volunteers that might still want to review stuff this week. I'm doing my document shepherd right up, and one of the questions is, you know, is this consensus among the small number of peeps or a bunch of people or whatever. So Anybody else wanna volunteer to review this one within the next couple days? I I see David, you're trying to be arm twisted. So Alright. Great. Gotcha. Thank you, David. If you can -- Thank you. -- if there's any chance you could review it by, you know, end of the week, let's say, you know, Saturday or whatever that would be much appreciated. k? Definitely. Thank you. Thank you. And in advance, Alright. Thank you, Ken. Yep. Next up, we have update management. us? No? Brandon? Brennan? Brennan? Probably me. So there's not a lot to say about this one. You wanna turn on your video, Brenda? Yeah. I have it turned off due to Bandwidth, but let's see how we do here. Right. So there's not a huge amount to say about this one. Next slide, please. It It has in fact been parked since the last meeting. I haven't had any review comments. and I haven't done any more on it as of yet. I'd like to know if there's any more interest in getting this one done."
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:26:02",
    "text": "it would be the focus has been on the others because of the additional stakeholders that they have. So Alright. If there's any interest in getting this done or helping, that would be very welcome, also reviews are welcome. So beyond that, Are we done? Yeah. Yeah. I guess that's the question to the working group. Alright. So let's talk about update management for update management. Yeah. Yes. Indeed. Bryce, did you know how to comment? just Just we were trying to get this ready for last call, and I'm not hearing Brendan say it is. Right. I I'm asking if there is any more commentary on it because I think it is essentially done Right. If we're not hearing there's any more work to do, it sounds like it might be. You're not aware of any open issues that haven't already been addressed. Is that correct? I will have to go through it again, but I think it's I don't think there's any open issues. This one has not garnered a lot of attention to be honest. compared to the others. Okay. So Right. We can always do a working request call. That will figure it out. Yeah. We should like, which the week, Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Well, we could start it now and just have it end make make make make Sure. Start it now, and we'll have it go 333. David, you're not allowed to review the other one how you reviewed the reviewed the the the the the But, to try to make yes. Thanks, Brandon. No problem. We'll kick that off. Alright. Up next, we have more encryption? Okay. Next slide. You get the clicker. Right?"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:28:03",
    "text": "Oh, fuck. Okay. Quick overview again. we've actually spent the fair amount of time on this topic and then this document since the last IETF meeting and also before probably more than we ever thought we would be. So the document focuses on encryption of firmware, firmware, was initial scope that we extended it to software with the work on deep and then also in deep with encryption of configuration data. So it's a it's quite a a broad focus, but it still relies on the suit manifest to carry that metadata. it covers the 2 cases single sender recipient, but also single sender multiple recipients. There are 2 content key distribution mechanisms supported symmetric keypays with AES Keywrap and the efemrastatictiffy Hellman it it prior to to the If I'm a static difficulum, we use HPke, but we sort of replace that early this year. Yeah. What was the late late late last We have 2 year. Yeah. There are 2 flexible deployment models, specifically on the the streams. One is the also signs the firmware and and, of course, what the manifest and indirectly the the firmware. and encrypts the payload. So in that case, the also needs to know who the recipients are, obviously. because, for example, with if MR static, if you have and it needs to know the public keys of the recipients, Or in the other case, they also delegates the encryption to the to another party, the distribution system, which has to know the the public keys of the recipients. in that case,"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:30:01",
    "text": "that character is not properly displayed. It uses supposed to indicate that there's a reference to the suit multiple trust domains document that was just presented and it covers specifically that case, Kent talked about this with the dependencies, and that's the examples that have been added. which was Awesome. the work at the Hakata. Okay. So a couple of different activities align. So we we made a couple of updates to the documents since last IETF meeting, one was improve readability. So what the main audio of the document changed sort of quite a bit to just improve that readability. we still had one functionality in there, the keck verification, which was the leftover from change we made prior to IETF 116 in the way how we encapsulate it or where we position the encryption information. We previously had that in the envelope, and now we move that into the manifest which required this change of the using the multiple to me. It's not here. we have to actually include the examples we did some prototyping work with the Florence which was continued at this hackathon to work on the cozy, and there's the link to the repository so you can actually run the stuff yourself. We also switched from a really a structure which is supported by cozy, for a femoral static diffie helmet to a 2 layer structure which Lawrence sort of found in the appendix which I think is better in line with for example, AES Key Rappland, any general with the rest of KOCI. So I think that was a good change"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:32:00",
    "text": "And we also updated the concept concon text information structure which was something that led to some discussion on the meeting list, and and there's more information on that in a in a subsequent slides Okay. namely next slide. So this is what we had or having the submitted version of the document, So this is on the right hand side On the left hand side of your what you see here on the screen is this KDF structure contact structure from the cozy specification which is supposed to be incorporated into the key derivation function to provide this finding to the context and task this part to InfoCenda for us have up the party info for the senate, for the recipient, then a couple of other information elements. And what we included here was the hash of the public key of the sender the hash of the public key of the recipient, the algorithm information, the and the context of the protocol we are using this in In this case, it's just a a string suit payload encryption. We had a different structure prior which found some resistance because we included the hash of encrypted payload as well to pioneer that but it's complicated to implement, and it wasn't quite clear what the benefit actually is. So we had why I looked around on what other people were doing and the the approach of what information to put into that structure 4th different uses of the ephemerstatic diffie helmet, because he was quite mixed. Here, two examples with key mint that a product code from Google, which uses the public keys of the send in recipients Dipcom is some blockchain,"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:34:04",
    "text": "Debt Technology or this verify our credential technology and they're actually using the authentication tag of the AAD, Cypress, input to the context information structure, so a somewhat unusual approach. And but also, more importantly, the working lamps Fruss updated us on on that sort of recent developments, and they are using the algorithm information that actually uses applied data but descendant recipient identity is not used And and, of course, we want to align we have we want to have a kind of a same design approach, across the different groups in the IPF when it comes to the same information. So I think the right approach, which is what I'm going to suggest in the next slide, is to switch exactly to that. Mike, do you want to say something? Sorry. I'm struggling with the app. my account's worth. Question for Russ, which labs document is this referring to? MRI. I should have included that here. Sorry. I will I will update the slides. We'll put it into the meeting minutes. So so this is the proposal. And as I just mentioned, like, for the party info sender and recipient The idea is not to include The hash of the public key, which is what we have there today, but instead include Basically, b string 0s size 0 which I call here null or nil. But then for the Yeah. could use the mic Yeah. Okay. So it's would be it would be, literally, the is David Brown. It is a that at least the ones we've seen, it is is a 3 element array of 3"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:36:03",
    "text": "seabor null values, not -- Okay. -- a b string that's 0. Okay. So it's not like the other, which is a b string size sphere. Okay. Yeah. Okay. ruption. Correct. Yep. Actually, I'm not sure it's an option parameter. It's just it. It's just an area of size 1. But anyway, we'll we'll we'll look at the details. for the and we also noticed in a discussion that The we had a different understanding of what goes in the into the algorithm info So in this case, if you look at the KDF context structure here, there's a algorithm ID field, which is an integer yeah, we would put the the AS key wrapping there, which is what the what the recipient structure contains and then for the data lens, key data lens field, they would be lens of that ASK wrap and the subpop info, the protected header field contained the Imer static, Diffie Hellman, keybread identify. In this case, this would be the value -29 in this example. if we still contain the protocol context identifier with the suit payload encryption, I think that structure should make it fairly easy from an implementation point of view. And we have the API of already in the course, if thanks to Thanks to Lawrence to actually produce meaningful examples that can be actually verified. Okay. So the this is the proposal. I I hope no objections to that. of course, it's something to to think about. We'll find out on this call. Yeah."
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:38:01",
    "text": "not before. So this is so this is then the layer structure. on how this looks like. So the the blue box indicates the recipient The recipient there could be multiple recipients, as I mentioned, that the overview there's the content encryption layer which in this case has the encrypted firmware. embedded into the structure could also be detached Yep. Uh-uh. And then if can prepare that a hackathon, a complete example, which I wanted to show you here to just give you a sort of a complete flavor of this, and I color coded it so it's actually understandable. So It's I I know there's a lot of lot of details, but just at the boxes. So the The red box is the authentication wrapper, which is essentially the digitor signature the cozy Signature, covering the diethes of the manifest which is the green box manifest is the green box. So do you see the digest field? It it contains the the diet shifts over at green box and then just a regular cozy. signature mechanism. Okay? So that's the the the first part of the whole story. the second part is again, hearing The red box indicates what I had shown previously. this is discussed a efemostaticdefehyalmann with the encryption and the recipient, the 2 layer structure. which I just presented. Andy, the green parts are the directives in the additional directive for directives in the specification that we added to include the necessary information so that the manifest"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:40:01",
    "text": "knows what to do to decrypt and then write it in this case. This is a directive write There's also a directive copy in the document to illustrate on where to write the resulting play text. So hope that that makes it clear. It's it's a little bit of of seapua diagnostic notations, which are kind of which may look confusing. Okay. So what are the next steps? So, obviously, I would like to update the context infrastructure, if there are no objections, with that structure, we have to Update the code, recompute the example create a full version of the example to to have it included just like the one I I have shown on the screen. and include that in the documents. So, obviously, you have to do that. And that's sort of the the link to Kent's repository, which we which he had just been talking about, this part of the hackathon, progress report, and then I think this is Ready for publication. Hold on one second. So I I I think that will be understand objections, they update to the context infrastructure. I believe it's it's minor, And so we need to ax out a few a few lines of code, So that should be done in the next 2 weeks. Brenton, Hi. I just want to bring up as as I mentioned on the mailing list previously, there is a trade off that is present in the current version of the firmware encryption document. The trade off is that the author must choose between 1 of 2 distribution models"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:42:03",
    "text": "both of which have some pretty significant downsides. The first option is that the author takes on the responsibility of knowing all every single device. and then they're able to I to they're able to sign each possible version or each possible encryption key rather. The second So that's that's one substantial trade off. Most authors aren't gonna wanna do that. So the next option is that they can delegate that to a distribution mechanism. There's 2 different delegation mechanisms. The first delegation mechanism gives the just hands the signing key effectively over to the distributor. this dystrophin distributor then gains effective defacto codesigning authority over the devices. and the author loses the repudiation effectively of of code running on devices. And Then the next option is that the on the distributor creates a second manifest that contains only the encryption information and then overrides what's in the author's manifest and that gives you sort of the best of both worlds, except, except with the added complexity of now handling multiple manifests. the original method that we picked for this required distribution mechanism that doesn't exist in Cozy yet, which is presumably the the biggest single reason not to do it the way that we previously did. And it really I think that that key distribution mechanism does belong in cozy and maybe something they need to pursue. but notwithstanding that, with the the methods that we have here, we do have some pretty substantial trade offs for people to understand. And and there's some planatory text that we added to this draft"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:44:00",
    "text": "prior to publication to just detail that. but but but but just for the the the sake of of the update, I think it's important to understand trade offs that are here. Yep. Yeah. In response to your PR, I created more decks, which led to this -- Mhmm. Yeah. rewrite sort of the first bullet improved wording for pay -- Mhmm. -- better readability. I should have probably said that specifically that section that explains that trade off. I I tried to make that more clear to sort of summarize what you what you just repeated Yeah. Yeah. it's that's the That's the decision that also needs to make. Yeah. It 7. 2 weeks. 2 weeks? So, basically, Basically, I think we're proposing that Will's do working group last call on this one. when working group last call on the previous one ends. And because that's about the same time. So 3 weeks from now, will We all see this one. Yep. The only caking thing is really if someone is objecting the approach for the context information structure. Then we have to go back to the drawing board on that one. So So with this draft, other than the issues that have already been identified, are there any are concerns that need to be addressed before we move forward with publication. working for Cisco. Alright. Alright. So it sounds like we have a plan. Thank you. Next up, we have suit report."
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:46:02",
    "text": "leave us is also Brandon. Trick Next slide, please. This is another reasonably short discussion. So there's some changes to the e type recommendation I've added some notes on transforming a suit report in the verifier and expanded to myana considerations. slide, please. So essentially, what's happened here is I think I may have misunderstood the eat Mezrez when I originally put that in there. The suit report is effectively a form of software measurement, so it don't think that using a measurement result was the right choice. we will have have to go back, I suppose, and check with the rats working group on this, but I'm fairly confident that this is the correct usage now. So I'm recommending that we use a eat measurement, as the recommended way of embedding in an e token And The previous suggestion, as I said, was to use a measurement result which I don't think is correct. Next slide, please. So what I wanted to to highlight, and this is some new text in the draft. is that suit reports are a measurement, but what they are effectively is a procedural record. So they record what this the manifest processor has done. as it goes through and processes the manifest. So a verifier that has an adequate amount of information should be able to convert a suit report to a more conventional measurement report. And this is the the key reason that I think the measurement element of"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:48:04",
    "text": "eat makes more sense than the mezz res because, really, what going on here is that the verifier converts the suit report from a measurement into a measurement result. Now to do that, what the verifier needs is the suit report and all referenced manifests. can then go through and using comparing the suit report to the manifest it has, it's able to reproduce all of the measurements that would have been accepted by he processor. then it can and and inject those into and eat mezzras and include that in the E token that it creates. So I've added text to that effect. in the super port draft. and that is all there is at the moment, I think that that does deal with the outstanding issues. in the super port draft. Yeah. So this is Dave Taylor. Just verifying mizra's I was just checking the eat specification as a couple of folks in the room. I mean, I'm here in Ned's here, and I don't know who else is here from. Yeah. Lawrence is here. Mezrez is designed, if I understand right, for station results as opposed to evidence. And we'll say, yeah, I think the course is nodding. And suit report is more blowing and evidence that reports, and so that's why this rest is the wrong thing for this. Exactly. Yep. Sounds like we're all on the same page. Excellent. Yeah. I saw figures nods from Lawrence back there. So Good. So with that correction, I don't think there was anything else that needed to be done on the ionic considerations were some that minor cleanup and, yeah, just a little bit of cleanup I think that this should be ready for lost call."
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:50:02",
    "text": "Any concerns with -- -- my other awesome here to agree with me. Alright. Well, we'll we'll confirm with them and then start a working group last call. Thank you. Mhmm. Make sure the notetaker is capturing which things are already ready for working request calling, which ones need another update because I think we're saying version is ready for working class calling this one that we don't need an update as opposed to some of the other ones. So make sure the minute takers can capture which is which for each of these documents we're going through. Yep. because a lot of these on the agenda say get ready for working group last call. We're saying, you think this one is No. No. the Okay. Alright. Next step, we have suit and mud. Okay. This one's, again, really simple. I've got one slide for you. Next slide, please. It's already in working group last call. So that that that side of it's already taken care of. There's been a few minor editorial changes And we've added this blocking dependency on the sovie cozy key thumbprint. how how So I think that really, there's there's nothing left to add to that. I don't think there are any other I have outstanding issues, So that If I remember right, the working group last call is supposed to end on this. and that should be it. So this is Dave here. Can somebody talk about what's the status of Sobe Kozhikiki thumbprint. I think it was on the agenda for the Jose Working Group week, but it's not a call for adoption. That's what Russ is saying. for adoption. Yeah. So this may be a significant delay depending on how long Jose takes after adoption of work published, and so we'd be sitting there without any reference for a long period of time. my recollection, this is not one of the documents that Deep has blocked on. And so"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:52:01",
    "text": "This doesn't block anything other than itself, as my understanding. There's nothing that depends inbound under this document. That's right. And I I think the the decision to take a reference on the Kozikit thumbprint draft was more of a philosophical one than anything else as far as I can tell. on is because that means that you stick with seaboard throughout rather than having a dependency on during coding for public keys. I just wanna repeat the chairs we So verifying because what's on the agenda page is now out of date because the same document previously dependent on by the firmware encryption 1, but the point of Hana is talking about where the key hash use be embedded and that change to null, that removes that dependency. That was point of doing that is to remove the dependency on this same document. So t Yep. And was it was it was it it was it was just presented in in the COCE group East of it. send it k. That presentation and the good thing is the the call forward option is over already, so the kit the chairs could actually quite consensus on that already. I've only seen positive feedback from on that document. and Prior to the meeting, There were no open issues, but Brent requested the change. And now it's But the the deep protocol has a dependency on this document as well. And we will talk about that tomorrow on the agenda for chief. Alright, Brandon. Anything else? No. I believe that's it. Alright. Well, thank you very much. I think last up, we have a suit MTI."
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:54:01",
    "text": "who was presenting this one I super Yeah. I I don't think Akira is here, curious online. I've lost again. Well, not Brendan, do you wanna step in on this? My my apologies. I made the mistake of turning off my video Yeah. and and then a moment later attempting to turn it back on again. slide, please. Next So I've added Oh, that's an old one. Whoops. Okay. Yeah. That Jeff, definitely happened, but that was for 116. Next, please. Wonder if I've given you the wrong slide deck. That's alright. Never mind. So If you want, you can come back in 10 minutes of the new slide deck if you wanna do the We can talk about milestones. Yeah. if you sent us the wrong slides, if this is the -- I sent you the wrong slides. That's what's happened. Yep. Can we switch back to the milestamps line by chance? this. Yeah. Okay. Yeah. That's Okay. So Roman was kind enough to remind us that our milestones were drastically, out of date. In fact, we had had a few that that were about adopting drafts that have a adopted for a while. So apologies on that one."
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:56:02",
    "text": "But, basically, based on today's conversation, I'm proposing that we update our milestones to shoot for the next IETF meeting to to wrap up most of these drafts. I haven't heard anything our discussions today that would leave me to think that that isn't doable, I think what we're probably thinking about is having a interim meeting maybe the 2nd week of September. that'll give us an opportunity to talk about any issues that come up in working group last call on a few of the drafts that we've talked about today. It allow us to identify whatever work needs to be done ahead of the next IETF to to get things wrapped up, and we should be basically talking about publication at the At the next IATF, I also noted we need updates to the suit manifest based on on Roman's comments, we heard a commitment from the authors that could do that in the next couple of weeks, so that'll allow us to meet the August. milestone for that And we didn't have a milestone for MTI. which I think we can also get done in the same November time frame. So any concerns with these updated milestones Roman, the last 2, we still need to submit. But, Otherwise, it's updating the existing ones. So that that -- -- split it out of the other dock. Yeah. It was -- -- without. Yeah. Indeed. Yeah. And so the intent is to not be running a bunch of group class calls in parallel, but you're running in series. So when ends, the next one begins, and the hope is that we could get through multiple last calls between now and mid September. so we can report on the results of working a loop class call for the ones that still need working your best call. That's the hope. Indeed. And so my hope What I would argue for is that November is the last time we need to schedule a slot."
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:58:00",
    "text": "one of us last call. Yeah. I'd I'd say I'm I'm being optimistic here. It says we should shoot and push offer is to to update stuff. It's also possible ISG. last call. Yeah. Oh, IETF last call. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. I see a flash call. That's right. Alright. Well, thank you. So we'll Roman, we'll work to get these milestones, david, David, Thank you. so that so that so that Okay. we have slides. don't know. Do we have slide Brandon, do you have updated slides? 1 I can I'll tweak that for the for the record for the record. So I've discovered the reason you have the wrong slide, it's because there is nothing new to report on suit MTI. So the the updates to it are no. There aren't any. What's going on is that it I think has its open issues resolved There is a dependency current current or the there is a dependency, I believe, Now what did we do? No. We've gone back to we've we've dropped, cozyhpke because that seems to be stalled. we are holding off putting in anything related to to the new PQC algorithms because we don't have standards for them yet. So we just have HSS LMS, We did add a set of reverse direction I had reverse direction algorithms so that the suit report could have its own set of protections"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:00:01",
    "text": "And that's about it. I believe those were the open issues. So I think that it should be closed now. in other words, I think we are as far as I understand, our open issues are closed, and we are ready to move to the next stage. Hi, Brent. I think you need Yes. Small change you need to I seem you have lost receiving audio. I will be back in a minute. Okay. get pause. That was convenient because I just want to say that he's not right on the I can't hear you. Yeah. I can't hear you. Yeah. I can't hear you. All this noise suddenly. Good. Yeah. That's a new technique for an author to try. It only works on your remote. Sorry. Nobody in your room can get away with No. We we that's 5. but we have to room until 5. We have plenty of time. Yes. Yes. We have spare time right now. We just did The the tab the whole panel. Last IETF, we asked 60 minutes and got 60 minutes, and then we were rushed. This year at this time, we said, well, then let's ask for 90, so we have to cut anybody off. And so we got Yeah. But we hope to not need these for much longer. I am back. Those your options. It's my boot on authors. if Alright, back? Hey, Great. Brennan. You're Brendon. Yes. Sorry about that. Yep. I was I was saying that"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:02:00",
    "text": "There are two changes that need to be made. One is the Ayanna consideration section says currently to be done. I I I don't think there is Well, actually, there is some in consideration probably. The other one is the HPKE reference, I think that has to be removed. I don't think it you just focus on the e commerce static development that we talked about earlier today. And that's that's it. Yeah. I I think that you're you're right. We should remove the reference to HPK until it's stabilized. Is that something that can be done in the next 2 weeks? Absolutely. k. Let that be minuted to that for you. And so since this is a dependency, we might wanna Probably run this one lots of things at once. next in the series. Yeah. Yep. Alright. Perfect. Anything else, Brandon? I don't believe so. I think that's it. Thank you very much. Thank you. I think that is are are planned agenda for today? Does anyone have any other business that they would like to raise? think we've asked that question in a while. Take it through this, but Anything on the list that people wanna take here, open, Mike. Alright. Well, I think we're done for today. Thank you, everyone. Thank you. Thank you. Now you have the next 27 minutes to go and update your document with we just talked about. the 27 minutes for offers to do things."
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:04:00",
    "text": "Or for those of you who volunteered to review, will be quiet in the room, and you got 27 minutes review stuff. Thank you. North. Yeah. It'll be nice to clear our queue. Yeah. Yeah. Do we have because we have work out who's gonna be document Shepherd for each of those. I caught"
  }
]
