[
  {
    "startTime": "00:01:17",
    "text": "okay so it seems people have stopped trickling in so this is the second meeting of the co-working group and it\u0027s only Tuesday so I\u0027m still reminding people that I\u0027m still reminding people that this is an ITF meeting we are using the IP our principles if you know about patent claim about technology that you are talking about you have to tell us or you can decide not to talk about that and yeah you will be on video and recorded and everything so that there is a node realm for that we have a slightly compressed agenda today because we pushed over pops up from yesterday now Michael is not on me at all meet I don\u0027t know so maybe we can start with Senator Larry oh great was working five minutes ago okay don\u0027t green okay this slide chain starts to work it\u0027s okay so I\u0027m gonna give a quick update on San MLS we had a group last call already on that a lot of lot of good comments and we\u0027ve made a bunch of changing since the last idea lost of editorial changes mostly thanks to all the good reviews we got a few clarifications that are worth mentioning one was that what happens when you do the result records what happens with the base person field so the result records are where you have all the values in all the records based current values are added to the base values and all the records become self contained so it was a bit of confusion what happens with that version and we\u0027re now clarified that yes the version if it\u0027s something else then a default needs to be in all the records but if it\u0027s a default you should not put it there also as decided in the last meeting we removed link extents and it\u0027s going to be done as an extension document there "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:04:19",
    "text": "was a few remnants on CD DL that we still need to clean up but other linked functional it was removed already also we changed the registry policy to expert review only there\u0027s a one place where it\u0027s all still that\u0027s also the iesg approval but it has got to be all expert review as decided in the last meeting and then it was Dave raised in the previous meeting was appointed there was Celsius and Kelvin both in the units and it would be good to clarify why is that and now there\u0027s a paragraph explaining why this case because even the original ISO spec has it both and both of them at the same level so it\u0027s reasonable to have also sentinel has for both Celsius and Kelvin as a unit few more things we\u0027ll do now soon after this meeting is um one there was a comment from Hannes that the current security consideration section was quite thin it just referred to the privacy section and the media like registrations and the reason was that at immediate aggregates racers need to have their own security considerations but now it\u0027s a chat with Alec said it would be okay to have it only once in the security considerations and then refer to that security consideration section in the media type registration so we don\u0027t have to have it eight times because we actually register eight different media types then all those comment from team shard to have bit more details on the IANA regulate this table to have make sure we have all the different different data types and labels in in table that we did take a stab at that it ends up being quite awkward table but maybe we need to have one for Ayane and another one for those who actually read the read the specification and use it so we\u0027ll do some editorial tweaks there and we should be able to propose something very soon and then there\u0027s a few more cleanup things but the key thing is there let\u0027s publish this any questions or comments I see fingers up from our ad I think we\u0027re good to go Thanks you "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:12:58",
    "text": "and say you can have a torte who would retry after which says there is a location and that will be available but not right up so I\u0027m wondering whether that would solve the problem without getting this new response code and will be very happy to follow that line that\u0027ll set a purpose well it will be fine for me is this baby robin i\u0027m curious normally the created is as a result of a post isn\u0027t this a get aren\u0027t you wanting to get a response code to a get yes it gets so your your this is kind of a really messed up thing you\u0027ve got you\u0027ve got a get that\u0027s returning a location and i agree that would be normally what you do is a created and here\u0027s the location header so i\u0027m wondering whether the semantics is just wrong it\u0027s or you really should you be doing a post and getting you know saying post basically an empty body that says create me my response and then I\u0027m telling you okay I created it and here\u0027s where it is oh no as opposed to returning a location header with as a response to a get okay we a bit more optimistic than that so the client usually expects voucher requests back right so it\u0027s only an exceptional cases that the voucher is not available and then instead of getting back the response your requesting you\u0027re getting back a location where you can ask again for their for the same voucher so it seems to it seems to me that you should get back an answer but the the answer in the data is a choice of a voucher or a location to go get it ended delay and all that and you don\u0027t introduce any it is a success code you don\u0027t introduce any new code you don\u0027t you have a header you just say here\u0027s my answer my answer is either a voucher or instructions as to where to get about if I understand you correctly you say solve this at the application is in the body of the response do I understand correctly you say solve this at application-level yes okay well another session unless there\u0027s other this was more neat I\u0027m just you know confuses me to provide it to return a created or a location header or whatever in response to a get that just doesn\u0027t fit with my this follows the HTTP rules actually yeah yeah but either one will work so what I didn\u0027t know is this is about to get really yeah this is not about a post where you get a voucher but oh I\u0027m sorry I\u0027m not too sure I saw it wasn\u0027t get okay we can take this to the list but I think we have a few ideas how to do this and finish the discussion very good I thought Mike already started it a bit yeah okay thank you very much okay "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:16:01",
    "text": "my car you them market coaster I think we\u0027re doing Oscar know hello can you hear me yes hi I\u0027m Francesca I\u0027m presenting the score update so first of all the change of name until now you know this also school but now it\u0027s called Oh score so object security for constraint restful environments name change proposed by Dave thank you and it\u0027s version zero six so what\u0027s the status of the draft this is a quick quick high-level update first of all now yes Honus since you talked about the title oscar actually in if you want to be totally correct is actually not object security because it\u0027s actually coop mess message signing and potentially encryption yeah nobody but it the focus is it for advertising no it\u0027s not so hummus is our favorite comment here on this topic I just want to comment on hummus use of the word signature is not correct because this is not at all about signatures there is no signature there are no signatures so that\u0027s wrong I think I think you shouldn\u0027t proceed that discussion okay I think the important thing is that this is based on an object secure standard it\u0027s based on cozy that\u0027s why it\u0027s called Auggie secure course okay I\u0027m gonna move forward with the updates yeah if you have comments please posted okay so one first update now we protect the coop code which is encrypted and this is so it wasn\u0027t encrypted before and we add the dummy code that is outside for the proxy to read and we always use post or fetch for requests based on if there is observe or not because observe does not support post and we always use to a four four responses second update or score now has a full section of describing how cross protocol translators work also thank you Dave and this was based on an ocf request and this is the reason for the name change "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:19:02",
    "text": "and this defines a new HTTP header called object security then we changed how the cose object Cosi compressed object instance portal so now in the coop payload we have the cipher text and in the object security option value we have everything else so all the header fields and everything that is needed then we did change the we announced last time which was we remove the Auslan which was object security of content from the appendix we simplified the observed processing based on Christian feedback and suggestions Thank You Christian and we update the nonce construction now the sender ID is part of the nuns and the partial AV does not need to be sent in non observe responses which allows for memory safe so in general we we did some updates but nothing nothing major then I wanted to report on the interrupt this was during the ITF hackathon here in Singapore we had two participants thanks Christian and Jim and in total we\u0027ve done five interrupt the the last interrupt in includes the latest changes and created a couple of issues that we are solving now we have sold some already and we plan to solve them all by the end of this week we also have updated test specification you can find them in the link that is up there and yeah we have 15 tests on succeeding and failing or score processing and we can say that this was successful as the two implementations Interop so for what issues we have left you can always see the issue tracker which is updated and even a discussion that goes on in the main list gets reported in the issue tracker so we have one issue that was about observation renewal and I think Christine already reported that in the main list and then as I said many minor issues as a result of the interrupt and then some more general issues that have been parked until now our privacy and traffic analysis considerations and review then RFC to one-one-nine compliance as per James request and we still need to put in the test vectors but apart from that we think we\u0027re ready for working group last call so we plan on fixing all these minor issues that we talked about by the end of this week and "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:22:04",
    "text": "so being the new version and then for us we can go for working good let\u0027s go since you didn\u0027t have a slide about the o cf1 that\u0027s gonna unless you want to I can give the summary from the report out with the discussion of most yeah so we had a joint meeting between thing to thing research group and OCF on Friday of last week and this was after the ocf had had some discussion that I\u0027ve led to no CF about would the new version of OS core actually suffice for all ocf needs they have any other things that they would want and the outcome of that is as far as anybody in OC f knows right now the current draft meets all the OC f needs yeah the there was a editorial suggestion which the author is accepted and we haven\u0027t which was to add a table about which header fields are and you know encrypted versus not just for readability but as far as the normative part so CF said well we don\u0027t we can\u0027t think of anything that it\u0027s is when that would prevent OC FM using it as is there were things that OC f might want ITF to do in the future in addition that might use OS core but as far as this I think the message from OC f was yeah draft looks good please publish type of thing or please please complete the work and publish it on your normal mechanism there\u0027s no no asks an example of something that they said that IETF might want to consider in future work that is not part of OS core but might use OS car is something that would say how you might protect confidentiality wise might protect some of the headers that OS core does not covered today so like the identity of the final of the final destination now that the URI host for example how you might sort of hide that from a set of intermediaries in the middle of a path that you want to protect from with some notion of they call that tunneling but you know whatever the mechanism is what\u0027s the IETF recommended way to say tunnel OS core inside something whether it\u0027s IP tunneling or OS core inside OS court whatever else it is right so they said it would be great if IETF in the future could he write some informational document that said or whether it\u0027s informational post and I don\u0027t think they care some document that said how you might think about protecting that and they might be interested in that too but the bottom line was I think they said yep looks good thank you Dave so where are we with respect to security reviews of this we\u0027ve had many insecurities people review one of them is Jim it was more for 4-cup last couple of meetings we\u0027ve asked for more coop expert reviews so that that\u0027s what we felt was maybe missing but I mean that that can happen I guess in in working group Lascaux who actually reviewed this "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:25:12",
    "text": "document say in a state from July or later okay I know the question - even if a quick question do you need any crypto review or your do you need any crypto review or you\u0027re happy with the way it is okay now that that\u0027s fine you know I\u0027m I mean it Oscar I use is cozy for what is what algorithms to use and so I think that\u0027s covered but Jim yeah Jim is saying don\u0027t bother that\u0027s fine I mean we will get sector review eventually but I mean basically everything\u0027s built on cozy so there\u0027s nothing really interesting so the only thing that that worried me on the slide set was that you fiddled with the nonce which we we got comments like we asked people who were most active too and they didn\u0027t have any problem with that we are going to look out for people during working last call and then of course - yeah but of course having a couple of people look at it beforehand Jim shot the fiddling with the nonce was basically a set up for future work but it essentially since for this document since the keys are separate how we fiddled with the nonce is not a security problem it\u0027s just maybe a little bit of a pain for certain situations but it guarantees when we go into of the group document that we have complete separation of the nonce space but based on the number of people in the system you\u0027re on sananda I just like to add to what Jim stated here that the change in the nonce construction actually simplifies to review to make sure that the nonce is are distinct for the different cases so that that\u0027s actually an improvement into intro it was previously version it was harder to sort of understand ordinals is really unique now it\u0027s very clear because the nonce is constructed by by the entity sending so it\u0027s always one one entity which is "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:28:12",
    "text": "clearly pointed out so I think that\u0027s that that comment would apply better to the previous version uniqueness of the sender identity that is an assumption okay that\u0027s a working assumption here that sound right anything that\u0027s yeah so that you have to sort out idea to the key exchange protocol or through a trusted third party so yeah we will submit the new version and then we think we\u0027re ready for working good best cool by the end of this week hopefully we\u0027ll have have it it will not solve like the list of issues but we think that like test vectors and such can be added easily Marco so maybe as an introduction to the next item in prod we had an in-room consensus for adopting the document but given to some discussions in the security area we didn\u0027t act on this consensus and since we mutually we can check do we have new information that would maybe speak against the consensus we have in fact so go ahead thank market and I six few updates on this we have submitted just before kind of a new version now version for a lot of Victoria anything\u0027s mostly to improve readability of this document like a lot of details were removed as a penances section especially as do initialization of new endpoints handling and provisioning of public keys and approaches for hanging with synchronization sequence numbers and synchronization is thought to be lost plus is of course already aligned with the latest score that Francesca just presented and finally we also addressed all comments we got in Prague especially from Jim thanks again for that this is it that\u0027s version for online honeys runs the microphone maybe we can get a quick question who would be willing to provide reviews of this document if we adopted okay that looks pretty good five people I am IRA given that we got the IBI notice on on one of the ace documents that essentially provided very similar "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:31:13",
    "text": "functionality there was IPR disclaimer that I forwarded and I was following what the IPR status on this one is what are you showing all aware of any I\u0027m not aware of any either you are surrounded it might be might be useful to check because obviously there\u0027s a remarkable similarity in these multicast co-op security mechanisms and so I like to explain this this is not easy to understand always so basically the setting is in this group we\u0027re working on a communication security protocol which applies the unicast as well as Malik multicasts in ace we\u0027re working on a key distribution mechanism so that\u0027s providing the keys for the different devices in the in the multicast web so that\u0027s the difference so Hana is referring to a document e is written for a switch did both okay so as the Wagner have sufficient clarity about the the patent claim situation on this document how Alexei Melnikov again honest I\u0027m sorry I missed most of Ace so I I can you tell a bit more about IPR is it third party declaration is it who is the patent holder or whatever yeah so so Ericsson has declared IPR on a draft which is doing key distribution for multicast in this in in this document also referring back different question referring back to discussion in ace is this document providing a solution for symmetric key groups keys or only asymmetric or does it not do any of this so so this draft provides that maybe the author wants to answer yes mark oh yeah okay I can take the answer so maybe the presenter one so this draft provides a solution for multicast security which is "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:34:14",
    "text": "based on adding a signature to a cozy object it\u0027s the counter signature field which yet so if you have the counter signature field then you can verify so you have source origins we can actually verify from which you entity this the mess this multicast message was sent and there is a bit indicating whether this multicast well the signature is included in the message or not so in principle you could set that bit to zero and not include the counter signature in which case this would be the symmetric only setting so it actually includes the solution includes both symmetric and asymmetric and depending on whether you set it bit add the counter signature you get sort of authentication or not so in essence this would be the solution to my problem I been battling in ace for a long time so if we accept this I\u0027m done I think so too okay so I would think we have a pretty good consensus that we want to adopt this document again in the room so we will now go ahead and verify that consensus on the mailing list because the stoppage we had encountered there is probably no longer applicable so let\u0027s go ahead so next to hinge Michael Costa are you out there that\u0027s we have in room consensus to adopt it so it will be a working document when we have validated that on the mailings so Christian are you them yes I\u0027m here who shall go first so Mikey can you find it again sorry Mike ah so now I press "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:37:21",
    "text": "this button once we disconnected yes and wonderful ah I\u0027m Lika let\u0027s hear what pops up okay how do you how do we do the sharing of slides so you Doc in the US yes it is so you should see the first slide off the pop top presentation okay okay so next slide please the status is basically the same as it was when we when we presented this in Prague there\u0027s no substantial work done on a draft unfortunately we were we were busy with other things but basically I\u0027ll treat the status there\u0027s been no substantial changes since since working group adoption we we were not adding anything to the protocol very simple and we dressed instead of comment or we\u0027re in the process of addressing a substantial set of comments that we got before the next update but we don\u0027t have the next update ready at this time okay so next slide please so we\u0027ll produce a version three of the draft addressing all of these outstanding comments we had some great great comments from Jim and Jim shot and we worked through those really at the last meeting so we still basically incorporating all of those changes we discovered that we wanted to really be careful about the normative language so that we could generate test cases and not have a bunch of spurious requirements that weren\u0027t important so we need to go through that and since we have a good security model now I think with the with the pub/sub profile an OS OS core pub/sub profile I think will incorporate some specific guidance around that use of that profile and I do have a little bit of feedback on that also that in light of this so we\u0027re still targeting you know will revise this so three review and we\u0027ll "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:40:21",
    "text": "expect to have something that we can target for working group last call on that around that time frame so I guess we\u0027re looking at still trying to get something meaningful then before the next London would it be but that\u0027s that\u0027s basically the time training now I haven\u0027t spoken with the other authors to have a good consensus on what we can do with this so this is just sort of my idea so what is the communication status at this point I believe we have two or three implementations but I think we need to sort of collect those again we had one implementation quite some time ago and there was just there was one in between and there was just a recent one I think we had some questions it was GE healthcare the person\u0027s name was chronic I\u0027m GE healthcare that it was asking some questions and I think that was around an implementation as well and so far as I know that those have been some of those questions have even resolved there sort of brought up some fundamental issues about how we define observe and things like that but I haven\u0027t really seen any really fundamental big changes needed for the pub/sub so what do we need to do for implementations do we need to collect some results and push them back we need to list them because I frankly lost lost track of a couple of those efforts in the time that\u0027s been elapsed can you repeat the last sentence that what do we need to do with implementations do we need to include references to that somehow or what\u0027s the what\u0027s the requirement there no it\u0027s just when we last call this thing it might be a good idea to know what said it is it has so to me it seems you want to do the oh three draft then it probably would be a good idea to round up those implementations and and see if maybe we even can get an intro up going that can be a virtual intro and then we would go for last call I think that\u0027s the sequence of events here yeah that sounds yes that sounds good after this one one more for me okay yeah so I guess that was a question that we brought this "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:43:22",
    "text": "up in pub/sub because there was a need to have some flow control and I think that we had a request from ocf to go ahead and publish this or go ahead and register this ahead of time so what what is required here can we just do this I Anna but as you well know we should agree that that this is kind of stable do we think this is going to continue to look like this of course it\u0027s modeled after the HTTP 429 code which is well established so it\u0027s not like we are completely inventing this but maybe there are specific considerations we should think about before going that with a registration and the text that goes with it thank ya this is the slide I was hoping that you had one up so I I don\u0027t know if the request actually came from ocf or from a particular company since the request that Michael and Carsten and I don\u0027t remember who else was on talking about product developers I don\u0027t know if it was on behalf of ocf or not but in any case the point is a bunch of product developers want to use 4:29 potentially outside the scope of where it\u0027s a resource directory all right because it\u0027s too many requests do we charge directory is one case by red this is saying maybe it\u0027s not just for resource directories and so there\u0027s actually another implied question here is what\u0027s the right way to specify it is specifying it in the same document okay if it says it\u0027s not specific to that is splitting it into a different document that might go forward faster than the other one or should we actually constrain it to say it\u0027s only for a resource directory no I read Jen\u0027s email was saying not necessarily just for Rd is what he wants it for so the other comment okay I have a second comment feel about wait okay so it\u0027s definitely the intention to have it be registered as a parallel thing to HTTP that anyone can use for similar situations for flow control yeah only in the Rd spec and so the issue is that reviewing the rest of the Rd spec a requires all the other stuff that we\u0027re talking about what people want to use it sooner because it doesn\u0027t have to depend on all that Rd stuff and so the question is should you split in a different document or so my other comment is the registration process response codes is IHF review or iesg approval and there\u0027s the auratus there yes she approval says you better have a good reason to you and so technically it\u0027s his call right right and and I think that would is I\u0027m pointing to a lexi standing here okay that would be a reasonable approach for me anyway I\u0027m usually don\u0027t like you know telling "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:46:25",
    "text": "editors to split to merge documents but in this case I think especially if it\u0027s a generic thing putting it and separate document and it\u0027s relatively simple it can be progressed early and once it\u0027s stable then working group chairs request me and I take it twice G duo location right because it\u0027s up to you as the 80 in technically at the is G as a whole right but they\u0027re going to look to you for recommendation as to whether it requires a specification or not that\u0027s your call you should have feedback from the community to make that call so you could say we\u0027re going to early register it and keep it in the same document let it appear in the RFC when the Rd one comes out that is a valid option to your choice another option would be to say spit it into a separate document because you want there to be a document you can progress it earlier and then it\u0027s not an iesg approval it\u0027s just regular IETF review or it\u0027s probably to a couple other things but the point is it there really is flexibility here as far as what the process is and it\u0027s between the working group and the ad and the iesg to decide and the request is they just want to have it up here they keep the product developers just wanted to appear in the ion or registry one way or the other so they can start using it question can you remind me what\u0027s the allocation policy for the registry is IETF review or iesg approval and so the iesg approval path is saying Alexi on behalf of the isg sends email to Ayana said it is okay to ahead this one up here in the registry prior to there being an RFC right and the guidelines for and a consideration section RFC talks about what the requirements are for iesg approval but i give you the clifftop as a person just now you even if I see approval you have actually have to have a blurb describing what the Eric our ad so it\u0027s much better to have it in a document do you want it in this document and tied to the timeline or are you suggesting having a splitting out this tiny section into a one-page document that separate or do you have a different recommendation I have a slight preference for a separate document but if people want to just keep it in this one I I would mind I think it makes sense is a separate document it could be really easily explained how to use it and it would make more sense as a general thing than to try to just I would rather not to in try to generalize it in pub/sub but have it has to be a separate document or to get on an yeah separate document it\u0027s perfectly we were when we were designing it we deciding to be generate to begin with it was just easier part of this government as separate aniseh separately to start with and one clarification is the pops up document there it is not the RT document so if anyone is looking for it it\u0027s in "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:49:25",
    "text": "that so yeah we are happy to split it and as long as it progresses fast enough Dave Robin and I see a Peter vendor stock right behind me I was maybe I\u0027m thinking the same thing um his his suggested change seems like it could be combined with this I\u0027m thinking actually aren\u0027t we missing 302 which seems to actually fit with what Peter would wanting it says I do a get I get a 3.0 to move door with a location header it\u0027s over there that seems to be traditional HTTP stuff but 3.0 to is not in core yes so reason so for a good reason okay well anyway maybe I\u0027ll just stop right there because I was going to suggest we take 302 and 429 and maybe some others and throw them in a document and have additions the same way they had an RFC that added like five you know new status go to http way back when yeah but I\u0027m sure you\u0027re going to tell us what the good react so so I don\u0027t think 429 is in any way controversia so this is really a document that should be able to remove very fast given that we have a volunteer who\u0027s creating the document so somebody has to do it re wants to do it okay good so Aria is going to create the 429 document and yes the thought is good if we have any other no-brainer non-controversial response codes that we won\u0027t read we can put them into that document so let\u0027s let\u0027s think about that whether that\u0027s the case re has one and if they turn out to be non non brainers please let\u0027s not put them there quite often it happens yeah this is gonna be easy takes a week two years later so just make sure that whatever this new document ends up being doesn\u0027t end up blocking pops a broker I still think it\u0027s a pity for Moustakas still think it\u0027s a good idea to combine the drafts if the door brain the brain in the head tends to be a long no brainer we can obviously move it yeah I think we can take that that part of the list but I think we agree that the objective is to have a document that that is not creating friction so it\u0027s not getting in the way of getting getting the implementers send these too many requests responses okay take Cristian yeah yes I am hello oh I would like to "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:52:26",
    "text": "talk about I couldn\u0027t request tech um this is a slide please this is a document about two options that have been around for half a year to two years in in various documents originally presented in ITF 94 in the actuators document which was a combined problem statement and solutions document in Prak we people took them to be one document about the options and one about the problem statement and the possible attacks that need to be taken into consideration and present at the relevant text there and how those options can be used in that we\u0027re the devices as we used to it very constrained maybe doesn\u0027t have a clock and ask for alternative approaches and back then a slide please we\u0027ve heard the feedback from them and renamed the repeat option to the echo to echo because repeat was way too confusing when because it\u0027s not a repeatable option by now there are there is not only the updated document on the object on the solutions but also an updated problem statement document that covers all the cases the document was taken up by Oscar also Oscar now uses both options where it needs them and we\u0027ve been asked to upload this the last version as as a working group document which which nowadays the mechanisms that are there so how things work are I think flashed up and out so these are functional our next slide please what still needs some work is how we phrase them so the echo part will undergo a bit of a rewording in an in a future upload and there are various other editorial fixes we need to do and peaking ahead to the next presentation about delay attacks I think there is some valid criticism we\u0027ll need to respond to from there or with respect to how easy it is to to come up with a with a time that is suitable for keeping around for waiting for an updated response to an echo request that\u0027s the state of the document I think we can proceed with that are there any questions can you be specific on how you want to restructure the Echo Park Frankie I can\u0027t but I\u0027d ask your on Oh to comment on that some more I was planning to some more structure clearer requirements what it\u0027s what has to be "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:55:29",
    "text": "making take apart pack making clear that the client does not look at that just equate making it clear what requirements it put on the server when it\u0027s great the echo and then putting forward these are two example and recommended ways to do it thank you that was John Watson Julian from our way and one question who is authorized or and when to set the threshold to the echo option that is something the application decides yeah but I think okay so each each application has particular freshness requirements which maybe it should have arrived within the last minute it should be fresh by a few minutes or which might be this needs to be very strictly timed and I can\u0027t accept any requests that\u0027s older than two seconds and the application need to to take that decision and if forwarded to what and you instruct the the underlying library or whatever to act on that okay thank you yeah so I think that the document should be specific about what the application gets suicide here and how the application tags with a mechanism okay anything else on the echo pouch then we have another presentation about a different way of ending ending the freshness okay hello my name is Julian from our way and yeah this proposal comes from the question I just asked when I read a document yeah let\u0027s go to next each okay these older versions repeat option what confuses me is that how to set the threshold because I think it\u0027s more important or the threshold is an element in the comparison so if we set a threshold to small and maybe some normal request will be discarded due to the it is this mechanism and if we set it to large and I think some of the "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:58:33",
    "text": "delay at our delays may not be discovers so so that\u0027s the the main things that confuses me so I we propose another mechanism to resolve that way I\u0027d have issue way that we this the client sends the valid term window in the message ended to the with a server and which contained a start start time and the time duration if if the message is got before the rally time windows and then this message would be I mean the it\u0027s action would be pent in the queue and when the time window is arrived and this action will be time yeah the other cases is when it is we say in his messages but in the time window then in May it maybe act immediately but if it isn\u0027t received after the time window it may be discarded and this is for the single message requests or requests and in some cases we for example in the AGV automatic guided vehicle situates and the AGV we got many multiple messages that h can only I mean work under one requests a request and so it has to process the requests one by one in a sequential mode so that\u0027s why we proposal will propose a next I mean the if some actions are not interrelated so we give some three kinds of response policies the first one is primitive mode this which means if a new message is arrived with this primitive mode option then it can then the the Stowers will discard all the previous messages in the queue and process this one and the second one is sequential mode just as I mentioned just now in the HIV cases and the third one is that the sequence show is a "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:01:34",
    "text": "conditional discard it\u0027s a message it this is that if request who is about to expire that x1 hasn\u0027t come yet request to should be processed before it is it expired and it will request wine comes later and it should be discarded in this situation yeah Thank You Yolanda so thanks for making this contribution on on time based freshness so I I sent some comments to the mailing list and I think that the problem statements you\u0027re looking at is slightly different from the ones which are in in the echo draft or in the problem statement is rather in the actor gesture but the solution is the echo solution and I think that we actually need both type of mechanisms one one nonce based and runtime based yeah so that\u0027s that\u0027s my my first comment the second comment is that there is not so much coverage on the use cases in document you mentioned now a use case which is not mentioned in in the document so I think would be good if you could expand on the use cases and what different modes you would need and what situations so it\u0027s much easier to understand the third question is how much of this should be how much of this should be specified in core and how much is application dependent we actually had the same question when it came to echo there were a number of different variants and adding features and so on but we basically cut them down I mean it\u0027s now essentially it\u0027s an ons going back and forth that\u0027s the only thing we specifying core so that\u0027s things to consider so they feel err I couldn\u0027t tell so let me just ask explicitly does this assume that the client to the server has synchronized clocks I\u0027m sorry I didn\u0027t hear the last tour do you require time synchronization so they both have the same value of absolute time yeah yeah I think we use absolute time I couldn\u0027t tell from the presentation or from the draft but I was guessing that was the case and so if that\u0027s the case then you should say that explicitly and then in your security considerations you probably also want to have text about a dependency on a secure source of absolute time okay I think this is a this is a common that surrender has already sent to me okay how do that ah okay hello Augustine I\u0027m just a "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:04:35",
    "text": "question about the sequence numbers are they do do those sequence numbers pertain to request to a particular resource or to multiple resources so is this just used to reorder requests through the same URL or two different euros yeah I think it\u0027s to the single resource in that case did you evaluate the use of the if match option that already exists for that purpose that would allow you to say that this operation should only be processed if the rick state of the resource is still the one that the client assumed okay I\u0027ll check it after this session yeah thank you so it seems to me that there has been some some good feedback on this draft it\u0027s not yet entirely clear what what the use cases are I think it would be good to work a little bit on that and I think the observation about this whole freshness area was this is a an area that needs to be controlled by the application and with the Ecotech we just have with the ICO option we just have found one place where where we have common behavior for many applications that we can factor out in into a co-op option so what what I would like to see in the next version maybe of this document is can we arrive at some common behavior that multiple applications would want to use because right now it did there\u0027s a lot of things in there but it\u0027s it\u0027s more more of a shopping list then then concise thing that we would want to have an option okay so I think it what we go through to look at this in the next version yeah this was just sorry you\u0027re not salon this was just returning to the other draft what this we can go to the next steps on the econ request tag we just left it what is what is going to happen with that yeah I can say that I think that after restructuring in editorial we should have a few reviews and then we should go for working good last call that\u0027s my proposal right should we ask for reviews yes that\u0027s a good point "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:07:36",
    "text": "so who is willing to provide a review of the next version of this document so Francesca Jim castellari I don\u0027t know how to say your name but we put it in there yeah thank you okay thank you so next ending we did we have a number of drafts that have been around for a long time but that hasn\u0027t really moved very much and it seems we should be cleaning up and the first one is the SMS draft the interesting thing is SMS is actually being used in lightweight and term so there is a kind of under specified part of the library impairment specification and it might be a good idea to fill in that gap from our side but jim has yeah it\u0027s Tim Karen okay actually you know lightweight and down in their specification has actually just gone ahead and done that piece of it where they you know designated a WAP Push mechanism to do SMS so you know for the need for lightweight em down you know just they just progressed and so I don\u0027t know if there\u0027s anything that that they would do other than we\u0027d have to make sure that we whatever we wanted to do something else would have to be make sure that we incorporated those aspects of what they\u0027ve already defined okay can you say what kind of mechanism they now have so they utilize for SMS a WAP what they call WAP Push it\u0027s oh it\u0027s through the 3gpp I think WAP mechanism so it\u0027s called WAP Push is the proto Papas protocol pushes the extension to the protocol okay so they\u0027ve already so they progressed and solve their problem right so there\u0027s nothing here that I Jeff needs to solve for them it\u0027s my point I can comment that a couple of weeks ago a couple of weeks ago in the Omaha meeting actually there was an interesting demo by one of the companies there AV systems and I got actually a commitment in a sense to contribute to the draft to make it aligned with Leviton to him one way or another to commit with these draft from one of the AV systems guys I\u0027m sorry what I\u0027m "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:10:37",
    "text": "saying is that some of the features that the Levitan boom has already for co-op over SMS could be adopted in this draft or vice versa but they could be aligned I already have a commitment from one of the guys in AV systems that he\u0027s participating in OMA DM and I wouldn\u0027t whim to do that sure that\u0027s right so as I was saying no matter what we do here would have to align but from a lightweight m2m perspective they don\u0027t care they\u0027ve heard if they\u0027ve already moved past this right correct me if I\u0027m wrong I mean you know they\u0027ve put it in the specifications what they\u0027re with what they\u0027re going to do for SMS so that\u0027s already in the lightweight MDM technical specification yeah but I mean maybe we would like to align actually be more with what co-opt us in that space I would say I mean I don\u0027t know what this is something maybe we can discuss later on in detail also in the Oman Auma group I don\u0027t know you have an opinion by the way on this on this so I think that was useful five minutes spent or to find out that there\u0027s something going on there and we have to take this offline and see where we want to take this okay so let\u0027s talk about through other drafts Kristiana us together Christian I used to do yes are you will okay people told that you were yeah hi-yah so indeed the interfaces and dynamic link straps have in limbo for a while and and now I\u0027m I came on porous a numerator for these drops so we\u0027re trying to push this forward as well in general I think that both these drops are actually in rather good shape they do okay let me let me just yeah yeah it\u0027s okay I\u0027ll just end this way it\u0027s fine yeah look at this one okay so um both these drops I think are in pretty good shape basically I would say that there are some editorial issues that need to be fixed there have been so if "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:13:38",
    "text": "you use the issue we are using the issue tracker in Indian hub so there are some minor issues to be fixed I think in the interfaces draft at least a couple of them have been opened since the last version and there are two new ones one is basically to align the examples with what\u0027s happening with sin ml and then the other one that Michael raised was regarding some consistency with the ocf interface pattern or for using the the interface link target attribute and for dynamic links we switched back after Tim brought up the problem of G th and L th to GT and L T so that it\u0027s smaller line with labrum to him and again going forward probably this one needs a lot of editorial work then interfaces so the examples need to be made much clearer there\u0027s four open issues and all of them need to be resolved so two two of them are actually on absorbing some work done in two drafts one of them is for adding a new legal relation and then the ones on error handling so I hope that we can get this in working group last call soon firstly we need to at least clarify the how the editorial issues can be fixed and then after that probably will need to ask for reviews again so that\u0027s the status office so who has read who has read a recent version of one of those documents a few yes well appropriate to the speed in which this develop so maybe a year also yeah so these are interesting documents because the diverse other that sometimes and then other s Theo\u0027s took their content and did something with it with that which is good but we never really finished them so we are now in this situation that we have to look at what did the other people do there which is for instance the reason why this reversal there was done because like we don\u0027t have already had to find it in a different way so this is a little bit yes yes yes so that change they would have been would have had to be a really good reason to make this change to make it uncomfortable what latter a time dream does so given "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:16:40",
    "text": "that we are picking up speed now who would would be willing to review new versions of this document honest somebody who I cannot see Alex Tim Peter hurry wonderful okay so I think we have enough energy to complete this so what\u0027s the time frame you see for this well I I think the time frame was to get this ready by Singapore but I\u0027m now on board so I\u0027ll try to get it done as quickly as I can I\u0027m I\u0027ll try to commit I mean I I was a bit unwilling to come in until we get some authors back into active status but hopefully we can get this done by London okay so get done in the sense of be ready for work great do we want to continue this as two separate documents or is this something that that works together works better together no I think it\u0027s it\u0027s a good division let\u0027s put them both as separate documents because certain SDOs have taken one not the other so I think it\u0027s a good idea to keep them separate thank you okay so let\u0027s go onto the dev you end okay so if you were in the meeting last time we talked about the background for this so this draft had been around for a bit but it is really widely used I understand and their idea is basically just to support various kinds of device identifiers and and of course you need to be aware when when it makes sense to use device identifier to begin with so there are some cases where that makes a lot of sense and some cases where you probably want to hide things instead of using the device identifier but but this is for the case when you actually do need them and so we support things like MAC addresses and 1-wire identifiers and we prepared verse 105 has couple of changes that\u0027s going to go through them quickly here so we made a change to the delimiters for these extra parameters that we allowed to sort of point to a part of a device like the humidity sensor part of a particular 1-wire devices in this example and which st. changed the syntax from using semicolons "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:19:41",
    "text": "to using underscores and the reason for this change was maybe we can make the integration with sentimental easier because in ml does require some limits in the character set and we we have gotten some feedback that you know maybe the the character here is it could be some other character as well like slash would solicit feedback on that in a bit the other change was that we added something called organization specific device identifier so this is an idea to open up the space a little bit so if you had a company or some kind of organization that needed to support their own device identifiers you could do that relatively easily without having to specify a new AR see and the particular way we went about that was the point to private enterprise numbers so here you are in dev org and then a private enterprise number 32 473 is actually that example enterprise number and then one two three four five six would be the device identifier in this case we also considered using domain names here that\u0027s another option but again soliciting feedback on whether this makes sense this is sort of opening a whole lot of sorts in in this mechanism we added some text and privacy considerations and added some text on Ayana considerations to specify when allocations are appropriate and let me just do the next slide and then we\u0027ll go to the questions so what I\u0027m actually sort of soliciting feedback here for is first of all the delimiter change is that sensible does it break any existing users because if it does maybe we don\u0027t want to do a change so that that\u0027s an important thing to talk about do you have any thoughts on the local device identifiers is that a good thing bad thing should be done in this way or some other way let us know and then I\u0027ve also got some email from some Nokia folks that\u0027s right there here that indicated that 1m 2m and a lightweight m3m have some have been using some device identifier types already in their specifications should those be folded in and there was a question about a but I know nothing about the BBF probe and four-room USB protocol as my identifiers perhaps be used incorporated here I mean the obviously the idea is that you know if we do something that\u0027s sort of a friendly amendment of of this specification and then with you know some coordination of the people who "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:22:41",
    "text": "actually came up with these ideas Peter sent under complaint that we haven\u0027t done the new RCN that associated new you are in registration that played correctly we\u0027ll have to get to that and I had done a mistake in the a B and F for this new organizational type device identifiers which will fix and then we have talked about draft adoption in in a very abstract sense last time but we didn\u0027t actually do that like you know call on the working group list and I didn\u0027t talk to the ad is to ask for a teaspoon I think this would be more of a working group thing so so those six things were the ones that I wanted in particular to get feedback on and then you know any other things that you have only on your mind you go Dave Taylor so I looked at this last IETF but not since and so you may have to remind me but my question is on the the the delimiter part something you said triggered my comment on the last slide you said that something about the humidity part of a device and that\u0027s where I got lost is this a device identifier or is this a resource identifier or what because if we could say we if it\u0027s a device identifier then part of but the advice doesn\u0027t make sense well arguably a part of it by arguably a part of a device can also be a device of sorts like one either it\u0027s a device identifier it\u0027s a resource identifier or pick a different term I don\u0027t know but is it a device identifier is it not advice identifier I guess is the first branch we mean we set out to define device identifier is but way back several years ago when we started doing this there was an indication that people wanting to have be able to point to a part of a device as well is that part a resource or is that part a something else I find that a question difficult to answer okay then I don\u0027t know what the use case is I mean I understand a use case of a device identifier got that I understand a use case for a resource identifier got that in case for something else I don\u0027t got that yet well there was some very concrete I I can provide concrete examples I don\u0027t know what other having in their mind but the concrete example that I had for instance some of my devices were ones where you had actually like multiple like it was one physical box with one physical network interface number but it actually had two separate circuits in it so this is Tim carried yeah there\u0027s actually we were seeing some of the sin one end down right where and I don\u0027t know if it\u0027s the case here re but we\u0027re actually you get you know like these cuff monitors like "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:25:42",
    "text": "the blood pressure and stuff like that work you actually plug in these different other modules inside there and each one have to be identified I don\u0027t know if that\u0027s what you\u0027re trying to do here yeah that was that\u0027s very similar to what we were starting to see that come in there\u0027s a lot of that for some IOT I was the one that gave you the one end and lightweight indium that they use that stuff for I did have a question though because the the the BBF USP protocol they they\u0027ve they\u0027re already in their own namespace I was just saying that they do something similar but you did mention that you\u0027re using an O R G for organizational then you\u0027ve made that a private enterprise we actually used in the in the BB F we actually use the the the PE n to me to make to make it a private private enterprise number versus a no UI versus whatever so we were very clear on exactly what was gonna be the format is it\u0027s going to be a private enterprise number or is it going to be a no UI or whatever so we\u0027re kind of clear we just didn\u0027t use a you know kind of like the board type of thing you know where you were you weren\u0027t really sure what what it really is gonna comprise up right so just to let you know that you know they use pen and Oh a UI for that type of stuff very specific to the format that you would expect it to be just a comment about delay with them to impart basically at the moment we have the URLs are identified for you IDs for peer 69 or emails ESN you have it there on the spec and yeah excuse me yeah they are not they yeah great so just maybe great rate so just from from my clarification to the vibrate m2m thing is that that using the dev you are in type but adding new subtypes inside that or what\u0027s doing something else I\u0027m not sure I mean I think they used a the main one would be I would guess the you you ideas in RFC 4122 and then depending your use for instance management protocol ITR 16 and then we\u0027ll have that protocol specific information okay but yeah but that\u0027s it that\u0027s another idea expect I was I was interested if they\u0027re using this back and just building under under that something new that we should actually recognize or they\u0027re doing something different a little different and I have this big but I didn\u0027t have time to read it yet yeah so so they use a number of namespaces the only ones from the dev namespace that they use or the ope or OS okay but they\u0027re using something from the dead space from that yeah okay so right you know they\u0027re using other ones for IMEI and that\u0027s all in the other that that\u0027s fine but now you answered my question so they actually are using something underneath this thing so so that that means that we use probably act some up in some fashion and I locate those two at least so that you know we can point to their spec or something thank you so the subsequent discussion "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:28:42",
    "text": "including your response maybe realize there\u0027s a different question that I should ask because I thought I said I got the but I got the use case for a device identifier and then I realized there\u0027s that that\u0027s actually an ambiguous statement because what different orgs call it device varies and so to some organizations that device is the physical thing and to other organizations a device is a particular role that may run on that physical thing so in the ocf terminology for example they caught they use the word platform to refer to you the thing that\u0027s that the physical thing and it can have multiple devices installed on it you know the the humidity device and the device is something that refers to like a a model of what a device is and if it has multiple so device models and there\u0027s one platform local vices on it and so the term device itself is also ambiguous internet generic sensors we really have to define what it is that we\u0027re talking about cuz I think you\u0027re talking about a device in the same sense as say ocf uses and not the physical object when you said part of a device right that might be how how ocf might describe part of a platform when they talking about it the term device and so it\u0027s quite possible that what you mean is that device ID in the same sense is what ocf would call a device ID which is as a normal developer that\u0027s not what I Dave would call a device ID but I didn\u0027t understand how the ocf terminology is and so when we\u0027re talking about this we have to be clear what the use case is and decide whether this is a general use case or whether it actually varies enough by ecosystem that it belongs in some ecosystem specific you know URI scheme like ocf has their own URI scheme that they embed a device ID in the same sense that you\u0027re talking about right but they do it in their own ecosystem stuff that\u0027s OCF Khoa okay and so I guess the question is what is the use case here if the use case is coming from one end M and lightweight M to M then the two possible answers are this is a light way to M to M specific URI scheme or it\u0027s not and we have to have a definition that makes sense outside of the lightweight M do either of those are okay and I just try to figure out which of those two branches to go down yeah and I I\u0027m not sure I can answer the lightweight M to M question but I I think that there\u0027s a I mean an answer before a draft adoption so from the from the one M dam in a light way to M to M perspective it\u0027s going to it\u0027s going to be an identify er from the one end Empress perspective it\u0027s the actual identifier which you would call a platform okay for a lightweight MDM it\u0027s actually identified that is used as the endpoint identifier of the lightweight end M client right so you know can be the I am i I MSI and other type of your ends but sometimes it\u0027s actually the oh you I plot a class serial number right you know which identifies the device that the clients going to reside on right those are the two things that they use it for "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:31:43",
    "text": "right and so the additional thing I want city you Dave is that I think that the goals of this this work initially and and still I mean the main goals are about ability to identify things that have like Hardware addresses and such Hardware addresses and and the different organizations and different groups will will definitely use different terminology for you know what what things they refer to and then you know places like lightweight m2m will will need to point to many different types of you are eyes and your hands you know whatever their they\u0027re doing so we\u0027re trying to protract what the idea usually does provide a capability to point to put particular types of identifiers for which there is no convenient identifiers at this this point in other ways and then the only discussion we\u0027re really having is is a terminology and and B whether whether we\u0027re doing those additional pieces after pointing to the hardware identifier and part of it will depend on well effect because you were asking about you know de limiters and things and that makes sense in certain use cases that may not make sense another use case is doing and my question but I was gonna say something else I forgot what it was so yeah I mean the the delimiters and the parameter is so all the there it\u0027s it\u0027s up up up to you know whoever is applying this whether really they get to use them or they need to use those or not but but the general soon box was the question here so if we have something like that this then you know what characters are allowed there and how does that affect users of this soon box on a higher level so that that that was they initially this this question about the delimiters came from the sin ml war I mean I understand you\u0027re creating this sort of enough hierarchy is the right term but so your n followed by dev followed by something identifies what the next identifier is you know Mac or whatever it is and so maybe there\u0027s multiple possible answer is one if you say it\u0027s Mac and what if say it\u0027s a one of the other options are or on there and there could be a different answer for each of those if it\u0027s a yeah all of the above for different purposes which is okay why would you do that in the same URI scheme but you can sure what I actually got up Mikey I just remember it was what get back there like you mentioned that if I understand right when you talked about the hardware identifiers there\u0027s actually an important thing that you didn\u0027t put there that\u0027s consistent with what you just said which is you didn\u0027t say it was unique right this is not the only identifier so if you have something with two MAC addresses you actually have to you our ends for the same platform right and that\u0027s perfectly fine all right according to this definition right because a hardware identifier does not mean that there\u0027s only one hardware identifier for that device you\u0027ve got a MAC address and those other things and sometimes you have multiple MAC addresses and so on this is one or more "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:34:45",
    "text": "aliases for that same device there are each some definition of device or platform or thingy identifier right that\u0027s right so the queue is drained what are the next steps charis maybe one more important to you so I gotta get an ISO one use of the component part that there was it was more about grouping for example sensors of a device so then in that part of the use case it doesn\u0027t necessarily have to be and this was in sentinel context so in that use case I mean sentiment will also define you can get the unique part that you are in itself and then use some something else but overall I\u0027ve seen that\u0027s a useful uses for that maybe we want to be not too specific on this on this specific say okay this is how you can have a component or a fragment of a bigger thing and then the using specification can define hey it\u0027s the except wait how they use this one of the clarifying question about current deployment because people said parts of this are already being used in like when I\u0027m dam or lightweight in them out of the different variations that Gary showed we can have different types of identifiers you know MAC address and so on and so forth or all of them in use or only some of those in use today with this you are in scheme if you go back a slide or whatever you see the list it was like three of them I just can\u0027t remember which ones they were uh yeah there we go ni as uu IDs IME eyes etc out of that list of things which ones are actually deployed to RN dev scheme today so that least was actually this is other identifiers that that this spec complement that\u0027s not the one I think that\u0027s the one that you mentioned mac supports eg Mac in the UI okay right so you\u0027re saying the one that\u0027s on the bottom right there that particular example is that already in an RFC or that only in the dev you are and document that you\u0027re in dev Mac that that\u0027s in this this ID it\u0027s not in our Monsieur because I\u0027m not aware of one that\u0027s your so my question is is your n dev Mac actually deployed in like wait em to em and stuff today and as your n dev anything else deployed in those today that\u0027s not in an RFC I\u0027ve seen at least some users use of both the Mac and one wire sub cases and now we\u0027re talking about adding potentially other sub cases and I guess the life bite m2m use case our estimation the reason I\u0027m asking is if there\u0027s already deployment ok then you can say there\u0027s a valid justification that says we don\u0027t care about back or we care about backwards compatibility right it\u0027s like the delimiter case or whatever for cases that are not deployed then such a question is not important and you could even ask well does it actually need to use the Orion scheme at all or could it be in a different document a different scheme or whatever and be sort of punted out of the part that we need to do sooner because people are doing it now right right and and then there\u0027s a considerations where we can add more of "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:37:46",
    "text": "these sub parts later so so that that\u0027s all fine we wouldn\u0027t wait for somebody to to do this or their part if we had to wait so since you are commenting on Levitan to emily team or Hanna\u0027s can correct me if I\u0027m wrong or if you can add additions as far as I know the UUID was the overarching way to identify endpoints and then within it you have different URLs depending if you are using peer 69 or i\u0027m emails or m/c or other way to identify the device the only case as far as I know on depth is for the tier 69 case but I might be mistaken in exactly all right so it\u0027s really this is honest so it really depends what type of devices you have and how you how you can best identify them uniquely in your in your environment obviously those who work more in the cellular space um they do what Tim just said and we for example we use you IDs for for the most generic case because you know if you have let\u0027s say a Wi-Fi device Bluetooth etc anything that sort of just connected to the Internet then obviously where would you get the IMEI from so so you use UID that\u0027s stuff but it okay so it just wanted to point out one thing also an OBE service and so we have a draft that is not an RFC yet that defines this dev scheme and there are other organizations in the world that are allocating already things under the dev scheme it\u0027s you know maybe we should get this registered in the Ayana and you know the RFC out and all that pretty soon so from the discussion it seems to be pretty clear to me that we do have the energy to work on this so I think we should verify this on the mailing list and adopt this as a draft but in parallel continue with the information collection so we have all these various parts that have been have come up here and we need to pull them together so we know what the picture out there okay thank you thank you so the rest of the agenda is two items that are really new work so we have ten minutes to talk about OPC UA if we have 10 minutes to talk about the time scale option so you start OPC UA in "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:40:52",
    "text": "hey it\u0027s the first time to talk about our draft draft it names OPC you a message transmission mass holdover crop it\u0027s jr. whoo first let\u0027s talk about other motivations our motivations is are clear OPC UA is a data exchanged standard that provides interoperability in industrial automation secondly utilizing OPC UA transmitting over crop could meet the demand for industrial 4.0 based on the exchange of semantic information our course is example to achieve different ways to transmit semantic information from two saviors to build spaced on OPC UA over crop first please let me introduce what is OPC UA OPC unified architecture is a data exchange standard for safe reliable manufacture and platform independent industrial communication ad enables data exchange between between products from different manufacturers and across operating systems OPC UA has a lot of advantages first aid functional equivalence it builds on the success of OPC Class A the second is platform independence from an abandoned backhoe controller to cloud-based the infrastructure all this can use OPC UA the third is security OPC UA is fair for friendly we\u0027re addressing security concerns by providing a suite of contrast the last acecomm Hansa V Information modelling the framework terse data into information this is the protocol stake of OPC UA the foundation of OPC reissue as the fundamental companions of OPC UA are transport mechanisms and data modelling the transport defines different mechanisms optimized for different use case for example if you want good speed and throughput you could use you a TCP with you a binary if you want it would be a fair or friendly you could use HTTP with XML this is request and response mode of OPC UA a serious interactions is needed to needed for clients to connect with saviours here is our preliminary walk we designed an OPC UA compression and decompression mechanism for 6lowpan we designed an an OPC receiver for wireless devices BIOS Contiki we integrated a cheapo e8o 2.15 point for its OPC wave for low-power wireless sensor that works with design demands nature in the mechanism with OPC UA here is our testing plan for the news we used our stm32 and cy 2 for 2 o RF mode "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:43:52",
    "text": "o we build a test tool that work consisted of 50 notes polluter and OPC UA clients the purpose what we do this is applying OPC UA to WS and is based on 6lowpan this figure shows a Kotecha of OPC over crop in sterilization layer OPC UA packets are inking coated in as a you a binary and you XML and the option field in the Corp header can subsidy parameters to support both formats as for security detail is on the top of UDP in transport layer to make sure the whole communications working in the security mode we designs 3 transmission schemes first is a proxy for history to crop in history message is exchanged using HTTP or TCP crops designs is last inspiration meaning comes from HTTP the two can be mapped between each other to meet some special sense so we put a HTTP to crop proxy as a boundary of the network to transform HTTP requires to crop request the original you a clan that don\u0027t need to change second is the direct transmission OPC a packets are encoded in as a binary or exam perform it so the entire packet of the OPC UA can be deleted up a lot of the code message for direct transmission notice that this method of transmission needs to be modified on the server side and the client side the third one is dressed transmission for OPC UA the traditional PC really needs a series of interaction interactions to establish a session between client and savior\u0027s this scheme reduce the interactions processing OPC UA crop request and response can carry OPC UA information model to achieve communicating last times we will add some use cases to our draft and the father improved the details of the draft Weaver implements the proposed architecture and make some considerations of all security we will active my stop hub and sub of OPC and the crop it\u0027s over thank you uh take Taylor yes so I\u0027m familiar with both co-op and OPC UA and have written code for both them and so I find this draft extremely interesting I do have some feedback which I can give offline or whatever but I think the question I have even though I\u0027m very interested in I don\u0027t know right offhand what the use case is and so you mentioned that on your last slide is when would you run OPC UA over Co AB given if they already have OPC UA over UDP okay over TCP where "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:46:52",
    "text": "we have Co at PCP so what specifically is the use case you\u0027re trying to do assuming there\u0027s a good use case I\u0027m very interested in this I don\u0027t yet know what the use case is but like I said that I\u0027m tentatively in favor of this if there\u0027s a reason to do it which is what I\u0027m trying to figure out so please tell me oh thank you yeah we\u0027ll make some use cases to our jobs and if you don\u0027t have the answer right now that\u0027s okay I\u0027m saying that that\u0027s what I would be looking for is tell me a good use case and if so I\u0027m willing to review or whatever this because I do both the an example of a technical point which we can follow up on later is on slide 130 you showed the secure channel layer over the top of DTLS and if you compare that back with the OPC UA stacks picture you notice that anytime that there is a lower layer of security like HTTPS that the secure channel layer is not used and so I don\u0027t know of a reason that you\u0027d ever have them both in the same picture because the slide about two or three back did not show that in the OPC architecture and so but that\u0027s the example of something we can follow up on afterwards because that doesn\u0027t invalidate the address the question about running OPC UA basically the you a binary layer over the top of CO app which is interesting if there\u0027s actually a good use case for that I do have a question and it\u0027s why isn\u0027t this being done in OPC that\u0027s a great question that\u0027s part of the use case question which is would OPC want to do this over CO app because as was mentioned right they do have an architecture that is transport finding independent right and so like in the ocf organization they\u0027re the organization that takes care of how I bind their protocol the coop or coop TCP or HTTPS or whatever so I agree with you there too so regardless of which organization that you\u0027re in because you know my company\u0027s a member at both I\u0027m happy to review in either place right and so I think it\u0027s interesting work to me regardless of that but I think that\u0027s a great question as up long here it is applying at OPC and there\u0027s a good read there\u0027s a good argument for it being OPC instead of IETF the reason why I asked that was because you know you\u0027re doing that binding of the upper layer and you\u0027re using the coop as a transport which is perfectly fine but there\u0027s nuances to that protocol right where you need to have the expertise and involved now thank God you got you know someone who\u0027s got some expertise but yeah speaking for the bacnet community um I would say Amen why are we doing this night yeah back net fully intends to do a back knit over co-op binding but it\u0027s none of your business no way it\u0027s not and I\u0027m being flippant but of course I\u0027m being flippant but what I mean is we have certain lawsuits for requirements or whatever we\u0027re going to look at co-op and say can we use co-op as a transport for back net yes or no we\u0027re gonna come to you we\u0027re gonna get it reviewed whatever just like we did with with ipv6 "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:49:53",
    "text": "over back net over MSTP well there will be involvement but most of the brain damage for specifying the mapping then that will be done in back net where all the experts are in back met I still love seeing a presentation here so thank you for doing this it\u0027s the same thing as like I was doing for ocf right here are some ass from ocf here\u0027s the way ocf is planning on using say the the URI schemes do you have any feedback for us or whatever when we talked about the redirect dish mechanism you have any feedback for us having the liaison stuff even if it\u0027s done the organization is very valuable so thank you so much for coming here and please also go to ocfo pc if you\u0027re not already ok thank you thank you well jang-ho from Poway so thank you very much for and I think is a very interesting topic and also we are very interested in looking for the use cases thank you so so my name is wrong tootin I will talk about slow reactive devices but can be connected to the network so when I talk about slow reactive device is a device that cannot talk all the time for example you have a slot network on you have slot but not there not very often so you have to delay your transmission it can be also a network where you have duty cycle and so you cannot send all the time because you have to keep silence if B between sending or in the example I I gave here is that you have some receiving window it\u0027s been that you can receive messages only after sending a message and all this kind of network introduced delays in transmission so for example here we have a device but sorry we have a device that send a message and then have to wait a long time before receiving an answer it\u0027s something for example goes goes wrong and the device know that but the server is not aware of this kind of behavior which means that if we can we keep the normal parameters we have in the server at the time we keep the message ID value to avoid duplicate message or processing twice a duplicate message so we will have trouble if we want to add here a generic server but can use the service reaction story reactive devices or normal devices so we need a way to inform the server that we are going slow so to do that what we propose is to add what we call a time scale option that will say how long "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:52:53",
    "text": "the message ID must be kept by the server so this way the server will avoid to process twice the duplicates so the idea is to have here a value but we put in seconds let\u0027s say I will send this me saij must be kept for a period of time this period of time into the server so here the design is not good so I need your help to do it so I think it must be a critical option to inform the client but if the server doesn\u0027t process it and there is an error and you have to change its behavior and of course we don\u0027t need caching for for this so far as a security I think it\u0027s also a way to improve security because it\u0027s the kind of guarantee if you say message but must be kept one hour it\u0027s meant that you must send very slowly during this period of hour so it doesn\u0027t improve increase the number of message the server we have to process so that the idea of this option so it\u0027s there isn\u0027t interest for lp1 working group to have this and we wait for it so like even if even if you said that it doesn\u0027t increase the number of messages it still utilizes resources at the server by making it keep things in the memory and like if I could send many of these I will still use up a lot lot of the memory and like you would not accept so you would anyways authenticate the client right you have some information of the client you just don\u0027t start like interacting with anyone on the internet you the first thing you do is you authenticate so you have some information of who you are talking with and you then probably have some information of what kind of a device it is right so for my vision of several you you have already this information you have to keep the message ID and the address of of the client when sends the request so here you just keep the time on when you have to remove it so it\u0027s just few bytes more hi this is how could you get back to the to the drawing the figure please so um so the option indicates on how a when the device will expect to be transmitting messages again is that fair to say no like I\u0027m trying to understand the figure here that we see in front of us so here yes right so here\u0027s a send when you send a request yeah you will say how long the layer you have to keep response the act message or which message in the request the request request you say I will you have to keep this message for "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:55:54",
    "text": "example for one hour of this message ID for one hour okay this way if I send it again this will be view as a duplicate and not as a new message I\u0027m what I\u0027m trying to find out this how that relates to the for example EQ mode or the slipping proxy stuff that we\u0027ve been working on elsewhere and I have I\u0027m still not totally sure how it does and if it somehow relates I won\u0027t know whether that the information at the granularity of a single co-op message is actually useful because for example in lightweight m2m it\u0027s you indicate the queue mode the fact that you actually in a network that has exhibits that behavior it\u0027s not going to be changing at the level of each individual co-op message so you\u0027re not going to send that information with every co-op message that would be a waste instead you send it during registration once and then the infrastructure takes care of it so I\u0027m trying to maybe I need to do a little bit more like comparison now so I don\u0027t know if you\u0027ve ever looked at so there was a long debate in this group on sleeping proxies and at the end like with them to him went off and did one variation of it and I don\u0027t know have you looked at that maybe that\u0027s actually useful for you know we have to you have to give me the reference I can send you a slight back end okay with baby not o kidding hello just announces um could you go two slides forward to the time scale option Thanks um I think you should be careful to consider the case of crux is here even if they are not sleeping proxies because um what this is proposing is a mechanism on message ID level and this terminates on the proxy so this shouldn\u0027t be an option that could just before water through the proxy because the end the the client doesn\u0027t actually need to know about the oddities of that end point but the crux needs to know and I agree with I think it was Hanna\u0027s on that this should be her per device or per link and not per request because applies to all and it\u0027s just wasteful otherwise okay it\u0027s it\u0027s parallel corpora device I think it\u0027s more complex to memorize if you repeat it in each request it\u0027s seems more easy but we can discuss of that well this is all compressed away on the LP when operation so okay I think you\u0027ve got some what do you plan to do next so to walk again on the document and try to trap it as working with a item okay thank you so we "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:59:01",
    "text": "finished one minute early which is a new referral we could talk about any payments rictus this desk is really good for catching up on "
  }
]