[
  {
    "startTime": "00:01:56",
    "text": "[Music] [Music] okay I think we\u0027re gonna go ahead and get started so this is working group chair forum this is your note well you\u0027ve seen it you all know that this is still the IETF so the current agenda is the github working group chairs discussion and we had a suggested addition of a working group chair leverage of RFC and I think we have a couple more topics that are probably going to come up in the open mic that we can add as we get to them so with no further ado I\u0027m going to move to the you can go up there and I can just for you all right hello you may know me from such things as what is that okay we\u0027re talking about github I apologize I won\u0027t be sticking around for the entire session so if you have questions please try to find me good luck with that but email works so probably is a bit of background here let\u0027s look at Karen\u0027s email now shall we training they should tell you that it\u0027s a really bad idea to chair back-to-back sessions Wow all "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:05:04",
    "text": "right so um I was gonna talk a little bit about our use of github here just for interest sake how many people are actively using github as part of their working group processes help Wow Wow right okay we\u0027re all done here thank you so um one of the things I wanted yeah a lot of people if you\u0027re not already using it and you don\u0027t intend to perhaps this might change your minds I\u0027m not actually looking to change minds at this point I think that one has sailed um one of the things I wanted to talk about was the the rationale for doing this people often talk about well why don\u0027t we use SPN or gitlab or what why doesn\u0027t the idea they maintain their own installation of some one of these services and um my response is always the same which is that github is terrible it\u0027s bad in so many ways I couldn\u0027t even begin to enumerate them and yet itself is possibly the worst possible tool you could imagine except for the it\u0027s like the Churchill statement about democracy it also happens to be the best thing with God and and the fundamental reason for that is that that is where the community we\u0027re trying to reach in a lot of cases actually lives and so one of the things I found in doing this I\u0027ve been doing it for number of years now is that the ability to reach a wider audience and a relevant audience is kind of critical to the work that we do here and and this has helped in a huge number of ways now Karen I\u0027m going to ask you to skip forward quite a number of slides so we\u0027re gonna talk a little bit about why then I\u0027ve got a few points on some best practices that have emerged particularly around the management of discussion that\u0027s a particularly thorny problem here because there\u0027s a number of ways to do this mall and there\u0027s some pretty nasty landmines in here so let\u0027s go forward again so there\u0027s a number of things here revision control I shouldn\u0027t have to tell people that this is a good thing having more transparency about the changes that have been made when they are made and why though I\u0027ve made being able to see all of those things is great integrating that with issue management is nice I think the last point is the key point that I wanted to emphasize here is that this has been hugely successful because of its ability to reach a fairly broad audience and I "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:08:08",
    "text": "don\u0027t think that some of the efforts that at least I\u0027ve been involved in would have been anywhere near as successful if it weren\u0027t for that getting involved one if we go forward you know this is current this is getting truncated carried you know can you hit the fit to page think it\u0027s it\u0027s unfortunate I\u0027ve I picked up the habit of going four by three and this just go fullscreen I don\u0027t know what\u0027s going on but it\u0027s been cut much better thank you you\u0027ll have a look at quick for instance which is one of the more active things I\u0027m involved in there\u0027s a little number there on the right bit hard to see forty-one contributors next page this is tell us one 369 contributors and some of those are oh by the way I drove by and noticed that you had a typo and that\u0027s kind of nice what\u0027s even better than that is that these are often substantive contributions from people who would not otherwise contribute in this way and that\u0027s been particularly good for Telus I found a particular good http/2 and it\u0027s proven to be quite useful and quick as well next time so we have a bunch of issue management tools here issue tracking integrates fairly well this notion of pull requests is quite quite handy the reviewing tools which are quite frankly awful they exist and they\u0027re all integrated together which is kind of handy next you get a nice long list of issues and you can tag them and wonderful things like that if anyone picks up this slide deck all of these things actually link all the pictures link to the to the page that\u0027s being shown and second tool around yourself I decided we didn\u0027t have time for that next please well one of the nice things here is that the issues are effectively threaded discussions and I\u0027ve heard a few people comment that this is a little bit difficult to manage I\u0027ll get into more of that later but each one of these issues has a discussion associated with it which is the way that some people are used to engaging in these sort of conversations so you\u0027ve got to watch some traps there next please pull requests similar the list of them pick out at the next page there is some code review and this uses a standard sort of diff display and people can attach comments to individual change changes in the in the proposed change and make comments and have discussions and other wonderful things as well next um one of the nice "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:11:11",
    "text": "things here is that every single change is enters a log it\u0027s all visible you can go back through that history you can see why the changes were made you can link those changes up to the issues that that drove those changes and that\u0027s nice and it\u0027s also good as an editor to be able to get rapid feedback on these things so you make a change that changes it immediately visible and people will look at the that change and be able to comment on that immediately one of the things who have noticed is that particularly with the working groups I\u0027m involved with we maintain an editor\u0027s copy and that\u0027s where people go now to to make comments and so we don\u0027t have this this problem of people coming and discussing the changes that were in the latest draft that have been since superseded by the conversation moving on changes having been made in the editors copy and not having a common shared view of what things are at now that leads to a problem in that there\u0027s potential confusion between the two of these things but generally I\u0027ve found that it\u0027s relatively easy to manage those sort of thing particularly for those people who are intimately involved in the process so we maintain a copy of the document so the question was what do you mean by an editor\u0027s copy we maintain a copy of the rendered document so HTML page that contains the text of the latest changes that were made so the live copy as as it were so if someone comes in with a comment and we make a change that changes immediately immediately reflected in their copy I\u0027ll go I\u0027ll go into that some more later this and some things I\u0027d like to show next please as I said before there\u0027s a massive community of people on this website that\u0027s millions and millions it\u0027s it\u0027s kind of absurd what\u0027s nice about that is that the that large community are all familiar with the tools and so that makes it much more accessible for communication next all right so this is the problem part one of the things that I\u0027ve observed is that the discussions on issues and pull requests and whatnot has the tendency to sort of fracture so we\u0027re having a conversation over here on the mailing list about something a conversation on on this issue over here and someone has generated a pull request and maybe someone has generated an alternative pull requests and those have discussions attached to them and you can have discussions attached to individual lines of pull requests so this particular line of the change will have a discussion spawn and it gets kind of out of hand if you let it and so this is one thing where as chairs we need to be a little "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:14:12",
    "text": "bit careful and understand what what sort of modes of interaction we want to encourage and maybe we want to discourage certain forms of interaction next place so one of the policies that we started out with in some of these efforts here is probably the simplest one which is that if discussion starts to sprout up all over github you stomp on it pretty hard and say we have a working group mailing list please use that feel free to use github to discuss editorial things knits typos the things that are appropriate for that sort of thing but please if you want to talk about actual technical content please come to our mailing list and initially you need constant reminders because people\u0027s natural sort of tendency is to sort of glom onto whatever has most recently happened and if you\u0027re using the issue tracker to check track issues people will sort of naturally want to respond to that issue and where it appears in their inbox and they\u0027ll reply to the email and suddenly is spawning off all of these things a bit of due diligence is necessary but this is a policy that was pretty effective when we first started doing this and it worked pretty well in http/2 it\u0027s worked pretty well for acne I know and it\u0027s worked in a number of working groups so that sounds like a very effective way to handle controversy there\u0027s another kind of discussion which is to socialize important decisions and it\u0027s like in quick there was a bunch of topics that were raised they have some discussion on them would you drive those to the mailing list as well and then how do you know I\u0027m about to add into this okay I\u0027m yeah Thomas Martin is that really true what you said like when I when I look at the tls discussion so even things that we talked about yesterday on quick if some of the design decisions on and exxon for example the connection ID the response that you gave me oh it\u0027s somewhere on github so previously the barrier of entry for someone making discussions and contribution the question was this one email quick doesn\u0027t work this way okay I\u0027ve got another slide notice also not because they did like I don\u0027t know how TLS works so we have say less chairs here yeah Mahesh and I think maybe you might be covering this in one of the later slides but anyway to reflect all the discussion on India on the mailing list directly without having to actually tell people to do it yeah eventually people learn and and so what happens is after a little while as the as the chairs of careful to sort of nudge the conversation background on to the into the places that they\u0027d like to have it people learn and start helping you nudge it themselves and so that it actually accelerates this it\u0027s it works out pretty well it meant we looked at audit "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:17:15",
    "text": "taking the knowledge notifications that are automatically generated as discussions go on and echoing them to a list we did that sort of an offline discussion and we we did it to a chairs page just as a chairs alias just as a test and it\u0027s just like way too verbose I mean it\u0027s just like way too chatty to do it to the actual list if you want to do it to the working group list you can but you know I think you\u0027re saying some actually raises a point that I\u0027m not covering my slides and I probably should talk about the w3c has been using github for a long time and probably in in a far more advanced mode than than anything we\u0027re talking about here and they\u0027ve developed a tool which will reflect certain activity from github on to a mailing list and you can tune what it what a echoes and where we currently have I think it\u0027s a weekly synopsis of the things that have happened being echoed into the into the quick working group mailing list we also have a separate mailing list that is the firehose and I don\u0027t believe anyone subscribes to that one because it is simply unmanageable one of the nice things about github is that it gives you a lot of tools to manage how notifications come in and you don\u0027t get that with the firehose so that\u0027s something to keep in mind there\u0027s there\u0027s a tool that\u0027s used you have to install it and run it on some server somewhere but it\u0027s effectively automatically runs and generates the summary of saying the following issues were open the following issues were closed they were discussion on the following issues that sort of thing Alice I can dig it up and pass it on if people are interested not a question I don\u0027t know if you will talk about this but I noticed that throughout different working groups they use the process for github usage on a different documents is very different some even within a group there may be different repositories for different documents and and makes it very difficult to jump on the head and so I\u0027m covering this layout so I think we might want to move on and unless there\u0027s any huge points just just one comment which is I\u0027m hoping that at one point you will get to what your recommendations are particularly with respect because a lot of these things can be managed that by development of tools to be much better than it is today and I would even characterize the WC approaches like a to Wed hawk I think yeah so yeah your recommendations would be very much if there\u0027s some recommendations further on I\u0027m not sure that there\u0027s going to be comprehensive but we can continue that discussion next so a number of working groups have sort of migrated to what I think of as a more sort of natural discussion approach and quicks certainly taken this approach HDB\u0027s doing the same you essentially permit discussion on "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:20:16",
    "text": "github it\u0027s always been the case we take the big stuff to mailing group to mailing lists and and make sure that anything like that has far-reaching implications it\u0027s that broader audience one of the problems has discussed was that you often don\u0027t reach the entire working group when you when you do this and so this has worked out reasonably well and quick it means that you have all of this the discussion related to a given issue in the same place it\u0027s a different way of working so it may be it may take a little bit of time for participants to get accustomed to it but I\u0027ve I found it to work reasonably well we\u0027ve learned that having substantive discussion on pull requests is a terrible idea we actually we actually had one of the pull requests reached the limits of the capabilities of the server and it would time out when you were true that the back end would timeout and you will get a nice picture of a unicorn and no content so be a little bit careful with that one next so My Chem recommendation here is that as Bernard pointed out it would it is a little bit ad hoc in terms of the process I don\u0027t think that\u0027s entirely a problematic but there\u0027s a couple of guidelines that that are important here I think it\u0027s very important that the working group is involved in the decision to to set the policy here if the working group is not comfortable with the way that you\u0027re working then that\u0027s not going to be good so what I\u0027ve done and what other groups have worked in have done has been to send an email to the working group have a discussion about that and then document the the plan and and you actually actually have to spend a bit of time monitoring the discussion and following along github has this contributing document that shows a notice if you\u0027ve got the next slide I think we\u0027ve got a picture of that so we\u0027ve got a fairly advanced policy and it\u0027s quite detailed but they published that in in a file with a particular name on the repository and it contains a lot of information about how the working group uses the tool how discussion is managed and and various things like that it also contains pointers to the note well and various other things like that the nice thing is that github will show you a little notice like you can see on the top there and that notice is shown to anyone who starts contributing to the to the group so someone wants to open an issue they see this little notice and "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:23:17",
    "text": "they\u0027re they\u0027re encouraged to go and read the guidelines of course the quick guidelines are enormous which has all of the problems associated with that but I think this is kind of the best that we that we have right now and anyone who\u0027s doing this I think this is kind of the baseline requirements for getting something set up there\u0027s relatively straightforward to do it\u0027s just that you you have to spend the time just to set things up next okay so I\u0027m going to be even more opinionated here in in what I think the established best practices are you may find you disagree with me that\u0027s fine it\u0027s okay to be wrong but I\u0027ll explain why I think each one of those things is is is useful and hopefully through a little bit more detail about what sort of things we got here next place so the accepted model here and the one that\u0027s been tends to be used is that you have a working group and for that working group you create an organization this is essentially github way of making a team and what we have here is an example we have the chairs who owned this group we have an area director who owns this group responsible area director owns the group and then we have the various document editors also in the organization and we have a number of repositories under that organization it\u0027s generally what you will find is that individual drafts will be under individual users but once they migrate to being ITF drafts it\u0027s good to have them moved into this sort of organization so that you have that\u0027s that central place to go you also have the ability to reassign editors if that is necessary that\u0027s this is the practice that most working groups that I\u0027ve been involved with have used other people have suggested other models but this ones need to be working recently well next so as I said chairs what the responsible ID on the organization that means they have the ability to set policies and all those sorts of things they have administrative privileges essentially generally I recommend that separate work items get separate repositories one of the things one of the I think a mistake that we made in the HTTP working group is to lump all of the work into the one repository that means that you have a group of north of 15 plus editors all working on the same repository it\u0027s a little clumsy particularly when it comes to issue tracking because now you have 15 "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:26:17",
    "text": "disparate drafts all in the same issue tracker and the tools aren\u0027t that great when it comes to sort of that stuff you need some fairly good discipline about how you manage issues and whatnot when it comes to that you there have a team\u0027s thing within organizations that allows you to manage editor groups that that works reasonably well for those drafts that have more than one at editor and you give those teams commit access to the repositories they\u0027re responsible for and my policy as chair and one I recommend is that even though chairs have admin privileges in the organization and could potentially change any of the documents don\u0027t do that it\u0027s not your document that\u0027s what we have editors for don\u0027t touch and that\u0027s that\u0027s generally a good rule right Collins should we be granting someone in Secretariat that has been discussed I think that\u0027s reasonable and as long the reason that you want to do something like that is so that you have continuity in case you have people disappear and so yes I would recommend that if you think that\u0027s important generally generally I feel once you have three or four people who have these sorts of privileges is probably okay but that the point has been raised before and I think it\u0027s fine thing to do yes yes chairs do not touch one draft the repository is the easiest thing to do but sometimes it\u0027s necessary to have multiple drafts together because they\u0027re interrelated text moves between them back and forth and if you find that you if you think that you might be doing that sort of thing then you probably want them in the same repository quick is doing that and it\u0027s awful but necessary so look on the prior one about adding secretary comment about adding Secretariat I think that should be discussed with the secretary before we make a policy or even make it a recommendation because there\u0027s a cost associated with it so how there are not volunteers so if suddenly we\u0027re putting an additional burden on the Secretariat you know we should make sure that that\u0027s understood with what the cost of that is and you know there\u0027s an agreement that we should be spending money on them well like I said I think it would only be as a backstop sort of situation in case you your your working group chairs when I was ideas change and all this is if I I don\u0027t think this is particularly important I haven\u0027t seen Secretariat involved in processes so far "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:29:17",
    "text": "so it\u0027s you know so how many I see some of these have everybody who comments on the draft is a contributor and has to be invited to that repository I definitely agree one one draft for repository is the only way to go right so this is one thing I didn\u0027t cover okay so one of the things that one of the things that quick is doing is making a team of people who don\u0027t have any right privileges and that makes up a little bit easier to find those people to assign reviews to and mention and things like that so that\u0027s what we\u0027re doing there it\u0027s completely optional there\u0027s no there\u0027s no requirement to be part of the organization in order a comment or review or create issues or anything like that there are they you do have the ability to stop people from opening issues unless they\u0027re part of the organization that\u0027s kind of self-defeating next place all right um I\u0027m going to say this right now use markdown the reason that we\u0027re going here is so that it\u0027s easier for people to contribute to your work using XML is not really in the spirit of that you can say something that archival issues yeah it\u0027s good point next back up so is a mark or cramdown being updated for X Mulder RFC version three custom I believe it is okay at least cramdown is eventually was the answer the changes are in some way small and in some ways fairly significant so yes it\u0027s already put you on the spot Caston on air no reading so one of the benefits from using lockdown is that you have a stable input format while the transition happens it\u0027s yeah it\u0027s also much much easier to users as pointed out so issue management at some point you\u0027re going to want to do some of this and it\u0027s very useful to be able to distinguish between stuff that the working group needs to discuss and stuff that the editors put on the pile just for their own benefit typos if someone\u0027s looking for clarification those sorts of things can often be addressed with editorial issues and they don\u0027t need to be discussed in the working group but knowing what is a design issue is critical "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:32:18",
    "text": "there\u0027s also the ability to assign people to review changes assigned people to actually work on things all of those things together can help you sort through what can be a what can turn out to be a fairly large pile of issues in the end we only have a hundred issues left in quick that does not count the fact that there was I think a 1,700 of them closed so it\u0027s it can get a little bit tiresome and there are there are other tools here like milestones and the project board and there are third-party add-on so you can use it depends on how far you want to get into that I find that for single draft repositories simply separating those issues that need discussion from those issues that don\u0027t is is all you really need to do a lot of drafts that I\u0027ve seen have a handful at five ten issues opened at any one time and really don\u0027t need any management at that point but yeah some some are worse than others you\u0027re on Scheffer who\u0027s responsible for issues so on a mailing list it\u0027s eventually the church that they\u0027re responsible for some sort of response was responsible too right I should get into that I\u0027m into so the policy we\u0027ve adopted in the groups that I\u0027m working in is that the issues are there primarily for the benefit of the editors and so the editors will maintain the issue in the open state until such time as they think they have fixed the problem Creek has a process that I think is reasonably good in this regard in that any issue that is tagged design and is closed the chairs will list out those want those ones that have been newly added to that pile when a new revision of the draft has been issued by the by the editors and they will explicitly ask the working group the following changes have been made long list and on the mailing list and they will say we we would like to confirm that that there is consensus on these things like a mini last call on those things and and that allows us to collect that sort of final feedback on those things and now they\u0027ll actually tag those things once that that process has been completed and that\u0027s probably necessary given the sort of nature of the discussion there that\u0027s something that I think the the chairs will have to work out it\u0027s usually part of contributing policy Dave so Dave Taylor so I chair the chief working group which plans to start using this so I\u0027m part of your core audience we\u0027re not using it yet and I\u0027m here to learn how to use it in the way that the "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:35:19",
    "text": "IETF commonly we want to use things my question is about the design label is that they github concept or is that something that every working group creates a label and designed as a convention is designed the same thing as technical or is there a distinction between design and technical is this a convention you\u0027re saying it\u0027s a convention to use the label design and create a label design as opposed to creating a label technical are all the working groups that you mention you know cap for it needs to be are they all using the word design or or what so this is my view as they working this is an emerging convention I\u0027m not sure that there\u0027s any hard and fast rules here but get github allows you to create labels and put whatever color you want on them baikin by convention a lot of the groups have started using this particular distinction but that\u0027s just technical design yes yes their alternatives can I brain just said to me and constant we need to agree on the color code between working groups okay so anyway anyone who wants to use labels other than these should have very good reason for it it is my thing because we have a lot of groups using exactly those labels and by which I mean the RGB is the same sorry Tommy yeah so I think we have an opportunity for some of our other groups to try to conform more to that for example instead of design we use discuss which I think it\u0027s more like you should do this as opposed to we\u0027ve done design and it administrative but I think aligning would make sense yeah so I\u0027m one of the one of the insights here is that um you can try to change these things but it\u0027s probably better just going with the flow in in this case that\u0027s part of the reason why we\u0027re using github is that it\u0027s going with the flow so the github API is pretty awesome you have a script yeah yeah it does all this yeah you could do that so so the tools that I maintain on github strangely enough anyway we\u0027ll get we\u0027ll get to that later on next place so having your draft on github is awesome next just as another since we\u0027re using this I think for the labels or issues we actually use it also to label on which version the issues was open and I think this is really useful on so if that works for you that\u0027s great I\u0027ve not found it necessary in the groups that I\u0027m working in but some some people might find that really handy so "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:38:19",
    "text": "reading XML is terrible next so continuous integration systems primarily designed to check that your code is still good for whatever purpose you\u0027ve designed it for and so we have now got tools that exist to both check that the draft is valid but we\u0027ve also subvert of those tools in order to use them to maintain the editors copy that we were talking about before next so why did that go on so we haven\u0027t this is the quick read me it\u0027s a little bit out of date you\u0027ll notice here that the the draft we have there\u0027s a section for each one of them and there are three links there and the first one of those links links to the editors copy of the document I think it\u0027s on the next page so we have a document it\u0027s HTML that\u0027s readable it\u0027s probably nice more nicely formatted than any internet draft that you\u0027ll find and that that reflects the current of the master branch of the repository and so that updates live as a result of you having made a commit I think it takes about 40 seconds now I think we got it down to that point for the whole thing to go through and so that\u0027s a nice property if you manage to screw up your commits and break the draft which is surprisingly easy it will send you an email and you get to fix it we use we use this for pull requests to check that the pull request is syntactically valid so it will report on that and on the pull requests now - there is there are detailed instructions were coming to bed I think next please one of the things this maintains is a page that shows all of the different documents and so you can get access to the plain text version of the draft the HTML version of the draft diffs and various other things like that there\u0027s there\u0027s a bunch of other things someone mentioned archival this is your archive right here and so all of this is actually maintained on a separate branch in the repository and one of the things that this tool chain managers is it saves a copy of all the issues and pull requests into the repository every time it does this and so there\u0027s a little link there that actually the you can look at the saved issues and scroll through them and that\u0027s actually something that works offline as well you can switch to that branch you can the "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:41:19",
    "text": "the last submission to the ITF so it actually goes off to the data tracker and looks at the last version you\u0027ll notice here that it also shows previews for different branches so if if you have editors working on a draft and they\u0027re working on different branches for different changes you can actually get a preview of those changes right here as well and so all of that information is right there it\u0027s really useful particularly as an editor when you to present a big change in front of someone you this automatically gets generated when you push one of these branches up there and so you can say oh and by the way if you want to have a look at this is the link and you can review that you can always look at the bull request that\u0027s been generated and go through the actual code changes but it\u0027s sometimes nice to be able to have a look at the draft and go through that in detail there\u0027s a bunch of other things that are involved in this process but this is basically in this place right so the tool chain is up on github it does a number of things it\u0027s got simple commands for building the changes which is kind of handy it integrates with the continuous integration thing for validates the changes and generates these previews and and saves all the issues into the repository and does all of that one of the things that continuous integration allows us to do is automated submission so one of the multi moving part processes in all of this is submitting a draft to the tracker in in this case it supports a mode where you tag you create a tag with the draft name a number that you would like to have created and you push that tag up into github and continuous integration will submit it to the data tracker for you does all that automatically and that means that your repository now has a tag that identifies the the state of the repository when you generated their draft and it matches up perfectly at that point it also does things like produced ifs and and and that doesn\u0027t even make sense but it manages issue status and things like that custom to sing the presence of this one thing I\u0027ve recently notices that there is now a committee hook that obviously breaks on all the laptops of all presenters contributors and is there something that it installs a committee s which will check the things and you\u0027re trying to commit to make sure they build yes yes always beats okay skin cannot gonna Nisshin I will I guess want to do whether that\u0027s a bug or future much offended it sounds like a bug it might actually be a feature contribute to the "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:44:22",
    "text": "IDS who have working configurations in the networks that maybe make sense so one of the things you can do and I didn\u0027t I\u0027m not actually I don\u0027t think we had time to go through but the contribution process via github itself is you can just go to the web page there\u0027s an edit button on the on the page I think if we go back about ten slides this if there\u0027s the picture of the XML there\u0027s a button there there\u0027s a little pencil button in the top corner you just added that right there that doesn\u0027t run all the CI stuff that doesn\u0027t run the commit hawk because the computer is something that runs locally I\u0027d be interested to learn what\u0027s going on there by the way the integrating back into the tracker yes is there a reason you did it as like a separate step with a label as opposed to like going back into the trunk is moving it to the tracker design choice or there\u0027s a oh yeah that was a an explicit choice we wanted to make sure that the master branch reflects the current state of thinking state of the editors and trying to say the it is one of the things that we\u0027ve realized is that primary user of this is the editors of the document and and whatever\u0027s reflected in the state in github in the repository needs to reflect what the editors need yep so tags are quite nice for that anyway the the the notion of using a tag for release is actually baked into all of this anyway so that makes the most sense berry-berry can the editors use this offline [Music] disposal reasonably well offline the if you\u0027re using cramdown for instance it maintains a cache of all the references that you have if you maintaining it your own copy of the bib XML stuff you can you can actually do a ton of work that way unfortunately if you want to add a new reference is a little bit tricky because that\u0027s that\u0027s hard there\u0027s there\u0027s some options in the cramdown tool it\u0027ll look like you work offline anyway but then kind of clutch you\u0027re not a hundred percent but a lot most of this is almost all of this you can do offline and and one of you use the standard get push pull stuff and and everything\u0027s fine nothing other than building the drafts needs to go online typically yep sighs they want to do this with all the CI stuff and all that how do they get started there are documents on that on that repository that are linked to in the readme and they explained in some detail on how to use it so there\u0027s an idiot\u0027s guide in if i go in there and it will tell me all the things I need to do yes Mahesh um I don\u0027t know if you plan to cover how code or code snippets get "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:47:25",
    "text": "inserted into the draft and how they\u0027re managed separately from the draft uh yeah good question that did that differs between the authoring tools I think in mark has a different process to how cramdown might manage that as well and that\u0027s probably something more further than those people one of the nice things about this is you can put the code right next to the the text and a couple the drafts I have have sample code and they do that but ultimately I I think I\u0027ve ended up copying and pasting the code into the draft as necessary if that if that was what I was going to do that\u0027s not ideal I know that M mark has meaning include statement I don\u0027t I think cramdown does as well but I\u0027ve never used it so really easy right so just to add to that we found this particularly useful for yang yeah absolutely yeah and we have tools actually allow you to include the files that are maintained separately and get up into the left yep and so that would be that would be possible one of the nice things with with doing something like that is that if you\u0027re if you you have an automatic validation process you can integrate that into the into the checking of the draft and so when if you\u0027re using a continuous integration system you get reports on whether your yang is valid which i think is a pretty useful thing so if you four zero zero there are lots of examples India and these examples have text explaining what they do this text was automatically generated during so you can do a lot of things to make your work easier that way you don\u0027t have to write anything goes so so one of the things that I\u0027ve done is there\u0027s a draft in TLS that I have that generates example messages and that\u0027s all actually generated in CI the entire draft although all the test vectors otherwise I wouldn\u0027t be unable to do it it\u0027s it\u0027s 50 60 pages of hex so I\u0027m not doing that next I think that\u0027s right yeah we\u0027re not gonna have that time for that so that\u0027s more information I did publish it drops a little while ago I\u0027m like sort of go through some of this stuff there\u0027s a link to that there that\u0027s well expired now but you know by the miracle of github it\u0027s still there okay so you talked a little bit earlier about the fire hose which most working group mailing lists that are really active or indistinguishable from fire hoses anyway nothing like this really arm like this so there\u0027s no level of tuning that you could make to make it go back and forth "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:50:25",
    "text": "in a happy way other than summary of issues I\u0027m sure there are probably some ways we could we could address this with tolling but it it\u0027s it is kind of amazing yeah everyone who\u0027s tried it has turned it off any malice um is anyone concerned about the fact that we\u0027re that the ietf is becoming dependent on a resource that\u0027s not under our control which is github.com and has there been any thinking about hosting our own repositories and i run servers or anything like that so i touched on that briefly um yes there are people concerned about this I\u0027m surprised that no one\u0027s gotten up to BP on round ahead for the fact that they don\u0027t do v6 but as I as I said this this this choice as tall is awful but it\u0027s where everyone is and most of the benefit we gain is from going to where everyone is and yes we could host our own one of those get lab is available it\u0027s just it\u0027s no battery get mode does this and we could host our own but we lose all the benefits that we\u0027re looking for because frankly a lot of these tools not very good apart from the fact that they had the community that\u0027s there and of course we\u0027d also lose the continuous integration stuff unless we built our own and some of those other things sort of flow on from that video [Music] so as in most cases where it comes up in my life I find tags really confusing because it is so open and so you you talked about you made a few statements and I I want to just make sure I understand correctly one there\u0027s the the design and editorial which you said strongly recommended and I believe you implied that they the convention is in use be brought more broadly than just the ITF community but it\u0027s sort of a github kind of standard and then the other thing I wanted to ask or maybe in suggest answers no is is there a a suggested list of tags because it seems like there\u0027s a bunch of conventions here and have everybody invent their own is is gonna just shift this problem from those two tags to a bunch of other tags I just want a help page yeah we don\u0027t have a help page for any of that right now but the the convention is ITF convention people use different conventions in other other groups and certainly the conventions that we need are different "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:53:25",
    "text": "to those that might be used for instance on an open-source project they have different needs in different time scales and all sorts of other things like that but I think we should probably write something down on that front and and having you know use this color or having a script that just populates the the repo with the right things is probably a good thing to do hey David can you first half seriously thank you for building these tools they look amazing Thanks so then the next logical thing is I want to use this it sounds amazing right now a lot of my draft authors kind of run their own repo and I want to encourage this is a better way to collaborate to get more people to contribute to our documents but right now these repos don\u0027t have a readme don\u0027t have a contributing no mention of the note well anywhere and that kind of worries me because I think that should should be there like you discussed these working groups have has those do could we have some guidance maybe from our ITF lawyer on how to do this right of like I want to be covered so everything\u0027s covered by the no wrong and I don\u0027t have to worry about it so there was some discussion little a while ago and that\u0027s the discussion a little while ago about what we needed to do and I believe the isg did actually consult the lawyer and produce some text this tool here if the tool that I maintain actually contains that text and so if you use it there\u0027s a set up process that will generated readme that looks very much like the quick one that you saw there it generates a contributing thing it I don\u0027t think it has it has a license as well that points to the to the right place so a lot of that set up stuff that is done for you and the fact that people aren\u0027t using that is probably you know reflective of the fact that we embrace all comers and we can\u0027t really make everyone use this but that certainly encouraged no thanks that\u0027s exactly what I want to hear perfect in Cosmo and I have two minor points one thing as a regular chair you may want to do is actually pull in drafts that have not yet working group drafts to the working groups repository so you don\u0027t have this usually the adoption is something where a lot of other things happen and so on you don\u0027t want this to be the time when the author\u0027s getting familiar with how to use the regular repository so we pull in stuff early we try to make sure the readme says this is still an individual submission but it\u0027s really useful the other thing I wanted to quickly comment on the issue what happens if the new owner of github decides to destroy it I think we have to be aware that this is "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:56:26",
    "text": "very much a possibility but I am relatively yea happy about the current situation because I know there is an alternative it\u0027s not as good it doesn\u0027t have the crown\u0027s yet but there is something called git lab which is good enough I mean it\u0027s not great but it\u0027s good enough we use it for bitbucket is another competitor gitlab has the advantage that you can run it on your own so if the ietf at some point decides they want to run their own infrastructure for this it\u0027s easier to the win ninety five percent of this stuff continues to just yeah and so part of the part of the reason that I copy issue status into the repository is so that at least we don\u0027t lose the topics it doesn\u0027t copy everything in there because that\u0027s a massive amount of information but it copies issues thanks and if github went away tomorrow all the editors would have a copy of all the code all of the history all of the issues and you\u0027d have multiple copies of that anyway so we\u0027ve got a pretty good backup strategy as well a sealant I just uh you know I we\u0027re not using this but we\u0027re using a lot of individual repositories and I just I heard something that you\u0027d have you\u0027d change when you when the draft change from non-working group to work Europe I think it\u0027d be better just to have a generic name for it they did for both types and just from maintain the continuity across the have one repository per draft and and and just name it without anything that would imply working group or not that\u0027s what people do yes yes do you have Dave ball tomorrow do you have any instructions on how to migrate from you know some arbitrary get repo with this years into into the environment that you know that you\u0027re towing yes on that page awesome so Martin I don\u0027t know if you\u0027re watching the time that you\u0027re I am acutely aware of the time okay so I think that brings us to a close here brains Martin\u0027s portion of this to a close thank you I won\u0027t get I will say that the first person that sent sent me slides for this meeting well in advance of the meeting was Martin and apparently the only ones I did not put online or Martin\u0027s and the Chromebook works a lot better when the slides are in the materials I\u0027ll have to say it worked really well in my previous meeting so so we have about about four minutes for open mic so I don\u0027t know okay you can be quick okay so Aaron your first "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:59:27",
    "text": "hi Aaron Falk so to recap the message I sent out to the working of chairs list earlier I think most of you know that I\u0027m running a lightning talk series on Sunday evenings called Han RFC and the idea is to have a very low bar of submission for people who want to talk about an idea and find folks who want to collaborate on it I think it\u0027s been I\u0027ve gotten some positive feedback I\u0027ve gotten a negative feedback if you have negative feedback please send it my way because uh my current perception is that it\u0027s a pretty good idea and pretty successful I\u0027d like to continue it my sense is that or my experience is that occasionally random stuff shows up in working groups by people have new drafts and they\u0027re trying to find a taker for it and they especially people who come from outside the IETF they don\u0027t really know where to go this is a good place to help those people find their community especially if they don\u0027t know what area or they\u0027re you know it\u0027s too broad it\u0027s helped them meet folks who understand the ITF it can give them some direction so I I\u0027m here to ask for your help if you see an opportunity like that whether it\u0027s on the ITF list or in your working group you can send them to you just direct them to me and I\u0027ll can I\u0027ve been doing a page a different page for each ITF but I\u0027m I think we may we may just come up with a standing thing at some point but you get four minutes and and you talk to you know probably 100 150 maybe 200 ITF errs so it\u0027s the idea it\u0027s it can be you know pre draft the idea is just to help folks get things going or if somebody\u0027s running a barb off and they\u0027re trying to get the word out you know basically the problem is that nobody reads the ITF list anymore and so we\u0027ve become kind of fragmented into a you know our little sub lists and so if you want to try to reach a bunch of people one of the challenges that I\u0027ve been having is trying to let people be aware of this so please tell folks about it if you think something\u0027s got some questions on it you can just send them directly to me there\u0027s if you go to the if you go to the the main ITF page for this meaning you know how ITF wanted to / hot RFC then you\u0027ll get the page for this or I can send you a link thank you and if you if you have any feedback I me I\u0027ll find no reason to do an open mic now because we\u0027re running out of time okay 30 seconds anybody else who has like 30 seconds or less on topics just to introduce your topic and then discuss it on list please get in the line hi everyone I\u0027m David Skinner\u0027s a chair of DNS service discovery my co-chair Tim Chang is stepping down so he\u0027s been absolutely amazing for many years but I am looking for a new co-chair so if someone in the room wants in second working group or know someone that could be a good fit please reach out to me we haven\u0027t found a replacement yet Thanks somebody did mention to me in advance "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:02:27",
    "text": "and I\u0027ll take this to the list is we didn\u0027t do lunch reservations this time we didn\u0027t do a reservation system this time there\u0027s just so many things that you register for and it turns out that I guess some of you think we should so we\u0027ll take it to the list ask if if there\u0027s a better way of doing this so when Lantry ran out of vegetarian non-vegetarian okay so maybe we need maybe we still need to do it and so in any event take your garbage thank you comment on the list [Music] "
  }
]