[
  {
    "startTime": "00:00:10",
    "text": "Oh, nice. Okay. 2 PM. So we proceed to start the meeting. Welcome to the IETF role meeting. Please notice that this session is being recorded. Also noticed that all the IETF work that enroll is aligned with the not IETF not well. So please hold the listed RBC and BCPs. Carefully. Also, notes that the IETF, has guidelines for conduct. RFC 7154. And as well, please read carefully RFC 7 7776. Together with the IETF anti harassment procedures. So as a reminder, we We added him in the idea that where we respect each other, and we follow the guidelines for conduct And if you don't feel in that way, please contact the onboard steam. As a reminder, notice that, you need to be logged in Miteshiko to be able to speak at the mic you need to join the queue. So you can scan the QR. And the in that way, be logging into the on-site tool."
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:02:01",
    "text": "Okay. Thank you. And please mute if you are not talking. These are resources for the ATF on 18. The agenda, medical information, And if you need technical assistance, Then we continue with the resource for role. So we have the media link. The notes, please Do we have minute takers? In the room Michael? Okay. Thank you very much, Michael. Then we have the chat in, An additional a meeting materials like slides and in the last link. So this is our role agenda. Basically, we are going to discuss the status of the current working group eat ins, Since we have not received, direct presentation from the altar. So we in we are going to start with some introduction working group introduction, then we are going to discuss about the status of RNAFD. Then continue with the mopex. Continue with enrollment priority. And finally with n NCA extension. Some comments or questions. Okay? Okay. Yes, Pascal? Yes. Do do do you have status on the down projection that is being reviewed? I mean, did you get And then Did you get any news about the review? Yep. As a system and it we have no cocking any new I'm getting a lot of feedback."
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:04:00",
    "text": "Anyway, I'll try to speak nonetheless. Haven't received a feedback from Susan to your, responses. Here here is Susan. Sorry. To who? Okay. I'll just manage in I I on the and I will bits, okay. Susan said that she will address the the response from Pascal. Get And many thanks to the review. I mean, I know it's an awful lot of for Suddenly. Oh, Thank you. Okay. Hi. This is Sue Harris. I did you review Wow. A lot of work. Give me and give me, I've been overloaded. My apologies for not responding back. I will try to get to it this week. Okay. Thank you very much, Susan. Appreciate it. Yep. Very thank you very much as well, from maybe if you have time in the open floor, discussion, we can address some of the comments, t Because it's not on the agenda. We can't put it On the agenda. Right now, but at least in the open flow session, open open floor, part at the back of the meeting. Thank you. Thank you. Okay. Additional comments on the agenda? Thank you. 2. So for our data status, We have submitted the 2 draft into the ISG. The variable? The projection."
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:06:02",
    "text": "Sorry. I didn't put myself in the queue. John Scudder. Yes. So I was As anybody who looks at Mike, you can see, I am behind on it. But I'm aware of those documents, and we'll move as fast as I can on them. Okay? So thank you. Yes. So Yeah. Thank you very much, John, for the update. And then for NSA extension we are going to discuss today we hope to have a new version today as well. Then enrollment priority, mopex, an if the as well are going to discuss today. And their work in progress. And capabilities and Toreen Ruth Act, well, need, waiting for attentions. I think we can work on them after we have shipped the previous documents to ISG. Yes, Michael. You are in the queue. No. I'm already an agenda. So don't worry. These are all our milestones Dominique have sent an email to the Middle East about this updates I will propose to have. So please comment Thank you very much for the comments that we have received. Comments on the the one that have not commented, please. Treat it carefully and give us, your opinion Notice that the first two items we plan to drop them if there is no interest in the working group to work on that. Yeah. And the for the This solicitation, we have received email from Georgios that He plan to work in the use cases. So we we can take care of"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:08:00",
    "text": "discussion in the Middle East about that. Yep. We want to have regular interim meetings. So we come advanced with the working role. So we plan the as we discussed in the last interim meeting in September, We plan to have, every 2 months. Interim meetings. So the next one will be 25th January. At 1 PM OTC. The meeting is already approved. So are going to proceed after the IETF with the request for items for the agenda. And, as well, a question about that, if we should meet into IETF 119 in Brisbane. What after Brisbane? After January, What do you think No comments. Michael? Yeah. Michael. Given the lack of people prob and the number who seem to be in the, will have lots of time in their retirement, but no money. That it seems unlikely that we'll have a a, Quorum. In Brisbane, we should probably just meet after Brisbane. Mhmm. That's what I would say. And I I would I'm I'm very enthusiastic about having an interim every virtual interim every 2 months. And I would encourage you to pick more of the dates Okay. Yeah. Yeah. Thank you, Michael. Even if you change them later, Still having the dates reminds us that we're we're making progress. That's classroom. Yeah. Point ticket. Thank you. Yeah. Okay. Logistics. Logistics to question."
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:10:02",
    "text": "It's a 1 PM UTC. I'm from California about 5 AM in the morning. So what's the Is there any reason to put such a a longer time? We have created a doodle pool that we have sent to the mailing list So based on the do the results, We have decided these. But, well, we can't discuss with the Dominique for the next slots we can make maybe an approval for the new commerce, and let's see. For the next meetings. But, in principle, yeah, we have decided based on Okay. Thank you. We will take that in situation. Well, I I'm pretty much in line with work Michael has said it's gonna be hard to get a quorum. You could call the mailing list I've I've had that question before. Whether, the mailing list is relevant or not because Yes. The actual meetings now, some people who show up would not necessarily listened to the mailing list, but he has considering the phase at which we are now with this working group, I believe that putting the working group on the mailing list is enough to figure out if it makes sense to go to Brisbane Personally, I don't plan to be in Greece. Okay. Thank you for your comment. Additional comments on this? Okay. We proceed. So with the first eat them, work eat them, fast border rotor crash detection on triple. So we have, as a work in progress. The last version of this draft is in September. We, especially, think, through Annand and Carlos comments for volunteering to review This idea is this draft. Thank you very much."
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:12:01",
    "text": "We have final volunteers? Okay. We have sent an email on this. So if you Please read the draft on the if you wanted her to Give you with, let us know. And as well, we have requested routing and security director tributes, reviews, for this drop? So after to have after addressing the issues of the reviews. We plan to proceed with the working group last call. And then the yeah. Thank you, Michael, for, agreed to be the shepper. On this Additional comments or questions? Okay. About MOPEC as well. This is, there are some combinations. They are being addressed by Raul based on the last interim meeting. The comments are based on the routing directory and review. Sorry, Yeah. Review. And as well from the last interim meeting, a new ticket was created. Number 12, created with the mode of operations, all values, how to handle in with the new model operation. So after the open issues and addresses, we plan to have, to internal reviews for this document request for routing and security director attributes. And proceed with the working group last call. I'm, of course, to have the shipper write up. On time. So this is the status. I think that I always not online k? So Yeah. Yes, Dominique join the queue. Yeah. Again, as you mentioned, Howard is not, thought of the meeting, but maybe I wanted to reiterate the question and solar has not answered to that yet."
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:14:01",
    "text": "Which is, We We wrote in this document that in the extended field for mode of operation, we can reuse the old values. And then me the draft isn't clear, but what happens exactly when we use the old values into new field. We mean that the network operates exactly the same way? As it operated with the regular mode of operation field, or do we mean that it does about the same with some new tricks, like, some options being meant. That's right. Because that's something that the the document says right now. So I've I've filled in everything in the in an issue. Proposed a few ways to go. And so look. Hoping for comments. In action spiraled on this. And I think Pascal is also a go for the and let to put you on the spotlight. Yeah. If if she owes me, there's we had that discussion about including the old values and know, basically making this field a copy of the other, but with more values in it, or or would it be just additional? And, yes, the only value of copying all the old values into this field is effectively to to make it ripple 2.0. Which was we would effectively have a number of functions mandatory as part of triple v20. Particular, the versioning, etcetera. So, I I tell to to agree with the second possibility that you propose, Dominique, which is yes. It's the same value, but"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:16:00",
    "text": "It's also the ripple will be to support, which is a list of functions we have to define. Right. And and actually, this discussion stemmed from, the comments that we need to describe to IANA what we want in. I'm suggesting we assign new names for these old values in the new field so that we don't equate the behaviors and later down the road, we can still say, by the way, the new name is the same as the old name. If they have the same name, then there's no way we can the limit about later on. Good, Michael. Yeah. So, Pascal's memories matches mine that we want to the old behaviors with the new with the v 2 functionality, which basically means we've turned on a bunch of things magnitudinally, And I, yeah, I'm fine with you know, whatever. We call it dash v2 or something. That sounds right to me And, Yeah. I'm okay with that. That that that's my memory matches Pascals. About that. Yeah. I I run discussion as well. So if it's if we are sure this is what we want, then this document and more pecs, could just specify that that the when the old value appears in the new field and it's the same behaviors before except for all the optional features that are made really as part of ripplev2, but We don't have a ripple of 2 right now. So what do we write in the document? Michael and Mike again. I think the answer is that maybe we leave those values served for"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:18:01",
    "text": "what we just said. Okay. So if since as you say, we don't have definition of V2 We we should re we should put them as reserved. Okay. Can maybe just discussing further, can we have assign a symbolic name to them. Like, it's, storing mode, v 2, etcetera. Of their we kind of hint that they're going to be the same mood as before. With the v 2 enhancements. As opposed to just blank reserved, Does it make sense? Okay. We'll discuss that on the meetings, maybe. Yeah. I think what you say is I I agree way to specify that in the document and it's good to have this discussion in the mail leads. Maybe as part of the ticket 12, you can add this comment, please. So Yep. I would improve, the the comments in the in a ticket in the issue. I saw Arris joining the queue briefly, was that By mistake or Yeah. Yeah. Just click pay mistake. That's fine. Okay. Okay. Thank you. Okay. Some Additional common or questions? Okay. For enrollment priority? Michael, we have, these open tickets."
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:20:04",
    "text": "Only 2 are answered by Pascal. But if you Agree, what the Pascal mentioned in the ticket and is a resident document. We can close it. This. Hi. Yeah. I think the only one is that's open. I think it's 17. I think all the rest are are done. I think 17 is done in my copy. And I believe that there was another review that I received or maybe it was your shepherd comments. I think from contract? Maybe. Conrad. Maybe. Yeah. Know, I think I've acted on all of those. So I think I have some changes in my copy that I haven't published yet. It expires next week. I will publish it to today, once I check things. I think that all the issues are closed. That at this point I need to double check Like, there are no I checked. There are no there are no There are no area reviews in the document at all. But, I mean, I'll just double check the mailing list if if there was a review that we received that I just didn't act on yet. But maybe that's for a different document So But I believe it's done. The request was to change the the mantissa to fewer use one bite less. And, that was well received. So so That was the last time we had a meeting, meeting, we discussed that. Okay. Great. Thank you very much, Michael. Original comments on this? Okay. So for the next steps, once that, Michael College, the new version? We're going to assign 2 internal reviewers. And request for routing and security director reviews."
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:22:01",
    "text": "And after addressing those issues, we will proceed with working group last call. And the with the shipper right up. Comments on these next steps. Okay. So NSA extension, to know if Ares or Dominic Hi. I'm here. Yeah. Since you're here, go ahead. And since you worked on talking today Yes. You can update us on that. Yeah. I can be really quick. So, basically, we had the total of, 6 different comments 2 from Yana and 4 from Alvaro. We addressed all of them. They were not, they were not, hard to The rest of it was mostly agreeing with the commentary implementing changes nothing to to complicate it. So We have no other open issues. Yep. Think that's it. Okay. Thank you. So, yeah, just to So that everybody is aware we have a dash 12 that was published like, an hour ago, maybe 2 hours ago. No. 1 hour. Yeah. 1 hour ago. Yeah. Thank you so much for for doing that. So I haven't had time to review that and and make sure form an opinion on whether it addresses issues, but 2, tell us that it does. So that's very good. Overstate. As a chef, I don't, and review that anyway as you can tell. I had one point I wanted to discuss, and you might calling me a logic freak or doing nitpicking which is this change that was in the ticket. So we've been banging on that issue, for a few months. Now. If"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:24:00",
    "text": "the text shows on the slide. If you candidate neighbor does not fulfill the requirement, then the path with that neighbor must be set to max buff costs. And Yes. So we agreed that was a discussion about whether this was a mustache or a shoot and etcetera. So you you proposed that it'd be a must because Yes. It we're talking about alternate parents So there's no harm in not having an alternate parent. So We don't have to align with, the mister half objective function that is cautious about not preventing from having a parent at all. So I totally understand that. And I I buy it. I mean, however, there was this second sentence that we already had discussed, which is, as a result, the most the node must not select the candidate neighbors. It's alternate parents. And and wondering if we're not rewriting or duplicating a specification that's somewhere out of If, cost is set to max path cost. Don't we have a text already normative like in 6550s that says said such candidate neighbor must not be used Yes. If if it has the next Yep. So so No. Go ahead. It's just No. It was me actually. Just just to say that comes down doesn't come from 6550. It comes from Mister Half And so it's, it's only valid if you Well, that's my best, no, not actually covers from his staff. So there's not such thing Again, by memory 6550. So so it's only if you if you insist that"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:26:01",
    "text": "we inherit from Mister Half that this makes any sense. We could forgive you, or is it potentially also in the start? the where where the constant is defined. It's 32,000 or something. It's Could the height of the of the size of the of the field. Okay. Thank you for the information. I was hoping you would know from the top of your head where dismissed was. So you're saying it's in my store which makes my my my task much easier to dig it up and and check. So, yeah, thanks for that. And I'll think about it and and write the office about that. So I I don't see how we could have the so so one thing we can do remove the sentence in the sense that it's, superfluous. Right. But, you can see it as a explanation basically. The clarification that, by the way, this is exactly what we mean. We we Right. But then then then you write it in a different way. Then you write as a consequence per this other document. Yeah. Okay. It has a note of no matches language. The note will not be selected. Now that's the explanation. I understand. And and look in the chat, John just, wrote, his opinion on that question. Thank you too. Okay. Can So I'll check as well to see what offices. I don't remember. I think it doesn't prescribe specific with our r double check as well. The depending on that, if it's already prescribed that in case of, if it says something equivalent or not, well, depending on the case, we can see what to Okay. Okay. Thank you. Next slide is"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:28:02",
    "text": "Okay. Great. Thank you very much. That is for the update on the meeting. We have the next issue next steps Yep. The meeting that you want to Okay. I can talk to that one. So, yeah, I had written offers to address issues. So the issues have been interest. And then I'll update the write up. as a chef, And then we issue a new working class call and Based on that, submit to the ISG. That's the plan forward. Yeah. Concerning the intention I mean, we could have used infinite flag which is Fox Fox Fox Fox which is comes from 6550. It it really depends if RS, you want to depend on Mister Raflett or if you want this to be more generated, mister you want it to be more generic than the reviewers in Mr. Half, and say the the objective function could be something different, then you should not refer to a constant that comes from Mister Raf, you should just say internet Reich. And that comes from ripple, and then you don't have a dependency, a missed off. I see. But generally general idea was Our idea was that we want to create new behavior where it's not gonna So this is an advantage for the simulation because it should make difficulty. They can just, you know, We cannot understand. Yeah. But let's schedule you using hence free, I guess."
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:30:01",
    "text": "It seems the echo comes whenever you turn your audio in. Do you want to try again Pascal? Sorry. Yeah. I I guess the the the the volume was too high on my side. But, yes, I'm using the answer. So so, yes, what I was getting at is Mr. Hop is a very specific objective function, which depends on ETFs, etcetera. Now the behavior that NSA has does not depend at all on each on the metric and what kind of what set of metric would you people would like to use So it's it's like it doesn't make much sense to me to to say we depend on Mister Harf for doing this. We it's it's an extension to any objective function. I mean, you you decide that you compute your ride based on this or based on that. And and NSA is not really impacted. It's more like 2 different parts. And so I don't see the value of of limiting the applicability of NSA just to to me stuff. Okay. I I see what you're saying. Don't know how to resolve this. So my difficulties that if we keep it super generic, then we would have nothing concrete. So we can say, yes, we have an objective function, any objective function, can wrap any constraint any metrics you want. And by the way, we have a constraint for the, common patterns. I be honest, I don't know how to express that in a draft. I don't know how to make, generate the way. It just says"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:32:04",
    "text": "you know, the objective function is responsible for doing this is is that And and now you and they say with the extent repo by saying that your function, in the case of NSA as these additional checkings. On this additional operation, and it's the generic objective function. It's not Yep. Eased off. I mean, You should not even have it yet written anywhere in this specification. Right? Yeah. If you don't want to base on that, yes, should remove a complete That's I mean, that that reduces completely applicability of the draft if she she visit on on his staff. Yes. May may well, second thing is that this is what we based we implemented it. So I guess we were biased in a sense If there's interest in in making it more generic We can work on that. I I don't think it's difficult. I I because the objective function basically is is the abstract method for computing a rack, which is, you know, a metric and and the way you compute that metric is effectively in this plugin that we call the objective function. Now what you're saying is if if you relate to there is a section in recall, which basically describes abstractly what an objective function is And if you refer to that as opposed to referring to Mister Half, then you you're you're probably all all set. Because you're extending this, the steps that are in this"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:34:00",
    "text": "particular section. I'm I'm looking for it right now because I hope you enjoy my heart. Exactly why it's located. But, I remember there is this function this, section somewhere which basically says an objective function that has been and then this and then this and then this. Yeah. And basically, what you would be doing is is kind of update that particular section and say where you place your behavior inside that pops for our section Yes. Is is Let me think about this. Let me think about this. We think about. It it sounds like a good idea. I mean, you have a point. I just need to think about how exactly I'm going to to do it. It's not crazy complicated. I understand your point. I need to basically Hello. The more generic description of the objective function instead of the, more specific one for, Mister Hoef. I can remove our references to if there is this works or stuff like that. So, yes, it can be more generic like this. That's true. Okay. Okay. But in that case, the we need to cancel the working for last call, etcetera, because there there might be some important changes. Yeah. Sure. Very nice. And please I don't believe it should be important changes because the the behavior that you to to you describe. I mean, finding the common components, etcetera. This is topological because it is It is not based on the way you capture the rag. It's once once the ranks are computed, you get a certain topology."
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:36:02",
    "text": "And, yeah, you're looking at the physical properties of that topology, and that's why you start realizing. Okay. No. No. I I I get it. I the the reason for complexity is most to avoid the, let's say, editing mistakes, for getting to update things or living in things that shouldn't be in. So I need to do it a bit carefully. I I don't want to leave, dependence on Mister Very mistake. That's my point. Okay. Let let's think about it, because that might be an important editorial work. And we need to figure If the benefit of changing is enough to do this rework. On on on on I must say I I has a participant. I'm not totally convinced. So I need to read you Pascan's arguments. Oh, well, there are events in case, mainly that Mister Half is not the only objective function, It's not even the most generic one, or, or 0 is more generic, and then the the number of implementations around which are their home objective function, And so The only case I know Mr. Half is being implemented is actually the open those Kentucky thing. I guess that's what you were based on, but I'm not I don't know that mister Raf has any trust and in industrial protocols. So I I get that, but you said implementations have their own objective functions yet have no specifications. We need 0 and the system of that system. They implement their own objective function, but because this is not dependent on the objective"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:38:00",
    "text": "option. They could if if we write and they say abstract to the objective function, just like we wrote, RFC 6550 abstract the objective function that was an important design goal. If if we keep the same design goal here, they can adapt this work today at OL. If we base this work specifically on mister Half, Then the work will look at Okay. I see So you're saying we're not specifying a new objective function, we're just making it totally agnostic to any objective function that could be plugged in together with Yes. We are having a front step clear treaty function. But the computation of the metric of the rack is not changed. The objective function shoots the rock. What it does. But there can be tons of logic and and physical units and stuff, which come into the computation of the distance vector metric. But at the end of the day, that's what the objective function does. This draft comes after Yes. I I under I hear you. Mister Hufth, that's way more than competing the the ranking. Yet it's called an objective function. Maybe it's a mistake. So what I would propose if if, you're open to this, like, And the idea. I don't know how well I can implement it. Maybe you can give me 1 or 2 weeks to try out a conversion, a separate branch on Git and we can see if editorially speaking, it's going to be a training the ass or not to, to re edit if it's something that he can be happy with, Dominic maybe you can, look at that. What do you think?"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:40:03",
    "text": "Yeah. We could do that or have a little design session sometime. Because you won't tough. Yeah. That that that works as well. As you prefer. Okay. We'll synchronize offline. Okay. Okay. Thank you. And, also, please bring this topic into the mailing list, Ari. We can get feedback from the community as well. Yes. Sure. Thank you very much. 2. Okay. So one based on the discussion, the next step will be defined if we need general form for the object in pension. So Yeah. Looking forward to it. Additional comments on this draft? Okay. Okay. Okay. Open floor. Some comments or questions? I think this would be a good point to discuss the the question by Pascal on, doubt protection. In the status of, experimental for the standard strike. Especially since we have a student in the room as well. Susan, I remember you you recommended the draft be, defined as experimental. In Pascana. Objected to that, sir, Okay. Susan is approaching to the mic? Arthur. Yeah. Can you join the queue? Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Let's have a discussion. This is a perfect day here. I'll let myself to the queue. Okay. Okay. Anyway, I think I'll just ignore that This is a"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:42:03",
    "text": "up to the chairs, but it's feedback from a reviewer you've got an existing protocol. You're to you you know, the question is you're changing a lot in the protocol. Do you have any implementations or any preliminary implementations to indicate how it works, It's a it's a general question for for revving a a major protocol Did you So are we on the same track at this point? On the question I asked. In the review. Pascua. Hello, Sue. Yes. We are at the exact same point. As we were when you did your review Nothing has changed. Worm. Now, dude, The thing is This is not changing 6550. This is adding capabilities to it. Right? So we are not raving. We are a upgrading, like, you know, this updates term, which means anything Here, we are adding a layer. We are adding some additional functionality in the nodes, and some of the nodes in the net work, but the the old behavior is still there of for the main deal deck. It's just that we can be of additional deal decks. And the way we build those additional diodes is very compatible in spirit with the way we build the original world. It's just that the the the computation is centralized as opposed to being distributed. So instead of of having this DIU spreading, which is how we build the distributed version and In this case, we are saying, a, We have enough information in the centralized culture to to to to bypass that step."
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:44:00",
    "text": "And start directly the second step of repo, if if you remember the way repo works, The first step is DIO spreading. It's the broadcast thing that spreads and bills the deal there. And once the geodeg has been built, Then there is the day double phase where the geodag is populated with prefixes. And now you rock to and from the prefixes along the geodeck. That that's that's readable. Now, here we are saying, hey, the deal that phase the computation of the 0 deg will be centralized That's that's the big difference. So we are we have the main deal that to reach to the devices and tell them about the additional diodes that are computed centrally. So we use the 0.0 if you like to to tell the notes about the other but then basically, all these drafters is signaling to to tell the notes about the prebuilt additional units. Pesco. I am in I'm not I'm not, I'm not, you know, saying that the stabilize something please mute to actually Please mute We're not not talking. Okay. Thank you. I'm I'm not complaining about your calculation or going to centralized or saying that you shouldn't have your, additional features I am simply asking an operational question. And that operational question is whether you've done any prototyping of this new Additions. Additions."
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:46:03",
    "text": "And and the other is my no suit. With, with not. It's it's very much reusing what we do in the normal specs. And it's it's very, very reusing, like, the the way we approach the doll once it's projected, it it follows a normal doubt procedure or buy up in store mode. But we have not coded it. I don't know about any implementation. Okay. That was That was my only comment. I was not stating anything about your algorithms or or anything, and that is feedback to the routing area director and your working group chair that it might be useful when you were changing an existing specification to at least have some implementation experience. Thank Pasckellar, are you clear about what that comment was now? I believe I understand. I mean, I don't take it as a criticism, right? I'm just trying to to to, you, that we are not changing ripple. Ripple stays the way it was exactly. We are adding a layer of of traditional capabilities without changing the original capability we are not changing. So we are not damaging the the existing. That's that's that's the distinction I wanted to make sure you have in mind. Yes. Pascal, I have some experience with adding additional features to a protocol spec. So based on my additional features. It was simply some feedback to the at to you and the ADs. You may choose to ignore it, you may choose to go on. I I and I please I I commend your hard work in doing a good addition."
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:48:06",
    "text": "Because the the the reason why I was not too happy with going very mental is the experience we have in this working group. About experimental. As it goes the early implementations of everything we've produced has been coming from, the open source community, people like Kamtiki and they were not interested in the experimental specs that we've produced, they have just ignored that. And and Now we have done AODV report as a replacement to P2P without any ever implementation of I realized the dynamics in that I have I have, understood that dynamics I realized that some people, if you label it experimental, don't want to go with the draft I still, stand by the technical agreement I have be because of the problems I've had with other with the same additions in BGP. So I feel you're pain. You very much, Sue. I think we we gave a chance to everybody to explain He's in her position and Thank you for your you know, harnessed in comment. Uh-uh. Explain explanation of your position. I'd be really appreciate that. Thanks, Michael. John Scudder,"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:50:02",
    "text": "yeah, just to to add a little bit. I put in the the chat, the observation that you know, this this information will be captured in the Shepherd write up where it's specifically asked, you know, is there a implementation? And so that information is gonna be exposed. And also just an observation different working groups can have different ways of working in terms of exactly, you know, how much they, they they wanna ask for implementation before they progress a document. I I happen to, you know, be very sympathetic to the IDR way of working, but I think that we should remember that the IDR way of working is partly chosen because BGP is you know, existential to the functioning of the internet. It's it's operating at the largest scale that we have available. And at the highest stakes we have available. While I love this working group, the same is not exactly true. So I think it's if this group applies a different standard, you very much, John, and Susan, very much. Michael? I have a different topic, but I'll just say I always find experimental RFCs kind of more exciting. Anyway, so I I went to, What's it called? The the Marc Blanches, spaceinternet stuff, reading some of the other things that I've been thinking about as well. And, It just I wanted to just share with the group that One of the features of ripple is that it doesn't babble all the time or doesn't talk it doesn't isn't chatty. It, just what it has to do and goes on. And that's pretty important when the round trip might e, might e, 40 minutes. To and from Mars. And so it occurs to me that some people may want to, consider or experiment"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:52:03",
    "text": "if they have test bait baked on what happens to ripple when, the propagation delays are in the, dozens of minutes rather than milliseconds. And, That's all. Really, I wanted to share is that I think it's actually probably the right protocol for enter. Interestpaceship. Communications. Great. Come in, Michael. Thank you, man. Food for that. Very nice. Maybe next step for a role, going to deep space. Why not? Okay? Additional comments or questions? Do you know if that each space meeting was recorded? The side meeting was recorded or not? Michael, Michael, Do you know? You lost recorded? Yeah. Okay. Bye. The data space meeting, the trial site meeting was recorded. You know? No. No. Not not Tuesday, maybe tomorrow. Oh, Oh, tomorrow night, a side meeting. You know, they had a slight meeting yesterday. Thank you, Michael. They had a slide meeting yesterday. It was only half an hour. There's another one tomorrow. It's an hour. And I believe that what they said is that they failed to push the right buttons to record it. Okay. That's all. Because because AV barely worked at all, and I I don't think they got a recording. But there wasn't anything really said that wasn't in slides and Christian will probably Christian Wiedema will probably repeat again. And it was mostly what was talked about at the time was mostly just, How does quick do how well does quick work over those kind of time delays and there'll be more tomorrow at 6:30 or something. K. Great. Thank you very much. And as a reminder, DeepSpace is a mailing list. So if you want to join, Nothing will be fun."
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:54:04",
    "text": "Okay. And as well, it was mentioned in the DTM yesterday meeting as well. Yeah. Okay. Thank you very much. These are the comments or questions? Okay. Thank you for all your comments into the chat as well. And the tour room for participation. And the We hope to see you in the next interim meeting in 25th January. Dominique? Do you want to No. Getting ready to say bye. Thank you, everyone, everybody, for your great discussion, contributions, and great work. Yes. Okay. Thank you. See you on 25th January. Thank you. Bye bye on. Bye bye. I posted enroll I posted the updated enrollment priority. Thank you very Okay. I will I will review it then. We'll check as well in the issues. Open issues. I think I mean, you do whatever you want. Okay. Oh, This is I won't be able to check comments Outsie. Reporting I really are visually"
  }
]
