[
  {
    "startTime": "00:00:05",
    "text": "data tracker interface hello we have at least one more let me see if there's anybody in the seaboard jabber room here we go i'm connected there so yeah i am now and we now have a carsten hello hello"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:02:32",
    "text": "we might have a very short meeting today if we don't get anybody else on let's give them a few more moments did i miss anything about michael why he wouldn't be here he sent me a message off list that he's trapped in today i think he's very busy to at least the end of the week so i'm probably going to do some of the processing for fire magic so we can have some fixes in place for tomorrow's are you streaming yeah it didn't seem like there was anything of much significance from that so far no but it's always a good idea to actually do the editorial stuff of course so we don't have to waste time discussing that when it's just clear how to fix it"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:04:01",
    "text": "i think if we have no no one else by five past the hour we should probably call it yeah while we're waiting for that i can confess that i have put the thing to the thing research group meeting on the next c bar slot few weeks from now sorry about that but because we wanted to have certain participants that was the only option we found okay is that a regular trg interim i didn't see it on the counter yet uh no it's uh just the the interim we wanted to have after the the itf and we we have a specific subject which is digital twins and we have several people including the digital twin consortium uh that that we try to draw in so that's the reason why we weren't quite as flexible as we want it to be well it doesn't show up on the upcoming meetings calendar yet yeah that's because uh right after this meeting i'm going to request their trip ah got it okay okay i think we won't be many more people yeah i think well let's just uh is there anything that we can"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:06:02",
    "text": "with just the chairs and karsten and ira or should we just close the meeting well i uh did this uh new uh revision of the opec and i really think this is ready for working glass call we don't have to decide this here in this meeting we don't have encouragement to decide anything uh but maybe we could quickly discuss what we we're going to do next well i don't i don't think we need a formal uh working group decision to make a working group last call i can just as shepherd i can just say that this is now in working group last call and if it raises any issues then we deal with that so so i will do that as soon as the call is over great and i'll send a review as soon as i can wonderful i have a question um for the idf meeting the last one that we didn't need at um from the previous meeting we thought that we would talk about cddl 2.0 in that time frame is there any one when we will reach some closure on cddl 2.0 well a lot of things have intervened this was supposed to be done approximately by christmas last year so yeah this this has been pushed behind uh but uh i think uh if you look at the number of documents still in the zebra working group um i think we have uh pushed most of the things through so we should be ready to do that next"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:08:04",
    "text": "right i think we we have um pac is the only document that is still in the working group we haven't accepted any other documents oh that's not true we also have the time tag and the time track is lighting up at the moment as well so i i'm going to work on this this week weird thing is i don't see the time tag right now in the data tracker yeah that's a data tracker bug okay um working group documents that have that are expired oh okay are not treated properly okay now is time tank expired probably because otherwise it would show up here yeah it actually is yeah i i probably need to submit this really soon because we we did do some work on this and sedate is now converging so we can do the next version of the the time tag so i'm trying to remember when the sea date meeting is oh that's still being discussed uh carsten on briefly coming back to cdl"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:10:02",
    "text": "2.0 um is there um if i remember correctly your part of your implementations is already going in in a direction is there anything that we can try out yet no i i got uh stuck there because really the the part that i completely misjudged um is uh when when you have a validator then you actually want to extract information from that validator so you essentially need an annotation format for validated document a post schema validation instance um that's the name in the xml world and i thought i could simply pull that from the tips of my fingers and it turns out it's a little bit more complicated to do that so that's probably the next document that will surface or the next section in the freezer document that will surface defining that annotation information and if you have any specific idea of what actually should be in that annotation information of course i would be very interested in hearing about that so um if you [Music] think about the way annotations work in relax and g that that's also something that that could be done on the cddl uh side so for instance you can um supply an alternate name for a rule or something like that the way defaults are currently handled is a bit weird"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:12:00",
    "text": "um there are quite a few things that that could be done using this annotation uh concept um so that's probably the the one that is most interesting at the moment and uh apart from that there's lots of sliders on on cdj 2.0 so uh i think we should collect that slider and maybe consolidate it into a single slide set cddl 2.0 the living proposal okay um two more things i have put on the on the on the agenda notes um one is there is still this threat on the record proposal um yeah is there any kind of interest in my understanding is that the last major primarily uh chris asking for for how we can make process and you not quite it's kind of thing you you thinking this is kind of mostly resolved um if i got this right um is there much drive and and do you see much drive anywhere else in the working group or is this just something that we kind of wait for a more concrete proposal on or where we could make some there is some statement missing i think we should all review chris current proposal because that's uh done and we just need uh to find out whether we're happy with that and then we need to ask chris to actually register those tags sounds like he could record"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:14:01",
    "text": "um i'll take an action item to actually kind of make this request for for reviews a bit more visible on the on the mailing list and the other item i wanted to mention is just briefly that file magic is might find its way into ace work and could be useful there possibly without the other tags but still taking this general concept of we have unstructured data we want to indicate what it is over there with um rather than doing a bespoke implementation so it's fine it's finding it's useful is there text already no so far it's just um me reiterating what mark uh on the issue tracker what marco and i talked about in vienna so um nothing more than the negative issue okay if you can send me the the actual minute that i can finish this thanks okay um on the other any other business um issue um is carsten do you know of anyone else of the regulars who will be at that t2 tlg meeting given that it's about digital twins it's not something that i would necessarily join so the question behind it is um will we pause the the sebum meetings for that in that week or will we just continue i think we can just continue [Applause] okay then if there is no other business to address yeah and i guess just just updating what"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:16:01",
    "text": "we just said um we should make a slightly earlier reminder and call for agenda items and we can cancel next uh the next meeting if there are no agenda items to put on it so i'll take that as an action i'll set a quote for that maybe thursday or friday before so if we have no agenda items by tuesday we can cancel the wednesday meeting that would be great okay wonderful then thanks everyone see you in two or four weeks bye yes bye you"
  }
]
