[
  {
    "startTime": "00:00:42",
    "text": "[Music] okay it is time to start it\u0027s 150 you are welcome to the NTP working group in Prague you\u0027ve already started the blue sheet right or no the blue sheets sitting right there so so the blue sheet should be coming around folks should sign that it\u0027s at 8:00 today\u0027s agenda do you have that on display or okay it doesn\u0027t so our agenda for today agenda administration and agenda passing we have towel for the minutes and we have rich for jabber blue sheets are going around be sure to sign them did you skip I need to go back there we go the this is an IHF meeting this is note well you all acknowledge the note well when you joined when you registered for the IETF and so we everybody should be well aware of it please abide by it okay so our agenda this is the agenda bashing we have the tic-tock working group status then ntp working group status and basic both of these are just quick reviews of documents that would not going to need to spend a lot of time talking about today and just talk about what status they\u0027re in we will cover the hackathon activity over the weekend and then we will talk about the rough time draft that was submitted the I just lost the name of the medes draft that is technology but anyway this the draft unsecure selection filtering from meta Cronos there we go I was thinking crony and I knew that was the wrong word as like macaroni it\u0027s a and very briefly on the yang data model I know the author\u0027s can\u0027t be here but I have an update from them and then the piece that\u0027s that\u0027s currently missing this any other business and housekeeping so will at the end of these we\u0027re going to talk about a number of the other items if you look at the agenda online you\u0027ll see the list of other things I wanted to go through quickly that did not have updates in advance of the IETF if you\u0027ve been following the mailing list we got a ton of traffic today so I haven\u0027t I\u0027ve been busy today and I haven\u0027t had time to even read at all except seeing it go by so there we have it so the first one however you\u0027re displaying that it\u0027s not advancing one slide at a time so this is not working "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:03:50",
    "text": "okay so the tick tock working group status the yang data model has has made it out and it\u0027s in the editor queue now which is which is great news and the second document which is the last document remaining and the tick tock working group is the enterprise profile we addressed all of the nits yesterday and an update thanks to her Heiko thanks Danika and so that one is ready for submission we will still have the same the we will deal with the issue of the I Triple E 1588 the same way we did last time and hopefully that will will not cause too many too much issue next Oh Suresh is popping in the queue oh good go ahead Suresh yeah thanks again so I\u0027m trying to formalize the process with that ESG for that so I\u0027m writing up something so you will make this like a standard procedure when the documents are not freely available so this will be like IETF white procedure that we follow whenever some document is not freely available then it goes telescope okay great thank you you always know you\u0027re being successful when you require the development of a new process or a new procedure so so that\u0027s where we are with the 1588 Enterprise profile and then we\u0027ve had a number of conversations about this the intention is when this document gets through that we will close the tic-tock working group and have a single time working group in the IETF consolidate all the resources in one place so next slide so this is the NTP working group status and these are documents that we should not have too much to talk about the BCP is in iesg evaluation it currently has one outstanding discuss on it and the authors of the document are working to resolve that discuss and hopefully we will we will have that done shortly oh and suresh is coming back into the queue thank you so the outstanding discuss is from acre and he\u0027s gonna leave the iesg so I had to talk to him and figure out like you know how he wants to followup on the continuity or discuss so like whether Roman is gonna take it off or like we had to figure something out but either way I will not have enough votes on the ESG when the iesg turns over tomorrow so I have to figure out like how to get the additional reviews and to get this document through but hopefully it should not be too difficult once the author\u0027s address like occurs comments okay Dennis I know that I know that you worked I don\u0027t know if you want to say anything if you can you can hop in the remote QR though oh there you go "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:06:51",
    "text": "Dennis hi there can you hear me we can go ahead so Peter and I have been working directly on the remaining on those remaining discussed points and you know I consider them you know valuable feedback but nothing that really changes the course of the document so regardless of how what\u0027s going on with the iesg dieter and I have agreed on the changes that need to be made and Harlan\u0027s been involved also in monitoring this and so I plan to push out an update today I\u0027m not sure if that makes a difference in terms of getting this pushed along but you know regardless of whether or not that that timeline works or not I mean we\u0027re unprepared after this meeting to go through and make these minor edits and submit it okay if you could go ahead and do that I think that would be great I think and also respond to Eric okay so I\u0027m gonna pop you off the queue and let Suresh talk for a minute you can get back to ya Thanks hey thanks Dennis okay like I really appreciate your patience like I\u0027ve been talking to a core like it\u0027s discussed has been there for a while but he\u0027s trying to keep his own queue for the incoming ad so he prioritize like his documents which I totally understand because he\u0027s swapping off and so thanks for your patience on this and really appreciate you trying to get this resolved if you can push a document today I\u0027ll try to get this on the next possible tele chat and we can go from there okay so but but the ball is really in my court once you push the issues of I\u0027ll try to find the other additional ladies to vote no objection on this so we can get enough votes to pass this [Music] okay thank you sir anything else on the BCP okay there\u0027s two documents that have been ready for submission for a while now that we just haven\u0027t submitted and we will be doing that very shortly now and that\u0027s the control messages protocol and the and this one as a reminder to folks who haven\u0027t been following this is it is basically cleaning up the work that we did too [Music] we wrote in TP when we did the NTP v4 specification it\u0027s cleaning up a piece that got left out so guidelines for defining packet timestamps is also one that\u0027s been ready for its submission it\u0027s passed working group last call and we just need to get it processed the next one is NTS 4 ntp this is one we spent a lot of time talking about did you want to talk about after the last "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:09:58",
    "text": "until Envy making update there has been some new content from Krista regarding bono says Vanessa NTS key exchange we caught messages and this has this has been done and we are speaking about hackathon we thought afterwards so yeah this has has has been possible positive and we are looking forward that we can move this format I think we\u0027re going to end up with a few minor clarifications coming out of the hackathon well it\u0027s what just discussed is one of them just pointing out that NTS ke uses different convention from from NTDs the second clarification I\u0027m going to drop in there is up clarifying what cliff and I mean is he coming what clients should do if they maybe send an excessive number above placeholders they\u0027ll it defrag notation okay thank you I was trying to determine if your voice was coming through the microphone system or not it\u0027s honor to speak more closely yeah so everybody speak really close to the mic retrieve it nobody has complained but Ezra but we do have a fairly long a fairly long list of remote participants so everybody remember to speak into the mic alright so Thomas says you can thomas can hear you so we\u0027re all great that\u0027s that\u0027s fabulous okay so that\u0027s the NTP working group status the next item on the agenda is the no it\u0027s the hackathon report so okay hi my name is Chris Divine Eagle I\u0027m wondering you newbies here today like Karen wanted me to make have this presentation so well I was here a sad day Sunday we sat in a big room for 13 hours hacking on NTS and I think who were there what\u0027s on I\u0027m sure all the Richard dieter carry with her did I forget somebody well all of them were there in person and we had a bunch of participants too so we have people working on chrony on ntp check remotely so a lot of things happened I guess next "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:12:59",
    "text": "slide please so we did a lot of integration as I said got emptiest to work inside of crony insider NDP sake Martin lying near who\u0027s not here today he has his own implementation in c plus plus it was interoperate with i have my own little implementation a proofing concept in python and that also worked and most at work here was done on drop 17 richard was also there worker and he was working against version 11 i think and next slide again thank you so this is the compatibility matrix right now so australia client that\u0027s martin longish client in c++ the chrony client was an LLC that\u0027s Miroslav who\u0027s working chrony the NTP is a client how madre was involved did a lot of work on that one and a lot of other people who also ran an entity sick and then my third client is mine quick thing i did at work a few weeks ago and we also had some people from nap mode in malmö who were participating on their own time and they have a client in go which is sort of partially completed and on top of that what\u0027s allowed I\u0027m sure are working on a vast implementation and as you can see all the sort of lost folio chrony and pisac Python they all interoperate with each other the goal and client from the team in Malmo it can they only have a client so far but and it only does the key exchange but that one works with Australia so recruit a servant my server in Python it does not currently work with the entropy six server and that\u0027s this due to the NTP sec server i think is using an old ssl library that doesn\u0027t support a LPN so that\u0027s a sort of known issue we need to work around it but it\u0027s sort of everything inside protocol works just right there and then watson also indeed a server in rust which in her master key exchange we can talk to the sock all the foundation can can talk to more since implementation so all of us have had bugs I had a few crash bugs there were some other issues we we were we had an issue with open SSL open SSL one with one that one has 1.1.1 a has a bug in the key exporter function which means that we have a rather long string for exporting key material and that string doesn\u0027t work with one with one with one so Martin Langer when he did his "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:15:59",
    "text": "implantation he had to use a shorter string so some of the issues we had was that some people were using long string and their clients while the saw was using a short string and vice-versa we\u0027ve decided we\u0027ll just go with long string around or everybody has switched to long string now because we there is both a new version of business or so available and an older version and we didn\u0027t really find any issues with their NPS draft in itself as far as I can tell not when it comes to implementation we we followed implementation if we read it by letter it did work a few things were a bit unclear might need a bit of clarification but I mean it all seems to work really well I\u0027m quite impressed that we have for working implementations today maybe last night you that\u0027s all the people that were involved in the hackathon yesterday both remotely and in person Thanks all right so we\u0027ve already sent NTS through working group last call we\u0027ve now done three hackathons on it so I think we are they\u0027re going to do that at the we haven\u0027t done no that clarification hasn\u0027t been pushed yet no I hadn\u0027t looked yeah not yet so we\u0027re gonna do a minor clarification on a thing that a number of implementers implemented wrong and then we will based in in the sense that the spec was not clear about what they needed to do that once that clarification is done then this will be ready to go to the iesg all right all right so next up is I think rough time right Angela oh I guess I should have asked are there any questions about the did you go ahead sorry and Shawn slightly pedantic note on the up on the clarity issue the spit so the spec was perfectly clear on what NTS ke requires and everybody did that correctly the the clarification we\u0027re going to be inserting is is about a is - is that a lot of people didn\u0027t properly read 78 22 and made an invalid assumption about that so we\u0027re just going to point out that that fall okay great thank you it\u0027s a better description of the clarification okay now in chalk you know I don\u0027t know that I don\u0027t think it\u0027s synced well um can you hear me okay "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:19:02",
    "text": "hello everyone I\u0027m Anton Malhotra from Boston University and today I\u0027m going to talk about rough time a draft that be submitted in collaboration with Adam Langley who is the original author of rough time from Google and Watson lad from CloudFlare who implemented or deployed this at CloudFlare you and someone else yeah we submitted the first version of this trapped back in January of this year and following that we had a virtual working group call avaran I explained the protocol and we discussed the issues that were not addressed in the draft at the time some of them we decided that need to be addressed and the draft and some of some other issues are not that pressing post that or we updated the draft and we had some comments on the mailing list some clarification questions some of them have been addressed on the mailing list there are a few that needs a resolution that needs some discussion so but the questions clarification questions have not been updated in the draft that allowed will update in the next version of the draft so for today\u0027s presentation I\u0027m going to give a very high-level overview of what the protocol is and then open the stage to comments and discussions because that\u0027s what we want to achieve at this IETF like have people\u0027s input on the outstanding issues okay so the motivation behind rough time is basically we all it\u0027s undeniable the fact that Security\u0027s important time is important for Internet security as many applications and security protocols use time unfortunately widely deployed protocols such as network time protocol which is standardized in RFC five 905 and a newer proposal a variant of NTP Kronos they are not authenticated and do not provide do not provide any armed response authentication then we have a symmetric key proposal for NTP which uses md5 although that\u0027s been deprecated now it does provide authentication but there are serious issues with it which have been known for years now so is the case with NTP Auto key however the new proposal network time security that we just discussed that also provides authentication but it does not provide a proof of server misbehavior and what that means I\u0027ll explain in the next "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:22:03",
    "text": "slide where as rough time achieves both the goals it provides server authentication as well as a proof of a cryptographic proof of this behavior of a server so what is rough time it\u0027s a protocol that achieves rough time synchronization it is not as accurate as other time synchronization protocols as it stands today second it detects the servers that provides inaccurate time and most importantly it provides a cryptographic proof of servers in this behavior that can be verified by a third party there are several applications for rough time the original motivation when Google and when Adam Langley at Google proposed this approach was a certificate verification Google did a survey that found that 25 percent of failures of it\u0027s is because of bad clocks on the clients so and we know that\u0027s a certificate verification meaning does not require accurate timestamps does it does not require super accurate timestamps it does require rough time a drop it does require the client to be roughly accurate and there are several other applications where the client does not necessarily require super accurate and precise time information such as delegated credentials lifetime delegated credentials you can think of them similar to certificates they have validity periods which need to be verified before they can be accepted similarly IOT devices or other embedded devices that cannot update system their system time very frequently can use rough time and towards recently someone from Tor mentioned that they would require they would be happy to implement or use rough time for their service directory so these are a few applications I\u0027m sure there are several other applications for rough time but these are a few motivation applications for that now there are several issues that were raised on the mailing list and cheering during the virtual group meeting so first issue is that of time scale that what time scale should be used for time stamps delivered by a server in the response so what we have currently in the draft are these three values met P which are the number of "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:25:05",
    "text": "microseconds the server in his response sends this value which is the number of microseconds since the UNIX epoch then we have another variable read ID which is the server\u0027s estimate of the accuracy of the time that it sends at the time that they compose the response packet and then there is this leap indicator which is basically the arm offset which the tie and UTC timescale at the time that the server constructs this response so there have been several suggestions on the mailing list regarding what we should do about this time scale but there is no consensus yet and at the end of this presentation I would like to hear comments and thoughts about that then there is another issue which is less pressing but I guess we need to address in the draft it\u0027s about trust anchors and policies so the bigger picture for rough time is to to to construct to have to have an environment where we can have several trusted rough time servers and for that we would need I think a trust anchor that can basically maintain and distribute at this list of trusted servers and enforce certain policies such as where the clients can submit or discuss or complain about the misbehaving misbehaving servers that they detect through this rough time protocol and there are several other policies that the trust anchors can enforce such as generally checking the health of rough tine servers whether they are checking their uptime or how accurate they are compared to some reference time so we need to decide on we need to decide on who these trust anchors can be and what kind of policies they should be enforcing and with that I need not to see anything Thomas Rajib wahwee so I said this on the mailing list said anyway I think this is a security draft and one of the most important things it should start with is a threat analysis which describes exactly what are the threats we are trying to deal with and how we are how we deal with each of them some of them may not be relevant to this draft some of them may be this draft deals with others it doesn\u0027t deal with it needs to be very clear can you go back to slide 2 so go up one side so "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:28:14",
    "text": "this is not detailed enough in my opinion when I read this in the draft I couldn\u0027t understand what rough time does and what it doesn\u0027t do in terms of threats so that\u0027s in my opinion the first thing the second thing is that there is a fundamental problem of delay attacks which is also something we discussed on the mailing list and right now the draft doesn\u0027t resolve this problem understood from offline discussions that in practice the implementation of rough time does deal with delay attacks in some form but this needs to be described in the draft and it needs to be explained exactly what is the scope of the damage a delay attacker can do so I think these are two very major issues right now for this raft yes yes some of the comments that you mentioned were on the mailing list and we that but definitely a threat model Watson and I discussed need to be added to the draft and we will do it in the next revision of the draft and regarding delay attacks yes yeah that that\u0027s a part of the track model and I think it\u0027s not only a threat model it\u0027s also adding a new mechanism which is not described in the draft because right now the way it\u0027s described right now the delay attacker can do anything you want right we described examples on the mailing list which show how a do they attacker can basically completely compromise rough time yes I did reply to that I think we are not on the same page with that particular attack that you described but maybe we can discuss discuss it more yeah okay so please reply on the mailing list because I haven\u0027t seen a reply from you to that for the delay attack I did I did have I did have an explanation on the mailing in the response maybe you missed it but I can point you to it again okay on the issue of yeah on the issue of of policy for maintaining list of servers end up and what they should be expected to do I think What\u0027s in scope for the draft is mechanism for getting trusted lists where end and were how exactly to to construct a proof of malfeasance and check that proof I do not want us to get too far into layer 8 policy in this "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:31:16",
    "text": "draft let\u0027s not be the cat forum here [Music] secondly though I I do hope we can see a see a call for adoption for this draft soon I had I had some earlier objections that the graft may not be within our Charter but I got pretty clearly slapped down by that slap down on that by the area directors who basically said take it up here and fix the Charter so fair enough let\u0027s get a call for adoption going yes regarding your first comment I just mentioned it here because it was about the trust anchors and policies because it was briefly discussed in the first virtual group meeting yeah but as I said these are not depressing issues that need to be addressed in the draft but I just put it for the sake of yeah Thomas Pearson VUE Jabbar I would like to contribute further to the draft however the github repository does not appear to be up to date please use issues and keep the content there up to date github issues all right it\u0027s a clarification um yeah so as a daniel mentioned the the first policy question isn\u0027t really a question saying policy it\u0027s really a question about mechanism and more importantly I do think you want one global place where the reports of malfeasance are discussed because it is going to be a sort of ecosystem impact if there\u0027s one server at everybody distress now maybe not everybody trusted in the first place but I think that\u0027s that\u0027s our thing regrets and policy options said it but I\u0027ll emphasize it unlike CAS there is no cost to distrusting a server is that other server is just as good you don\u0027t have the problem that browsers have we\u0027re kicking out a CA is extremely expensive [Music] right if you want I\u0027d like to second the first speaker in asking for a threat analysis and the threat model because it\u0027s like the first thing I did in this industry back when I was a kid was to set up entity infrastructure right and the first on the first sentence or the first page right there was I had multiple sources of time right and the objective of the exercise is not to have I mean I don\u0027t I understand that there is a this attraction to having provable statements about models but the interesting model it\u0027s actually the clock on the machine because that\u0027s the the thing that you use the system operating systems view of time that\u0027s what we use when you evaluate certificate trust Frances and it\u0027s you know there are many ways to counteract single server single server malfeasance in the other protocols are having more sources of time right that\u0027s what we traditionally done in in deployments of MTP infrastructure so I I "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:34:18",
    "text": "think if we\u0027re gonna have like provable security proofs that\u0027s having about models that actually are relevant to like the uses of secure time on the operating system and that\u0027s not necessarily about any given statements about any given protocol we used to get time onto the operators go ahead the remote participants cannot see you I know for me personally the thing I wanted to talk about was Todd\u0027s comment about delay attacks um having thought about it back when the discussion was had I\u0027m not convinced that delay attacks really affect the thing that rough time does because rough time um does explicitly refer to the ordering of events and then the time stamps that are connected to the events from from different servers so even though delay delay attacks are possible they would look like like my reasons and I think at least rough time should detect that something is wrong and have cryptographic proof that something is wrong um although probably the client could not differentiate between a server that was being attacked and I said well that was intentionally sending bad time but still it would have a report that something happened I think that is very valuable I also don\u0027t think that there\u0027s much more to be done from a client perspective than seeing that the incoming messages from us from serve are somehow not right differentiating whether that\u0027s because the server is bad or because there\u0027s an attacker seems impossible is at least a very difficult task thank you go ahead hi this is Marcus no sorry I\u0027m so I\u0027ve mentioned before a couple of times I really like this scratch and I think it just promised it still needs some work if you eat the microphone you say don\u0027t like this yes great thanks and so I\u0027ll just make a couple of quick comments the first is regarding the which x game we should use the current is just one is still t AI right yes so and I\u0027ve had it pointed out to me that the BA p.m. explicitly recommends against using T AI and recommends you to C instead and in connection with that was also pointed out to me that essentially any protocol that distributes time needs to be able "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:37:19",
    "text": "to tell the user what the source of that time is one reason is so you know which actual timescale you are tracking which probably isn\u0027t that important here since we\u0027re only interested in rough time but what is important is since first since we\u0027re starting to track malfeasance here and we\u0027re starting to distrust servers that give us the wrong time we couldn\u0027t enough end up in a situation where we have several service that use the same source of time where the client doesn\u0027t know that say you have a bunch of servers that are using GPS at the time source and GPS starts distributing the wrong time we can either end up with accidentally starting to track this erroneous GPS time or we can accidentally start distrusting all the servers that happen to use GPS so that\u0027s one argument friction including some sort of source information oh I think I\u0027ll stop there and I\u0027ll just not also that\u0027s trust anchoring and what we really trusting is something we need to but Duncan said before about lay rate issues policy of are twice probably shouldn\u0027t be in the draft it\u0027s more of an implementation and ecosystem issue okay yeah sorry for long talk thanks thanks yeah the draft has a section that says that the service should use a common highly accurate source of time such as GPS Richford well actually for Jose and Tomas those they had a question about what\u0027s the precision and Thomas answered in jabber that it\u0027s a microsecond so I Dana frankly here I don\u0027t think Christoph\u0027s earlier comment about delay attacks is correct the the possibility of a delay attack is already is already baked into those um into into those merkel proofs the impact of a delay attack is rather that the be longer a network adversary delays a packet the more these the server might be able might be able to be off on that before the client would be able to construct construct a proof that it\u0027s off so there\u0027s there\u0027s there\u0027s no way for for the client to distinguish in a proof um between the case where the server is two seconds slow versus the case where the the server is accurate that a network adversary delayed the packet for two seconds nonetheless the client can compute the two-second found on on how much the time "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:40:20",
    "text": "it\u0027s getting might be off but just the the longer the network adversary delays something the harder it is for the client to construct a proform Alfie\u0027s yes and as I explained on the mailing list this variable redeye that tells the server\u0027s estimate also bounds the the delay between my P - right eye and yeah there is a whole explanation on the mailing list that you can yeah all right before you start are you on the delay can I let Christoph respond because my guess is he is can you respond to Christoph from Hearst sorry so a very simple example let\u0027s say we have a server which is off by one second so what we would expect is for rough time to be able to identify that by having the causality broken but what that server can do is just delay the message for 10 seconds before sending it back to the client for 10 seconds which would hide the fact that it\u0027s time is off and would cause an error which is on the order of 5 seconds and this would would not be identified by rough time because it\u0027s a positive delay rough time only detects when there is a negative difference between clocks so if you delay the message in the server rough time can\u0027t detect that unless you add a specific mechanism to detect of the attacks yes but with the next response if that is okay I get what you\u0027re saying all right yeah okay Christoph go ahead um perhaps I don\u0027t we are talking about request response scheme are we not um and if we are then the client is going to detect that the round trip took a long time which in itself should raise a certain kind of flag because net rise was the uncertainty or I mean basically Daniel you raised um this issue the longer the message round trip is the the less precise the client\u0027s estimation about how accurate the service time is um so that\u0027s a problem in and of itself and so I don\u0027t see the scenario where that the server is off and then someone beat an attacker or the server themselves delays their packets to to hide that they\u0027re off by intentionally making round trips like unpleasantly long I don\u0027t really see a case where that\u0027s under the radar "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:43:23",
    "text": "basically I\u0027m saying this would raise an alarm and that\u0027s an alarm so I think Lantau Thomas rahi I think what you said is exactly the solution which I\u0027m looking for in the draft by having the client verify the round-trip time and bounded to a specific value that would mean that rough time is only accurate the accuracy is on the order of the maximum round-trip time so that\u0027s what I\u0027m looking for in the draft currently doesn\u0027t have that it\u0027s not that I saw okay into that um because it was obvious to me yes if there\u0027s nothing in that that looks at the round-trip time then it should be what\u0027s near Coe a threat I would very strongly appreciate you submitting texts saying exactly that I think I think it\u0027s important to remember that what we\u0027re producing is not a normal estimate of the errors of its way we\u0027re cruising a guarantee that you are within when the the time of the server was within this bound where you have two delays there\u0027s some formula part was pretty much this square window and we\u0027re interested in applications where you have minutes of accuracy required seconds of accuracy right but this needs to be very high certainty that the server is not lying because we are not synchronizing gos clock um the reason for this is that OS clocks are often deliberately set wrong especially on mobile and this is breaking security protocols and training people to click through certificate warnings that sort of the broader context here explaining why we\u0027re making choices okay last comment if two to two comments oh I think that should go in the draft but the threat model actually doesn\u0027t again its threat model right that actually doesn\u0027t involve the operating system clock that\u0027s an important thing the other thing about Marcus think about GPS you can actually spoofed GPS it\u0027s not that hard right and so that\u0027s the reason I think he\u0027s bringing that up right you actually have to point out like time scale comes from this so you know if you know when stuff happens to this server you might not want to go after the server you might actually want to go look at who\u0027s producing time for it okay the queue is empty I think the only thing I heard was do you all want to do another Rev before a call for adoption or do you want be nice if there was a more conventional description of a protocol exchange so that those of us who come from the packet world rather than that could I figure out what the what was actually exchanges really just sort of some text in one of the sections okay so we\u0027ll do a call for adoption and "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:46:23",
    "text": "continue a discussion on the mailing list okay next up is meta as a remote presenter I think yes thank you all right can you see your slides yep yeah excellent can you hear me everything okay yes you are loud and clear okay thank you and so hi i\u0027m nita and today i\u0027m going to present the update we made in the third draft of collins mechanism for MTP it\u0027s a joint work with nine to live calm is rocky and massage appear and next slide please a short reminder and we consider the following sweet model where the attacker has full control of a large function of the NTP servers in the pool and he can change the content of NTP response and can also delay them of course the attacker is malicious and we assume that he is trying to achieve declines to the clock as much as possible in the picture you can see that the clients still received both good time sample and bedtime samples and might choose that shifted one and next slide please thank you and we all and we also wanted to remind a common solution where on the one hand we use large pool of NTP servers and on the other hand we randomly choose all the tens and be serviced and Thumba them lastly we use a small filters in order to remove outliers and next like this Thanks and Ramos when compared to you NTP uses greater variety of servers changing over time and avoid the current ntp filters and this allows to ask you achieve probable security guarantees however it may affect the precision and a currency of corners well and we can theoretically bound quarks error by a Omega which means 25 millisecond right right breathe Neda can you just repeat your last sentence or two we lost audio for about 30 seconds sorry about that what I said that there well theoretically we could bound Cronus a procedural error by Omega 25 millisecond we wanted to evaluate it in the wild and have realistic bones so in the new draft we discussed what everything okay yeah okay and you know a new draft we "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:49:25",
    "text": "discussed preliminary result for evaluating Hannes precision and the texts were conducted in several locations both in Europe and in the US and we thought that the Economist chief fair precision and less than a three millisecond and moreover they offset value in each update is similar to NTP less than a two millisecond gap well these results are not bad at all and we want to see if they can be improved without sacrificing security next like this okay can you move today next slide he already has do you not sorry okay yeah we tested a juice smoothie mechanizing the first one was the favorite small set values within the remaining example after filtering if they\u0027re not a file format the average and it proved to be very effective but in the second and smoothing mechanism was to favor of previous query server if they\u0027re an average of set is not far from random set approach they didn\u0027t yells a significant improvement and next slide please thank you in order to evaluate columns we measured it both it\u0027s a average of that and it\u0027s fluctuation and it\u0027s like 20 means the average of offset derivative we verified it in on several locations and thanks in the graph for instance in Oregon the X exists is the average offset and the y axis is the fluctuation the average of the derivative each of the dots presents 30 minutes experiments on of one of the algorithms we compare Honus in orange to homes with the first morning mechanism in green and to MTP in blue in a location we can see that the resource of Horus and with the volley mechanism are closing to the NTP which means that the green dots are a closer to to the NTP presented in the blue dots and next like this we can also see it in a Frankfurt and next and in next slide please and in Virginia yeah next slide and in London and note that "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:52:26",
    "text": "the X exists varies between 0 and 2 millisecond and device is it varies between 0 \u0026 3 millisecond next slide please next we tested the security of a algorithm under HX servers which shift pockets timestamps and the error is growing linearly with time and we used two servers as part of the pool we are DNS server to return our better server IP instead of some of the Severus IV we saw that rapidly increasing shifts didn\u0027t affect both corners and auntie P probably the shift was too high and the bird servers were ignored next slide please however for slowly increasing shifts the NTP is shifting while and consume anything next like so aim to conclude we tested a a proof-of-concept course implementation under normal scenarios and Inara Chuck\u0027s a current say we saw that corns precision is closer than to NTP then they expected several minutes instead of 25 milliseconds well the smoothing algorithm heals even better results and we also saw that Cronus is secure even facing slowly increasing shift while NTP isn\u0027t and the smoothing didn\u0027t affect corner security and now we are continuing to evaluate course performance and security for different attack strategies and different location and thank you and I can take questions now see all very Somalian I would like to ask about the condition of of the experiment Oh increasing shift I presume this is low what is increased or less a little more soon about the experiment okay and yeah sure um can you move to the to the slide before the last one yep this one so for example if for example when we we\u0027re talking about rapidly shift we are talking about a software which ad a 0.01 second per second and here when "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:55:28",
    "text": "we are talking about slowly increasing shift we\u0027re representing a an attack of a adding 0.001 second pair every second to a time that is of the order of seconds more days what 10 milliseconds hi sorry I want those zeros it\u0027s 10 millisecond 1 millisecond yeah ok and of course it\u0027s only a preliminary result and we\u0027re going to keep examining warrant a this was also I didn\u0027t say it\u0027s for Oregon and we would like to expand our research so yeah basically [Music] how many servers did you use probably I didn\u0027t get that so in order to get NTP to jump between two servers as it looks you probably how many of our time sources basically did you choose for the for this experiment so I chose a for the NTP it\u0027s basically a running on the default ntp am i choosing a a for NTP servers and the homes and update every 1664 second and four horse we we chose 12 servers and from among them who chose randomly for for each time but for every update which was different 12 servers okay so you you you say that you used four servers with the ntp basically client yeah and four servers they by the end here okay thank you okay any other questions okay I think we need to get a little bit more feedback on this draft on that on the on the mailing list any thoughts on next steps or how to "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:58:30",
    "text": "work with it would also be appreciated on the mailing list okay thank you very much Neda thank you bye okay go back one slide I think is it there oh no I it\u0027s on the agenda slide but that\u0027s okay you don\u0027t have to go back because it\u0027ll only be a sentence so the next thing on the agenda is actually the ntp yang module and the authors are have a conflicting meeting they have told me that they have some additional changes they want to make we have had an initial mid doctor review it\u0027s gone through that they want to do one more update and then they believe it\u0027ll be ready for working group last call so so that is pretty close so this brings us to the end of all of the stuff that we got in advance of the meeting so if you go to the next slide this is sort of my was originally named on the agenda my housekeeping section so it was drafts that we haven\u0027t made a lot of progress on or didn\u0027t have updates on so at this point and I have to admit there is a ton of traffic on this this morning we I had asked an child to repost the data minimization draft so that we could yeah yeah it was well I guess the point being it it was reposted and then there was a ton of email but I haven\u0027t had time to read so is there any is there a way forward on that draft I mean we were ready to wrap that up and send it on so maybe we just think that objecting to a draft on the basis that future work is going to change the way it works is sort of not not interesting okay um so the the last the last point of this was it had gone through working group last call we were ready to send it on and we needed it we were waiting for comments and so okay go ahead Harlan was that last comment directed toward me what last comment the one that said objecting to something based on something in the future was not interesting yes okay fair enough I would like to hear how you make your decisions about whether or not something needs to be a standard and then implemented versus not "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:01:32",
    "text": "because you seem to switch back and forth on whether or not you want it to be proven or if you want to wait to implement it until the standard has been passed my concern is simply that one one single implementation shouldn\u0027t have a privileged position to find the way a speck works I mean I understand a consideration that we need to use these fields in other ways but I don\u0027t see any conflict between having dynamization draft and then in a later draft saying well this is the other meanings are needed for these fields if you wanna do this with your dynamization don\u0027t see why it isn\u0027t a suitable solution for everyone okay well I will answer that by saying you have your knowledge and experience and I have mine so so that\u0027s not dumb let\u0027s not let\u0027s not go there that\u0027s not very helpful so one go ahead and choose an option to update the draft later if there is a need to be for some future use of these fields okay all right so I\u0027m popping your out of the queue Harlan all right so on this draft hello Christophe regarding Colin\u0027s comments um the thing that you didn\u0027t really answer Harlan um and maybe we can this can make a skip a whole lot of discussion the only motion that I saw put forward was to change a few instances of should language into main language um and I don\u0027t really think that would even make that much of a difference and also from the definition of shouldn\u0027t made that is available I think that should is just more appropriate in these cases um but also I don\u0027t think this is something that we should get hung up on um in other case and if that\u0027s the only thing then maybe we can just skip this and go ahead Arlen I have technical objections to the proposal as written and I think those are pretty clearly stated it is a bad idea to tell people they should which is effectively a must send zeros for ref ID poll and leap indicator when there is a clear situation where a significant use case will be prohibited by this and then to come up and say well you know it\u0027s it\u0027s okay to say no because people can always you\u0027re either telling people to ignore the standard and not follow what it says "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:04:34",
    "text": "or you\u0027re using a hammer to kill something that shouldn\u0027t need to be done and what we\u0027re doing here is the if this was religion we\u0027d be real we\u0027d be writing Canon we\u0027re writing standards here and I think we need to hold ourselves to a higher standard for what we accomplish and what we\u0027re asking people to do so if you don\u0027t agree with me or you guys don\u0027t feel that my technical objections are worth it that\u0027s cool that\u0027s your choice so I think that the the way the IETF deals with technical objections is consensus calls and I think what we need to do is take the exchange of email that\u0027s happened over the last like 12 hours and review that and turn it into specific consensus calls that we can ask on the mailing list because I think that\u0027s the way the IETF moves forward in this space go ahead so responding to Karen I think if III think if we were I don\u0027t think these objections are new and if we were going back for mailing list archives we would find there was already pretty clear consensus but secondly responding to Harlan your objections are based on or not based on use cases that exist today you\u0027ve got they are based on potential future use cases that would require that would require modifications to how clients behave so and in particular if clients want if if we want to advance this thing from the future and have clients implement that behavior the right way to do that is to put the information that we think servers will need then went their end into an extension field rather than put it in a header because that way that way that way those extension fields can be encrypted using NPS and protect clients privacy that way just to respond back to you I agree that we have had these discussions I would also agree that and and ditcher and I have have discussed this we have not been as clear about having a discussion and then declaring a consensus and so I think for some of these even though we\u0027ve had the conversations we need to go we just need to do a tiny little exercise where we can you know ask a clear question and get a group of people to answer unless we\u0027ve done this before and I need to go back and look so if any if any further formality is necessary on the point I would I wouldn\u0027t urge that it get done quickly simply because data minimization is a normative reference for NTS and therefore one blocks the other yeah I was aware of that so and it may be I mean maybe you can help me go back to the archives and figure out if we have a consensus or not I just we haven\u0027t been as clear you know about identifying specifically consensus calls because in "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:07:35",
    "text": "general we we get to a point without needing formal consensus calls on individual issues we just do them on the documents but but in some cases we might may need to do that Kristof I think you are in the speaking position if we haven\u0027t already resolved this and perhaps you know go ahead if you have something that you know just skip it don\u0027t want to discourage you but hey thanks - so so one of the things I want to like point out to Harlan is that there\u0027s a reason there\u0027s a shirt right like should actually means that there could be like legitimate exceptions where like you don\u0027t have to follow it right so that\u0027s if adding some text like you know saying like for example or something like that some exemplary text we\u0027d say leaves out some room for you to do the stuff if that would work for you that could be like an easy way to get rid of this deadlock right because as I said it\u0027s not a must right like so shoot is pretty strong but like should actually means that there could be legitimate reason so you don\u0027t have to do it so think of that like as like one way of like getting this unstuck Karen okay so thanks all right thank you Suresh Harlan Thank You Suresh yes I know about the difference that difference between should and must my concern is this document doesn\u0027t even mention any of these other cases and it assumes that the blanket the blanket should to zero these things out will it I guess that\u0027s my complaint and I will again point out that Daniel just stood up there and said that there are times he wants to see working code before anything happens and there are other times he says he wants to see a stand before anybody does working code and I really wish I could understand the algorithm that fix that yeah well I don\u0027t think I heard him say that so really he said there was a sense it wasn\u0027t in place and running today we shouldn\u0027t bother with it know what what he said was is it from an IETF process perspective it\u0027s a block it\u0027s a normative reference for NTS no the normative reference for entia I don\u0027t understand how that has a play in this he was talking about how he didn\u0027t want to my understanding as he didn\u0027t want to lend any credence to my objection objection because since there wasn\u0027t code out there today in sufficient form that would behave the way I recommend we should completely ignore that case and discount it these are so I\u0027m so these are these are our future use cases in but in in both senses not God not neither the code nor any draft standard exists so what okay this is suppose to capability and what we want to do in the future you guys you guys want to drive in snake "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:10:36",
    "text": "island okay Karen I\u0027m sorry never mind as I said right like so Harlan like what I would recommend is write some exemplary text right this is not like actual thing I said like buddy might need to go like bypass this shirt and write it up and then we like do the consensus process like Karen says right so as I said like don\u0027t make it like anything concrete say like exemplary like why somebody would not follow the shit and then let\u0027s discuss that and see if that\u0027s something that\u0027s gonna be useful right so and and and sometimes like you know you\u0027re in the rough I\u0027ve been in the rough like multiple times so but that\u0027s let\u0027s try it out right let\u0027s try to write some exemplary text and we\u0027ll go from there thank you so the next one I had in my housekeeping list was interleave modes and I just wanted I believe we talked about this the interim I was Mary Slava I was wondering if you would mind giving us a quick status of where that is and what we want to do with that or I don\u0027t know an chil do you have a just leave it to Miroslav if Marysol is online all right well we do have a draft on interleave modes we need to figure out what we\u0027re doing with that oh here he comes I\u0027m holding you on the spot Miroslav sorry okay I think yes sort of only one remaining issue and that was whether the service should be allowed to use the same pair of x times multiple times as it is currently specified I sent an email about this and we discussed this on the previous meeting and the issue is that as specified it\u0027s not tolerant to errors in the processing of packets and clients if we don\u0027t allow the service to you to reuse the time stamps the protocol should be able to fall back to the basic mode and that\u0027s probably a good thing I think we just need to update the document and submit linear version okay that would be great if you could do that maybe appreciate thank you the next one I wanted to ask about was the draft on on implementing time did you want to say anything about that one just what the status or what the thoughts are on this is what I call my housekeeping part of the agenda so no this draft this draft "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:13:39",
    "text": "has not been updated since last face-to-face probably in the next I yeah we haven\u0027t if we don\u0027t have any updates on right do you anticipate continued work on it that\u0027s what I\u0027m yes okay that\u0027s all that\u0027s all you really need to say I just wanted to I just wanted to know if there was continuing work on it or we\u0027re not so the next set of drafts so Harlan you submitted a bunch of drafts last night so nobody has had any time to review them so what I would like you to do is to spend maybe two or three minutes on each draft and tell us what you wanted to accomplish and so hopefully people can figure out which ones to review first all right sure is there a list of them somewhere we can look at I\u0027ll take them in order for whatever it\u0027s worth the updates I made don\u0027t contain any significant changes it all goes to language cleanups other things people have requested I do to make them okay so I I will I will step you through them how\u0027s that but okay the so the first one is the ref ID updates okay and that is the ipv6 ref ID and something else the not you ref ID and the ipv6 RFID okay yeah those are just not you is Sharon\u0027s proposal so I don\u0027t really I don\u0027t want I don\u0027t think we need to talk about what they actually are what I want to know is what what the what your objective was in moving from the last draft of this draft like what updates have been made told me that they didn\u0027t want the abstract to be so long they wanted references to the github repo they wanted a little bit more in the a little bit more language in the security stuff and I basically did a bunch of cleanups Sam told me that it\u0027s bad form to simply use pictures to show people what a packet looks like and that it\u0027s important to have descriptive text so I added that stuff okay so on this document for the working group this one is it is a working group document technically according to the to the data tracker it\u0027s in working group last call but basically what happened was it went through working group last column we had a lot of issues and we didn\u0027t actually move it out of working group last call so at the very least it needs another another revision so I would encourage "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:16:39",
    "text": "people to read this one and comment on the list the next one Harlan is well the next one that we have here is the that you updated last night was the extension fields document what I\u0027d like to mention with that one is we had a working group consensus call on that and we declared it to be a dead document in a sense that if what you have done is a tweak on the previous document then we\u0027ve already decided that this is not work we\u0027re going to progress so is the update a change in strategy or is it engine strategy and I\u0027m waiting to hear back from Sam about the ITF extension field registry it\u0027s not quite ready - it\u0027s not quite ready yet just a step closer so I would I would like to remind you that it has we have declared it dead and so there has to be a good reason for us to resurrect it I understand okay then the next is the extended information extension field did you want to talk briefly about the changes in this one from the and the next set of documents these are all at this point individual submissions we have not adopted them as well if items yet the last instruction that was given to the working group was that we would proceed with extension field specifications that were compliant with 5c 78 22 and so it\u0027s my number was 78 22 right so they can\u0027t be they are or did you say are they they are listed in a way that works and since 78 22 says things like the size of an extension field is dependent upon whether or not it\u0027s the last extension field it\u0027s compatible with that I didn\u0027t see any benefit to complicating the individual proposal saying here\u0027s how long this is if it\u0027s the if it\u0027s an early packet and here\u0027s how long it is if it\u0027s the last packet 78 twenty-two cares about that the proposal will all say well you know make make this extension feel the length that is appropriate so the extended huh oh I thought you were done and I was I was giving Daniel the floor because he\u0027s at the queue he\u0027s at the physical queue by my quick route by my quick reading of suggest ref ID last night and I didn\u0027t go I may be missing something in the text because ladies look at the diagrams but it looks like the body for that is "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:19:42",
    "text": "only for our cats which can which complies with RFC 78 22 in neither case regardless of its position it can be as long as anybody wants it and the and the payload for a rough ideas for octet so if it needs to be padded it\u0027s perfectly fine to Pat it okay so so back to the so I set the stage by saying that we are open to extension fields if they are compatible with RFC 78227 animal you said that you didn\u0027t let me finish so now what I\u0027m going to do is go through each of the new drafts that you submitted not like you just speak specifically to to what what has changed and what action you would like the working group to take on them so the first one is the extended information one yeah I\u0027d like that going to last call well it\u0027s not actually a working group document yet there\u0027s a short document and did you make any I addressed all the feedback I got from Sam and some of the stuff Danny commented about and a couple of other things and extended information may end up getting another tweak from me soon because I have another idea but okay so all right so for this one we want to do a call for adoption for the working group the next one is also an individual submission it\u0027s the I do extension field you want to talk about that one briefly it\u0027s just the I do extension field has turned out to be very important when dealing with a mix of new and legacy clients and I basically cleaned up the language and hopefully Sam will look at it and decide it\u0027s better than it was before but the content of it is pretty much the same if that isn\u0027t a working group document I\u0027d like it to become I\u0027d like it to be considered as one okay the next one is the the last map last df1 those are pretty much the same if they aren\u0027t working group documents they should be all the problems we have with a legacy Macker because it\u0027s not an extension field and it\u0027s ambiguous so by allowing people to put the Mac in an extension field that completely goes away similarly the last extension field is an unambiguous way to say I\u0027m the last extension field and if you want to make that 28 bytes long great without it you know it is everything i can see says it\u0027s not necessary and it\u0027s perfectly fine as a four byte last extension field "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:22:42",
    "text": "but you can make it as however big you want it\u0027s compatible is 78 22 okay and then the last extension field that you have a suggested ref ID that yeah that\u0027s good for a bunch of things it\u0027s similar to not you and the rest of it it\u0027s there\u0027s no way for server a to tell server B if you use me as your system peer please use this ref ID and that\u0027s what this proposal does since there\u0027s no other way to communicate those this allows people to increase their security by using a nonce and effectively random nonce could be encrypted could be a bunch of things but it\u0027s basically a way to remove some of the some of the exploitable aspects of a race ID and it\u0027s also useful for example in the leaps mirror ideas that are about to happen okay so that\u0027s for proposals on the floor for new extension fields none of these are currently working group documents so we will do a call for adoption on these and see if the working group is willing to take them up the last document that was submitted is the leaps may RFID I know this was originally part of the other ref ID updates and we pulled it out because the leap smear piece was more controversial do you want to talk about that sure there needs to be a clearly visible method in the core packet to identify that a system pier is a leap smear its following leaps animator time instead of correct time and that\u0027s what this does it makes it easy and obvious to see that a system is synchronized to a leap smearing server if you never use leap smearing stuff then you\u0027ll never see it if you are in a situation where you might see leap smearing servers it can be incredibly helpful both to the system and systems in question as well as the operators who want to keep an eye on things to know whether or not somebody\u0027s doing Lechmere okay so this is also so do you have any additional changes you want or is this also something you would like to see adopted I would like to see it adopted all right so with that I\u0027m popping you out of the queue so basically my my motivation for doing this was to go through all of the things that we have that are outstanding and see if we can get some of these things "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:25:42",
    "text": "wrapped up the is there there so when these were calls for adoption come out I need to be sure that people read the document please and and comment on whether this is something the working group wishes to undertake the one thing I\u0027m not Christophe yes Christophe in the leap see RFID document would you consider um giving the option of communicating other information I\u0027m scaling as information for example people wanting to UM send out tii instead of UTC basically says I\u0027m using a different time scale than proper UTC um why limit it to just the one the purpose of the leap smear rough idea is to show that this data that somebody\u0027s following a leap smearing server that is different from true time if you want to run your systems in a different time scale that\u0027s not something that I think we can use the ref ID for because the primary purpose of the ref ID is loop detection and if you\u0027re going to be running a system and ta I you and you use a special breath ID you say that my system is Tia ta I instead of something else you then lose loop detection well you lose it permanently as opposed to during a 24-hour period when you\u0027re making an adjustment once every two years so there are other there are other ways to handle what time scale you\u0027re using and I\u0027ve got that those are on on our discussion lists for NTP version 5 [Music] Harlan III I think you\u0027re making a good argument for why we should what for why we shouldn\u0027t be putting this in the ref ID at all and put it somewhere else let ref ID be for loop protection and stop and let\u0027s stop overloading it semantics any more than it already is go ahead Watson okay Christopher okay go ahead Krista um no I was going to say the same thing I\u0027m supporting down this point this opponents answer sounded exactly like a good point for why it was a bad idea to communicate in that way go ahead Watson I think that with and yes a lot of this lets stroke try and negotiate extensions and DDP packets we can do by extending the NTS "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:28:43",
    "text": "key exchange protocol it\u0027s very extensible and then we don\u0027t have to worry about package size limitations which we\u0027re creeping up on okay yeah I agree with Watson a lot a lot a lot of a lot of these negotiation bit suck it can be done quite easily with that with new NT SKT retro types okay any more discussion on the lists go ahead if you don\u0027t want to use leaps mirrors and you don\u0027t want to do the other thing don\u0027t I\u0027m more interested in making sure you people don\u0027t prevent folks who want to use this stuff from doing it okay any other comments or questions [Music] excellent the one thing I meant to mention earlier that I forgot is I wanted to acknowledge onchao with the new RFC on the Mac so congratulations thank you for doing that work any other business working group items nope we will in all likelihood try to schedule a couple interims between now and whenever the next meeting is I guess July so stay tuned for the scheduling of those anything else all right with that I give you thirty minutes of your day back oh those of you who are who are gonna join us for dinner we\u0027ll be sending out an email at some point about where we\u0027re going [Music] "
  }
]