[
  {
    "startTime": "00:00:07",
    "text": "Should we start? Sure. Hi. Welcome everyone. Thank you to those of you who still in person in Japan and have stuck around for this last session of the Week and many thanks to those of you who have joined online at various hours in your time zones, some more difficult than other time zones to be attending. So thank you for that. I'm sure. Hello, I. And we are really pleased to have Blue berger as our delicate. Today. He's up on this stage or wherever it is in the room, and welcome to Karina. As well. Let's see. And you are in the raw such in case you were wondering where you are at this hour. Again, since it's been a long week, and you've probably seen this many times we'll give you a brief overview of the note well It's important to remind you that their various topics that the Seriously, at least of which is declaring early and often involvement in any patents. That might impact the uptake of material. Or content and additionally our code of conduct. Where we take it seriously that we treat each other with respect and we work very hard to collaborate to make for progress that we're civil and flight. And appreciative of everyone's time. You should also know that this is being recorded and that by being in an attendee, you acknowledge the use of your"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:02:00",
    "text": "audio and video and any written materials. Of course, Offers ombudsman services. Should you need them somebody to speak to Should you want to read more details about these policies their links listed in our slide. But you can also, of course, always approach working group chairs and And we have our routing Ad here in the room. To s. Who's sitting there. He is sleeping at us. Who's been really a great partner. In this effort. If you are on site, you should you should know that we are using and managing the queue via the mid echo tool, and so this is the icon that you should click on in the data tracker and put yourself in the queue and, of course, for those of us remote we're all here already, so you know how to use the full tool. And that's the icon for it. Let's see, attendees should be wearing masks and we request if you're not speaking please keep your audio off. And if you remote, please use your headset. To make things more a and understandable to those on online. We are in need of a minute taker and Lou has kindly dropped the link to the notes into the chat window. Would should you like to click on it? That would be really helpful. And it's collaborative. So just join right in. And the meeting materials are where we where you would press them off of the data tracker, and she do wanna join the list this is how you do so to subscribe. If you wanna learn more about law. Link"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:04:02",
    "text": "is provided there. The status some our documents. I mean, I'm absolutely thrilled the Karina here with us because we have a new Rf. In fact, it's our first Rf and Karina and her coa author's News and Thomas should be congratulate along with Pascal who was the chef bird, and John who did his fair share of heavy lifting So bravo B, really thrilled that the El dash strap has graduated to R status. We have another draft that is fairly far along and we also have some of the c op here online as well. The use case draft, which I believe all of any of the issues that were raised have been resolved at this point, and I think it is a awaiting A review. And so that looks to be advancing in short order. The technologies draft has been ready for advancement as well. It waits the write up And as you'll see later in our session, we the shepherd was assigned to Carlos who has been very busy running lots of drafts leading lots of sessions and then having his second child. So congratulations on that. In the meantime, we await the right up. The technologies draft. We're hoping that that will happen. Soon we'll work him to progress that. Although we focused on the architecture sure draft almost completely the last session to the last App at Of one, we will come back to that in short order, but for now it won't be discussed at the"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:06:04",
    "text": "at this particular meeting, we will be getting presentations on the use cases draft o m draft, and the mobility draft So stay tuned for that. The industrial requirements draft, we did reach back out to the c of that and there is interest to progress it even though it just expired and we may also in order to progress it further because it's really in very good shape We may add... We may seek additional offers to help push that open the line. And then there's several other drafts that are you know, progressing through the natural order of presentations and so forth, but which have not as yet been adopted by the working group. Anything else to add on that front? No. I think that's probably about right. I'll make you quick from it eve make scratching on your collar little bit. Oh, hate when that happens. Okay. Give me a little place We go. Okay let's just take off this jacket. Okay. Thank... It's cold. It's actually called by California standards. This is our agenda for the day. And as you can see, Carlos Bernardo is the man of the hour. And the person of the hour and so Carlos is going to be presenting all three of the drafts. And Carlos, would you like to drive from your screen or would you like us to drive? Hi, everyone. I think if I can use share slides two, that will be perfect. Basically the the slides. See. So today's start?"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:08:02",
    "text": "Yes. Would leave you okay you got it. Brilliant. Okay. So let me see. Grant we we have granted permission. Yes. So this is the first one. Right? Perfect. Thank you very much, guys. So Good morning everybody. I think I will be the one of the half hour calling, I I don't I don't think I will be using the the whole. So anyway, Let's start with the use cases. So this is just a reminder of what we cover in the the you cases these other the use cases that have been are covered by the in the draft. In in different or in in detail, following the this structure, basically we have the description of the use case. The specifics of the use case the challenges is, a bit of justification of why wireless is important for that specific use case. And then the road specific requirements section with also as a section or or detailing, what are the non security considerations for that particular use case. So this has been the structure for for long time. It's been quite stable. And the status of the document or or the are update from the previous Is basically that the top went through. I evaluation. We've got up first of comments, very detailed of comments in November. We've got many reviews also from some directories and from the Ac from, we had a... In a summary, we've got a discussion from man And with many many many comments are very useful with you."
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:10:01",
    "text": "Including some request for quan aspects it's use cases and a few other things. We submitted an new version addressing these comments well of the the other coming from ids. And this customer was cleared in in March. With forgotten state from Martin, we provided comments So far we didn't get any any paper feedback from that. And as I mentioned, we all the comments. Basically, I think we Are waiting for the due to a look. And I don't know if for the I agree to take a a look and then hopefully provide the or or... I thought I've I set the document in this division and go to the next steps but I don't know if if our Ed can maybe provide some comments on this. Yes just for me as well, and for the rest of quarter to know if we are if they are waiting for us to do anything, to mister. Yep. John got here. And thanks for setting that up. Right. So you're you're exactly right that what the next step is for me to check back in and review the changes. And from what I've skimmed through on the on the email, it looks to me like, there's not gonna be any need for any process beyond that. So there doesn't need to be a... It would be only in extraordinary cases that they would have be like another last call or Ie g review or anything like that, Probably what will happen. Is I'll review the updates. And I'll say, awesome. You have taken care of. I mean, Roman already cleared as discussed. So Roman already thinks that you know, you've got nailed. Martin's position is an abs, which is non blocking. So probably"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:12:00",
    "text": "the only, you know, process that has to happen is I have to review, and then I have to click in an off it goes to the Rf editor. And, of course, I'll be in touch with you if you know, there's anything else needed, but that's not my expectation at this time. So I should be able to take care of that in the in the coming week. Okay. And all your work on it. Well, thanks so that much for for your support. You have been very very useful funds and supportive so. Thanks lot. So that will be it for for this one. Any other comments questions? Doesn't look like it. Okay. So then we can go to the next one that it this So this a different this this is basically an individual submission that we submit for this Idea. Is common six for mobility, and basically, is an attempt to look into the mobility problem raw, which I has not been yet address, and I think that that may relevant in san use cases? Where I think we do make have terminal connected to a road domain, where that and may be mobile. And that it implies mobility, what we are used to in in. But also mobility in a very specific scenario with very specific constraint requirements because of of so with mobility is a bit more challenging. The most of the document is to basically discuss what may be"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:14:03",
    "text": "the control extension solutions that we need to thing of to cope with mobility. By basically doing something things proactively. Well, again, this proactive management in mobility is not new in. There been a lot of work in the P six area. I guess here we need to take care of what we need to do in the network tools basically, compute the paths and try to do things in advance to to minimize part on the the in the treatment of the flows. And then additionally we find some extensions that basically do this or or provide these extensions control the extensions to mobility management our bar. So this a bit the motivation and the summary of what we doing in this drop, which is just our first, to foster discussion in the group is not more than that. So this is the table of contents. We have the promised statement at the beginning. We have some I mean, usual and then we have the the extensions for the terminal. And for that, we have a ten initiated section at the beginning, then we have another control section that in this version of the draft, is not yet provider, but it's basically modification of the terminal initiated or terminal control mobility and then we have the mo extension this roughly the way that we will will discuss as say has been also present that did this Idea in the Dm. Working look, which is it an internet area work group basically dealing with mobility management and and as of today the working group in charge of normally twenty six maintenance. So we believe that was also I would working it look relevant for this type of work. So"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:16:01",
    "text": "And then after we have the consideration security considerations So the scenario very simple, this were more for the dm working group to understand. We have a terminal that is a attached to our own network a scenario where you may have multiple. You might have this associated with each of the ronald in distributed we have a Pc element. For the domain. Just for the sake of an example, we've we have an Xr server, which is the application that we using the as an example of driving this where you have the the terminal connected to that server that requires in the network is conditions, and then you're and you want to keep the the keywords, let's say of the flows between the terminal and the and the server. Then the kind of way we address this problem for the terminal initiate that may control mobility is the one that we have in the feeder. So we have here the terminal on the left hand side, the server on the right hand side, the pc goes to the to the server in the figure doesn't mean that is has has to be close to the server by any means. And then some notes, basically, the the terminal is moving from one point of attachment that we call the old of attachment attachment to a new run, a new point of attachment. What we have there is the first step, which is kind of optional is basically about learning to which new point of the terminal may need to attach to and the information associated to that. That is optional and in the sense that the terminal may obtain that information by different means and the document doesn't get into those type of details."
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:18:00",
    "text": "Once the terminal has decided to move to the new point of attachment, is signals to the current or all of attachment that is is gonna be moving to one with the methods go indication. That contains some information for the old point of attachment to pairing in touch with the new one provide information for the new one to proactively prepare the network for the hanover. This is basically what is done in the step number two. The that allows the new point of attachment to compute some tracks and and prepare the network. For the moment, the actual hand takes place. Once this tracks this preparation is done the new point of attachment or the of attachment can signal back to the all of attachment that this is okay. This thing can be go back or get back to the actual terminal me now, And at this point is optional will it the document we may be doing standby by custom. Meaning that traffic may get to the current or slash all point of attachment and to the new points of attachment to maximize to minimize Then the actual layer two hanover over takes place. And then the bike cut stops and basically, flow gets to the new point of attachment. And this basically tries to minimize the date, but as I mentioned before. So this is the simple Uv or terminal control initiated mobility management. This signaling for those that maybe not familiar with no Management this growth indication in the. Is basically extensions of what is done mobile Ip this possible for proactive we manager fact? So it's as an extension, this is not meant to be completely new"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:20:01",
    "text": "messages on on its own. Then we have the network control, I will not go into the details It's basically the kind of same thing, but with the trigger the control on the network so then network is the one that basically besides. This terminal is gonna be moving from this import of attachment to this new point of attachment. So there is no trigger from the from the terminal is triggered by the. But then the rest of a is basically the same. And then in the document, and I again in the presentation, I will not go into the details because I guess this is just for the sake of initial discussion. We have the tensions that we define to the mobile the approximately these extensions acknowledgement and then the the new mobility options that are contained on these options the Raw mobility option there or who convey an of the road domain. This is for the case that we may have in the future also multi domain or domain then we have the deployed the mobility option that is just to to transport an idea of of the point of attachment the new on the old. And the Q mobility option just to indicate or to convey to the new one are the requirements the for the flow. In terms of next steps, the goal for the the office was to collect feedback from the community from the Dm and the role working group, And then based on that, see whether there is interest in working on something like this. And then continue working on that. Hopefully, getting more people on board and I'm progressively this partner. So any questions any comments from where you... Maybe what I do think this is an interest interest problem to work on independently of"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:22:00",
    "text": "whether this is the potential solution or we made it to look into other other things. Ahead. See Hi, Carlos. Thank you. A quick question. Five is one of the road technologies is this needed in case of five. I think... But this one very good... Where it could that we may need to look into into details but I seen that if for the case of five g, I'm not sure with the current specification whether this has been considered to prepare considering the the very high trained requirements of of pro. That's a question that I'm not completely sure. How is done today with the url? For preparing and executing a hanover doing this nobody this is the conditions are. I guess this the your question goes along in those lines. Right? Dennis? I think we've lost you ownership. Has a come say rug. Right? Yes. So yeah. This something that we Have a good one I I we would need to to take a look because also there are there are not only in, But also wifi there another example, we may need to take a look because depending on the technology for example the the option of step that I mentioned the in the figure this step number zero. You may have more or less information also the specific for the technology that you use. So this will be something to to introduce into further into revision of the document. Yes. That's a very good point."
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:24:00",
    "text": "I'm in the queue, so I'm I'm gonna jump in at this point. I think you've half answered my question is whether this has a applicability across multiple lower layers and therefore I think it might if the answer is yes, then I think this is valuable work Yeah, five g may have a solution for this. But as you say, Wifi technologies or alternative link lab, wireless technologies may not have this. And having the capability with it with like within Mobile Six may well be useful. Alongside mobile Ip six. Yeah. And another comment basically or or this is that we may also have this explicitly mentioned in the draft yet because it's just version, but we may also have multi technology technology hand over. So you may be considering that in some scenario a terminal may be connected to a Wi f points of attachment access point. And then because of the movement, it it may get out of the coverage conversation and it has to maybe go to five. Then in some environments, you may need to to do this, and then you need to touch something. There is no pure layer to technology to support that you need to do something on on top. So that really be the reason for this. Go ahead. Balance I got a very soon. Just one comment regarding the 5g g stuff. So in three release eighteen, they have defined and generalized the dsm support and this is called not Time sensitive communication, Ts And that is where the endpoints are fully covered with the functionalities and including handover stuff like that. So it is not part of the Url. Of course, in see that you you have some functionalities."
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:26:03",
    "text": "But regarding time sensitive communication and the is the communication It is also defined in 3g g period release eighteen. Okay. Thanks valerie. Okay. Thanks. Carlos. So there's level questions on this should we move up to the next that Yep. And I guess the initial fit, feedback we got is that there seems to be some interest so we will continue I agree. I think we'll hat I think there is interest in this work. I mean, personally, I can see that this is interesting. So, yeah, Don't don't don't stop on this. Okay. So I request again Thanks. Thanks. So is me again on the last item. Draft presentation for today. So this on the Oem, very short update as well. This is me presented on behalf of my of the course of of the draft. First life is summary a very nice summary on the updates of the lifetime life of this document how also there were some things that went into into death specific and then things are willing to roll specific This is for the road specific course, and you can see from the version hotel been the main changes down. In this case, we are gonna focus in the changes from transaction zero five to version zero six. That was submitted in March this month, basically. So first type of updates that we did were terminology, So we have now the maintenance standpoint and the maintenance intermediate in their point, the"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:28:04",
    "text": "Me p and Mi. So basically, the maintain is an entity that is capable of creating or reacting to oem messages and then these are meant to be in the edges of the domain. And then there is a intermediate point. There is the... An entity that is capable of responding to earlier messages. And again, we we also define the oem domain which is basically is the monitor domain. With the Me piece on its eighties. So we've got a fire up data to slightly a bit. I mean, already with these talks. Then we made different clarification how many For example, we clarify a bit about please on the interactions between layers to and layers. Three? That are required for oem. We also were other a bit more specific texts to distinguish between raw Death net that is kind of the generic framework, but roy is for the what as specific. So we are a text that was more clearly panel already at the raw specific part this with the wireless segments of the net. We also introduce our situation a property proposition for the payoff in the draft. And we also got some text about any cost then we also did clarification that is kind of turning holiday as well on the to categories for false for the detection of for identification before I think we have for addiction on verification on for identification installation. As something like that we now use this terms that we believe are better for for the to category with cover the draft for false. And then we also in"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:30:01",
    "text": "get in the in some part of the driver where we talk about the device emission well that there are so component need to be considered specifically because of the wireless. That has to do with the queuing access and ratios that made take place into the Waters meeting. Then we did say this they would remember the predictions as section, we clear with the text and we now tech is better than before. Basically, we we explained that for the prediction, we need to basically assess are the gains of configuration when you play predict that something made change and the the cost of that reconciliation And depending on that, that information may be useful for actually deciding whether that the is worth take into account the the gain and the cost of that configuration when you predict that that may be So we believe that the text is not clear about this. And this is basically a summary of what we have done. We will believe that the draft is now a stable of course, as usual, we always are very careful about your comments suggestions. And we believe that the that it may be the the point out to go to working in last call, of course, is there work move the shares they address on this. Any comments questions? I wonder if you can share with us also the status of the Dead net Oem m draft I think I saw that it had progressed or maybe lose. You can comment on that as well. Go ahead. I'm I'm... No. Honest go ahead. Well, I I think. The that dopamine also quite stable I would say. So I think what we are basically about to be done with both"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:32:03",
    "text": "So it's up to us to to go for that. Think one of the concerns that we have is that we likely need the architecture document to be stable and before we finish the Am draft. And so it is pretty far along. And we'll have another conversation about that at the end of the session. But I... You know, what I think that was one of the comments that has come up But otherwise, the draft looks fairly solid. And the current improvements look good. So Z, it's always difficult to block one document that's in good condition another one. So there's a bit of a bit of a fine here to I think this path is in really good state for working group. I called. I think he's got sufficient review The question is whether this Steve said, the architecture document is is kind of a dependency on this one, and it's not progressing as fast as we would like. So I think this is a discussion between probably the chairs yourself us the chairs and the Ad about how we how we make progress on this purely from a sort of process perspective rather than a perspective. I think a working group last call is is probably a valid request. And we probably could go to a working group last call, but it may then sit there for a while what we try and sort out the other document. Lou, go ahead. You're your wiser in these things than I am. Okay. Speaking... Even though I'm sitting up here contributor, I think going to last call is a good idea and one of the things you can ask during the last call is should this wait for the architecture document or not or"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:34:04",
    "text": "what part is blocked by the architecture? Because Carlos is right. The framework is I think it's in John's q. Is my memory. That, I might be wrong but I'm doing it by memory that's always dangerous. We have an Okay. And we and then we have an Mp s document that's super close and And the Ip document is almost there. It has, like, one section that needs a a a good revision before we go to last call. So And you're talking about all of the related Oems documents for those folks who are not aware. Right. And that's all say. Yeah. These are all debt net Oem documents that this sort of lines up nicely with and I think doing a read to see whether or not There's sections that are blocked by the architecture, a great idea. But you could certainly go to last call and and figure that out as part of that. Thank you. Thank you for that advice. That sounds. Very good. Ahead. And I I put myself in in the queue to say, This seems like kind of also a natural time since Pascal mentioned in the in the z chat, that he thought that if I understand your comment correctly Pascal that the architect document in his opinion is ready for last call. That was what I didn't he didn't use the words last call. He said it's ready or something like that. So Go ahead, Lou. Okay. Thanks. I was scrambling to find the old messages to on to and say to to pascal and say, I hear that you think the architecture ready, but we had a a series of discussions that back in October, that we never closed off on. And I think we have to close off on those discussions. And make sure that those issues are addressed before"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:36:01",
    "text": "doing the last call. Some of them are just terminology, but some of them are also some how to represent the wireless layer to the routing layer. So can I can I just check at on for a second? Can I just jump in and ask us to hold this precise conversation about the architecture document for a little bit later into the agenda because just answering Carlos, I think, yeah? A working group last called is perfect for this taking on board lose comment. I think, yeah, great document great condition will learn the rest of the debt stuff will understand what state in here and will debate how we move on this document. The reason I I kind of stepped in at that point is Thank you, Carlos. We've got some more topics we want to discuss in this session, which will then bring us, I think neatly on to discussing where we go with the architecture documents and and and so on. If that's okay? Yep. Sounds. Thank you very much. Thank you. So eve, do you wanna go back to sharing the slides? Yes. you get to see my pretty face again. U. And Let me see. Alright. I think I'm looking at This is our agenda. Yep. So we're jumping onto the discussion there. Okay. Go ahead. If you can cover the first one. Sure. Well, Jan shared with us that there was an invitation from the I eight zero two group and with their p in July that they're looking for a raw tutorial, which is fabulous that there's both interest and there will visibility, and it looks like both yan and Carlos while Carlos will lead and and"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:38:00",
    "text": "partner on presenting kind of a debt net into raw tutorial for that community. So that's coming up. And the other notable news is that both Rick I have had changes to our work situations and we are both looking to transition off of being c chairs of the working group however, we have, you know, been in close discussion with John Lid and Lou and yan and we all believe that it would be beneficial to get to a good juncture with several of these rather mature documents. Get them in a good state and then roll the raw group back into D net, which is where it was bond in the from in the first place. So that is our big news here. Rick, did you wanna make some additional comments regarding your? Yeah. So so some of the thinking that went into into this proposal was aside from even my professional change the circumstances. No first off noted was want to leave this group in the lunch and just say, Goodbye. This is the ends just just run off and leave you with an Empty room. So our intention is to is to continue to to through some transition with raw to whatever the the next iteration of rule. And in our opinion, where I think Raw has got a little bit un stuck is getting the wider review, particularly around the architecture dot which is a major piece of work for raw and and we can all tell progress hasn't been as quick as we would all like. And I think pulling it into the wider forum of death net should get that that wider peer review and that better consensus about"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:40:03",
    "text": "the shape of the documents and hopefully make progress which I hope Pascal will appreciate because he's put masses of work into this. And it would be great to get it closed off because it is a valuable piece of work. But I feel rory is such a small group that we're not ever quite getting on top of this stuff. So just to recap even I don't wanna leave the group in the alert, but we want to make sure that it's set up for success in the future, whether that's part of the larger deck because we are talking about deter networking. And we've good documents on the use cases on some of the Oem extension that really sets us up in a good position to go back into the larger debt net and say, here is all the evidence hard work which supports the wireless use case. Take that into consideration as we're building those wider things. Does that help or like w? Okay. Terrific any other comments from Lou or John? And Jan for that matter? It's also one line. So I'll... I think you've covered it pretty well. I... I guess what I would add is that so the tentative plan that we've come up with is as you say, The the main thing I wanna say is it's not a done deal And obviously, the next step is what we're doing right now which is sharing it with the entire group. And if people have input concerns, etcetera that they have either right now or that come into your minds over the next few days? You know, please reach out to the chairs, me, whoever you"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:42:01",
    "text": "feel is the right person to reach out to and we'll take it board. But but I like plan. I I think it feels like the right one, and I, you know, very much appreciate how the sets of chairs have worked together to come up with it. That's all, thanks. Yeah very briefly. I just want to basically base for the for the work on the support this year. So I think you made a not work. So I think that this deserves recognition. This is my first point. And then the second point, is on the on the panel I fully agree with that. I think that that makes sense. My comment question will be how do we plan to deal with... I mean, adding this stuff into the internet that is already quite active group, but we'll add more load and guess in the meetings, maybe we may need to have more session time to deal with all of that. I guess that will be taken care of a a proper time, but I asked assume this is gonna be considered. Right? Maybe having more than one session if require and this type of things. So just to address that color, we we have been talking to lou about this before we you floating the idea as as concept to make sure it fitted. Within their thoughts but don't net let the coaches... And of course a job. He was eighty both the both groups And yes, right That will be a challenge. I don't have the answer. And then kinda looking for for lu to have opinions here. But yeah, it is a valid point. So I appreciate Carlos setup. He... First of all, he... The first thing he said was to think Rick and eve for the really good work and and shepherd the"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:44:04",
    "text": "the activities, the creation of the working group and and the accomplishments to date and I I... That was the first thing I wanted to talk about. So I really appreciate that he he brought that up. And Completely second that those sentiments. The next point was I was gonna talk about is the same one that Carlos talked about. Is how are you thinking about managing it? Well, That in a different place, than we were when Ross spun out, we had quite a bit more fundamental work going on and that work is really wrapping up. The last bit of that was the Oem work. And that's coming to a close right now. So, the the group that group is more mature and it's not idle. That's for sure, and we have a new sort of theme going on on queuing and that really hits a very niche group there's a whole bunch that are actively interested in it, but it's just a segment of of the interested parties who participate in Debt net, the other part that participate I think the raw work is much more in their interest a general architecture, the fundamental behavior of deter networks how to deliver deter networks in a general way. And I think those are the those are the people. Those are the resources that we're hoping we'll be able to leverage and apply to wrapping up the pieces that don't get closed out before they before Raw, you know, shuts down and that transitions has worked at dot net. So I think we have people Yeah. We gonna need to spend some time the queuing discussion could take all the time of the whole week quite honestly. And we're managing that by having these side meetings so we can have long discussions on each topic rather than five minutes. We can have forty five minutes or two hours. I think I think we haven't managed that way. And it I think it aligns really well with the interest of the of the group. So we're I'm very hopeful about the plan. Thank you."
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:46:08",
    "text": "Thanks, Lou. And well we're all dig a little bit self. I even I are both absolutely confident that that Lou and yellow still a great job with dead net and and this is a good safe pair of hands to to to pass the working group too. One question I was I was wondering about having a a a virtual poll But just to comment on the chat is probably quicker because this isn't anything's of binding is how many of the participants here also participate in net net? And I... Because my guts tells me the was in those meetings anyway. And I I think... Maybe it would be easier to ask, who on the list is not a debt net participant. As many of the names we are familiar with. And c over at dot net. So if you would like to drop that into the chat or maybe we just do a poll. Let's just do a poll. I mean, we've got the time that it doesn't take long until quick show hands. There we go. Massively quick one, do you not participate in debt net? Is the question? It's just to give us some idea. What what I we do participate if you do participate in debt net, do not raise your hand. I'm looking for in the venn diagram of d net and raw, Only goes to wrong only. I'm looking for people... So you raise your hand if you're if you only attend raw, if you attend So they can listen to negative. No. No. We've got... We got people doing it. Quick questions with double negatives are always really successful. Yeah. I know."
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:48:05",
    "text": "Okay. So actually, yeah. That's that It's it's about half of of quite a small polling group. Okay. Okay. So think it would be useful to ask the broader email list actually. And I think I probably is... That would probably definitely be part of the discussion. So just to to to follow lot from the comment I made on the in the chat. Our intention is as all the chairs of all the groups in the eighties involved is not to make this a sudden sort of mandated from high transition is to make sure that this is the right move for the working group. And and most importantly not the working group. The content we are trying to work on. So this is about the documents. So there will be discussion on the list. If you have strong objections or strong opinions or weak opinions. Steps of the mic now, get your comment on the meeting list because I we would. We would welcome them Okay. I'm gonna end up Yeah. And I would I would also like to take a moment to thank Lu who have been amazing role models of what really great c chairs look like and also terrific mentors. They have been alongside of us, every step of the way. And it has been greatly appreciated, and it has also as others have noticed and commented even in this session John has been a great Ad also, so thank you to the whole team and to all of our c authors who were trying to, you know, get these documents mature and progress through the system. We think it's been terrific community, and we are looking forward to seeing how it lives on and it's is nicely integrated back into done. Got it."
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:50:00",
    "text": "So just to try to keep things back onto to the agenda because we don't have a great deal more to finish in this session. The the elephant in the room. Is the architecture draft. So we need to understand, and I'm not sure we're going to decide now the future of the architecture draft. So with many of the the use cases document as we've have we've seen is very very close to Submission we we've gone through those final reviews. The M draft is in a great place for work group last call. Lots of good view seems very contentious. So that last call will probably go successfully. The architecture document has slightly stalled because the authors believe it's ready, there are people who still have comment on it. Yes, It could go into a last call, but I think it would sit in that last call. The question ready for the group is do we keep raw alive long enough to keep. The to to get the architecture document into a good condition or is the opportunity of transitioning raw into death net the opportunity to adopt the architecture document within the larger dent net group and use the wider audience and death net. To get over the hurdle of last call. I can see the answer is easy for the rest of the documents we've got. It's the architecture document. And carlos mentions the technologies. I know Carlos we meant to talk about the technologies you've said before you've been busy. No need to apologize that I think I don't see that one has being particularly contentious and it will it will roll through how it how it goes. But does anyone have opinion about the oxygen Lou. I know you started to talk about it, and I and I interrupted"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:52:00",
    "text": "John Go ahead. This is me reacting in the moment, but it's I I think I agree with Pascal that sometimes the only way to really drive level of engagement that's necessary to get a significant document over the finish line is to to declare a working group last call, And that sometimes turns into a motivation for interested parties to arrange their schedules accordingly so they can, you know, prioritize time to do the review. That's, you know, just sort of a a sad fact of life as all of us have two... Well, two priorities in our priority queue. It's like hair on fire and everything is everything else that gets starved out by the hair on fire parts. So I I... You know, to to be a little joke about it, in in a way the suggestion is well let's let our let our hair on fire and we're pretty sure we can get it extinguished in time. So as to whether that, you know, let's just suppose that we're gonna use a working group last call I mean, really what a working group last call is is you know, it's an announced period of time. It's like speak now or forever hold your piece. Whether we do that, in Net managed by eve and Rick or whether we Sorry. And raw, I imagine you record with debt managed by Lou and Jan. I'm really"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:54:00",
    "text": "I don't have a strong opinion about which group it must take place in. If if I were Lou and Yan, I might say, even if it was taking a place under the net umbrella, I might ask nicely. That even rick help run that last call. So it's in a way, I think the organizational question is the the least import the most important questions are, you know, is this the right time you know, are are we ready to do it? With that, I will stop talking because Louis standing behind me. Just jump in very quickly, John. I don't think the question was at the ever administrative question. I think we're still circling around do we think it is ready to even go into last call, and that's what I'm hoping lose gonna... As luis is one of the the the the the debate in that. I in there's opinion. So it's interesting you say it's not administrative, because that's gonna come come up and say I have two points. One's administrative one one is the contributor. From an administrative perspective, which I know you're not didn't expect me to talk about. I... I'm okay. I don't have an objection to doing a last call But I would suggest do it in both working groups and the reason I say that is actually my technical from the technical side. I think the disconnect in the discussion has been having a wider perspective on the architecture. In particular, I've made a number of comments of how the raw architecture fits into the existing debt net and and t's architectures and that the the way it's written is very narrow and some of the items that are identified as wireless only or not. Wireless only."
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:56:01",
    "text": "They apply to other technologies. And that's the perspective, the wider perspective that I think has been missing and has made it hard to move this forward. So we can address that by bringing into that net, having a wider discussion there, or we can address it doing a joint last call and triggering the wire discussion that way. So for... I think the process can work either way. But it's really... How do we close on those points that require that broader perspective. Some of its terminology and we have to figure run that with to underground, but not all of it. Excuse me. Is terminology. For example, prom over hearing is still identified. As unique to wireless. Ethernet has had basic hearing pretty much forever. So you know, that... That's just one case. There's a a a whole slew of things, which are identified as unique to wireless that I think are actually not. That's the part that I want to see addressed in the architecture from a technical sample. Thanks. I've joined the queue got. So So back to the question of last call or not, go for it, but I I had asked to do it in both work as a joint last call. So so directly responding to that, though. I think get flashbacks to the previous light. Yeah. Where this document again had slightly stalled because it needed that wider review and the comment the comment at the time was this could do with the wider review and we're failing to get that way to review while it's still very much set in raw. So absolutely happy to help shepherd this forwards get it through a last call from an an admin perspective. But I I understand context of your comments just now being it needs the wider review in indebted net."
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:58:02",
    "text": "To align it with debt net and t's and some of those wider comments. That makes me think Gotta go to rule. Sorry. To say that again. It's gotta go to that. Really has got to get done. Oh, I was just gonna agree that I I think it's a great idea to do the last call and to do it in both groups. I think that addresses sort of the strategy that John talked about, which is it puts people on alert that they have a certain period of time to review this thing and to really show what the attention it requires. And secondly, I think it addresses lose concern that the broader technical community. And then finally, I think Rick, you're concern was also about the wider review needed. And so I I think that that kinda hits all of the points in constraints that people raised from a process standpoint. And so I think back to Pascal. That I think it should go to working group last call and it should be... It maybe it needs to be because the... The perception is that there some things that are still major. From a right up standpoint kind of addressing the discussions that that how happened. We give ourselves a longer runway, but let's do it in both groups. Yeah. Eve I totally agree. I've made a note. Let's let's just do this in both groups. Well we'll talk to what well lose it mike you can comment now. But that's just last call it in both groups. And just get it fixed. Because Pascal has worked on this. Mh for long time. Question, are one of you willing to serve as shepherd for the the joint last call. Thank you."
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:00:05",
    "text": "I have I personally shared with Sorry witnessed I I missed that question my audio. When strange for a second. If one of us would be willing to shepherd so document in last call. I was thinking that and I had said to lou and to jan that I would be willing to give it at close review. And I need to think on and maybe we need to discuss So what else, because I do think that that would be a good final act seeing this over the over the line Pascal are there other thoughts you have about shepherd? I know you're online. Oops. Rick, are you still there? I am. I I hadn't I had an audio glitch and missed. Several of the questions there. Sorry. I'll catch up. We specifically after one of us would shepherd. Okay. Much as I would love to part of the reason I'm I'm having to step down with c chair is my bandwidth. If I say yes, I am not going do a good job so I have to say no. I'm sorry. And here's my hesitation. I am willing to provide a really detailed review. And as folks know, I don't come from the wireless community. And my perspective has been often one of how are the use cases in the upper layers using this technology So my concern is"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:02:01",
    "text": "I can shepherd it and I will can review it and use my review as the as to right up. I worry that there will be some details that Michael missed. But presumably, that's where others come in as well. So that that is think I'm saying yes. I would be willing to do that. With the caveats that I have mentioned. Awesome. Thank you. So Eve Makes a very nice point on the chat. To choose technical issues could probably be the defined technical technicalities that you are concerned about may well be picked up by review from the wider death net community. So, like thank you for for the volunteering eve. Because I think that's part of that helping the document reg. Because one thing I am very conscious about is Pascal work. Very hard. And just need to get this over the total set. Because I I think fundamentally it's very encouraging. K? So sort of keeping our whole agenda. This is all we have for discussion we can have a bit session left. You can continue to discuss this, but there is a danger of us repeating. But that doesn't me I want to prevent any further comments if people have. Further comment. What would the working group like to do? And eve chime in by even if you're talking you mute, or you're not talking. I'm not... I'm not talking."
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:04:01",
    "text": "Okay. So the actions I have on my list working group last call for the Oem. Draft and during that last call we will work out when it's is scheduled. Architecture draft a working group. Joint last call between pet and role. And continuing conversation between the chairs of both groups and the Ads and discussion on the list about how a transition to debt will occur... What the timeline is and what the exact steps and who has to rename the document if the document has to be renamed, etcetera, etcetera? But that will be done in the public with... Hopefully the rough consensus of of both groups. The other two items were that the technologies right up Yeah. That Carlos has said he's ready to submit or he will short order do a write up of as shepherd for the technologies draft. And I think the other graph that we mentioned, but we could also have some closure on because it is not far from working group last call is the industry requirements one. Which would be great to see completed. So that's another unknown, but I think with the addition of So we are solicit maybe additional in if if... If folks have interest in that draft and would like to help us see it completed. Please reach out to us all the office. Or the office too. Exactly. Yeah. So so just as a little bit of background here. Both even nice kind of half chair hat on after hat. Really like that document. I you think it's a really good document."
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:06:00",
    "text": "And so we reached out to the office to say, oh, it's all on a bit quiet. I think it's expired now. Do you... Do you have the bandwidth to to pick it up again and and kinda get it finished off and the authors very Kind came back it. We're really busy, which obviously, I completely understand. So trying to work out a way but between the authors. And if anyone else is interested, how could resurrect at keep that document going and perhaps get it to a last call would be really nice. Because I think it it's a really valuable document. So that's kind of a discussion on the list if I saw Carlos. Said oh I can help with that, Carlos you we're an absolute draft machine. It's amazing. Or Carlos where you were responding to the Pascal conversation. Oh, don't Sorry. Sorry to I was responding to to the volunteering for the industrial pro industry requirements. Yes. So fantastic. So I think if we can if we can get a conversation with the authors on that, to to help them get it... on an email. Cc you Exchange. How's that Yeah. We'll do the introduction. So I'm hoping some of them... Well, Is No career wasn't involved in that one. I tried to see the It was Router. A Router is not dialed in. So We'll make that happen because I think it's a good document, and it would be great to get it. Polished off. So thanks Steve. That's that's the other point on the list. Otherwise, I'll be there for this session. Is there anything else or are people just enjoying the chairs? I should Turn on our video I think we should turn on our video and good idea. But I I would like to see everyone in San Francisco. Yes. Finally Coming my way. If there's nothing else, I think this is the session. Done. So everybody for... Lovely so you all through a camera. Okay. Cheers. I think that's it."
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:08:08",
    "text": "Thank you. We'll be in touch. Thanks, John. Bye Bye. Thank you very much for your support. Thank you. Thank you, cor and all the People well done. Yeah. I I just got the chat if you need further support the other documents just ping me so. Excellent. Nick. Thank you. Thank you. And If you're going be in San Francisco, we will have to celebrate that L achievement. I hope so. I'm not sure yet but Let's see. I will keep you in the loop when I'm in person at the. Fantastic. Would be lovely to to buy a drink and they can get place. See you soon. Bye bye. Same guys. Thank you very much. I lou. Thank you."
  }
]
