[
  {
    "startTime": "00:00:29",
    "text": "okay so I think we probably ought to make a start given the clock is now ticking good afternoon everybody welcome to the VIP room so you should all feel dutifully special trying to make Chrome there we go so this is the DTN working group if you are in the wrong room now is your chance to creep out quietly I\u0027m Rick Taylor first off as this is an IETF meeting it this meeting is held under the no well you should have all read I\u0027m no 12 before if you\u0027re not familiar I recommend you have a look on the internet and read it thoroughly that much more adieu I\u0027ll move on a bit of admin first off let me try and make this do something sensible there we go so we need a note-taker would anyone like to volunteer to make some notes there is an etherpad URL so you can dynamically take notes and other people could take notes I know edge normally takes some notes but he is speaking so if somebody else can jump onto etherpad while EDD is speaking and try and capture any of the comments that are made at the mic or anything like that that would be greatly appreciated also can somebody please monitor jabber for us we need to jabber scribe although we have meet echo a meet echo is very good it would be great if somebody is watching the jabber Channel any volunteers please thank you very much and the other little bits of admin are obviously please state your native name at the microphone because we have remote attendees and presenters there\u0027s a pink cross up here so you are stood in the right place for the audiovisual recording which all eventually ends up on YouTube and the remote attendees can also see you so we have some apologies which is as you can tell it\u0027s just me at the table here mark launched a senses apologies and Magnus Westerlund is also remote he can\u0027t make it in person so he\u0027s our ad but I\u0027m sure he can jump in across meat echo and tell me where I\u0027m going wrong so first off the agenda we have a reasonably light agenda for this working group meeting I will briefly run through some of the document status we as some of you know oh the other apology is I have very nasty cough so occasionally I may splatter we have three key documents that are all in the eye let me get this right they are all currently going through the area reviews so we have had some reviews from the Janerio sec area for the various documents these of "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:03:30",
    "text": "course came back with comments as they always do and so I will cover some of the status of some of those documents and two of the authors of two of those three documents are here and they\u0027re going to say a few words about the comments that were raised and how they\u0027re being addressed there may be some open questions for the working group which we have plenty of time to discuss and of course that discussion would be taken to the list as well I\u0027m I have the feeling they\u0027re not too contentious but I\u0027ll come on to that and Scott said he wanted to say a few words about bundling bundle encapsulation if he had time and some notes I Scott has no slides if we have time in there\u0027s interest can you do something freeform that\u0027s very kind and then we have an open mic at the end so prior to this meeting the chairs put a call-out on the mailing list to say does anyone have anything interesting they wanted to present there was a resounding silence but that doesn\u0027t prevent somebody who was too shy or it was too early to put something on the mailing list if they have something interesting please bring it to the microphone we have time to discuss these things so okay does anyone want to bash this agenda do you want to add any items and we missed something important okay so going through the document status for those of you who are not entirely up to speed with what we\u0027re doing in the working group at the moment there are three critical documents that are the foundation of the DTN protocol stack for the IETF work one of which is the update to the bundle protocol BP bists so the status of this is the genic review has come in there were questions over the definition of time and we are still waiting for the ops area review and the secondary review to come back in I\u0027ll let Scott cover that in a bit more detail tcp CL version 4 so the the DTM stack is divided between bundle processing agents which know how to shift bundles around and the concept of a convergence layer underneath which actually acts as effectively a link layer to move the bundles between nodes the first defined protocol for doing this moving is based on TCP and hence the TCP convergence layer and this is the version four so this is updating the work that was done in the IRT F now doing it in the IETF so this will be a standard tracked document and again we\u0027re going through the review phase with it ops dir came back and said it\u0027s fine there\u0027s some typos can you fix sec dir came back with a couple of queries about because we\u0027re running over TCP that means we are using TLS because it makes good sense and I won\u0027t go into all that detail here there are plenty of people who can tell you why using TLS is a good "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:06:30",
    "text": "idea that raised questions about certificate revocation so how is certificate handling managed for that TLS connection between peers and also because because DTN can be a DTN subnet effectively so a an administrative area could be running in a controlled environment such as International Space Station where your traffic isn\u0027t travelling across the public internet and you\u0027re pretty sure about which devices are connected to the network mostly because you put them there the option to say look I don\u0027t need TLS I am an embedded device without the power to do TLS can I not please as [Music] means there\u0027s a flag in the initial handshake in TCP CL which says look I can\u0027t do it please don\u0027t demand that I can and if you are happy with that we can proceed so obviously as security a DS came back and said well that\u0027s is that a downgrade attack how can that be exploited have you considered this and Brian C posish the primary author has answered these two what he believes is to his satisfaction we\u0027re waiting for comments to come back from the sec a DS to see if they\u0027re happy with that and brian says he has a new version of the draft which captures his comments sorts out the myths and I believe he is waiting for the general to review to return before he actually pushes out another document and the third document is so we know how to define a bundle and we have an example of how to move a bundle the missing pieces how do we secure this bundle not only for integrity but also for encryption and that\u0027s covered by the BP SEC document which again is in the review phase so it is currently marked as on hold because it has a normative reference to beat this BP Biss is waiting because I Anna raised some questions about the reuse of registries from the IEEE RTF documents now being taken on by IETF documents and I will let Scott try and get into a bit more detail about this although it\u0027s quite a hazy area otherwise Janet came back and said there were some typos and some small knits not a great problem and we are waiting for the SEC Arya review so BP SEC is a it\u0027s a security document it lots of deep security aspects to it and I I have no evidence of this but I believe the SEC will take a little bit of time to make sure it\u0027s correct they have done an early review on it before so we\u0027re hoping there\u0027s gonna be no showstoppers but I think Eddie\u0027s gonna say a few things about that as well I "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:09:31",
    "text": "beg your pardon and that pretty much covers me so next topic is some of you are are aware that we held a virtual interim between Montreal and today 18th of September to be precise the purpose of the virtual interim was to make sure that those 3 key documents that really are blocking they have to be done by the working group to give us a foundation on which to build everything else so it\u0027s critical that these really do get through onto the standards track as fast as possible so it was a discussion about how do we the progress of those documents and we\u0027ll go over that again there was a big debate for those who aren\u0027t aware BEP abyss is an update of a document that was originally worked on in the IRT F not the IETF so there is some politics and admin around although this is bundle protocol version 7 and obviously we would like to say use version 7 not the previous version 6 because it is better TM version 6 is owned by a different standards body so how do we indicate to readers of bundle protocol version 6 that they should go and look at version 7 and the conclusion that\u0027s the virtual interim was that we should work out the chairs should go away and discuss with the 80s and the IRT F people involved in order to just make this happen so rather than leaving both documents in existence try and work out the best way to mark RFC 5050 so bundle protocol version six as obsolete ie if you\u0027re starting a new implementation don\u0027t use this use the new one that\u0027s coming and the other thing that was discussed in the virtual interim was given we\u0027ve got these three critical documents almost complete and they\u0027re you know they\u0027re going through the iesg review phase and they\u0027re heading for the RFC editors what do we do next in this group so I know over the last a couple of meetings people have have said they have ideas we still have a couple of charter items and so as part of that virtual interim we started to draw up a list of some stuff people would like to work on or like to see done and that was published out on the mailing list and there was some good feedback and discussion about it the ad magnus had some concerns which was that the list was too ambitious and too big and was "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:12:32",
    "text": "there enough energy in the working group to get this done in a reasonable amount of time so that\u0027s the list I mean it\u0027s it\u0027s quite an ambitious shopping list and there are some really exciting topics on there so from my perspective yes this would be great to work on these kind of things but it does depend on is this doable and do we have people willing to do it so yes so I\u0027ll go back to that slide in a minute and if we have plenty of time in this session so if we want to go back to that slide at the end of the open mic spot and discuss that at some length I\u0027m absolutely happy to do that so my only other item was there is a fourth document that\u0027s been lingering around so for historical reasons it was taking quite a long time to get the fine detail of the TCP convergence layer done to the satisfaction of the working group and of the ISJ in the Secretariat etc in the meantime Scott Burley suggested that he had a very minimal we were avoiding the word simple but a really simple TCP implementation that might be able to avoid some of the complexities that was holding up the working on the TCP CL draft and so he wrote that up and submitted it and it was accepted as a working group document however now that TCP CL is has left the working group and is now in the IHG pipeline do we still need to bother to work on a minimal less capable subset of that functionality or are we just making work for ourselves so I\u0027m looking for comments from the room about this at the mic at the market now is good Scott at the mic Schiaparelli I\u0027m the minimum TCP CL is simple and small enough specification that it\u0027s not a huge workload whether we do it or not it\u0027s more of a and it\u0027s more of an administrative workload then then then a compositional workload if the TCP CL specification is is making sort of progress that it is then I certainly am NOT a great champion of pushing head with MTC PCL if it\u0027s not needed so I\u0027m happy to let that fall by the wayside "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:15:34",
    "text": "obviously I will take that question to the list but I am interested just quick show of hands in the room how many people have read TCP CL or MTC PCL Scott you wrote it both of them no only one of them okay so only a couple of people so this might be a better topic for the mailing list so as I said it will come back to propose new charter items at the end when we\u0027ve got a bit more of free time but in the meantime I think we\u0027ll move over to Scott if you\u0027re okay noon everybody Scott brought the Jet Propulsion Laboratory I\u0027m going to talk about the the gen arc review of the BP V 17 specification latest draft and I also am extremely sick so there will be occasional interruptions here while I go and lie down draft 17 of the specification was reviewed by the generic reviewer Stuart Bryant and on these slides about 20 some slides list of points that were raised in his responses and sort of by to frame this Magnus westerly the area director also read this review and he had some responses of his own and it was his feeling that there were some of these points that actually needed to be discussed in the working group and I will call those out as I go through the ones that I think are are none our really sort of open to some question RC 50/50 this is sort of a big one but I think that what happened in on the mailing list since the interim meeting was it was decided that it was not our job to obsolete RC 50/50 so this document that\u0027s not obsolete RSC 50/50 Stewart\u0027s question was it\u0027s not clear what the statuses RFC is with regard to our C 50/50 if it modifies the status of 50/50 s and we need to say so and so in the interest of not pretending that into 50/50 doesn\u0027t exist at all I proposed to add this sentence to the introduction "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:18:36",
    "text": "and the abstract to make that clear just to say that and this is this is a distillation of what came out on the mailing list that I RTF is advised this document is an update of RSA 50/50 reflects lessons learned does not obsolete RC 50/50 probably can\u0027t so anyone reading this document should be aware that we believe it\u0027s an improvement over our FC 5050 but our 5050 50 is not obsoleted if you want to use it then at least for the time being of course you\u0027re welcome to hold on Scott Magnus is coming in with a question oh yes yes I\u0027ll read your comment here so I think it careful about using updates in that because I mean updated in IDF terminology has different meanings and nothing puts intended here I mean we\u0027re basically talking about something which is revised or I mean or it\u0027s it\u0027s in some sense replacement but it\u0027s I mean it is revision so it\u0027s I think something else needs to be said there but adaptation maybe I I think I think I took update from the the text of the email so this was I think was his lifted from what came out on the mailing list but I\u0027m happy to change it to something else I think adaptation makes sense also Magnus so Rick here yeah from my understanding of the results of the virtual interim and the and the poll put onto the mailing lists the consensus of the working group was to recommend to the IRT F that they did obsolete it so although we can\u0027t prompt salute it we would strongly recommend as best we can that they do so and the IRT F chair at the time or I remember who he was he\u0027s calling yes instead I\u0027m quite happy to do that I mean it was a semi informal statement but he said I see no problem that if the IETF have gone ahead and worked on something then we can just mark on documents as as you recommend yeah in some sense we actually put in put in place a process for this case to actually have ITF obsoletes iot of documents in some sense so so that process has inside it has been created due to the discussion we had before also saying when we but yeah I mean you know the working group consensus supposed to not Erica obsolete it but there it\u0027s for the future we had you see I had to have this process in place where we can ITF can actually all sky or Taft directly by in in base setting obsolete and I RTF document and then they can agree on it so I my own feeling is that this document is the wrong place to explain all of that that that they\u0027re having a "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:21:36",
    "text": "sentence that said that there\u0027s a relationship makes a lot of sense but explaining the whole procedure and thing is that we worked on the process back besides say of doing that jobs basically in the future if you put an IRT assess an abstract document assess obsoletes an IRT F experimental we now know what to do with it that question will then in the approval stage go to IR to the IRF share and if they agree on obsoleting IRS documents that\u0027s what\u0027s gonna happen so Magnus he\u0027s like we went the other so what would happen because like I understood just right now that the that you expect that the IRT F is obsoleting this document right so they would need to write another RFC that obsolete this RC which seems like a little bit an overhead right so if you want to have this document obsolete it you should do it now we were RFC 5050 is is the I RTF document understood and we the consensus of this working group which is made up of people who worked on that document already in the in what was the IRT F working group want to believe that we want to obsolete the previous document it\u0027s just that it\u0027s held by the IRT F and therefore we don\u0027t have the power to do it it\u0027s not true we set up this process I was unaware of that process so really the chairs and you guys need to help the chairs just make that happen and whatever text has to go in whatever dock in this document we can just get put in is that correct yeah but basically what we put in place now is basically if you yes we add the obsolete 5050 it that\u0027s defect it would happen but I think from a process standpoint that\u0027s what\u0027s what\u0027s you know however my interpretation of the consensus call in some sense was that it wasn\u0027t clear capped at the absolution should occur at the same at the exact moment this gets published this New York C which is what will happen if you put in that absolutes and the IRT F share with Moses for asking hours he agrees on doing it Ratigan that\u0027s not my understanding of the consensus that we saw on the mailing list so I will probably have to go back over ice I bred a pretty resounding yes obsolete 5050 yeah or do whatever mechanism is required to say stop working on stop building new systems on bp6 build it on bp7 I think the process would be you just degree at the obsolete you say in the abstract it does obsolete nothing else needs in the text and then when we process a document we will actually ask "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:24:36",
    "text": "the I ITF chair to confirm that this obsolete is okay but that happens in background sir okay so as I understand it\u0027s got that last phrase in that music is not correct well okay so absolute we\u0027re going back to phase a that\u0027s fine well so I will revise this obsolete we which it said six months ago if we do that does that also obsolete the other RFC\u0027s that we\u0027re supporting RFC fifty fifty and I\u0027m thinking there specifically of the RFC\u0027s for for the Ayana registries that RFC fifty-fifty but references uh in a way it\u0027s actually easier if it does because then we can go back in and and and set up new registries for RFC 50 of our for for bpp seven and and avoid trying to merge with the existing registries no go ahead so my understanding is I mean because it\u0027s the it\u0027s formerly no you need to be explicit about which RC skits obsoleted by this document and and I think what\u0027s currently in the ANA section do work without a specific I because you have this is 6255 isn\u0027t it yeah yeah which which will defines the registry with the updates to the registration rules that these documents specify so I think we covered and and I don\u0027t want to go back on that decision also that seems to be that from the main list that we have the young registry between the different versions which is what\u0027s now setup so with the updates so do I understand then that we\u0027re saying that we want to change this document is to say that it obsoletes RFC 5050 but it does not obviously RFC 6255 or whatever it is yeah and and that the merging of the existing registries that support arts at 5050 with the new values that is reflected in this in in draft 17 is still goes forward is that right yeah that\u0027s my my understanding okay say okay yeah thanks I guess okay that was easy CRC\u0027s Stuart remark that surprised that we\u0027re using CRC\u0027s in this document given especially given the the harsh environment and so what I\u0027ve done is I\u0027ve added in 4.1.1 a note "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:27:38",
    "text": "saying that if you want more robust protection then use a a bundle integrity block a block integrity block rather as defined in BP SEC the the expectation being that in some environments crcs are fine in some you do need a stronger protection of of the blocks that was stood noted that that the manifest block because it\u0027s not defined it seems out of place and so what I\u0027ve done is I\u0027ve removed all mention of manifest block from everywhere in the specification that\u0027s all all gone we can talk about adding it back in as a new RFC later on time we spent we spent a long time and a lot of cycles I\u0027m the maleness talking about time I think the the salient point that comes out of this is really in my view this is the the third sentence and in the ex extract that I\u0027ve got here from what Stuart said is that all you need to say is that you need a monotonically increasing system and our software convenience it shows the latter so what I\u0027ve done is I took for table 1.6 which is about DT and time and just took out almost everything and said a t10 time is an unsigned integer there\u0027s the count of seconds since the start of the year 2000 UTC and it\u0027s going to be represented as a seaborne signed integer and how you figure that out is a implementation matter and we don\u0027t even say that it\u0027s an implementation matter because it doesn\u0027t matter so Scott Rick Tyler is that shall correct it shall be represented as a seaborne unsigned integer gives me enough wiggle room to make it a double or format as a string I sure there should be a must oh no probably wrong there I thought the same thing I may be full of cold sorry Magnus is backing I mean they are the same so but I think it\u0027s I mean this your I don\u0027t think you should use 2119 language there at all you I mean this protocol uses a particular representation of this value and and that\u0027s I think you have state that this is represented as as a C Brown side because it\u0027s it\u0027s not you defining how it\u0027s being represented and you don\u0027t need to make that a must shall or whatever it\u0027s it\u0027s not debate about you just declare that this is defined well only thing how it\u0027s presented is is that a general comment applying to all of the remarks on representations through the document because we we essentially say this sort of thing for for all parts of "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:30:39",
    "text": "the bundle right because everything is supposed to be in in C bar format and and what we say is specifically this thing people in C bar format isn\u0027t this C bar format yeah so I mean what you define these the exact representation here and that\u0027s right yeah and I think you can I mean I its I\u0027ve in many cases may be the unnecessary use of 2119 language this because it\u0027s saying if you just declare that this is represented in and implied basically MVP v7 it is represented this way about okay change to every place else where where we say how its represented it\u0027s it\u0027s I mean it\u0027s not necessarily and maybe so i actually that was so that this is a very minor point i think it\u0027s not like people I mean having it as chalice is not a I think it slightly will be use of it but that\u0027s actually not I\u0027m a little bit worried about that this what\u0027s written here is not easily decodable for an implementer either I\u0027m just saying it\u0027s you see on the second since started near 2000 on you to see scale because the time it again me back to this question about okay how the hell is asleep secures handled well but but that\u0027s just it\u0027s not then that that\u0027s exactly saying is d\u0027Arnaud leave seconds it\u0027s it\u0027s a it\u0027s a count of seconds that have elapsed and there are no loop seconds in there okay so this is actually now it read an actual change to the time format because it\u0027s not a matter of format it\u0027s just it\u0027s just that it\u0027s a number it\u0027s a count of seconds yeah but the unix time wasn\u0027t you to see scale next time is is a count of seconds since a since unix time is a count of seconds since beginning of january first nineteen seventy UTC yeah so magnus rick here yeah what we\u0027re not doing is recording a date time we\u0027re recording an interval how many seconds since 1970 yeah and and and this and this usually gets into confusion say okay it\u0027s sleep seconds how is the on you to see scale but nothing compared to ta which would be i mean if say you to see then includes sleep seconds which means right but it\u0027s it\u0027s not saying that as a UTC interval it\u0027s saying that\u0027s a count since a UTC point so there are no leap seconds involved yeah then then I think you should clarify that\u0027s back together it\u0027s like okay this is as usual not time it\u0027s I I "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:33:44",
    "text": "don\u0027t know how to make this any clearer than it is it\u0027s okay yeah okay do you want to continue this discussion on the list Magnus yeah okay because I was just having a quick look through the back a log of messages about this and there is a reference to a seaboard raft about time stamping where they appear to have some good text exactly covering this talking about an interval of seconds since 1970 and they covered the leap second thing and it might be I think was actually reference from Caston it might be a good bit of reference material to agree around possibly even kill the text in some way okay okay thanks okay there are in after which section where there\u0027s a mention of some anticipated extension blocks and Stewart\u0027s comment was that these should be handled through an iron a registry and the block numbers 13 14 and 15 and they shouldn\u0027t be in the text until they\u0027re standard so all of those have been removed everything that\u0027s that\u0027s not defined is removed from the spectrum there\u0027s some comments on securities our definition of the bundle and bundle protocol and well I\u0027ve done there as I\u0027ve added a note in Security section saying that it\u0027s a current research topic there there isn\u0027t it it is a work in progress and there is an internet draft we could refer to it here or just says the current research topic whatever whichever makes sense rick has chair I wouldn\u0027t say current research topic because we\u0027ve got a working groups document on and we\u0027re not a research organization okay we are we are engineering that solution so I would say is is a work in progress okay rather than it\u0027s a research topic okay I\u0027ll change to work in progress and do we want a reference to the I think referencing from this informative possibly I\u0027m not sure where the referencing drafts in progress from a document you\u0027re trying to get through standards track okay that will cause more trouble than looking at Miriah for advice here you go first yes if it\u0027s not a normative reference it\u0027s not a problem at all yeah okay so you put it in as an informative reference okay I\u0027m gonna let Magnus hopefully he\u0027s conscious okay all right and spirit other comment on "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:36:45",
    "text": "security was that there\u0027s material in the security section that seems to be defining protocol there\u0027s actually a lot of shouse language in there and he points out to be better to define that in the body of the text or point to a definition or another document which is B P SEC so what I\u0027ve done is remove all the text in the security section that has any of this normative sort of language in it so though the last sentence and security section is talking about the distribution of public keys which is a current research topic which is yeah I had a considerations a lot of this stuff namespaces do not seem to be identified and Here I am at sea I don\u0027t know the difference between a namespace in a registry and I\u0027m hoping somebody can clarify that for me here comes Magnus yeah so I think what\u0027s he really referring is that he thinks it\u0027s unclear which particular registry because I mean and especially in this case we have the registries that grouped together in that general upon the protocol versus on the protocol it\u0027s actually well I guess it\u0027s the group now but I think we just need to be clear on which particular registry the registries are are called out specifically in that section every Sierra and that was my reaction too tall so and I mean I commented that I think it\u0027s because so should i the word registry be changed to namespace or does it matter no I think in the anatomists called the registry you\u0027d be your correct producing registries I don\u0027t see you should change that okay I mean yeah I mean I think it was like in some cases to what bundle protocol when he was missing in some of these cases so that it wasn\u0027t clear that this was the bundle protocol particular registry so just check that you go to Layana registry page check that you have the full registry name identifier so to say the string that\u0027s actually on the eye on a web page for each registry that that\u0027s actually written exactly in the draft okay sure yeah yeah go ahead no no that\u0027s this is this is mostly text from from mark who wrote the the other draft so I I suspect he got it right but I will double-check the iron registry for new allocations ought to be this RFC so I think Ricky said this on the mailing list that should be RFC to be in a lot of places you said that one I think was Magnus wasn\u0027t me so from experience of this sort of thing you let Ayane yeah to find it you know yeah right so well but it\u0027s it\u0027s not it\u0027s not a matter of what the numbers are going to be it\u0027s a matter of how you write the name of the reference and so I think that the "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:39:47",
    "text": "references currently are in 16 anyway were or 17 where or section numbers in the specification so we can just change it to RFC to be [Music] yes I mean in the straightest tables where comments you use like the what I put in the shed which is square bracket RFC to be defined as shortened together it comes RFC to be D and square brackets and you put that in the reference part of the tables so and then during the this publication process I notice in the arts the editor will change that to the RFC number assigned okay okay and then with the third part of the INR considerations comments were that how come there are references to our state 5050 and does this indicate that our C 50 is expected to remain in our current protocol how do we do that and I and I\u0027m here again I\u0027m I\u0027m uncertain what we do about this if we\u0027re going to have an eye on a section that comprises a merger of the original RFC 50/50 oriented registries and then new values then the reference for those things sort of has to be RFC 5050 if we\u0027re not then then we can take them away so Scot the Rick Taylor again I\u0027m slightly confused about the context of this was the question around the fact that you have tables of new entry suggestions for Ayana in the document which have the previous values reused by RFC 50 50 in them that\u0027s right so from my non chair opinion if I was writing that I would not include values that weren\u0027t defined by the document to your writing so you say dear Ayane please add these values and update existing if required the following values and let Ayane maintain the registry you just defined the Deaf okay so I would like to just make sure that that mark agrees this context is from in this case I think you\u0027re on WIC often wrong because what we\u0027re doing here is we actually we are so going forward after this nurse Lee becomes published but the anti section currently does is saying that yes if these following registries that we have been updated by "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:42:49",
    "text": "this RC so the registration definition is being the combination of obscene 6255 and the RFC to be and therefore in the tables we actually want to show how the tables is supposed to look by after this update and that includes reference them for that\u0027s going to be both 50/50 and RFC to be and I think the missing the fact that they were missing in those interests that\u0027s it\u0027s used by both BP six and seven didn\u0027t have the double reference set right it might be part of the confusion here from so when you\u0027re showing that thesis this is how the table will look at the point of registering this new updates to the registries and going forward of course you can add to it individual video saying as you say WIC adds the following entry in the table and that\u0027s gonna be hanged by Anna but at this point we actually defining a snapshot of a reorganization of the table okay okay so so the current structure is the correct structure don\u0027t look at me because I\u0027m wrong about in the document yes okay yeah you just need to add where you have fifty fifty and in cases like those based on like if you take the bundle formats registry or saying which different I mean there you have to have those interests you know this is both 56 and seven and of course this is included order the RFC to be and the 50:54 that\u0027s my opinion list so yeah so this is the types are redefined in this document right there the definitions are repeated in this document yeah I would like just a actually they are defined for bp7 in this document well no they\u0027re the the the the registries in that in the IRS section are they show the union of the original RFC 50 50 values and the new vp7 values and the definition is of the original values is now in both documents the there are definitions the definitions of some of these values are in 5050 and the definitions of others are in this document okay so in there not like anything that\u0027s in 50 50 is not repeated in this document know that they are repeated yeah in their repeated in these these registries registry snapshots no I mean the definition the extra text the definitions are not okay then it\u0027s fine yeah okay okay so we\u0027ll leave that alone and the processing control Flags Stuart said that these are "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:45:53",
    "text": "critical enough that there should be a more demanding criterion for updating them such as standards action so I said fine so I changed the registration policy request as shown here the registration policy has changed to standards action and because there\u0027s a limited number of bits available that should only be granted for stannis tract RFC approved by a iesg this is an existing registry Stuart says how come there are no private use of experimental allocations and I don\u0027t know what we should do about this should we define some that are not currently defined the original registry did not have any private use or experimental allocations I wreck taylor here i\u0027m actually just looking at the the registry filings 21 to 63 amount is unassigned so the insurgents from private and yes so you could redefine an area of that good i personally not personally i think it\u0027s worth having a few okay that\u0027s not my chair opinion that\u0027s my personal opinion because people do experiments and let\u0027s not get them rampaging across other people\u0027s face i for five daga mad okay so it\u0027s just a gut feeling some some handful eight maybe something yeah it seems seniors most power of two okay good could do that and following on from that I\u0027d make them right at the top yes it seems logical does help those you know top end of the spectrum this is a free-for-all area sure okay Norman of references this was just a misunderstanding on Stuart\u0027s part though that he thought BP second meant RFC 6 to 7 and and and it actually does not it means they\u0027re the Big D sex specification which is assumed to be a an RFC so it shouldn\u0027t be down revved let\u0027s see a normative reference Turner I should leave paper on on crc32 so but that reference has been changed in now refers to RFC 3385 instead of the I Triple E reference defining crc32 seeing the there was a there was a reference to the definition of epic time and Stuart said I\u0027m not sure it\u0027s a good idea and it becomes moot because everything relating to definition of time has been removed so that that handily Lutz this question is there there\u0027s a "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:48:53",
    "text": "there\u0027s CB VL at the end of the document what\u0027s the license position for that and I\u0027m quoting from Magnus\u0027s email here that it\u0027s it\u0027s not code it\u0027s it\u0027s format description comparable to a B and F so I don\u0027t proposed it to change anything there and then there was more on namespaces there several places where Stewart asked what where\u0027s the namespace but something in space and I we\u0027ve been through this just a few minutes ago so I think the resolution here is it\u0027s it\u0027s fine the way it is I\u0027ll go back and make sure that the registry names are correct that match up exactly with what\u0027s on Ayana but that we don\u0027t need to be saying what the namespaces are because the registry names are essentially the namespaces there\u0027s a URI scheme types registry and Stuart\u0027s reservation here is that it\u0027s made bit field why are there not more reserved values that more require more considered action to release and that\u0027s a good question so I don\u0027t know what to do about that and I open the question up to the working group what do we think about this go back there we go sorry I\u0027m just trying the reference my cell phone my laptop yeah you\u0027re asking types so is that the that\u0027s in the bundle protocol it\u0027s yeah scheme types I think is the name yeah I didn\u0027t copy the whole name into the header here yeah I\u0027m not certain just what the name is it could be scheme type codes or but if but it\u0027s your ice scheme the bundle protocol URI scheme should if you search for that it should come up under the actual Ayane URI schemes yeah I I think I think there I there are the schemes but there\u0027s what the things that the schemes are definitions of URI schemes but we\u0027re defined here as codes "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:51:56",
    "text": "that are numbers that were that identifies those schemes and that\u0027s a new registering that\u0027s why I can\u0027t find its new go ahead - yeah yeah so what would be talking about this section 10.16 right the trade history and and it has serious research one is DT and two is IP n and three to 254 is unassigned and 255 is reserved so that\u0027s and III don\u0027t think this is an issue and the its specification required which seems very reasonable for this you need to have in your ice cream definition which you want to add to this protocol and that Suffolk is sufficient it has some documentation on how to use this in bp7 Tony the larger values Rick speaking personally now I\u0027ve worked out what on earth we\u0027re talking about sorry for being slow no I don\u0027t think so I as me speaking personally not as chair I don\u0027t particularly like this eight bit field anyway but I know the reality is IP n exists and the DTN text-based schema exists as well so we need to have a selector yeah let\u0027s and there look at conceivably the others and there was the intent is that it\u0027s a URI so you can have like lots of different ways of doing it exactly and then having this sort of numeric selector in there seems to go against the grain of what the URI guys are trying to do so I think philosophically it\u0027s not a great idea so making it bigger than eight is just inviting people to agree to go off and do more crazy numeric stuff which is probably not right right yeah well there\u0027s only one reserved value in that field is that is that sufficient yes okay good I think at least is because I mean what\u0027s like 255 would be used if we ever run out of space at this table you would use 255 sucess oh by the way you need to go look at something else he actually understand this okay and and I don\u0027t think this never will occur in this because doing so many different URI schemes for upon the protocol doesn\u0027t seem that likely mm-hmm start here so I used to see a lot of rfcs with you know reserved for future standards action and point taken that we may not be fond of the existence of this field in the first place but we\u0027d be even less fond if people start using it and and filling vast regions of the of the 8-bit space with with different things so it might not be unreasonable to you know reserve half the space for standards action and only leave half the space open for people to do whatever crazy things they\u0027re thinking of doing Rick hit point "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:54:56",
    "text": "point taken I thought the idea was to reserve that the whole 8-bit field is under standards track control so you have to understand a stripe document to get one of those values so to begin with then you have a need use that your iced tea mean inbounder protocol and that\u0027s and then you need a document that defines how you do that and that\u0027s I think a reasonable bar and it\u0027s basically for expert also check that cells this is a reasonable request to add it I think it we don\u0027t need to put the board at high and split I mean I wouldn\u0027t expect an issue with this okay so we leave that alone good there\u0027s a reference to the DTN research group website in the for additional information section they thought that was a bad idea so I\u0027ve removed that reference and and he objected to the word contraindicated which is actually goes back to RC 50/50 but as points out some some of us may be less familiar with this word than others and so can I jump in as Rick here um I had a similar instance in a previous RFC I got published where and this sort of stuff is picked up by the RFC editors I I had a statement talking about magic beans and the RFC editors are very good copy editors and they understand about the use of English for non-native English speakers and understanding that this is legible and clear from my perspective these topics are to be picked up by the RFC editor and they will quiz you about this and other things you didn\u0027t realize okay they they they didn\u0027t pick it up for our 1650 ah well perhaps we\u0027ll get a different editor this time or you know I I\u0027m not sure it\u0027s worth spending time working on the English language at this point it\u0027s a perfectly valid I don\u0027t find that I I\u0027ve proposed to stick in four words here well we we have an opportunity here we have a room full of I mentioned some non-native English speakers does anyone who image is their second language have an opinion about the word contraindicated yes I think it\u0027s it\u0027s it\u0027s fairly far out in my vocabulary at least it\u0027s not obvious not one word which is like the immediate springs to mind of what that means so if you can change it to something simpler I think that\u0027s there is a point in it okay so I would propose then to just leave it for the copy editors and and not deal with it now and I think that\u0027s the last "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:57:59",
    "text": "of my slides yeah all right yes thank you Scott any questions thanks okay goodbye Magnus so Nick next up we have ed who\u0027s going to be talking about what\u0027s happened in the wonderful world of VP sex so hello my name is ed brain you may need to be close to microphone this look great and I work at Johns Hopkins Applied Physics lab and I wanted to just go over some updates to VP SEC so the version of BT sac that went in for review was VP SEC version 12 we made some responses to those reviews which was BP section 13 none of the changes or comments were significant certainly nothing that changed the processing or the data structures associated with the protocol so it\u0027s used up a little extra time while we have the working group together I wanted to also talk about some of the interoperability work that we are doing and some policy rules associated with to see if the working group had any comments on on those before before the internet drafts associated with them would come up on the list so for BP SEC 12 the the general review came back with ready with nits there were some very very minor comments associated with making sure that we had spelled out acronyms before they were used or there was an extra space in between two words and we fix all of those without any fuss we did not get sector review comments back I believe that they were initially requested to be do about a week ago on November 14th but we don\u0027t have an update on that so if anyone does have an update on that or if there\u0027s a way that we could appropriately ask for an update that would be appreciated otherwise the only other reviews that came in the Ayana reviews or were not significant and it talked about the question of how do we look at the registries from the point of view of BP is an RFC 50 50 and I think that we came to an understanding there in particular the the Ayana updates most recently where that we converged on these registry questions the new bundle protocol specification VP Biss will register bpv seven block types and we will not have conflict with those block types and RFC 50:50 the BP sec document had called out block types two and three for the integrity block in the confidentiality block we won\u0027t do that because RFC 5050 block type registries in v6 had already defined two and three and we don\u0027t want that kind of collision so these will be moved most likely to eleven and twelve instead of two and three it really doesn\u0027t make a difference from our point of view it\u0027s still all in codes within one byte so it "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:00:59",
    "text": "would have really practically no impact on on VP sack or the size of the blocks and in VP sack version thirteen I updated those to be eleven and twelve I will probably have to publish a fourteen which I\u0027m going to wait on for SEC sector review when I won\u0027t even put eleven and twelve and I think the right thing to do is to say as assigned by iana or whatever the appropriate text is Rick unless there\u0027s some compelling reason why the values 11 and 12 have meaning then just ask for the for some numbers indeed and and really as long as it\u0027s less than I think 22 or so which is what what you can pack into a seaboard mic without going into two bytes that would be our preference so but to respond to the to the comments that we gotten to date we put out a VP 613 we made all of the minor changes we corrected the gen our nets and we cleaned up some other terminology in particular there was some leftover terminology that talked about key parameters as opposed to just parameters and there really isn\u0027t a sense of parameters and key parameters they are all just parameters so we cleaned that language up actually walking through the description the text-based description of example blocks in an example bundle the text did not match the figure which was surprising when I went through and did a final read-through so we made a few minor Corrections to make sure that the text matched the figure the figure was correct and then really because we had made a terminology change from security from cipher suite to security context we made sure that we had used the proper terminology security context everywhere if that was needed in the document so these were all clean up things nothing that changed the standard the data structures or its processing so what is left once we get the security reviews back we will apply any comments that we get we did get an initial review of BP SEC version 6 even though that was seven versions ago there really has not been significant technical change to the document is but mostly clarifying text some of which was responding to the comments that we got from BP SEC 6 sector review so I think that we\u0027re good there we\u0027re not expecting any significant problems or changes or showstoppers coming back and we do have the same reviewer as the person who reviewed this seven versions ago so I think we\u0027ll be ok we\u0027ll update the Ino section as we need to we will make sure the only other thing that has come up is the BP SEC document makes a reference to something called PID reference as we use it in the document it just means the reference to the security source a ID however someone noted that in BP v6 terminology ID reference has a specific meaning which is a pointer into a dictionary in a primary block in BP version 6 and so that is something we "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:03:59",
    "text": "should not use we should just say Eid instead of Eid reference so we\u0027ll clean that up in the next version to make sure that that there is no terminology collision and otherwise any review comments will will apply as we get them so unless there are any other specific questions or concerns around BP SEC as a as a standard in review or recommend a standard in review I wanted to move on talked about a few other things so we introduced the concept of a security context separate from a cipher suite because a cipher suite is a suite of tools that you would use to apply different security constructs into the bundle to generate Saltz to generate ciphertext from plain text however a cipher suite assumes a set of configurations and one of the things that we would typically see such as in IPSec is a security Association a security Association would be some predefined or pre-configured set of configurations that could be shared and to end that\u0027s not necessarily one-to-one a reasonable thing to expect in a delay tolerant Network however the concept that there is a security context around a cipher suite which is the cipher suite plus the configuration or understanding of configuration associated with how to use and apply that cipher suite is a useful concept and if we just use the term cipher suite it doesn\u0027t imply cipher suite plus that additional contextual information so to make sure that there was not a confusion of those terms we decided not to say cipher suite we decided to say security context in that to then give an example of how this would be used we define some interoperability security context and there is one called interoperable Interop - SC - zero zero which is a working group document and presumably would would go forward or once we make sure there are no changes in BP SEC and we have then started looking past the initial draft security context into what other ones might be useful to have and so here are three examples of current thinking on security context concepts that are out there I wanted to put them in front of the working group to see if there were any comments the first is is there value either in the existing interoperability security context or in a new one to add a self signing bib and for those of you who are familiar with the context of a bib a bib is a security block that is added to a bundle and the block type specific data in the bib has among other things a a result a signed integrity signature over the target block that it is targeting and is there a value at having a separate signature result in the bib that is a self signature over itself to see "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:07:02",
    "text": "if anything had changed in the bib and and want one of the reasons that that had come so so there is not a draft associated with any of these three things and one of the one of the items that we will propose is another internet draft will show up that has either 300 net rafts or one that has multiple security contacts in it which will have some of these ideas and so perhaps at the next IETF if there is time we could present it as a draft but just to prime that discussion we wanted to bring forth some of the ideas here to see if there was a strong sense or useful comments that we could get prior to writing such an internet draft Scott brewery just asking about this and really asking I don\u0027t know enough to comment but would this self signature on the bib be would it be obviated by using asymmetric encryption or or would you even need it even if if you have public and private keys so so it could be but again if this were a security context if the security context has a superset of the cipher suites used it would say if you are using a security context the security context would say here are the cipher suites that we would be using and we would use these particular cipher suites to generate target signatures and self signatures and handle them in this way if you then were to chain if you were to use a different cipher suite with a different context it would be a different security context not this one so so a concept around the security context is it is the cipher suites that you would use and the context around it it isn\u0027t we could keep the same security context and swap cipher Suites in and out under the hood this is permanent Schiaparelli again so that I I think that wasn\u0027t exactly my question I think you you asked what would it be valuable to have a self signing bib and and my question was do you need it do you need self signature on a bib if the cipher suite did you happen to be using is based on asymmetric encryption or do you only need self signature on a bib if you\u0027ve got symmetric keys III don\u0027t so I don\u0027t fully understand that question because because if you have multiple parameters in the security block itself do you want an integrity signature over those parameters or if you look down to one of the questions "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:10:02",
    "text": "that we have for bib a little bit couple bullet points down would you also want to include things like the block processing flags of the bib in the integrity signature and I think that deciding whether you want to protect changes to the bib block itself is different from whether you\u0027re using symmetric or asymmetric key to generate some of the contents of the bib block so I thought that\u0027s I I don\u0027t know that I\u0027m understanding that question so if I create a if I create a security bib it will have security results in it but it will have a lot of other material in it and I don\u0027t want an attacker for example to twiddle some bits in the bib in a parameter field or somewhere else that that never touched a cipher suite symmetric key or a symmetric key okay so sorry Rick just jumping into the queue here just because I can\u0027t be bothered to stand up and I if I understand what you\u0027re saying is given now security context is more than just the cipher suite selection there is also extra metadata that is carried in that context you could use a cipher suite that\u0027s self protecting in some way probably probably key pair but that other metadata isn\u0027t isn\u0027t covered under that protection and therefore your question is what if you could put a bib on that and then you put an endless recursive loop of self signing each other so so you probably wouldn\u0027t want an endless but but if you look at the contents of a big a bib would say this is the security context identifier that I\u0027m using then these are the parameters for that security context and then here is a set of key value pairs of results the result type 1 has result value and yes that value would have been generated by whatever cipher suite was used but if I see if I am a malicious person I\u0027m not but if I were a malicious person I would come back and say if I see a bib I could change the security context ID from a 7 2 \u0026 8 \u0026 and that would result in failure perhaps to to verify at a security Waypoint or a destination because I have changed something about how we would apply a cipher suite but you might be able to catch that even sooner and say specifically something had happened with the parameters as opposed to the the result data and is there value in that or if someone were to change the block processing flags of a bib would you want to understand that and then react to that as well as opposed to ignoring it and that\u0027s the kind of extra data around the cipher suite results and the question is is there value in signing that Rick again I would solve that problem by using bundle and bundle encapsulation ok I would just at that point it gets so meta in terms that I would take a step back and say just encapsulate the whole bundle and then I can guarantee integrity of it I guess I "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:13:09",
    "text": "guess in my mind the the endless recursive loop that you\u0027re talking about is is the issue and maybe not maybe incorrectly but but why would the self signature itself will not be susceptible to being fiddled with so that it no longer works there\u0027s probably a reason for that but I don\u0027t know what it is well know and is the impact any different if whether you I take your point that earlier in the path of transit of that bundle an intermediate node may say hey the integrity signatures have been tampered with mmm-hmm drop is that I suppose the point is that you could do that check earlier in the path or could you not I suppose with the security context where an intermediate node could not work out where the tamper has occurred I I\u0027m trying to work through the use case quite simply in there is data in a bib that is not integrity site right so so there are three ways that you could handle that one is to allow data in a bib to just never be integrity site the second is take the entire bundle and encapsulate it in a different bundle and then integrity sign the intention which is a little heavyweight yeah the third is to say of the data that is not integrity protected in the bib add an integrity signature to it which does not force you into infinite recursion it simply says you can you can construct an integrity signature over the data that is not signed and carry that signature I\u0027m gonna drill the line okay because let\u0027s take this to the list this is really interesting but I think we all need to have a long think about it so absolutely and point being is that I wanted to okay so I think there\u0027s interest in taking this to the list and just in the points we got a little bit more time the other is a single target multiple result something else that came back was it would be nice to have a security context that would say here\u0027s a cipher suite you don\u0027t need to necessarily have a single signature with a single key over the target data what we could do is provide multiple parameters for the security context and you would generate multiple results and the security context documentation would then come back and say if any of these verify then then the block has verified and it would be okay or some quorum of them verify and that might be a way of saying if I don\u0027t know all of the recipients and I don\u0027t have a single multicast a ID key then I can I can carry multiple signatures and we think that that\u0027s a reasonable thing to do as opposed to having multiple bid blocks or multiple individual entries you could capture it in a single security context and that would be a little less bytes on the wire Rick again I can see some as far as I\u0027ve understood it I think I can see some "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:16:10",
    "text": "value in that you to handle the case of expired certificates so you could multi sign with out-of-date information that at least the person that the other one knows they can unpack it and know it\u0027s out of date because one of the targets validated the integrity but they knew they were using an old key or something like that yeah that\u0027s a great idea particularly if you have key rotation schedules or something else you can go over it\u0027s a DTN you could be away for long for longer than you were expected and all your certificates expired while you were away yeah so that is good that\u0027s good feedback I\u0027ll take it from the notes and then the last was for for even just the interoperability security context that we have right now the integrity block only captures integrity over the data portion of its target so if it is if it\u0027s looking at target block b1 it will look at B ones block type specific data fields and generate a signature over that however there\u0027s an entire block header separate from the data there is no reason why you could not take the entire block or large pieces of the block canonicalize it and generate the integrity signature over more than just the block type data fields and there are three things at least that could be done there one is we could leave it as is and only generate the integrity signature over the block type specific data the other is generate a signal signature over the entire extension block or at least a superset of just the block type specific data which would which could be done or the third is you generate two signatures which seems like a lot of work one over the block type specific data and one separately over the block extension data and have rules as to whether both are required or one is a nice to have in case someone changes a block processing flag I know if there were any opinions about that and then the last one is the sim the same question reimagined for a confidentiality block which is again the ECB will replace the block type specific data of its target with ciphertext and it will generate a signature over that ciphertext is there then value in having a separate plaintext signature over the the non block type specific data fields of its target the block type ID the the block number the block processing flags things like that then that information is pretty canonical isn\u0027t it I\u0027d say I sorry Rick Taylor yeah I\u0027m gonna have to think about this I\u0027m gonna have to think about the representation because I think this comes down to do we have a canonical representation of these things that can be validated correctly and I believe BP biz has a canonicalization algorithm for extension blocks that that this could be used I believe that\u0027s the case I no longer believe that that is the case but but one could however a "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:19:12",
    "text": "security context and this is something that the BP SEC document describes a security context is able to define a canonicalization algorithm to be used if one does not so so those were some ideas as we start we will start putting forward some security context internet drafts to describe this idea of not just cipher Suites but cipher suites and behavior and context configuration associated with them Oh Scott burly I actually think about it the canonicalization we do have specification in BP biz for serializing a extension block and so the student the serialized represented the sea boar see realized representation of extension block I think you could think of as being the canonicalization of that extension block and so in that sense we do have it as long as it is there some normative way of saying well here are some user reserved bits in the block type processing flags and set them all to zero or set them all to ones truncate them in some way so Rick we\u0027ve been round this before and I believe that the the the C but there\u0027s this there was a working group working on C Burrell signatures and certificate and key material who works through all the canonicalization of C bore serialization rules but I\u0027m I will need to look through my notes and try and remember what nerve I\u0027m talking about but I know that would be a good reference to have yes I think we\u0027re gonna come up with that as we define the behaviors of various security contents I\u0027m thinking that works being done already for us and we don\u0027t need to reinvent it so so those were some security context ideas then the the last topic and if we\u0027re stretching on the line would before we do so the the next is the BP SEC document defines how security blocks can be added into a bundle to implement security services however there is a separate out-of-band question which is if i am a waypoint note or if i\u0027m a destination note how do i understand whether a service needs to be in the bundle or not and there\u0027s a problem with encoding that information in a bundle because if you go through a malicious node the malicious node could remove that information or put other information in an example of that would be if a source of a bundle adds a b ib into a bundle and it goes through a a malicious node the malicious node could drop the b ib signature change the target block if the destination doesn\u0027t know that a big should have been there it would not think to check the integrity of the target block and would pick it up and use it and so something has to exist at destinations that say this is what you are expected to have in a bundle and when you generate bundles this is what you should put in based on those specifications and that\u0027s an "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:22:12",
    "text": "out-of-band mechanism and it\u0027s covered in the vp SEC security consideration document and policy cannot document security considerations section and policy consideration section we\u0027ve started looking through what that could look like it is largely informed by the ion implementation which is thought through some of this in what they call the ion second min tool and and the processing rules the security processing rules in in looking at this we\u0027ve defined three different roles that a BPA from a protocol agent may have a bundle protocol agent could in some cases act as a security source which is an agent that adds security blocks into a bundle either a bundle it is creating or a bundle that it is modifying before retransmitting or forwarding a security way point which is cases where a bundle agent would verify a security service like integrity before forwarding a bundle and the last is when the bundle agent is itself the destination of a security service perhaps a nose that would do decryption which may or may not be the same as the bundle destination itself and and those are a single node could be each of those four different bundles that it encounters so Rick just jumping ahead of scope I have a question about your security waypoints and I understand this are you attempting to tackle the problem of malicious intermediate nodes moving corrupted bundles around the Cheka Waypoint no no so we\u0027re not trying to do path based security the the use of the term source Waypoint and destination and the connotation of those terms with routing and there is no expectation that there is any routing or path computation for expectation with that when we say security source security Waypoint and security destination we we mean literally the source the Eid that is the source of a security block the Eid that is processing a security block that is not the destination should be the end receiver of that and a security destination is not the bundle destination and is not a part of a path and a route a security destination is a BPA that say I am the end consumer of that security block I will process it remove it from the bundle and then separately perhaps deliver that bundle or forward to someone else okay hmm Schiaparelli I\u0027m security security destination of course I immediately raises a flag for me I we were saying that it has a thing to do with routing how do you ensure that the bundle that the block reaches its destination if you don\u0027t route using it so so when when we looked at the original BSP there was a concept of security destination which was itself "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:25:13",
    "text": "somehow conflated with routing you know such that you needed to get to the security destination before you got to the bundle destination well you needed to get to the security destination yeah I guess before I got to the bundle destination because otherwise you would never get to it sure so so that was certainly a problem and was one of the things it was one of the reasons why we looked at VP sex effort from BSP because it was one of the implementation concerns there there is no expectation associated with routing when you add a security service into a bundle for example if you say I am going to encrypt a target block there is there is not necessarily anything in that block that says only some future other block in the or other node in the network can decrypt this you you encrypt the block and you send it along its way what who decrypts it later is a function of this kind of policy implementation that is out-of-band with BP sack if you are the bundle destination and you receive an encrypted block you will try and decrypt it you may not succeed you may not have the security context you may not have the cryptographic material to do the decryption and you may wind up at the bundled destination receiving an encrypted block that you don\u0027t know how to process now that but that is a network configuration error not an issue per se with the security specification I I would suggest that it be nice to find a term other than destination then because destination connotes intent it connotes direction to up to a point as opposed to here it is whoever it is that receives it and can do something with it please do something with it could I could I suggest something like origin and targets I mean well it\u0027s not really target but its its I my first thought was producer and consumer but but I don\u0027t think that\u0027s exactly we\u0027re talking about roles not moving things I yes I agree with you again notice we have a little bit of you\u0027ve got about three moments point being the the I agree and I\u0027m open to other terms the the the insight into this is the originator of the bundle does not determine who the destination is it is incumbent upon the receiver of the bundle to self identify as the destination and and from that perspective there is there is not intent from the sender side it is a self identification on the receiver side but and and my concern is that someone coming to look at this specification doesn\u0027t know all the context in the history might be confused and and and I think it would be good to avert that confusion so I I\u0027m not tied to the term "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:28:13",
    "text": "in particular if there\u0027s a better term perhaps consumer okay that was some that something okay sukar Tier three quick ones starting with the last first a word that seems somewhat cumbersome but that might have the correct definition would be accept or security accept or I can see that then a second question security source second bullet item last word may or may not be the bundle destination setting aside the I\u0027m sorry okay thank you and lastly security Waypoint responsible for actually verifying security services is that the only thing that a waypoint can do or could a waypoint for instance do proc Syrian Krypton so as we have laid out the roles we would say that verification but not changing would be would be the role of the Waypoint and that if you were to re-encrypt re-encrypt to me means decrypt from in existing and then re encrypt with a different security context in which case that node would not no longer be a waypoint it would be both a security accept or and a security source that\u0027s separate from the idea of super encryption which would be you take the initial ciphertext and generate ciphertext over the ciphertext which which we currently don\u0027t believe is a useful thing to do and because it all fine but one clarification proxy encryption doesn\u0027t necessarily involve going from ciphertext to plaintext and then back to ciphertext there are tricky Ari encryption I think Rick here I think the point is that the way point has has read-only access to the bundle I would again suggest Waypoint is probably not the right word and verifier or something like that someone who examines the bundle checks it is all okay but doesn\u0027t touch the security context involved now I appreciate that so then in in what we can skip over that unless unless anyone wants to test their eyesight but it is just sort of some of the some of the illustrations which we can now do an SVG yeah to the internet drafts when we talk about these different roles and we\u0027ll keep security source what would they look like and so part of this process is to put together the at least the data model or the language associated with how these rules would be specified and for security source there are two pieces to it one is how do you identify that a security service is necessary and then how do you represent which security service that actually is borrowing from ion we\u0027ve said that the way you identify whether a security service is required in a bundle is to say if you are if your bundle was sourced at this particular a ID with wild card matching and it is destined for some other a ID with wild card matching and you have this type of block in the bundle then this particular "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:31:13",
    "text": "block type going from source bundle source to bundle destination should have this security service associated with it we don\u0027t call out in particular integrity versus confidentiality because that\u0027s captured in the security context ID and then the security source would be which EW you want to represent this BPA as we know with with BP a particular physical node can have multiple a IDs registered with it and so you would you would perhaps want to configure when you add a security block into the bundle and you want to represent that security source a ID in the security block you have a option of e IDs to choose from which one would you want to use and then if there are any particular security context parameters that you want carried in the security block they would be listed as well and and a simple example of what that would look like would be if you are generating a bundle coming out of IP n1 dot anything going anywhere and you have a payload in it then you will identify the security source ID as IP n1 dot o and you will use contact seven with some parameters associated with it and this list of rules would be the security policy associated with security source then if you are either a security verifier or security except door then you would have a slightly different that rolls off the tongue thank you you would have a different set of information the identification would still be the same if you are receiving a bundle from this source bundle source to this bundle destination and it has this block type in it then this is what to expect this rule would say if you if you match that with wildcards you should see a security block with security context idea of whatever over that target block and in addition to the security parameters in that security block here are some local parameters that you would also want to feed to the cipher suite and the reason we do that is there are times when you may not wish to put all of the security context parameters in the security block because you understand that there is some pre configuration or pre sharing or precalculus of information that doesn\u0027t need to be in the bundle and can be assumed across obviously if you were in networks or cases where you can\u0027t make that assumption you can find ways of putting that data into the security block itself and then lastly regarding on whether you are a verifier or an acceptor you would say what are the processing actions that I might want to take based on how the verification or the acceptance of that security source would go and this would give you fine-grained control by block type and by security context of how you handle certain behaviors so so what I\u0027ve started putting together and this is by no means either correct or complete is the set of actions that you may want to or into a action bid field you know if follow the block processing control "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:34:15",
    "text": "flags if you failed something sorry ed can I jump in here so there\u0027s this bit field where is it is this going in is your intention to put another extension block in which contains these rules which travels with the bundle no no not at all so so that would be an implementation as part of your rules that would be lookup in some sort of data table and then that\u0027s my action absolutely okay if I were to show you this which is an even worse picture Wow if we would come back and say I am a bpa agent that is receiving a bundle I would have a local policy database associated with my source rules my verifier rules my acceptor rules and and the verifier rules and the acceptor rules while they may have the same format made themselves be different because you may take different actions based on what role you have but this is something that would be local implementation associated with the BPA and it would allow you to say things like saying if the security context failed to verify in some way then we would set bit four which says please send a report signifying that to the report to be ID and that is Ord with bit eight that says and delete the security target that failed the processing and that\u0027s word with one zero which is delete the security block associated with that as well or somesuch there so the point is I\u0027m not saying these are the correct action points but the idea is that from a formatting perspective this is likely the set of information and then you could see a series of rules or rows in a database that you could walk through saying I\u0027ve gotten a bundle in it\u0027s from this source to this destination within wildcards like I got a bundle from IP n 1 dot something it\u0027s going somewhere it has a payload in it I should expect that this would have a security block over that payload using ID 7 it may not itself have a key name in it but I\u0027m gonna hard-coded that the key name should be 1 and here are the actions I will or will not take based on how the processing goes Schiaparelli I\u0027m just as I\u0027m listening to this I\u0027m wondering if this is the moral equivalent of firewalls for DTS yeah this is excess control yeah yeah okay so I\u0027m there and a reason to bring that up is that several years ago there was work on on a deacon analog to be peat iptables EP tables and I\u0027m wondering if if that needs to be revisited and maybe superseded by this fair enough point well-taken it and our point was that as we start trying to do reference implementations for BP sack we need some way of capturing the policy associated with what blocks you put in what blocks you verify and what actions you take based on those so Rick with my chair hat on yes I can see there\u0027s two parts to this yeah it\u0027s a there\u0027s a lot of "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:37:16",
    "text": "implementation detail here but I evaluate for that implementation to ensure that we\u0027ve covered all the corner cases in BP second we\u0027ve got the the power to do this sort of thing so I obviously I really like the work I think it\u0027s really clever but yeah it\u0027s it\u0027s filtering access control list stuff and it\u0027s a good demonstration of what we can do with with BP sake I\u0027m not sure we dive too far into sponsoring work about bit layouts for implementations and so on but I\u0027m not sure you\u0027re proposing that no and perhaps the output of this usefully would be something informational yeah absolutely so I\u0027m looking at the time okay any other questions from people no thank you very much it so Scott you don\u0027t have any slides about bundle and bundle encapsulation do you want to do something off the cuff sure and really all I would want to do is encourage people to to take a look at the latest internet draft for bundled model encapsulation I\u0027ll probably be posting another one because the window is closed right now but as soon as the window reopens I\u0027ve got another draft ready to post the the reason bundle bundle encapsulation I think is important for a couple of reasons one is there are some security features that you can get from bundle and bundle encapsulation that are difficult to get any other ways such as protection from traffic analysis another though is that the bundle bundle encapsulation specification includes the custody transfer mechanism that was in RFC 5050 and actually extends and updates that to to implement a an aggregate custody signaling system that has been in ion for several years developed by guys at University of Colorado to bring the overhead of custody transfer down I think that\u0027s a a useful mechanism and I I think it\u0027s an important work item for the recharter which is our segue into the next topic and for in in my mind it\u0027s the the that my mind is the top priority work item for the Charter after we get these three documents in in place any questions on that Thanks thanks thanks so we have 20 minutes left of the session and following on from the is that full screen following on from the "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:40:17",
    "text": "interim the list of proposed new charter items as was circulated on the mailing list is this so Magnus at the time raised concern that this is a very long list and I know there are drafts so you can see that there\u0027s March or D have an active a recent draft and those parts with an X have a draft from the IRT FD Tian research group so some of this stuff does have some documentation already but the critical question is before we update the Charter for the working group so DTN working group phase two we need to make sure that the items that go on the Charter are achievable so I\u0027m looking at the people in the room here only our ad is on meet EKKO but I\u0027m assuming or hoping there are a couple of other people on Jabba and there are other people who are willing to step in and help put some of this together so this is now an open mic opportunity for people to say yes I\u0027m interested in working on some of these things yes I am interested in this new thing which I think should be really important etc etc or no I think this is nonsense help yourself so ed brain I know that the asynchronous management has a lot of items under it but I would say that this work will continue it has some years behind it it has years ahead of it and so we would be able and have the energy and people who are already working on it to continue it and obviously if anyone else wanted to to join in we would welcome that and then if we talk about a manifest block or a table of contents block or something else that provides expectations of what should be in a bundle would be very interested in helping with that as well so Rick speaking personally I the top half of that list so bundle protocol additional blocks that\u0027s bundle and bundle is working progress manifests block I know that Scott and Ed are both very keen to see that work being done as ed said asynchronous management is very much underway the bottom half of this list is actually something I think is as important but has less interest or less input from from the regulars so to speak so neighbor discovery outside of very fixed deterministic delay tolerant networks some sort of neighbor discovery starts to be relevant when you\u0027re looking at ad hoc style DT ends which is obviously for non-space communities main driver for DT ends you\u0027ve got to be able "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:43:18",
    "text": "to discover potential forwarding opportunities potential adjacencies how is this done at the bundle processing where we know how to do this with link technologies but how do we bridge that link to bundle protocol gap and there\u0027s lots of room for ideas experimentation suggestions and all welcome also naming an addressing that\u0027s people outside of this room assume that there\u0027s a naming scheme there is but it\u0027s fairly simple I\u0027m trying not to be rude about it but it\u0027s it\u0027s it\u0027s it works for small systems if we want to try do we want to try and build a global heterogeneous DTN network because if we do we need a proper global addressing we need to solve the global addressing problem let me put it that way so that might pique some people\u0027s interest marble SAE is very keen on a registry of service identifier I\u0027m really hoping he drives that work personally I have a partially written HTTP CL I just don\u0027t have the time to finish it I\u0027m looking for co-authors I\u0027m looking for anyone to just help me get the words out I have an SMTP implementation it\u0027s partially broken it would be nice to write up what I\u0027m doing it\u0027s not brilliant I need help or I\u0027m happy to just give it to somebody else to work on this it\u0027s about collaboration and we need input okay that\u0027s me scarper Lee I\u0027m of course very committed to doing bundle bundle encapsulation I\u0027m certainly interested in the naming and addressing I definitely want to be part of that conversation neighbor discovery there\u0027s a informational experimental RFC that is implemented and and works I think it\u0027s a good prototype for us to be working from in ion in particular what I\u0027ve been trying to do is support opportunistic forwarding based on contact graph routing and and in aid of that I\u0027ve got a definitions for a for a non-standard administrative record that communicates in neighbor discovery history through the network so that you can guess at likely contacts in the future with some some degree of confidence and and and base forwarding "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:46:19",
    "text": "decisions on that there are a number of other extension blocks and administrative records that we are finding that are non-standard that we are finding useful in particular quality of service at some point I think needs to be addressed and I\u0027m certainly interested in working on all of that I\u0027m happy to leave the registry of service identifiers to mark so go ahead stir if you so one of the questions put to us by our ad was given the amount of effort involved in the size of this list what what does the working group want to prioritize we have to put up we have to prioritize these things so does anyone have any strong opinions about which are the key next pieces to do still carry here I guess I will speak before prioritizing because I get more things to prioritize so the whole naming an addressing area that\u0027s an area in which within my severe bandwidth constraints I would be interested in contributing we\u0027ve had some thoughts at our shop about mapping between DTN endpoint IDs and other identifiers spaces you will probably grown would not be surprised when I mention host identities and those of you who are familiar with high-frequency radio communications and the AL e standard automatic link establishment as al identifiers which I think are sometimes relevant here another area where again within limited bandwidth I would be interested in working on the norm convergence layer when it comes to SMTP there\u0027s some work that our shop did way back in 2001 where because the bundle protocol didn\u0027t exist yet we gave a different answer to the question of is this just SMTP in our case the answer was yes and we bundled all sorts of things inside of SMTP and I think it would be great to be able to put a real bundle now that we have a bundle protocol inside SMTP and vice versa sometimes you want to transport a bundle across SMTP sometimes you want to transport SMTP across a DTN with model protocol the folks over in the network coding Research Group are interested in supporting DTN with network coding they are pretty bandwidth limited as well and finally I think the the ICN application somewhere should be on this radar and and the the profit draft the profit extension draft I think is pretty neat so I\u0027m just throwing more things on the list before we start ranking them so quick question you raised that about the "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:49:21",
    "text": "profit extension draft that came in from the ICN the guy who put that he\u0027s not in the room is he because there\u0027s occasionally this is me with my chair hat on just in case somebody\u0027s listening to the audio in the future occasionally we get drafts coming in from far eastern universities and academic institutions talking about DTN work talking about crossovers with ICN and it\u0027s interesting interesting things and there\u0027s not a lot of communication with the working group they just submit a personal draft and that\u0027s the last we hear I would really like these people to come and talk to us just put up put a message on the mailing list to say hi I have submitted this individual draft because there is a lot of interest with people who read these we read these things and say hey that\u0027s really good let\u0027s move it on I are the authors of this these drafts do they want them to become working group documents to do they my question I suppose is is this a way of publishing a paper to achieve part of their degree which is not quite what it\u0027s for but that\u0027s okay but the work is good and when the work is good let\u0027s work on it in the working group and and let\u0027s go make this a standard so it\u0027s a bit of a plea to any of the authors of a couple of these documents to say we like this you know come come talk to us it\u0027s an open forum we can do this work okay and I\u0027m Whittaker critical technologies um I want to just dovetail on that point maybe at some point somebody I\u0027m not volunteering myself but reach back out on some of those drafts that were really highlights they we saw reach back and say hey we\u0027ve been looking back through this was really interesting is there anything else going on because then maybe they continued working on it um just to put up into Stu\u0027s point I generally try to relieve the stress and take load off of him for his work so we\u0027re both constrained and I share a lot of what he\u0027s interested in as well but I\u0027m also interested in just reviewing if you have something throw me an email I\u0027ll review it I\u0027ll read it I\u0027ll try to give you some sort of feedback so the best place to review stuff is get on the data tracker look at the active documents and just literally put a review on the main leanness to say I read this you\u0027ve got a typo here I don\u0027t understand paragraph four all review helps I hate to go to the might choice in a row but it\u0027s too card here alright so I guess if nobody\u0027s throwing more things on the list I will nominate naming and addressing as a priority "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:52:30",
    "text": "okay Rick speaking personally I agree with you Stu I think naming and addressing is the elephant in the room as they say it\u0027s the one thing we all pretend works but when you start to look at it it\u0027s not actually there yet I will also add ie we have some of the asynchronous management is already on the Charter as an architecture I know that ed and his team are working hard on this and doing good work and I think it\u0027s really important so my plus one is for the asynchronous management so so we have seven minutes left I get the feeling that we\u0027ve covered quite a lot of the topics I think the new charter item priorities and people offering to work on it or saying what they\u0027re working on that they want to contribute into the working group I think we\u0027ll take that to the list so last five minutes any other business or I will shall close early and we can go and see if we can find a cup of coffee and I can get another drink for my throat okay in which case I\u0027m going to close the meeting early thank you very much and we\u0027ll see you all in Vancouver okay blue sheets blue cheese blue sheets blue sheets thank you very much the problem "
  }
]