[
  {
    "startTime": "00:00:04",
    "text": "Oh [Music] [Music] [Music] [Music] [Music] hello everyone let\u0027s start this is specie working group thanks for coming we know we have a clash with RPG WG thanks for showing up for this meeting and this is our note well this is Friday so I\u0027m sure you have seen this enough but if you are new to the meeting when you register for ITF either as a remote participant or as on-site at ndu agree to this note well this Note will provides you linked to various ITF policies that you should adhere to the most important is the IPR policy and this meeting is covered by our this note well so anything that you stay during the mic please please take care of any IPR declaration around that we also have various code of conducts and anti-harassment policies in the idea that we work under so please make sure that you are well aware of these policies "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:03:10",
    "text": "we have the blue sheets already out there please sign the blue sheets minutes our secretary hurry we\u0027ll be taking the minutes it\u0027s on etherpad so if anybody else wants to help out the link for the ether pad I have sent on them on our mailing list as well so help out in the minute taking this meeting is being recorded there is an audio streaming as well as video streaming for the real-time meet echo as well as the later this will be uploaded on video in in a meter call recording as well as on youtube so please mind the audio and video all people when they come to the mic kindly state your name this is important for minutes as well as for our future record presenters there is a pink cross please mind that stand there so that the meet echo team can capture you while you speak since 105 Adrian has stepped down Adrian helped us during the transition chair transition so we want to take one more opportunity to thank Adrian for helping us out in progressing lot of backlog that we had with the working group as well as mentoring the chairs as we take on this role Thank You Adrian this is a reminder that we want to reiterate that please use your mailing list please use the mailing list the IETF work doesn\u0027t happen only at the meeting it should happen on the mailing list first all the decisions are taken on mailing list when you ask for agendas not whether any discussion has happened on the mailing list is a one big criteria so please use the mailing list it\u0027s whenever you have any private discussions and you are updating the document please keep the working group in loop and tell them what the discussion was and why you have done the update what does this update look like the onus is on you to keep the working group in loop so this is our requesters chairs that please use mailing list a little bit more it\u0027s the most important tool that we have for our records as well as for consensus-building also a request that when our documents goes to working group at option call as well as working group last call we would request you to send more responses we have a difficult time to interpret what does the silence in the list means does it mean no support does it mean don\u0027t care you could just say that that that\u0027s a valid response that\u0027s an input for us to change while we are looking at the consensus it\u0027s also important that this put in a record not just for the working group but isg as well as other Directorate look at the mailing list to gosh how much the document is a output of the working group as a whole rather than a pet "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:06:11",
    "text": "project of a few authors so it\u0027s important that we get this information on the list so please be more vocal on the list and review each other\u0027s ideas and not just work on your own pet projects but in all our outputs of the working group is a combined output every working group adopted document is an output of the working group so we have to collectively take responsibility for those documents so please review documents from each other and let\u0027s progress the work that we have been doing in the working group okay how many of you are aware that we have a wiki okay that\u0027s a pretty good number and we have been doing this for last couple of IDF\u0027s we have been maintaining our adoption queue our progress of the documents how we are balancing the work if there is an action needed from either the authors or the chairs that\u0027s been identified so please continue to use the wiki if you have an update you can update it yourself or you can send a note to me or hurry our Julien and we can keep it up to date it with the latest status of your documents if you have any suggestion on what else can be captured on a wiki or if you have a preference of for instance some working groups prefer to send weekly status versus a wiki so if you have any suggestion of how this information can be more useful for the working group please give us feedback a reminder that in this working group we have an implementation policy the implementation policy states that every working group ID should have an inflammation implementation status section which should talk about whether an existing implement exists or are you planning to implement it or there are no implementation as of now some information needs to be captured in this section we will do the working group last call only when this section has has been added to your document most of the documents have done so there are still a few so if your documents is one of those please add this section and if you have a valid reason not to add this section please get a approval from the chairs this is our agenda we have a couple of documents on segment routing on PCC sees PCC see some new ideas and some old ideas that have been discussed before we did a little bit of shuffling since the last time we sent the agenda out that was to manage a clash between the RTG WG presentations as well any comments on the agenda one two three go okay now we are at the working group status section of the presentation we have no new RFC since our last IETF "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:09:12",
    "text": "meeting but nothing to worry there is a long queue of documents in the RFC editor queue and thank you for the working group for everyone who contributed to these documents and we have made one quite a bit of progress and cleared some of our backlog specially in the ITF last few things so thanks to the working group thanks to IAD thanks to all our Sheppard\u0027s directorates everybody who helped out in this so a quick run through segment routing which is a part of cluster c3 force you which is all the mpls segments routing document across spring MPLS OLS are etc right now this is odd 48 done that means that the final version from RFC editor is out and authors had a look and they have confirmed that this version is ready to go and the whole cluster will be published together that\u0027s where this this document is waiting we have a miss roof on w.zahn which is waiting for gmpls with status I will cover in the next slide one document which is currently in odd 48 which is a hockey extension most of the work here is done there are only a few comments that we need to talk to the RFC editor and resolve this and then this document will be ready to be published as well couple of documents which RFC editor is editing which is Association group and inter area ace applicability and some documents which are in the queue to be processed there are two documents which are still with the eye as she the gmpls had discussed for a long time but Cyril had made an update and discussed with the ad and the discuss is cleared we still have last two pending comments that needs to be answered and once those are done finally we would get this document out to the RFC editor as well the diversity document was under-eyes she tell each art just before this IETF it has a discus and it\u0027s pending authors to response so authors have told me that they will try to respond this just after this ITF we had some early code point allocation request but those documents have now reached RFC editor queue so we don\u0027t have to worry about them anymore and right after this we will have no other early code point pending in our eye on a registry we got one Arata during this period Arata is 5 7 9 6 on our of c 8 2 3 1 this was regarding the error handling Arif ocation the chairs suggested that we should put this rod on a hold for an actual document update for now and we will discuss with the ad to progress "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:12:12",
    "text": "this after this idea of meeting we have an incoming liaison this you would have seen in other working groups as well this liaison came from itu-t and came to see cam MPLS pals BC and T\u0027s Scotsmen field is the responsible liaison manager here and the chairs are collecting the list of documents that we need to add in our reply for this this message if anybody has any comments on this please reach out to the chairs so this covers the working group status the last section of the chair slide is about the status of all the working group IDs and the next steps so we have two documents which are in the post working group last call state the first is the PC stateful Flags which was earlier a draft ferrell pc stateful Flags when we did the last call and sent to the is G B got the request back to the working group to change the name which was done and a request to get any other feedback from the working group was also given so the last date is actually today so if you have not seen this or if you have a support for publication this as our request for being more vocal on the list this would be a good example to just do this right away it\u0027s a very simple small document that you can go through it it clarifies something that was missed in RFC eight two three ones which fixes a mistake that the working group made so before we ship it to the to the ad as a second try today\u0027s the last day for you to respond as a working group we have another document the piece F flowspec whose working group last call was extended because we had a late IPR and this is something again a reminder for everyone - to make sure that the IPR declaration is done at the right time it\u0027s your responsibility as a working group to make sure that you do this timely and also we have the Shepherd review for this document ready and soon we will be able to publish and send this to ad as well some documents that we believe are nearing working of last call we have the LSP scheduling - association drafts policy and bi-directional so this is just a heads-up to the working group that these are the documents that we will be doing last call so if you have not read this or if you this is the time to familiarize yourself before we do the last call we have one document which is stateful gmpls this is now my this is a we merged the remote initiated gmpls LSP into this "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:15:13",
    "text": "document as well after that there was an editorial update done there are still a few small reorganization in the document that would help with the readability so once that\u0027s done we can I think the content is pretty stable we can move to the working group last call as well the last document there is a piece F yang it imports bunch of key documents the good thing is the T documents are now progressing quite well in the t\u0027s working group and other places but if there is one document which is the net conf DLS client server and Tom patch on the mailing list as well pointed this out that this might take a little long longer from the net-net conf working group to progress it\u0027s in a big queue they have a bunch of other documents related to the crypto that they want to focus on first before they come to the TLS client server so it\u0027s a question for the working group that should be wait should we send ours and put a note to the RFC editor that the tree and some parts of the document would need to be updated once the TLS client server reaches the reaches the RFC id2q so this is something that we need to think i with the chairs and the ad will discuss this and we\u0027ll come back to the working group with what\u0027s the right way to move forward if anybody has any suggestion this would be a perfect time to talk about it as well okay we have some other documents we have a native IP document which was presented at 104 there has been a change a route priority got added in one of the explicit peer route TLV and most of the other changes were editorial so please review these changes another document was enhanced error again discussed in 104 there has been an update the main update was we agreed on a guideline that that should be followed for any future document that adds error and not affect and notification and what X they need to add to make sure that the enhanced errors are also supported so that text is now in the in the 0-6 version and most of the other changes were editorial some recent working groups document we have a flex great document and the SR v6 document mostly clean up a little bit of syncing of changes between the MPLS SR and SR v6 but the documents are progressing quite well these are the documents that we adopted since the last meeting we have the binding said VN Association and the path segments the first two documents also have a zero one version posted with the comments during the working group adoption poll already "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:18:13",
    "text": "handled please if you have further suggestions for these documents please use the list and provide your feedback the final slide from the working group is adoption poll Q so this is our Q or as you would see in our wiki of various documents that the chairs feel should be called for adoption you can go to the wiki and also see another list which is a list of the humans that the authors feel they are ready to be adopted and we are maintaining it a little bit separately so you know your requests are heard and they are documented somewhere and the chairs will have to make a decision on them soon once we have some of our pending documents out of the way hi this is Mike Alicia from Cisco we already implemented the PC segment routing policy CP the fourth item so we would really like early code point allocation and so for that reason I request to expedite the adoption of that draft thanks Mike noted I will discuss this with Julian and come back to you thanks is anybody has any other comment on their working group document or any adoption question otherwise we\u0027ll start with our agenda okay thank you first up is Mike hello this is Mike coalition from Cisco I\u0027m presenting on behalf of my co-authors so this is e step extensions for multipath information so originally when p sub you only had one er o her LSP and so there\u0027s been a number of recent recent applications where that\u0027s not sufficient anymore and so I listed three that we are facing right now so one is as we know for s our policy each candidate path can have a list of segment lists and basically this is not possible currently to represent and PISA to have multiple segment lists second is if you want to request a certain number of band a certain amount of bandwidth but there is no one path that can satisfy that bandwidth then this today there is no way to return several paths that can split the bandwidth among themselves in some kind of multi path and the third "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:21:14",
    "text": "use case is we want to allow one path to protect another path basically to specify a kind of protection so we choose to include these yellow objects in the same piece of LSP rather than creating multiple pieces at our speeds and this was kind of discussed on the mailing list as well and so this gives the nice property that a single single report update initiate and also stateless reply message carries all the information that you need you don\u0027t need to aggregate multiple reply messages or multiple you know update messages and so it\u0027s very simple we just introduced this ero attributes object and this object simply acts as a separator between arrow objects and it also carries some attributes so basically wherever you have the aro object you can replace it with aro attributes followed by aro followed by aro attributes followed by arrow and so on and the subject carries multiple TVs which can encode whatever attributes you want to that ero to have oh sorry just to go back so we define like a weight TLV for carrying a weight of each arrow which would allow for an equal cost multi path which is required for segment routing policy we also define the steel V for allowing protection between different paths so just allows more rich response from the BC and the capability for this is signaled in the open object using this Tod and so it specifies here the number of multipaths that that you want to that the requester is able to support so if this tier we can go in two places either in the open object or in the LSP object so if it goes into the open object that means that it\u0027s like a box wide though default value versus if it goes in the LSP object it allows you to override the global box value so you can say that a particular LSP I don\u0027t want any ecmp for example I only want one path even if you have more than one path I just want one path and that\u0027s it it\u0027s very basic very "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:24:16",
    "text": "simple extension so if there\u0027s any comments or questions please ask Thanks are there any questions dealing from Huawei my question is actually today the the pset protocol has multiple paths in wasting one message for example the PC update message and but the message is not carrying multiple euro but carrying for example multiple a request object each update request object contains one else P yesterday\u0027s message so I wonder I want to know what\u0027s the gap for the today\u0027s message for your problems here right so it was discussed on the mailing list as well there is a way to so basically why kind of update corresponds to one our set of constraints right now so what we want here is we want one set of constraints to contain multiple paths so you can now have kind of two updates because that would mean two different constraints this was something that was discussed in the last meeting as well during the PC operational where we had multiple options and the kind of agreement in the room at that time was that this is the preferred approach that we want to have multiple er O\u0027s inside the path for SR policy so we can go back to the what what we discuss in the mailing list as well as the last meeting and I can discuss with you as well during the offline if you need to understand what we discussed in the last meeting okay thank you enough my way ask one question the mouth depends load balancing or not I\u0027ll just speak louder it\u0027s hard to hear it\u0027s a load of balancing or not about balancing so it\u0027s it is allowed for an equal cost multi path so basically load balancing you can you can send 40% traffic on one arrow and 60% on the other I have I have an interest on the load balancing scenario I think I focus on folks only scenario I have some meter one dropped her named I can is that distribute mode I think it\u0027s not centralized mode okay did specify the multi pens told that device how to how to do with a load balancing scenario I think it\u0027s okay this is Annie I can "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:27:17",
    "text": "okay you can bring it up on the mailing list and I can take okay thank you ender stone Nokia just to comment on your question about why can\u0027t we use multiple other speeds or multiple updates this use case is also Keable - replication segments so I would update you know a single LSP that could have multiple egress paths because we\u0027re doing replication and so if we were to try to use Association to do that use case it would just become a nightmare and so you want to have you know one incoming label a binding label with multiple egress arrows so there\u0027s a lot of use cases at this that this draft really covers and so I think you know expediting adoption of it is probably a good good idea thanks Stephanie Lipsky from Cisco this is just a question for my information I haven\u0027t well draft yet let\u0027s say that you have sent an update message initially okay we containing multiple paths and then you have just one of these paths which is changing are you always advertising both yeah okay and you have no way to advertise just what has changed it\u0027s justice courses for this scenario no so we do provide like basically per arrow ID where each arrow can have an identifier because I\u0027m just wondering from an implementation point of view you need to avoid an implementation having extra work wondering if the path has to change or not yeah that\u0027s right so we do provide a yellow ID there so basically the the implementation can can you know match the arrow from the previous update to this update mmm but generally when the sub date comes in it\u0027s like you want you know it\u0027s a single forwarding entry you know usually so there is some processing involved to compare these labels anyway so okay thank you thanks Mike I also have a few thoughts though since you are adding this is a new object the first thing would be that our BNF needs to be updated across all the message so one question to the authors would be did you guys evaluate maybe adding ero attributes as a sub object so that you don\u0027t you can still put it inside the ero list so it still acts as a delimiter amongst the path I know it\u0027s not a very neat question but I just want to know that did you analyze this or not can this be a sub object inside the existing ero so that you don\u0027t have to go and make a huge update everywhere else yeah we we analyzed that in fact we you know we we very much discussed that option we found that it it kind of makes sense easier this way you can like yeah Rory presents "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:30:21",
    "text": "you know an explicit route you know a particular path to you know a set of labels or a set of hops now when you add these like you know separator objects into that explicit path then it becomes I don\u0027t know it becomes a more complicated object and we\u0027ve we thought that it\u0027s cleaner to do it this way but if people can provide like a good argument otherwise I wouldn\u0027t be room Jenny but it works yeah I made that comment last time we did like Mike said we did analyze that it would have made sense if there was a strong use case for any transit action so since everything all the attributes that we were considering were English related I mean there was no strong case to me made for making it a gyro saab object unless somebody brings it up this is what ko-nach of it but in the document do update the are BNF also i want to add like if you make it a sub object then you can\u0027t have any TVs that\u0027s not a strong enough but then it becomes kind of really really cool yeah yes also what happens to our ro in this document we have just focused on ero we also have an RR Oh sonar we need to talk like I know it\u0027s a 0/0 document but there are lots of open questions so do try to handle that in the next update yeah thanks probably it\u0027s gonna be along the same I\u0027ll leave my comment about the backup when you guys actually have the text okay right now I\u0027m not able to visualize how you are gonna use the backup path IDs etc and how does it work without existing mechanisms like protection association so just think of these questions when you update the next time okay sounds good thanks true thank you next we have entropy level position good morning everyone I\u0027m transitioning from city my presentation today is the peace app extension for SRM Piazza entropy label position as we were long the entropy has been proposed in RC six seven nine zero to provide entropy for load balancing enter the draft to ITF MPL spring entropy label proposed to apply the entropy labels to as RMPs networks and it provides several "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:33:21",
    "text": "criteria to determine a year ie else placement and so the first one is related to computer insert a limited number of il il pills in their SRM pious label stack and second the inserted positions should be within the ER LD / Maxton maxim member / transit as ours finally a maximum number of ER i l PL should be inserted why status finder above criteria so based on the criterion we need to consider when the controller configure the pass when the country is PC when PC performed their past computation for SR MPLS networks related to configured or entropy label precision waster passed computation results together to configure the results to other networks for example as the figures show the PC will compute their computer parts from A to Z 2 e and the label stack is Astor figure show and there are a cm piece existing in B 3 a and B and B 3 C and E then with their PC will compute the entropy label position and for example after P and the another one is after C so after ESO their label stack waster in aro ie our labels is Astor figures showed is the p/e l IL c e and e RI e are so this is other motive a a multiplication this is the background of the drug sorry the so we extended a piece a protocol first we extended their open object we add a new type of over flag to indicator that it supposed there s our path with the ELP configuration and we extend LSP objected to indicator the peace peace each you computed as our path waster Aoi ERP information together and there Valerie we will extend the ero objected to carry the ERP information and we will extend the e e flag when the e is said it "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:36:22",
    "text": "indicated that the position after the SR ero of is the position to insert there l ER IE m so another extension he said i loved history editor of c8 2 3 1 through SP object the flag field is not enough for the an extension their field the flag field is trough piece that 11 piece has been assigned so this is it is not e love to for other extension so this document proposed to a definer liu SP extended flag goe to extend the lens over the flag field so that\u0027s what this is our my presentation any questions stephanie Koski what\u0027s the value of doing this compared to relating v ingress placing the ELA year because even if your PC is computing something it does not really know what ingress is really able to do so possibly ingress is not able to know what the PC is requesting because we think there are PC has were the information and it has information from a purely theoretical point of view to what is the best position for vli years unfortunately it doesn\u0027t know anything on what is what are the capability of ingress to really able to insert multiple ela ears and wearing the stack for me it\u0027s not working the piece of a PC will collect our information like their er LD like the MST into their a team it\u0027s not because you have an MSD of 12 or 16 that you are able to push multiple ela year you just configure the position the placement ur that again it\u0027s not because you have an MSD which is X that you are able to push multiple ela en it\u0027s really implementation dependent and you have nothing to signal it so yes PC can do a kind of optimization and give an advice to the ingress but you have no insurance that the ingress will be able to annoyed okay and they don\u0027t cease value compared to just pushing your path and ingress doing its own job based on reads on its own implementation I think there before "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:39:28",
    "text": "third in appearance will be inserted as her editor ingress allowed the enter placement the ingress and don\u0027t know well the to welder the placement to insert exposition to insert the ER il but that PC has their information to configure it Stephan would you be happy with if a PCC sends a message and say whether I was able to succeed in doing like how we usually do in Pisa or you feel that this whole functionality it doesn\u0027t make sense because most of the time PC would never be able to give the right answer no it could give the right answers think that you\u0027re missing here is what our the capability of the ingress of inserting multiple ela Els and wearing the stack MSD is not enough to know about that MSD is just a generic information about how many labels I\u0027m able to push but I I don\u0027t have any information and of what kind of label it could be with you never so comment on Stefan\u0027s response I agree that there should be a capability saying that like push multiple yells and here lies but in the multi-domain case relying on the ingress might not you know English might not be able to determine you know where and other domains where the yell I will go and yell so the concern is capability then we should extend capability yeah not just the capability that you can do this computation but what is the capability of the ingress when it comes to adding multiple Li L pair so I\u0027m not sure I need to recheck whether you have that in your open message or why are your IEP and BGP to communicate that as well so I think keep this discussion going and I think start a thread on the on the mailing list so that we can conclude on this yeah I think their capability and extension over the PGP and the Aces has been approved in other yeah the dot key is usually er LD and MSD I think what Stefan is saying that that\u0027s not enough and maybe you need something more so please go and discuss and come back to the working group on what the conclusion was of the discussion okay thank you about the updates of the FCAT two three yeah yet so I think this is an important thing that the working group should be aware of we have sort of run out of any flags in our LSP object so we definitely "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:42:28",
    "text": "should fix this should we do this independently maybe that\u0027s the best option rather than clubbing it with this so if you can just put this outside in a separate document I think we can I agree I think it would be better to manage this completely separately okay I feel quite as well about the instant 8tracks oh and iran juniper I think there\u0027s a presentation later on about path protection in additional flags for protection I guess they\u0027re also there there are a few new LSP attribute specific Flags being defined I don\u0027t know he there is RC six five four than zero and talks about LSP attributes for RC BT the similar hop attribute extensions which talk about mandatory and desirable kind of semantics for LSP attributes was was a really discussion about replicating those semantics in piece up earlier on the LSP attributes semantics let\u0027s discuss this when after the presentation so that the working group is aware of what you are talking about thank you so next we have chunk hello good morning ladies and gentlemen and I\u0027m Charlie from Hawaii so my topic today is about like the updates of PC ECC drafts so regarding pcc see it\u0027s it has been divided in IFC 80 to 83 and 85 s an architecture for use of PC as a central controller and it exams the motivation and application brigades applique parrot a four-piece SAP a second chaplain in Sdn architecture right so many were discussed for drafters update so the first one is a basic or static airspeed extension within the PC ECC architecture so as we all know that it has been adopted as a working document right now and and this meeting the main modification our modifications are we update some like text for precept requirement such as we move the normative things and we sync up the changes from the PC PC percept as a document like we asked supports the four link-local ipv6 address by link-local like ipv6 at just trv something like this and we also add the implementation status and fix some Island section something a dish and I think it\u0027s ready for like working group last call so the "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:45:32",
    "text": "second one is about the PC CC extension for SR so the main changes are very simple we sync up with the pc c PP sap as a document and we had some implementation status and fix the security considerations section and next it is the next like item in the walking dock working group with the duck adoption queue so we hope that it can be adopted very soon yep regarding the the SR v6 extensions and Petri MPs tensions mainly we have some auditory changes to keep alignment with the PCC CC document so nothing nothing like major changes so as the context as a text like a pretty stable so we can see that if possible we hope to add this title documents to the working group adoption queue on wiki so that\u0027s all thank you any question or comments any questions okay thank you oh thank you have questions we have time to discuss my wreck with juniper there is another proposal to a program point-to-multipoint replication segment we did not present it this time but I think the plan is the result presented next time so we can we can compare and contrast and talk about the proposals great thank you please use the list as much as you can when you have the discussion thank you so good morning everybody um here to present path protection enforcement in piece up Mike already made a very good point it\u0027s actually local protection in piece up so I think we\u0027ll probably end up changing the name on that so I have a use case here where I\u0027ve got three LS B\u0027s and for each of those LS B\u0027s they have different kind of constraints on whether or not they want to have a protected path and by protected path we really mean about whether the SIDS or the adjacency SIDS have the beef leg set and that comes from a loaf a so the topology here is really a crazy example hopefully you don\u0027t see this in a real network but it may happen or you\u0027ve got certain links which have the beef leg set so LFA is available on those links you have other links which do not have "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:48:32",
    "text": "the beef leg set and amongst for example one of the links on the top left it has both right I said which is protected and I said which is not so I have LSP one which says I must have a protected path so in this topology there\u0027s only one viable path LSP 2 says I must not have a protected path it again also only has one viable path whereas for LSP 3 it\u0027s it\u0027s low effort it\u0027s low priority I really just don\u0027t care so in this situation you end up with three potential possibilities so the idea being is that to support these three possibilities you know how do we tell PC to calculate a path and take this into consideration can I ask a clarifying question sure what is the requirement for must not have a protected part so you might have traffic where or you might have LS B\u0027s where just because of their SLA is you actually want them to go down you know high bandwidth consumption consuming paths that you rather actually drop the traffic and fall back over to other protection mechanisms as opposed to allowing LFA to kick in so we have goes with us first is to clarify some of the wording so we\u0027ve seen through Interop testing in the past this was actually a few years ago that different vendors have interpreted the local protection desired bit differently so I did a little bit of digging to kind of see where this flag came from and essentially it stems from RSVP right so an RSVP the LSB attributes you have a local protection desired but now for this bid in the case of PCE this couldn\u0027t actually be used to influence the CSP F the actual calculation of course sigmund routing was added much later now when vendors are implementing PC and they wanted to influence whether or not an LSB should take an LFA protected path or not they looked at this bit well the term desired has a bit of vagueness to it right I would say that neither vendor implemented it right and neither vendor implemented it wrong because you can really truly interpret it either way in the sense of whether or not protection desired is a hard constraint or a soft constraint so for sotl espies mckenna just showed in the previous example we actually want to influence the see SPF calculation so first goal is to clarify some of the wording in the document and the second goal is to add an additional way to signify that strictness right whether or not I must have or it must not have or I don\u0027t care so the proposal that we\u0027re doing is well first some additional wording it must be said that the wording that\u0027s being added to the document is trying to be as backwards-compatible as possible right because we do have implementations out there so it is a little bit flexible in in how we\u0027re treating the existing local protection desired but for that reason and another reason the the actual proposal to achieve that strictness constraint we\u0027re looking at adding another flag so we\u0027re calling it the e flag now you could argue that you know asking for a protected or non protected flag is a constraint of the SI SPF calculation not necessarily an attribute the problem is including that data structure is relatively quite heavy plus "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:51:33",
    "text": "then you end up having a split between what what does the local protection desired bit mean if I also have a constraint so I figured it\u0027d be easier to tag along the local protected desired but with this new e bit so the combination of the e and the L bits if you read the draft basic they allow you to have four individual states right to bits on and off so the waiting in there is again backwards compatibility and trying to achieve the first use case I presented and so that\u0027s really an in my presentation at this moment we\u0027re basically just looking for feedback comments especially from those vendors who have implemented it to see how this achieves still backwards compatibility hello it\u0027s Michael Cole the chef from Cisco yeah I think it\u0027s very useful actually this unprotected path to say basically like it must be unprotected versus at me you know we prefer unprotected versus it must be unprotected those are actual you know use cases for sure so thanks upon you want to discuss your point or if it\u0027s the same question can I ask a little bit more about this document before we go to a bigger discussion or after you yeah I don\u0027t have any comment about the desire let me finish okay so I have a few questions so maybe you can clarify one I was just reading out of c-54 4-0 it I know the name of the bit is desired but the text says when set the path computation must include links protected by FRR I know the must is not in a normative way it\u0027s in a small letters but I think it\u0027s a bit clearer I found that text odd because that was written before segment routing existed and so there was no way for PC to actually influence as part of it see SPF calculation whether or not protection would actually be supported by the downstream RSVP router right so at the time as much as the language said you know was a hard constraint the point is it couldn\u0027t actually influence as part of the see SPF calculation and I\u0027m not sold on that so let me so again I agree it definitely does say must and again when you stand back to you the point that it references to the RSVP RFC and that situation it does imply that it\u0027s also a soft constraint so that that\u0027s why I mentioned you know there\u0027s no right or wrong out there it\u0027s just the wording can be interpreted differently and to achieve for example these three potential options of must must not have don\u0027t care trying to you know bridge those two worlds together between the two flags okay also I think I would like to have a don\u0027t care option I think that we have lost now so you would like or would not like no currently what we had was if I "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:54:33",
    "text": "set a flag either I mean I must or desired and if I don\u0027t set a flag we don\u0027t care and right now based on your adding of these two flags if I unset both the flags it would mean either rate right now when both flags are set zero it actually means I don\u0027t care but you end up in a situation where you might have a link with multiple seeds on it some which have protection and some that don\u0027t so for the backwards compatibility it\u0027s falling back to saying will prefer the one that does have protection because at the end of a you have to choose one and so the the use case actually has three states but because of the bits I basically said well let\u0027s have the four states so you\u0027ve got unprotected I don\u0027t care right where everything said zero and then you have protected or you have a protected preference but I don\u0027t care so III feel it\u0027s a bit conflicting because once you say that something is preferred actually you do care because you are using the word preferred there sure the the preference is more about trying to control the selection of which sit to use on a link which has multiple sets so the way preferred I agree we can probably tune that wording what a base people\u0027s down to is one influence is the see SPF calculation the other one influences the SID selection along a link from that posts SPF calculation any other comments bubble flow to you no need to rush yeah the earlier comment was that now that we are trying to add more and more flags to LSP attributes we do have precedence in our CBT for attribute flax TL we have things like that and there is an R flag which tells you whether that\u0027s required or desired so the question was do we bring those semantics into pfpc always had peace of always had the LSP a object with a subtly squirt there is precedence in RSVP should we bring that in here has there been a discussion in the past I am sure there was some discussion sue can recollect the regarding optional and mandatory we had it at the object level so that as you know in RFC 5/4 that was there from the start we missed it in the stateful so there is another document that was discussed I think last two last ITF where how we made sure that those flags are are applicable at the object level at a flag level we don\u0027t have a mechanism so if there is something that already exists yes a good reference to look at and maybe a generic solution rather than pearl flag could be useful yeah thank you thanks for bringing it up as some from nook here I was just reading at the statement that you brought from our c-54 can you closer the "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:57:37",
    "text": "statement that you borrowed from Arcee 54:40 that it says that the path must include links protected with the faster iran yes but it doesn\u0027t say what happens if you cannot find a link that has fast you rot and I think this is to have cleared up because in that network there is a case that you might your only path doesn\u0027t have the faster ah so my interpretation from desired means that we should take into account no I I understand what the requirement was my only was that the it\u0027s a bit of a strong statement to say it RFC for for zero was too ambiguous I think it\u0027s as an implementers we might have interpreted it differently so we need to fix that I understand but yeah yeah I agree let\u0027s go ahead thank you thank you is who I\u0027m on the room I think because we are running little early so I think he let\u0027s move to the next presentation and we\u0027ll come back to it hurry just update that in the meeting just a reshuffling of the order the video okay good morning this is Hama and I\u0027m presenting this marathon protest extension to PC to spur to resource sharing and this has been presented last time I think in Singapore as well and let\u0027s try to recap what has been included in draft to give a reminder on the technical part so basically this kind this work has a scope to support the explicit to resource sharing strategy when you do the past computation and especially this can be applied when a new era SP is used to replace an existing SR RSP such as reoptimize ation or restauration and the solution has been defined in this document who would support the resource variance between the two errors piece with different parameters like endpoints bandwidth and link share no share so on so forth so we have already coordinated with other documentation this working group especially with the ones for Association so the Association would be used as a generic object and we have separate TR ways if you want to compute diversity at the end if you want to compute in sharing strategy so what we have being proposal proposed in this document is to reuse the association group object "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:00:38",
    "text": "and indicated a new Association type as sharing so this is how the newly introduced that here will looks like so we have setting we have said a few flags here to indicate what is the strategy and what is the objective for you to to to share during the past computation request so we can have link share node share as our energy share for different kind of objective and the preceding rule for this kind of sharing would be say well if we share a link propose to share a link the PCU the PCE you will firstly try to share the link and if it is possible to fail so if the link share try is failed then the PC will try to find the past without link share so this is different to with a kind of mandatory constraint and the same rule applies to the node share and s energy share as well so what has been newly added in the recent updater is a B flag PFLAG would be used to do the bandwidth sharing which is used for the bulk pass commutation and this would be used to see we can have many recipes using the same bandwidth but it\u0027s a kind of planning instead of real deployment so the changes has been made in maybe recent over a year would be we updated the some of the description in the use case section to harmonize with other kind of past computation strategies and we also updated the error code to be consistent with a Association abre and we add a description on the manageability considerations and we also have other editorial comments according to the the comments raised on the list so this one has been pulled once we it seems it was good support in in an on-site meeting but not on the mailing list so according to the wiki and the requirement firm chairs we are requested to have more reviews and more supporters so we now get them and we are now get better harmonized with other Association works so we think this work harmony is ready for the second round of working group adoption thank you "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:03:38",
    "text": "add any questions hi this is Mike from Cisco you most you seem to only talk about PC requests in the draft so in the PC requests it\u0027s kind of clear because there is one say OSP that\u0027s there already and then you\u0027re just requesting the other one so you can\u0027t modify the one that\u0027s already there but if it\u0027s like stateful then you have two USBs in this Association group and then it may be not very clear if you change one then you kind of force to change the other because it\u0027s supposed to share yeah good catch actually the the approach should applies to both say less and stateful we did mention the stay I think PC request in in the document but should be also includes those stateful part as the Association is the generic and can apply for mouse stateless and stateful okay but like from the path computation point of view I guess if you like change one other speed and you\u0027re kind of yeah you want to change the other one yeah I guess thanks Mike that\u0027s kind of applicable to almost all associations in stateful world yeah thanks I just wanted to clarify okay how many of you have read this document either before in an earlier version or the latest one quite a few people have read so I hope that if we do a second call we will actually see you guys respond on the list because if you support on the list all the consensus will be judged only on the mailing lists so please if we do the second call I have to talk to Julian before we take a decision on this but everybody who\u0027s took the hand and hurry maybe no doubt raised their hand that we need to get more answers on the list thank you thanks thank you in the middle sorry about that [Music] hello everyone my topic today is the pizza a PCT concentrates for network slicing the motivation motivation is that according to their 5g contest satellite network slicing is there a collection of a set of topology to "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:06:38",
    "text": "support network service differentiation and their meeting third I first find requirements from the vertical industries so the slices may be seen as virtual networks and the topologies from PC will be a partitioned - to be Manning\u0027s sub and sub technologies in transport network so so for now multiple existing and then fires can be used at you intent finder virtual network resource and we must consider this - to be viewed as constraints of that work slicing when your PC is deployed so as the figures show when we used PC to configure their transport network when first the application based the service will configured by users to PC and the PC will collect collect apology from bt pls and I will use the P sub protocol to configure their networks so the PC you used will after or apologist in dirt traffic engineering database so the traffic engineering the base will be divided into many technologies when they\u0027re slicing network user and then fires two parties pain part shishun the resources so we need to consider the constraints to their computer take the past computation so we propose to define several key constraints for networks slicing the first one is the network topology information the source protocol ID Marty Marty topology ID and the other means to achieve instance identifier oh they are displays are defined in other drugs and for its proposal for network slicing next one is the policy information it is proposed in ITF spring segment routing policy this is the color template to configure der surface so as topology so we need to consider the color template when we computer the past master one is the application of tributes defined in ieee tah-tah and their arbitration based "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:09:39",
    "text": "the service we are configured to pcs or PC you need to consider the constraints true first one the stress protocol like for example easiest OSPF or configuration the other typo for the protocol we were collector and OPC wear collector the topology based on this base protocol the advisement so when we computer the passes used using the PC we will carry their constraints or tell the PC to selector the their source protocol and to concentrate order passed last one is the same there are a market apology when we find at much lower GI D we will just a computer to pass in the sub topology which defined either much topology ID and the third one is the slicing network network of mr. Adam illustrative instance identifiers this is defined in the draft just for the network slicing so it when we a computer the past we were late to carry their a I I objected to limit emulate the topology the color object is defined under SR s not our policy so when the sabotage topology identified by the specific color template then will this will carried specif specific color perm you later so when we computer the past we were carried the color template and there we will carry the color object to concentrate other parts so the master one is application attributes the obligation application based took service will configure to OPC and then configure to the let works when we computer their passes we were lead to carry their application attributes to limiter the topology so they say these are the several constraints we extend for the peace app that\u0027s were any questions "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:12:41",
    "text": "thank you okay thank you colonial one Amazon from a leaky today I will talk about PCE kisses for PRT watch the latest version we add cruisers from Huawei and China BIOS in this version and we update we have received a couple of comments from from Europe and the way update the endpoint object zero are two options in our draft but we\u0027ve delayed the option for the new year and point object to carry it appear ID informations we use is a bit wonky in points objects body for ipv4 and end points a particular body for ipv6 which is defined in fz8 3006 next introduction this document specifies åkesson should pass through to pc EP that allows a still for PCE to compute and initiate the patch for beauty this is the disease like this is for pcp the first a spear capability at a water Esmond defines a new past settlement type for beer for beer te defines the beauty PCB capability such a way to exchange beer capability as a second is to up he is AB the object defines a new path set up for beauty the third is end point object we use is a bit wonky and point object body yeah the last is a yellow object with the files a year oh yeah period or sub objects to carriage at the say speed stress PSAR subdomain and i sigh so this draft is six verses and we have some partitions many times both the peer and VCE welcome and we have received a couple of comments from from from our readers like China Mobile and Huawei sorry Wow so I think this this draft is ready to college so I asked a working group to cover double shame for our draft thank "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:15:42",
    "text": "you are there any questions so thank you for addressing the comment from mailing list and otherwise and making it clear that this document deals with BRT only do you have any plans for the PCC c4 yeah yeah yeah sure we have a plan and we we also we would like to incorporate with with you yeah with Huawei go on to extend PCB say say to to beer to beer okay I discussed to with the beer Cheers I think to IETF segoe regarding this work I will reconfirm with the ad and the beer cheers how to best progress this work most likely since this is a piece of extension so the best place is definitely this working group but how do we coordinate and make sure that the beer requirements are well captured and whether we are meeting the requirements that\u0027s something by a coordination across the beer working group and PC working group we can take care of how many people have read this document thank you how many of you think that this work is useful thank you thank you thanks for the input I\u0027ll anyway take this to the list and we have an adoption queue so bear with us thank you sticking Obama\u0027s okay so we have last presentation but our presenter is still not here I think any information yes he is involved in another presentation another working group so he promised me to come later so we would like to request for chairs to decide whether to wait for him or we do what else does anybody has anything else to discuss any other thing that they are bothering bothered by life and Ranocchia Singapore is really warm I think that document was discussed last time in the last meeting as well though whoever was remote he had made an update but I think the key question they are still open that is the motivation behind that work this that work was discussed in BGP as well so I think we should waiting may not be the best idea of everybody\u0027s time so thank you thanks for attending the working group and being quite efficient you have 45 minutes to enjoy thank you "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:18:51",
    "text": "blue sheets has everybody signed the blue sheet if somebody some of you making late make sure it\u0027s updated thank you keep the empty empty flood and then if you\u0027re talking use the "
  }
]