[
  {
    "startTime": "00:00:28",
    "text": "e e hello hello we can hear you excellent"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:02:04",
    "text": "and I suppose it's time to do the usual thing of trying to find a note taker before we get started anybody feel like volunteering probably should have asked on the list though that often doesn't work either I I did post to the list oh okay so far crickets yeah we'll see if a few people turn up who we can possibly um strong arm"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:04:10",
    "text": "so why don't we get started and then we'll have that awkward moment where we ask for no takers and pound people but sounds good or something yes all right okay so this is the AV core working group of the ITF virtual interim um hopefully we can get some good progress today you R you're driving those slides right Bernard yes you are good okay uh remote meeting tips um so raise your hand which is at the bottom of the screen to enter the queue um if you want to speak um when it's your turn to talk you need to enable your audio which is the microphone icon um you can also enable video if you want but it's separate from audio so you have to turn them on separately um video is encouraged but not required um please keep audio and video off you're Ching orless you're chairing or presenting or commenting uh and use of a headset is strongly recommended mine unfortunately his battery is dead um um to avoid Echo actually Echo cancellation has gotten somewhat better but it's better safe than sorry uh note well um by participating in the ITF you are cover you are um agreeing to comply by the iat's various uh policies including patents and code of conduct um I think we have a few more specific details on a few of those in future slides but you should be aware of all of them um the links are below there should be actual links in the side deck uh participant obligations um if you're starting a presentation you must say if there's IPR on with your Draft when asking questions or commenting you must disclose any IP your employer controls related to to the draft and there are there is a document"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:06:02",
    "text": "describing potential consequences of violating those policies uh also um the ITF is covered by the code of conduct anti-harassment policies um if you have any concerns by anyone's Behavior please talk to the ID's team um and please treat everybody with uh respect and dignity and if you're disagreeing argue with ideas not people okay about this meeting um or meeting the meeting in for the data tracker uh Note Taker we still need um I will keep an eye on the chat but we need somebody to take notes please so now is the time when as mentioned we have the awkward silence while we wait for uh somebody to volunteer to take notes and Spencer uh yeah I I can take notes and uh I uh as usual beg other people to watch what I type uh for one thing I'm uh paying close attention to the quick over uh sorry the RTP over quick uh draft which is number five and I'm presenting number six so if I was not trying to take notes uh by myself for those two things that would be great yes yeah um yes so we get as a backup notaker especially even if you're presenting in one of the other sessions you know especially covering you know backing up Spencer and covering for him when he's presenting would be excellent um so um anybody maybe want to uh Magnus I can do that wonderful perfect thank you all right so draft status you've got a number of drafts published we've got a number of drafts in the queue all in edit state so that's exciting I think"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:08:00",
    "text": "EVC may even be beyond that now I think it's an off 48 um I've certainly seen a lot of the the comments going back and forth of the authors we've adopted adopted a number of draft Stefan yeah yeah it's it's actually passed out 428 it will be it's now in the publication cool excellent that's very exciting um all right so um we have adopted number of drafts um listed here uh I think some of those were talking about today and let's see then the GI GitHub setup um we created the organization but we haven't put anything in it yet so uh we will try to set that up I think that's probably on me so not takers please make sure that's an action item on me to is there anything special people need to do to do these transfers um I some uh Pierre just sent Pier Anthony just sent me email with um links for what I need to for how I need to create a uh the re repo so I think I think I basically have to I um I have to create it and then give whoever is the author Pi you seem to have done look at the Inu you want to talk about what I need to do yeah exactly yeah just uh as you were about to say I think the simplest is if you could create the repos and give the editor maintain permission and and um I can take it from there sounds sounds great I will do that for thanks any editors who want to Port into that Magnus yeah but us who already have the I guess we can transfer them too so uh yeah yeah you should be able to I'm not I mean whether you want to port in or transfer um I think it's yeah I mean obviously transferring the pro oh sorry go ahead sorry yeah the the problem I mean the only downside with transfer um was of course you lose Ian wherever you were"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:10:00",
    "text": "you lose it entirely but also then you have to change the name unless you happen to pick the exact name that we plan to use on it fwg avt core so yeah that's why I mean whatever really yeah I mean certainly anything that has significant um like uh issues and PRS against it we probably want to transfer rather than Port so we keep that history but um I I will see what I can figure out I would assume you could rename it at the same time you transfer it though I understand you no it's a it's a but it's an easy step but it's a secondary step I mean I mean I can do it one and then the other for the first and then the second should be pretty hopefully straightforward um if it's more if it's two clicks rather than one that's not a big deal uh Lucas right yeah so I have question the v3c one should be on this list or not uh there'll be a 3C you mean the RTP for for the v3c which we have today well we just doing need the ones that have been adopted for now uh okay so let's we'll try to make these work and you know that one once it gets adopted we can worry about it yeah I mean I think we I think we said that we were willing to let not yet adopted drafts which seem likely to be adopted be in the repo also what does it mean adopted adopted means the working group has officially agreed that this is a topic we will work on and it gets published as a draft ietf ABT core so V pass this last maybe we just forgot that's on this list then all right and we have our own GitHub for for should should we transfer it here or um it's probably a good idea yes it's a good idea to have them all in thef organization if they're official working grou documents so yeah we will all right"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:12:01",
    "text": "Spencer uh yeah and uh this is actually for the notes also so we're using this for recently adopted drafts of which we have several and uh and uh authors who wish to do so can uh use the uh AV core organization also for drafts that they hope will be adopted um yeah I think we've decided that's fine okay okay cool and uh that this actually uh your your your the last bullet on this slide was actually a qu a question I had whether uh whether uh drafts that have not been adopted yet could be included in the the activity this week uh script uh but it sounds like if they're in the repo that would be an even better idea yeah I think so y thank you yes [Music] all right so here's our agenda um first a presentation from Magnus about closing the this uh registry um j2k b3c RTP over quick sdp for RTP over quick uh haptics and then uh viewport reg of interest and finally next steps Pi do you have something to say or did you just leave your uh audio on oh I had muted on my side okay all right um all right yeah so um if nobody has any comments about the agenda we can get started I guess first up is Magnus yeah I created a few slides uh there's not a lot to talk about but basically uh give people a background I think everyone knows uh why this draft"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:14:01",
    "text": "exists did you want to talk to yeah thank you for creating the slides but they're basically what I is so yeah uh so this is I mean what's what's needed here is basically or what we talked about before is to close this uh payload specific registry uh clean up the missing registry so that all up to this point where we approve this uh get this approved it's basically listed uh and I guess now I don't know how well what is happening with those that are in the publication queue maybe shares have better if they actually fulfill will be put in or not um but I leave that to your shares but this is some of those that these are the ones we know was missed so we're going to back populate the registry up to to basically when this comes into effect is is my understanding uh and then uh we will add on the next next slide I think we have the note uh on on the idea is only to populate it with with the well-known ones that we know are missing we're not nobody's actually going to do the work to scrape all the history and make sure to figure out if there's anything else missing right uh no I was just wondering about what those if you have ensured this process that's currently in in place is has been followed for the ones which is being published or in the queue to being published um so I think that's a question for H Stefan is evbc GNA be do we need to stick evbc in that list or will it go in there EBC does not mention this uh this uh reference anymore this this um registry anymore when we had this there was a very short discussion on the mailing list where you B not raed the point where the the EVC draft should be modified and I said you know there's no point in adding it now for the sake"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:16:00",
    "text": "of completeness uh just to remove it later or or whatever right so asse that Mar will make it through and didn't include this register you don't have to worry about thec this context yeah I it's just saying what what uh yeah we I we can I can update this draft to add this if because this your documents clearly gets out before but let's we can that's something we can track I think the important is just to get this process uh to change the processes sa that we expect to happen here to and and and get this published so um and I think and therefore the first step here really is to go towards adopting this document have a quick round saying are we fine with this and then move on so um and I I did some small editorial updates just uh few weeks back here to fix some feedback I gotten and so so I guess the question is uh should we have a call for adoption I think that's a reasonable thing to do yeah um any objections to calling for adoption okay so notaker please note that that's an action item for the chairs to initiate the call for adoption and I think that's about all we need to do right Magnus yes question you just working group last call the thing right now I mean look I'm serious just just move that thing it's it's it's done right yeah I I adopt it and I mean basically I think we can I can just I can try to verify that we have that all the back feeling is correct and then we can plus call it and hopefully we could yeah I mean I feel a little strange having a working group Last Call on an individual draft but I think the working as call can follow like immediately"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:18:01",
    "text": "after the draft iatf version is published like one minute later something like that yes before Vancouver ideally hello I was waiting the you and this is an can you hear me yeah go ahead yeah so uh my question is like just for my my information this has been already talked with ay right we have discussed this with a what we're doing uh yes but it's it's primarily a question of of uh I mean this is how we want yeah want the process to work Ayana doesn't make policy they follow policy implements policy but it's up to us to actually decide this so that's true Magnus but I was thinking of more about like tooling issues other things like I I'm pretty pretty sure like we decide the policy like how we want to yeah yeah but I this is nothing Str perspectives no I mean this taking notes in the register they do that all these things it's like and it's just noting this Old Register has closed adding a few Fields Etc it's nothing strange but yeah yeah I talk to about this so I I would anyway I mean for our I mean because we talking about like adopting this going for last call going like I'll just send it for I last call and all this things so so that in the last minute oh I oh this this we cannot do or this is something that we have missed so I think it's it's good to just ping them to see like everything here they're agreeing with and then we we get a green light all the way down and I'll tell the I like this is something that we want to do as soon as possible makes sense yep okay"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:20:06",
    "text": "great okay I think we have our list of action items uh for the notetaker so thank you Magnus and please make sure that I got the uh action items right on that one if you would please thank you you have the floor Pier oh all right well very quick update uh on the jpeg 2000 RTP payload proposal um we have a uh first receiver implementation in the um open jph open source Library so for those that are interested um based on an implementation there were very minor um updates suggested to the specification so a new draft new version of the draft was um published and um I'm expecting another implementation soon and that's the status update are are the updates to the draft anything substantive or just okay you know there are you know typos typos and Bose Ed figures and you know adding um additional you know make it making it clear what um what symbols were used so no substantive changes to the algorithm or to the structures excellent and as far as you're concerned is this ready to go to last"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:22:00",
    "text": "call um I that's the third bullet here I I'd like you know so I'd like to give maybe um maybe another month and another month or two months for that other implementation to come online to make sure that you know there's not some terrible issue um so that that'd be my recommendation that we we reconvene after the summer and then uh okay so maybe we'll maybe after the meting on Vancouver yeah when when is that scheduled July mid uh like what is it second week of July something like that okay yeah that's a that's a good Target okay thanks yeah let's uh let's reconvene after that then um I mean I'd hate to go to last call and discover that we you know missed something major sure so thanks okay uh not takers please add the action items uh from this thank you hello this is ukash so uh so we had the last call but after the last call we we received number of uh comments over the reflector so if you go to the next slide for each of the comment we we received we open a git issue in our repository so we don't have this ITF Repository but we keep track in our repository so here we list the changes we made so some of them are editorials uh some of them are simplification which were suggested I think the the so the first one is just we clarified that the video stream encapsulation is based on the RTP pay of format of video Codec that's now should be more clear for the text as couple of people mentioned this that it's not was not clear there was suggestion that we s should reconsider usage of this srsm"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:24:00",
    "text": "mrssm and mrmt so we aligned the specification based on the comment to the one uh which is in VVC uh ltp payload specification as well there was comment regarding the how we use the grouping framework and that we cannot have any parameters uh with the grouping framework and we corrected that as well uh so that was addressed uh the next one was related to Da and as the atlas data which is used in the v3c was align with the HBC bitstream mostly we think that we should should keep the done still in the T payload format so we didn't remove it and if you go to the next one so that I think that the 22 was the the most crucial comment so we used the fmtp of video media which are part of VC v3c bundle to indicate the VC specific parameters and in the comment we received that it's not uh uh possible to use it like this so we introduced new attribute which is the v3c specific attribute which can be attached as well to video media as well to the atlas RTP streams and the other ones are editorial comments so and here on the slides as well we indicate the issues and our feedback to the issues and for every uh issue we have the div so how the the draft was changed that's the update of the the draft okay so I think um probably what we'll want to do is I will review the"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:26:02",
    "text": "documenting I had some of the comments I think whoever somebody trying to remember who else who are the who were the other comments from uh from Cher Holberg mostly okay we should probably get him to look over the latest one and then probably we want it's a significant enough change we'll want to do a second work last call just to make sure that everybody likes the status of things okay so yeah I I'll review we'll ask Christ to review again and then um do a second working BL call Action okay and we should as well move then the the documents to the G GitHub of it yes because we have these issues we want to make sure we do it in a way that preserves the issues history so we need to figure out how to do that the best okay and last meeting I understood that Bernard is our shepher right uh actually I I don't think that's true uh Jonathan are you you are you the shepherd well I think we decided that do we want to I think we deci we decided that we're going to not have the chairs be the shepherd because that's allowed and we thought that might be just just we would need somebody who who would like guide us it's the first time we'll get somebody recently experienced we had a number of Volunteers in uh Brisbane so we'll check those notes for volunteered Spencer and I I'm just I was just check checking what you what I think you just said which is uh you you've got you've got some volunteers already this might be a great opportunity to recruit more yeah sure anybody who anybody would like to volunteer to be a document Shepherd please uh speak now or email the chairs or otherwise let us know um because you know your document Shepherds do not have to be chairs as we were reminded and it's a great way especially if you are you know somewhat but not"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:28:02",
    "text": "hugely experienced the ITF is a great way to sort of work your way up to experience with the processes so like I said if you're interested let us know um otherwise we will look at people who volunte previously okay so yeah for now we will contact you Jonathan if there is any question and what are the next step and yeah sure yeah okay thank you yep all right and who's presenting on this one I hi uh yeah next SL please so since the last meeting we had a couple of more issues that we fixed next slide please um all of them are all of them that are listed here are editorial issues and they are closed before the last submission um yeah just listed them here so to give an overview of what we did since then these all came up during our own reviews of the draft um next slide we created uh couple of PR requests to uh fix all these issues I think these are all also editorial next slide there are two poll requests that I would like to talk about today I'm still seeing the old slide I think uh yeah thanks so most of them are also editorial except for the one that's bold here which came up in our own review I am going to talk about this a bit more detail today and then afterwards we are going to talk a little bit about implementation status which is also currently an open for request in our repository next slide please so York identified this in our draft uh which earlier said that"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:30:00",
    "text": "association between flow identifiers and RTP or rtcp streams must be negotiated using appropriate signaling and if a receiver cannot associate flow identifier with any RTP or rtcp stream it must close the connection with the application ER code unknown flow ID that is an issue because uh if we signal out of band that may take longer than the first RTP or rtcp packet arriving using a certain flow ID and we certainly don't want to close the whole Connection in that case because signaling might be about to be done and in that case we would rather want to wait for signaling before we tear down the whole connection um and that's basically also the solution that we merged in P request to 12 we added some text that t buffers streams and datagrams can be buffered when the flow identifier that's used in these streams or datagrams is unknown then we also say that the amount of buffering of these streams or datagrams should be or must be limited and uh a receiver of these or buffering receiver of these streams or datagrams with unknown flow identifier can use stop sending to tell the sender using the error code Rock unknown flow ID that it doesn't know about this flow ID yet um P yeah I I had had a question about why it must be negotiated using signaling like in the traditional R uh RTP RFC 3550 it doesn't mix signaling considerations with RTP and one could consider an API for example that didn't require signaling where the stuff the incoming flow identifier got surfaced to the app that could decide to handle it or not handle it um so yeah I don't know why this is you"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:32:01",
    "text": "know we're starting to require signaling for this absolutely uh yeah I think that's a good question I think we had in mind that this signaling doesn't need to be something like STP but could also be either configured statically or I think my implementation also uses what you just mentioned surfaces the or it doesn't surface exactly but uh it buffers and then once signaling is done an application can ask for that specific flow ID or we could also of course add uh an API that Services these unknown flow IDs and the application can decide what to do with it but in any case I think the application will need to know what to do with it at some point and that maybe statically configured or signaled I think we can change the language here around must be signaled if that's too much or too close to requiring something like sdp uh I'm fine with that yeah it sounds like but it sounds like you know it's saying it it may be signal in which case it may be late in which case you need to have this language and I think that achieves the purpose of the the thing you're trying to actually trying to accomplish here yeah maybe we should say something like streams might be negotiated using signaling and not use any normative language about that at all they not does that make sense or you still the yeah it does make sense sense all right thanks and then yend the Q yeah thinking back to the signaling part I mean we are signaling an STP how we are using flow IDs as a mechanism to identify um which RTP flow goes into what since we don't since we have Multiplex port numbers and so on so if you want to do demultiplexing on the receiver side you have to Signal something um unless you otherwise you might not you would need to have implicit information inside the flow to"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:34:00",
    "text": "understand which codec which and so forth but you you you it seems at this point that you need some kind of signaling or am I completely this is why we came up with flow IDs in the first place and that in turn would require them to be signal via something or am I just missing something here completely well you you need I mean you you do need to know what codec it is that that is true but um if it's uh it but that that also uh basically you need to know the mapping between the payload types and the codec but that doesn't necessarily imply that uh the the flow identifier U mapping is required I think if you know the mapping of the of the of the payloads to the Codex and a new flow idea comes in you could still if you decide you want to handle it you could figure out what it is right but this would default to you knowing that you are using uh multiplexing of different sessions different RTP sessions inside the same the equivalent for RTP on the same transport address yeah you'd have to know that which means that you would need to have disjoin payload type spaces which you don't have for traditional RTP sessions as a requirement not sure whether we have been identifying this as a requirement and put in strong wording which is why we have the flow ID multiplexing in the first place otherwise you could argue we don't need that Sam uh yeah hi uh I some thoughts on this uh sort of looking back to how RTP would traditionally do this in that something can be sending and then if you haven't quite negotiated what RTP uh UDP"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:36:02",
    "text": "Port you're going to be listening on you just don't have the thing you don't have the port open so everything just gets dropped um certainly in my own implementation that I've been playing with uh that's my uh current testing uh method is to just drop flow IDs that I don't know but what we could do is we could change the wording here to then say that a receiver May close the connection with a rock unknown flow ID if it and then leave that up to the application to decide or is that not a particularly favorable wording to put in a spec like this one could turn the other way around and effectively describe the problem like you just framed nicely because you could say that a flow ID that is unknown may not be processed by the or does not have to be processed by the receiver um that would Li that would mirror what you have in your implementation it would it would take care of the race condition and it would allow you to have um um handling at the discretion of the receiver side application I think there's yeah I I I quite like that as an idea I think there's also uh for security reasons there there has to be a way for a receiver to say no okay you're doing something silly because if you've got an endpoint which is just spirly creating new flow IDs that could cause all sorts of horribleness on a receiver that isn't expecting them um so I still think there needs to be a a May close the connection if possible but yeah if if we can also then say you don't have to process stuff for float IDs you don't recognize um I think that does give options uh so the the text for the solution and 212 says that uh receiver can buffer and then it may use the the error codee for stop sending I think we"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:38:01",
    "text": "can add a sentence that it may also use it for closing the whole connection I think that may also be kind of covered in the section on Closing Connection which says that at I think something like at any point the endpoint May close the connection using any of the error codes registered in this error codes registry which includes the unknown flow ID error so we may make this more explicit I think it's kind of already covered how is merch after with this pull request but we might want to make it more explicit Bernard you still in Q or just leaving yourself there Spencer I'm sorry I was I'm sorry I was typing um the uh yeah so uh and I think I think what I'm about to say is kind of uh very similar to what Sam was related to what Sam was saying which is uh you've done a certain amount of back and forth uh in order to get a a quick Connection open uh that you could send flow IDs on right so I mean you know uh you know that basically something must have happened and I what and I think what I'm saying is that that's more that that's more activity than I sent a uh I sent RDP and UDP uh to a port that uh you know that isn't open yet uh I think that I I think it's worth saying that we're you know if you think back about traditional RTP where uh stuff is coming in on different ports uh then you know uh you're not doing you know you didn't have to worry as much about doing violence to other"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:40:02",
    "text": "media flows that you were that you did expect and were receiving on uh but if we're multiplexing a lot of stuff uh a lot of even a lot of RTP over uh over the same port uh then being able to uh respond based on the connection and not just on a not just on a stream or uh datagrams with a certain flow ID I think that's I think it's a really good plan okay Magnus yes trying to type what say but um Magus I'll I'll finish mine if you want if you wanna yes go ahead take tight care of you finish up I Tred to summarize but anyway I I think you're on the right way here I mean a flow ID represent an RTP session which you yet know doesn't have all the con uh context to process so I think you're completely right it's should be possible to allow to at least buffer or at least ignore it or whatever you feel it's it's suitable for your implementation until you have this give it a bit of time if it's not coming and it have to keep going yes you need to have some mitigation against the attack or or things where it thingss yes goes wrong so I I think you're on the right way here I yeah joh metics I mean I guess the only case in which I think um the thing Bernard described might make sense as if you were actually doing this like in a more of a bundle model rather than a uh session multiplexing model but I think that's not the way we've decided to go here so yeah I think you do need to know the session ID to be able to do the authority to know what"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:42:02",
    "text": "session what the session means um that said like in traditional RTP I feel like you don't start sending to a port until you know the other side you don't start sending something until you know the other side knows about it um so I feel like in some sense there's it's kind of a responsibility of the signaling protocol to make sure this doesn't happen um I'm not sure for instance whether I mean I haven't looked at the sorry I haven't looked at the the Spencer's draft for the sdp signaling yet but like can a flow ID be added in an answer if not this shouldn't ever happen you basically just have to wait till the answer to get yeah not not to not not to not to uh not to uh deflate your hopes but uh don't look at Spencer's draft until at least ITF 120 okay but I guess my my is that I think if you say that a flow ID can't be added in an answer then there's no problem here just wait till the I mean at least from a you know wait till you get the answer um to start using the flow ID and then having it having the AR Rock unkown flow ID error would be fine um if we think that you there's cases like where you could add a flow ID to find a flow ID and an answer then yes you would need need to buffer and have this case so I think that's sort of it the right the right answer here depends somewhat on what the signaling protocol is doing which is not clear yeah that's your that's the put my point is if you if your idea is in the answer then you would have the problem if you if the FL IDE is all defined by the offer yeah I need to think about it um Harold and just uh this uh early resembles early media discussions"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:44:00",
    "text": "in uh in using stpo for OES and not not doing it would be nice because it's uh it's a hard problem to tackle and the and if you start throwing things away the first thing you throw away is of course the key frame so happy if you can can avoid it um all right do you mean happy if we can avoid doing the buffering or the whole situation because the signaling protocol should avoid it happy if we can Define things in such a way that we always can can do something with incoming data instead of having to BU it yeah I see thanks I have a few more consider considerations about this on the next slide uh of course not including the thoughts about avoiding the whole situation by using signaling it uh yeah but the whole idea of buffering in the first place was modeled after the web transport protocol which uses a similar mechanism for session setup it's not exactly the same but kind of similar and I looked at that when I wrote this P request uh we are working with r media which means that if we are not buffering there's the problem that we identified in the first place we can't deliver media until we finish signaling at know where to put the media and the user uh may not see the screen from the beginning if we don't buffer anything and still like if we for example the situation that Howard just mentioned where we throw away the key frame and then have to wait until we get the next one and then the user will of course see that there's a gap in the beginning um then if we buffer too much that's kind"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:46:00",
    "text": "of the opposite problem we have a large buffer of RTP packets that we can either play out at once or throw away some part or whatever but we have to catch up with what we what is life at that point or real time and it's redefined it in the Pro request currently as a um implementation decision how much to buffer exactly but we say that the implementation must limit it because yeah because of the security implications so I think we will have some thoughts about this now in the notes that we can take into consideration when we maybe update this again try to it's a bit hard to say about signaling in general I think if we or how we can avoid this but we I think we have to think about this a little bit if there is a way which we can phrase this in this draft to make sure that this does happen and conversely we need to make sure that we actually can achieve that goal in the signaling and you know adment of the singling draft yeah all right I think that's all for this topic then next slide is about implementations Berard asked about implementation status in issue 219 and we wrote a poll request 220 which documents the impl ation status following the format of RFC 7942 which gives a template for doing this we have two dependent implementations which are ours one is the one that I presented I think two or three years ago when we first started working on RTP over quick and we did some congestion control experiments which is basically a application that statically configures plots of stuff and implements the encapsulation that we uh described in RTP Qui or in an early version of the draft and uh we used this application"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:48:02",
    "text": "for lots of tests and it also supports all kinds of other stuff which is why we recently published another library that only ex extracts the relevant parts for encapsulation so that's why we have two dependent implementations here uh and the second implementation really just focuses on the encapsulation of RTP packet in quick and doesn't do much else um and then we have a third implementation from BBC that Sam shared a while ago uh we have included all these three implementations in the P request here uh which adds a little short section about each of these implementations some fields of these uh for the BBC implementation are still open because we didn't know how to answer them but we were planning to reach out or Sam is here I think so uh yeah you're in the queue if you would like to fill out these fields that would be great uh yes Sam or how at first are you still in the que or good then maybe Sam yeah mine's M be quick yeah i' I've literally just come back off holiday so uh that's I picked up on your on your poll request so it is on my list of things to do is to go and fill that out for you uh and I'd also like to uh uh re I was going to reach out as well because I'd like to do some interrupt testing at some point if you're interested as well uh yeah thank you very much for if you fill this out and then interrupt testing is of course a good idea we can certainly do that um uh yeah then we will also ask on the mailing list for other people if other people have implementations to add their information to that section and we could of course also do more interop tests with other implementations and that's all for implementation status"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:50:02",
    "text": "next slide please our plan for the next step is to submit draft uh 11 after this interim and ask for working group plus call and then in parallel try or continue to collect information for implementation section but we don't think this should block working plus call because the implementation section say it should be removed before publication anyway we have filled in what we have now we can add the BBC fields and whatever other implementations we will learn of in the future and then of course we need to uh continue specifying how to set up work connections to allow testing I did Static configurations for testing in the past then we have the STP draft from Spencer which I think will be presented next and maybe there are other possibilities I don't know but Spencer in the que uh yeah I was just going to I was just going to say that uh if if if there are people who have implementations that Magnus and I and Sam don't know about uh please con please contact us also because uh it would be helpful to uh to be able to provide that information as well thank you all right I think that's all for RTP real quick today Jonathan um yeah just in terms of working with last call if you are going to do a try and interrupt I would be a little more comfortable to have you at least you know smoke test the interrupt before working group last call because in my experience once you do an interrupt you discover all the ambiguities in your spec so um I wouldn't surprise me if stuff falls"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:52:02",
    "text": "out of the interrupt that you discover you need to clarify in the document so um I would you know but I mean since we have a few open issues anyway still that's um yeah So the plan is to merge this last put request and thereby closing the last issue then maybe have to make some updates to what we discussed about the buffering earlier today I don't know when exactly we will get to real proper inter tests and how long that would take before we can draw any um I guess um yeah yeah that's fair so I guess just um let's once you've done the list last poll request and um you know maybe you'll have some clear idea of whether that's something you can do soon or not for a while that should give us uh we can decide when to go to working grou us call after you've done when you do the next uh uh PR I don't know how long is going to take hopefully not very long so okay then yeah then I suggest we just merge the P request on implementation and I talked to yor and Spencer what we're going to do what else we're going to do about the buffering stuff that we talked about and once we're done with that PO request that comes maybe out of that discussion once we're done with that we will contact your chairs and tell what's the status about and by then we can decide when to start the working withou do call sounds good all right thanks Harold are you still in the queue or did you leave yourself forgot got to know with the hand sorry it's okay it happens all"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:54:07",
    "text": "[Music] right so are you guys ready for me yes I think so okay excellent uh talking about STP offer answer for RTP over quick or Rock uh and uh this is this is just a quick uh status notification for the working group uh it's not presenting brilliant plans that we have carried out already um next slide please so uh we are we are noting that the RTP over uh quick draft is just is just specifying and capsulation of RTP and rtcp within the quick protocol it does not cover signaling for session set up uh so you see the the well cared for child on the on the on the shallow end and the sdp child in the deep end um and that's literally true uh next slide please um so uh the plan right now is that we are defining sdp for rock in a separate document from Rock uh it's intended to define a minimal usable sdp specification that enables negotiation to set up Rock sessions and the idea is that conformant sdp messages for rock can be carried in any signaling protocol that can carry sdp including CP RTC web or whip uh next slide please so uh this is this is just"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:56:03",
    "text": "recognizing that uh I've been working on uh I I had started working on uh the sdp specification more than two years ago uh and had an individual draft with some other uh company IDs but uh the right answer was that I would join uh Mattis and yor to make progress on the RTP over quick uh specification before we tried to describe uh uh SCP for it uh we are all two years older now and wiser and we're approaching request for working group last call uh so I I think it's time to return to sdp for rock next slide please so uh I think I think I certainly have a much clearer picture of what's needed for a usable specification uh my plan right now is that I'm starting with text from the draft that I was working on previously uh fixing all any text that's outdated or overtaken by events there is a fair amount of that uh and picking up questions that we've discussed in previous drafts and at presentations in previous avt core uh avt core uh meetings uh and I think we have a plan uh so Victor has joined me uh on this Mission thank you Victor and mettis has agreed to review uh work on this thank you meis uh other contributors are of course uh invited to come along uh next slide please I have uh a rough draft of what I think the"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:58:01",
    "text": "outline for the uh for the draft looks like uh the the biggest thing that I'm looking at right now is things that belong in this draft versus belong somewhere else but still matter um things uh the two the two uh obvious the two obvious items that did in that uh Second category uh are are considerations for use with RTP metal boxes uh and considerations for end to end uh payload protection um let's see Jonathan you have a question uh just comment based on the previous presentation I feel like the one thing that especially as we determined the last one is how flow identifiers are defined and mapped to um well an sdp that be um uh media groups and particular how that interacts with offer answer because we determined that need to be figure I I I I think I think I knew that except for the part where I didn't write it down thank you for saying it out loud and uh and uh thank thank you uh is that madus Magnus for uh making sure that that's in the in the uh in the notes thank you which I do look back at um I am interested in comments uh about the uh structure of the draft soon um but and uh hope for more comment helpful comments like that uh there are some things that are uh listed in directions for future work in the Rock draft uh that uh things like things like uh multipath and uh uh connection migration and things like that being a couple of answers uh a couple of"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:00:02",
    "text": "examples uh and uh so there this is not this is not like I I think what I'm showing you here is something close to a uh an outline for the document not an issues list um but uh I should say that just in general but uh so I will not be Sur surprised if I have multiple issues uh targeting each uh section of the draft um next slide please so Victor and I are organizing a GitHub repository as a starting point uh we are we have just started creating issues for discussion uh We've will be creating PRS proposing text as we reach resolution on issues uh I want and and this goes back to previous conversation about the uh GitHub uh Organization for avt core um I didn't realize that we could create we could request a uh repository to be uh added to the avt core organization before it was adopted what I was really hoping for was just adding uh this repository wherever it lives to the GitHub weekly activity summary um and I I think uh my go my goal and I think Victor's goal as well to uh publish a z00 draft uh that could be a reasonable starting point uh by ITF 1220 not that not not not as not requesting"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:02:00",
    "text": "adoption immediately after 120 um any questions yes uh how much is this SB work focused on only offer answer versus The Clarity views it I guess you will have an interesting case of declarative use for quick because the quick anyway being a client server protocol yeah so so uh that's like so what what so this so one of the things that uh it's good that I went and worked on rock for a while but there are there are things that we talked about uh uh when we were working on rock that are s that uh probably got pushed off to something later and so the question is how much uh how much of that turns into something that needs to be addressed in sdp you mentioned you mentioned the uh client server versus peer-to-peer which I think goes along with uh uh net migration as well uh or sorry with with net traversal as well but uh you know one of the one of the one of the questions so one of the one of the topics that we talked about a lot on uh RTP over quick was uh any discussions that you have with the other uh Rock Pier about uh congestion control and uh there's not really anything in Rock right now uh that addresses that and we decided we the working group I think decided that that was the right thing to do um but the the question is does does that does how how how or if does"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:04:06",
    "text": "a how how or if do I tell you that this is media and it's not you know and it's real-time media and it's uh you should be doing a media friendly multi media friendly congestion control uh algorithm uh and so so there are questions like that that yeah that was maybe not was asking but it's it's you're you're right that's maybe another aspect of this but I was mostly thinking about from the perspective of how does sdp work I mean sdp originally was a declare purely declarative use then we bastardized it into a France which is part of what created a lot of of of the issues because the sdp is is in some sense more simpler but and it might be that in in this quick but it's also question of cap capabilities and commonality between the end points so I I I think that's that's part of his I was just basically sounding out it's something for you to think about saying can you have an STP where the server gives you an sdp you go connect to the server uh after leiz support all of these codex I support the configurations therefore I can join this uh RTP session over quick and actually use it yes exact exactly the other the other thing I I I should say is uh I know people have been thinking about how one would use RTP over quick without without stdp uh but but uh we haven't really talked about that very much uh so far I"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:06:03",
    "text": "not quite sure where those come I not I so basically to get you out of the sdp uh business at all but I mean in some sense webc isn't truly sdp yeah yes yes it's it's a question your apbi for controlling your point so but yeah I will move on now okay cool um and uh Bernard no sorry s am so am yeah uh so I couple of points on that um just to uh quickly toot my on horn for a moment I wrote a draft about doing sip over quick a long time ago uh if you I can drop a link to that somewhere if people are interested uh thank you uh and one other thing just a comment that Spencer made uh which is how does an endpoint know that it should use a that it's doing realtime media uh well the alpn will say uh I am multiplexing RTP uh so you could probably use that as a uh oh my interpretation would be that you could use that as a signal for this should have a realtime congestion controller uh put in in control of the session so I I think I think you're right and uh that's what that's what the uh that's what the Rock specification talks about um and one of the things that is was out of scope for the rock uh draft as a Futures thing was multiplexing uh something that was not RTP uh along with RTP so I think I think that uh I think that the yeah the the plan to base things on an aln"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:08:00",
    "text": "uh the rock aln is a good plan if everything that you're doing over this quick connection is Rock but I think it gets complicated quickly when uh I think this gets complicated quickly when the uh not all of the in not all of the information that's being transferred over the quick connection is RTP maybe that's maybe that's an okay restriction uh but I think that that's something that we need to be really clear on um and that's actually a that's actually a good thank thank thank you for thank you for poking at that because uh one of the things that I've been plenty to look look at this week after the uh interor meeting was basically what what what can we do with multiplexing and how how can we do it and of course uh what aop you use depends on uh what level of multiplexing you're doing and Magnus sorry uh mtis has done a lot of work uh early on on multiplexing uh about about the about the time I joined I think that if you wanted to do something that isn't RTP alongside that uh so certainly when I was doing my sip stuff uh I then had sip as the alpn and then that would then somewhere in there you'd be able to negotiate I never quite got that far it's something I would like to get back to at some point uh but I think also although I might be misremembering this but I think in The Mask working group they've been playing with something similar I did just H have a quick Google to try and find if I could find whatever the draft was but someone else might remember it off by heart but there was something to do with what if we have different kinds of traffic uh can we just send uh"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:10:01",
    "text": "multiplayer LPNs in one uh session right right I can't quite find it if I do find it I'll let you know uh and thank you thank you for that my uh my focus is changing a bit on what I can and am paying attention to at the ITF and uh I'm expecting to be paying more attention to um to mask than uh in the the future than I have been lately thank [Music] you so that got me to Bernard yeah um I would note that in quick right there's no negotiation of congestion control because it's a sender side right algorithm right which automatically interrupts so I'd question why you need to negotiate congestion control um you know there may be sdp attributes that that you negotiate because you know you want certain feedback mechanisms and stuff like that but the congestion control itself you know it's not negotiated in quick so I don't know why you would negotiate it in SCP right and I I the word me using the word negotiate was not the right word basically uh that I am I have just made a quick connection to you uh and so how would you know what to expect me to start sending uh and uh if if if the an you know if the answer is that uh for instance we're using the rock aln then you know you know it's it's real it you should be doing something that is friendly for uh realtime media which is what the Rock Speck says so uh figuring out what the constraint Point are for uh us"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:12:00",
    "text": "using us using Rock now uh what the constraints are from that that need to go into the uh sdp draft I think I think that that's a I think that's a really important kind that is that is the kind of really important ISS uh issue that uh I need to be spending time on then thank you thank you for saying that out loud um go ahead how are you hello I'm fine how are we doing spor doing good it's good to talk to you when we're not talking about scone Pro Ah that's great yeah so um so I have two two things to say one is like uh with Eddie hat off what basically Barner say like you I mean if you're using quick as a as a like like substrate for sending RTP and you change whatever reord to change without changing quick then you might actually Brad those consideration when you're negotiating sdpn con control is one of that I think par said it well like okay there is no con control negotiation so you need to solve it some other way or go and change how quick uh picks up uh con control there has been like I think one of the then property of conition quick was like okay you can change your con control all these things right but later on the the specification doesn't say like what con cor how you negotiate con control be careful about like putting those things in the sdp yeah yeah so that's that's basically I want to say and thank you for that and uh that that is that is consistent with the guidance that uh uh Madison and yoran and I have been getting about"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:14:01",
    "text": "taking stuff about taking stuff about uh congestion controllers out of the uh Rock draft for the last two years so so uh good good to good to remember that good and my then my my Ed had own things are like okay the the things that Magnus brought up like okay hey um quick is about client server thing and now we have Rock um which is basically uh could be anything client server peerto peer I don't know like what not so I hope I mean that belongs I mean it is we're discussing it here but that discussion belongs to the Rock craft and I hope in rock we're clear clear about like what are the uses of this rock protocol so what is the applicability and what is the scope of that one otherwise we'll be in in kind some kind of confusion I I I I agree with that and uh I I'm glad that I I'm glad that I'm working on both of those drafts uh just to uh not get lost in between them the uh the you know I I have I have I have an impression that the applicability of of rock and uh the sdp for rock may not be you know that may not be a VIN diagram with just one Circle uh there may be things that you can do with rock that you can't do with sdp and there are things there may be things that you might be able to describe using stdp in order for rock senders and receivers to know what to do that they can't they can't know that without without"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:16:01",
    "text": "uh that they can't know what to do without some form of signaling uh but thank thank you for the thank you for uh the reminder to uh keep F keep the focus on uh keeping these two drafts consistent in the applicability yeah and then I forgot about another thing about this STP I mean as you just mentioned and that triggered me this thing thought like we need some sort of negotiation and why it has to be sdp um um I mean it could be anything I mean how you do transport sdp to your peer um is this something that we have been considering from beginning or is it something we have to consider like why do we need sdp to Signal the things that parameter and all these things and why sdb offer answer model and all these things so was there any discussion on that I I believe that we discussed this uh and yor and mettis uh please feel free to jump in but I believe that we discussed this early on and uh we you know like one of the the obvious early use cases was if someone said I'm doing I'm doing RTP now and for some reason I would like to use RTP over quick but I don't want to you know I don't want to make huge changes to my application I just you know I just want to I just want to drop in uh rock as the transport and have it work and of course most of those will be using our uh sdp so I don't I don't know I I think"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:18:02",
    "text": "we uh I think we talked a lot more about use cases where stdp would be helpful than we talked about use cases where it might not be helpful so I think that's a I think that's a really uh again a really good observation thank you [Music] uh Berard yeah um uh to kind of follow up on that you know as I mentioned RFC 3550 RTP didn't have an stdp dependency there are implementations of RTP that don't involve STP in any way right I mean you have to set things up in that you need information to describe where right but that that can be done statically like in your app you could decide I'm I'm gonna statically assign the following payLo types or you know you just have to put the information in it there's no inherent linkage of RTP to STP um it is just one convenient way so uh you know I I I think we're uh we should avoid have you know I've seen apis for example that link the two very closely and that often becomes problematic but there's no inherent linkage between the two so it's and otherwise to to stop that from creeping in um you know under the covers thank and thank you for saying that out loud um you know this this is a reminder that we were doing RTP and announcing using the session announcement protocol long before there was an STP um and so who knows maybe it's time for that to come back but just just that there are other ways to do to provide the information other than you doing it"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:20:00",
    "text": "nsdp thank you and that got me to your I think as a as as a side note and as unfortunate as as it may be I think sap carried sdp but that's that's just an aside um I just want to make the point that so this is well taken that we are um that that there is no strict binding we need to Signal stuff and web RTC has certainly shown that multiple ways are been able to do this um that may we we may see future uh specifications in the context of mock in order to how to signal stuff and uh so maybe there is a way to um kind of organize the draft that there is a layer that explains or some set some part that explains which which information has to be exchanged and some notation and then a having a binding on how that maps to STP I think I'm not sure how whe ice has done something similar but you probably could also use ice in non sdp context even though it has been at least the first version was very very closely tied to it so that might be that that might be an opportunity to actually introduce a new flavor of a structure that has the semantics and then the mapping um there is um but I just wanted to also comment that it would occur weird if the ietf that has that as an organization that has been using like crazy sdp for the past thir 20 20 odd years uh in spite of knowing better than than doing that suddenly should should come up with a new spec that doesn't support that um so I think it it is kind of almost obligatory to take STP mapping into account but if there is an opportunity to get us to a better world um then I'm"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:22:01",
    "text": "all for it and so maybe a separate mapping might be a way to take care of that I I I I I I like I like that observation thank you very much can I respond to your on that uh sure yeah sorry sorry Jonathan I just jumped in than you uh yeah I I I understand what you're saying uh York but but there's I I what I'd like to have clear understanding of like the separation between rock as a protocol and sdp for rock and I'm happy to see like we're discussing in two different places yeah but if Rock requirs sdp to be usable I think that's where I have problem oh it definitely shouldn't it definitely shouldn't that's why this is why a separate draft in the first place right yeah I mean that's that's fine but the separate draft doesn't mean like it doesn't have like interdependency so if the sum of if Rock Says somewhere hey you can signal anything to establish a rock session and I don't care uh that's fine with rock right then we Define okay with sdp you can actually do that with HTTP you can do that I just wrote in the chat like we have a wiim protocol for HTTP signaling for w RTC and all these things so we can we can come up with all these things and sdp for is one of the way of doing signaling then we are fine okay is that I think we in violent agreement here okay great thank you that makes me S and that and that puts me back to Jonathan I think yes and um yeah so I think um there is yeah I think a lot of these protocols use sdp I mean I think we should at least have in our minds what would what the you know I don't think we need to say specifically anything about what what sip uses or what have RTC uses or whatever but just have in our minds how those work and in"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:24:00",
    "text": "particular I think somewhat to magnus's point earlier we should have in our minds what it would look like to use I mean not not that I really think anyone wants to do this but what it would look like to use uh STP for rock for rtsp or sap um you know so you know which is the non offer answer models and how you know would that work and how what would it look like if we did that thank you I think that and thank you thank you so much and I will get off of here and uh have a great day hello yes hear you go ahead okay thank you uh next slide please um first of all thanks for or of the reviewer to hatic draft so finally the working group call for adaption was complete uh and now you can see the working group J version in the data trackers uh actually we fixed one type of um related to email address compared to last individual the personal draft um with respect to to the m Rons so anyone who needs access to the haptic um draft I mean the haptic impact um document which is which is hap fdis for the purpose of review can connect to Stefan uh priv via his email um then and now we have one update plan which is late to the"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:26:00",
    "text": "aggregations and um actually uh we also umad our document GitHub our own geub like um like other draft but we are also prepared to onroad our DFT to the working group GitHub to thank you I think that's all day so any questions um my only my only question would you want to move as we start getting moving things into the official working gr repo would you be interested in moving or do you want to just stay where you are uh if we need we can move actually we just made it like um just just following the other drafts but anything is good for us okay well we'll follow up on that okay thank you all right um yeah I think that that sounds good so get that update and we can have people look out over it oh thank you m chair I hope you can hear me y thank you yeah so today I will be providing the recent updates to the viewport and region of Interest dependent delivery of visual volumetric media internet draft uh can we go to that uh so the new draft version 02 was published on 31st of May this year and um the changes from the uh previous version was basically uh we received comments from a mailing list that the new additions to the Ayana considerations class needs to specify the names that were listed in the a website for stb STP parameters and RTP parameters so so I addressed the comments received from that in the AA considerations AA considerations class"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:28:01",
    "text": "so uh to go through this basically the it has been clarified that the 3D regions attributes which provides the information about the 3D regions present in an immersive media content uh will be added to the attributes name registry in STP parameters and the new special region and 3D vut format type values we proposed in this draft will be added to the rtcp payload specific feedback payload type messages in the RTP parameters of the Iona organ i.org and also on the RTP header EXT the new RTP header extension Uris which we used for signaling informations of static 3D regions arbitrary 3D regions and the dynamic 3D regions will be added to the RTP parameters in ion uh website um so and I also updated the sdp offer on example considerations based on the recent updates to the V3 crtp payload format document uh and the other thing is basically we we declared the we filed the IPR Declaration on this uh recently and uh can we go to the next next yeah and any sus and feedback on this or welcome on the ITF mailing list and I request the chair for a working group call for adoption on this draft so that the it can become the avt core draft from the IND individual draft status uh in fact actually we for the previous version we requested and it has been U agreed but uh I think uh due to the IPR declaration and all we haven't proceeded with that so I would request for a call for adoption thank you any questions for"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:30:09",
    "text": "welcome um yeah I think I guess make sure I think probably doing as I said we had agreed to a uh working group call for adoption and then we hadn't gotten around to that and my apologies for that so um I guess men try to put that on but I think doing a call for adoption at this point is appropriate sure thank you Jonathan okay all right that brings us to wrap up anybody have any go ahead Bernard yeah I just wanted to make sure we got all the action items uh that we've been talking about in the meeting um I don't know Spencer if you can read all the things that we as the chairs are supposed and other people are supposed to do and make sure we're not missing anything um I guess we have a particularly you know calls for adoption other other stuff that we're um yeah I I I'm still I'm I'm actually still typing uh the the The Last Action but if if you want to go through just looking for the string uh uh asterisk ask action asterisk uh hold on that should that should be there and and I will finish I will finish typing the last act the last the action for the last item okay yeah continue typing and let let's talk about what's in the notes and make sure we have everything okay uh all right so let me let me look through here okay action uh chairs to call for adoption and working group Les call one minute after adoption"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:32:01",
    "text": "that's magnus's draft uh and Magnus to Ping Ayana for early review uh on the uh sub codream j2k uh wait for additional implementation check status if ready to progress on uh v3c Christ review changes then chairs to issue working group last call actually I think it was both Christ and me to review so it's an action on me to review also oh okay uh Spencer can you update that one uh I I I have just finished I just finished the uh and actually if you want uh yeah what um so I will I will go updated here looking through the ah thank you yes right perfect thank you perfect okay so I'm looking through then on RTP over quick uh were there no act action items uh Sam will provide implementation status uh were there no uh other action items on rtbi I thought we were going to do uh I took as action items to merge the implementation pull request and then do whatever pull request we're going to do based on the discussion on buffering and then we'll get back to you chairs about working with us call and implementation interop test okay thank you yeah please please put that in there okay and then uh HTP offer answer for RTP using quick uh action mostly for the authors to work through the excellent feedback and guess I guess that's it Spencer for rtb over quick those are the that's the action um I uh I will also uh I'll also"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:34:04",
    "text": "touch base with you all about uh whether we want to uh create this in the uh in the uh avt core organization but I can add I'll add that action yeah actually that's that's yet another action I guess for the various authors and chairs to discuss moving a repost uh uh uh but we can put that I guess up top or something okay and then for haptics uh chairs to work with USS to move this draft into the organization yep and then the viewport is follow up with existing adoption call so I think we've identified all of the actions and next steps at this point uh just Bernard on the viewport and rvo dependent I there was no adoptation adoption call requested so I am requesting for that yeah there I mean it has not been yeah yeah just to clarify action item for to follow up on it yeah okay thank you yeah all right okay yeah so I think we've uh we've got all the action items now and we just have to make them happen okay well um any other final words Jonathan uh no I don't think so did anybody else have any other topics to raise any exciting work yeah we uh ITF 120 is just around the corner so uh people who want to present there and uh should be thinking about asking for time uh and I'll send that probably a call for agen items fairly soon um but uh yeah it's only only a little bit more than a month away Stefan so I have one point here really"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:36:01",
    "text": "under other items and that is um there has been recently pretty noisy last call discussion about the draft written by Murray um regarding normative referencing um the tone of that draft or originally was uh the ITF shouldn't download and and please people who who who know that uh and think that I'm mischaracterizing it please speak up um the tone of that draft was that the ITF shouldn't uh reference documents uh from other organizations that are not freely available with the ter with freely available defined or arguably redefined in historic context to available without paying anything and without going to anyone basically by the click of a button downloadable from the internet that's what he wanted um there were people who were objecting to this uh the uh um current state is that the mechanism that we are using here in this group group specifically uh that uh things that are not available uh for free and downloadable to anyone like all the empex stuff for example uh is is that's fine generally speaking even during the review process but what I want to say is that there is an initiative that's going on among various people of groups that are interested in uh defining the term open standard and defining the the term free standard in a"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:38:00",
    "text": "way that is not the way how it was historically defined I want people to pay attention to that uh and we dodged a bullet there at the moment yeah with with the with a current uh with with a current outcome we dodg the bullet but this will come back and uh those of us interested in seeing say RTP payload formats for impex standards as example and not the only example will have to pay close attention to that and interfere and object when when the next initiative of that type comes by because there there's always an next initiative when on this political stuff thank you well thank you Stefan if you can post uh that to the list um that would be appreciated I will do that later today yes okay thank you uh any other items for people to chat about or else I think we're uh done for the day with a little bit of time left and thank you very much Spencer for your not taking thank you thank you Magness uh watch watching things magically appear with greatness two days in a row um so Jonathan and Berard do you want if we can turn off the recording can have a short chat about the email I sent after we dismiss the rest of people I'm not sure it's possible to turn off the recording but we could yeah I yeah I don't know how to do okay Med does that automatically okay okay then we maybe uh so I just want to check that you will take care of this because I think that that item do requires a bit of going into it it seems to have some impact bye guys all right bye thank you sorry sorry which which topic Magnus uh STV I sent an email to you uh I think"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:40:05",
    "text": "yesterday I forwarded an email basically responded to one which you need to check that and actually I think start looking into this because it's they have several things which needs registration or in some case maybe don't even have the rights for the Change Control they think they have so we will have to go through it okay yeah I will uh where did you did you send me that which address did you send that to me I sent it to the CHS so okay if you haven't received send send me note then I will I think I re but it might have gotten gone to this is a mailing list okay yeah sure yeah okay good but um yeah please look into that because I think that's it's going to need some work from your side sorry about it but yeah I think you're the right to it's your responsibility to deal with these things yeah all right yeah okay sure bye byebye make your choices do our best"
  }
]
