[
  {
    "startTime": "00:00:11",
    "text": "hello uh as usual we're gonna wait a few more minutes to make room for people who are a bit late to to join us okay there is a new logo for foreign"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:02:59",
    "text": "hello everyone hello Pascal oh Alex no no harm nice to see you hi Carson Eric o counter and terrible and Anna oh so nice foreign note that there was a typo in the agenda for this session in the previous session there was a missing zero in front of the"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:04:01",
    "text": "the number of the sessions so it's in the URL it should spell zero one zero two notches one or two that's why last week we enter the agenda in the uh in the minutes actually the the the agenda was in the wrong Link in the minutes were taken in the right link uh so this time the the the code EMD uh page is correct with the O2 in it and if you take notes uh please make sure you're on the page where the agenda and uh is already pre-filled in the page Pascal can you send the link in the chat please the icons at the top right there is something like a pencil in a square you click it and it will go to the note taker page okay thank you reckon and by the way you are acting as a note taker I say that it opens it's not bad for this session but I don't get it right now so there is uh one page that is lp1-2 and there is a one page that is lp1-02 so both exist uh do you mind if I delete the this one like this the dash two and have the point the dash 2 should go away and the dash zero two is the correct one yes okay there is information in the store that you want to copy over to the dish out every information in the dash too okay let me do an undo uh I okay let me see"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:06:03",
    "text": "okay I know I think that everything is in the everything is also in the dash O2 right custom or maybe I'm missing something there is information in English too it is not in the description oh okay and I haven't exactly checked what you put in the in this O2 I just followed the link which took me to Dash 2. yes and uh so I think all of this stuff yes it's just the agenda yes in dash two I just see the agenda which is already in industrial too is it okay like this tooth and and had a uh foreign meeting but that template was wrong actually and so I I saw it and fixed it but that's why you you could see that there was contacted both pages um the O2 is correct I mean and the minutes are ready to be taken okay with this we can start I guess I actually want to to"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:08:00",
    "text": "do the intro or do you want me to do the intro uh we'll go ahead with this one okay so um welcome to this lq1 meeting this is an official ITF meeting so as such the uh not well the ATF Network applies and with all the best practices as you know from attending many of those meetings there are patent rules if you're aware of any IPR a new IPL that's been discussed in this meeting then please let the group know or at least let the chair know um and uh there are also Auto residents and best practices for personal conduct so if you're victim or with the witness of a non-appropriate behavior again please please let us know and then you can also contact this ombuds team and there is the the URL of the empaths team given there and with this we have a heavy loaded agenda for today so we we're going through this television and then we'll continue on the rechargering discussion that we started last week and so the text has been updated based on um customs and other commands so so it's been a bit reshuffled uh then there is the discussion by Laura on the sheet data model so Laurence indicated and an email that there was some tools compatibility issues that maybe the ship data model had to be slightly tweaked and the ship data model is not yet RFC so I expected that's about the the current draft not the second document so you'll tell us that um then there is this this proposal um to to manage the access control for the rules and you remember that in the new chapter we expect to be able to fetch the rules from some location then there's a need to ensure that this uh"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:10:00",
    "text": "setup that's full set is proper so some kind of signature or something to Pro to prove that which is the right tool set then you can access it you can modify uh some um stuff inside the rule set Etc so there needs to be a very fine great access inside the rules themselves I guess that's what Lahore wants to discuss as well and from there there was this discussion started by Ivan on the mailing list about the structure uh of the pure architecture document like some ideas to merge some fields that kind of stuff and uh so Anna has been responding so maybe we will have a we continue that discussion and see that even is there and is there so uh maybe we can continue on that discussion time provided um with this so the status of the group has not changed so let's move on because we have a lot of things to discuss um so the documents which were in DRC data the first interim are still in the RFC editor so maybe we can go through through those what the status of those documents quickly in the next slide uh so so let's go um young data model if you don't mind when you said there was a this compatibility issue can you just tell us if that that's impacting this document or you you'll have your slot but uh I think it's it's not a problem if we continue like uh we have a model right now it will works well but if we do the Improvement it will be better but is it too late considering the United States indirect already I mean so I talked with Eric and it says that we can do it but if I do it I want to do it with the uh"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:12:01",
    "text": "yeah okay thank you yeah and I just wanted to confirm what Laura says right so as long as it's not going to oath 48 we can still do editorial change or minor technical change and it's it's really this so that will be no problem at all we'd simply need to remember this when we arrived at the religion oath 48th state you mean that you will do it as part of all 48 right that because I was not sure about your wealth yeah sorry yes it will be done in the during the oath 48 phase okay let's let's meet okay um nbiot and anything new and now I mean no not from the last meeting we have not received any comment from the editor not uh until today so we are waiting okay compound Arc Alex I saw that you had some discussion yes so it's everything is done and there's I was really like okay I'm going to press the button and uh a couple of lines that are okay it's a very minor thing uh I'm not sure if I should press the button and then fix this uh when the isg comes back and says hey these lines are longer uh or or a way to fix it by by Sergio and that show is not with us um I've seen your email about you know giving which lines that is but I don't see that I have not seen Sergio answering they miss it or is it yeah we didn't answer yet okay uh thank you Alex she covers Fox uh sinless activity now I expect it's mostly done then again searches not with us yeah it's basically Eric again"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:14:01",
    "text": "it's basically up to Sergio he needs to provide the reference in the text um to fit romance danily uh comment and blocking comments so it's just a reference editing the text um and then you're gone okay so for the rest yes uh nothing has changed since last time so let's just move on um so so this is getting the list of the the items we started discussing last time on the the uh things that we could work on if we reach out there uh compared to last week and you haven't did the line number sheet because that was a heavy discussion and I I provided the list that was discussed last time so we said we could work on a purifier could work on TCP that was Anna uh then there are all the ipv smpv6 based protocol that would include oim by the way then maybe the LMS I don't know if we could work on the Airbus or or any other um actually the sentence is a bit longer I had to cut it but it's other code based protocol that's the full sentence next uh we'll see that again in the chapter so there is discussion on the fact fragment and it is now compared to last week it's now explicitly mentioned in the first piece we'll go through that but if you remember casting uh indicated that we should split the the daily variables into what was originally there with the first Charter and what comes out of the Moon proposal let me go through that this is actually part of of the first half the the things which which were already chartered because the fact for fact but is is part of yes India do you want to speak yeah can you hear me yeah yeah sorry I mean a little bit noisy place so hopefully it's okay"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:16:02",
    "text": "um about uh other places where it can be used cheap actually we are having some discussions about zero energy devices for six years and uh I have this idea if you remember some months ago of using chicks for um basically they lay tolerant Transmissions so basically transmit packets uh on um time frames which are can take even a week or even more so then I think there is an opportunity to tie that to this zero energy or or harvesting energy devices so that we can actually make Chic directly something that can be used in the in the cellular network for adapting IP transmission and then allowing this kind of devices which are not going to be able to transmit all the time to do this kind of very short and diversity Transmissions according to how they harvest energy so that's another case that we can I think it would be nice to to include it in the free chartering yeah I I mean I I I'd love to I just want to understand what exactly exactly we don't really say whether the devices that we support or that's reiterated or if they have if they're scavengers um and and we don't mention the letter is is this something that mentally it what does it change in the protocol yeah I think I have for example for the zero zero uh energy devices the configuration"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:18:01",
    "text": "of the IP address and then how you get the context in place could be one of the issues another thing is also uh if there is need for a special changes for the timers or the you know the um how it can be configured such a long period of time something like that so that that's from my perspective what could be the the actual War group um specification so that we suggest something that can be used for this kind of very limited devices which are having um this kind of behavior okay so you're talking about management interface no no it's not Chic right Chic itself would not be changed but you would provide some new management interface yeah exactly I don't think that chick needs changes it's much most most probably adjustment to the parameters of operation and how these parameters are kind of communicated and I mean the meta thing so that the configuration can be done in this kind of very limited devices so in three year profile for Scavenging devices which is not necessarily Laura or something but yeah and so sometimes have to be you know considered differently so yes I mean I I okay okay I I it makes sense of what you're saying so so would you call them Zero Energy then later on devices or Scavenging devices okay we can we can work out something please yes I think uh Edgar remark is very very important in fact when I I read we we think too much about compression and it's not only adapting"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:20:01",
    "text": "compression but it's also a adapting fragmentation to new environments yes yeah yeah the the question between yes certainly is fragmentation is part of our Charter effectively I just discussed that we will be working on the fact thing but the the point was how do we verify you know what Edgar wants to do and it would be qualified as a breed of devices or a breed of interface where um you know there have to be the letter around there they they don't have batteries uh so the other energy or Scavenging devices and so that means that effectively you don't expect the same timings and so so we have to discuss how you adapt what we have and it's mostly the fragmentation because that's where the accomplishments are um but maybe a level a layer as well as for me it is covered by the first bullet if we say that this was great is not only compression but also fragmented and also fragmentation but it never said it's only compression yeah yeah but we we have to yeah I understand but for me when I was thinking about it I was only thinking about compression that fragmentation okay so it's your mind that we have to edit yeah so let's play with it okay I think that the delay the delay tolerance uh aspect of of what Edgar was um was proposing is is something that maybe we need to look a little bit closer um yeah because I remember yours presentation and you know it can you can have questions such as like okay I I send like a very big packet and then it gets fragmented and sent over a week or"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:22:00",
    "text": "over a month and um you know how do I know if it's been aborted and uh you know there are there are things and this Pascal as you said there are part about it it's about the management part about it is a it's a it's about a compress a new Chic profile um but maybe if we can uh I don't know it's I I feel there is something I'm not sure it is for the for the new Charter but I feel there is something specific to this deep the lateral and big packet uh uh that I'm not sure if it maybe it falls already in the in in the in these items here but I think I think that there may be something a little bit specific right so maybe we can just put it as an example and and keep the charter items or if we decide that hey well it's not covered by these Charter items probably we should add a new item right the text and I was I was quickly editing something just to make sure I keep in mind uh let me go to the clip for a second propose some text so so basically you will see I just um type a sentence in in the chat and that is the first sentence of the proposed Charter which you'll see in a minute uh with a slight position where we we add the after the end even stricter that's that's what's new versus what what was in the first chapter okay so yeah well it's actually not typos but it's just me typing as I go yes I agree for me then this this text here then allows you know to to have some mic yeah okay I I I agree for me and maybe Edgar can can later on when we"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:24:02",
    "text": "have the the new version of the of the proposed Charter we can reread it with fresh eyes and Edgar can say if that's something that is you know that is covering what he has in mind now Alex actually so let's just go through it and just figure that the sentence that you have on the chat replaces the first sentence in the proposed chapter and discuss from that I mean um so I just not want to to edit the the slides that we are going through uh because it's not really easy to to work like that um so so the first slide is text which will not be in the charter and that we renamed background based on a recommendation by casting we also Chef all the text a little bit the first sentence is in place and the third paragraph kind of moved uh first uh as a result blah blah this has moved up a little bit um and then the list of the documents comes next anyway uh I said Rick said we this is not to be part of the chapter this is just to be in the envelope of the chat so if you want to have a quick look at now it's reshuffled a short more changes in there remember that's just the envelope right let's just do it remind ESG you know what this group is is working on it looks good to me at least it looks good can we can we move on this first just we shuffled I mean that is not really no words just to remembering um so now I have three slides for the new chapter because the waste was written a little bit too small"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:26:02",
    "text": "so the first piece did not change until today and you see that the first sentence is the one where we couldn't introduce uh the Zero Energy devices and that that's the the first first sentence of the of the of the charter that's that's really the beginning of the charter remember that the AA told us that the AC is not too fond of doing what I remember we are doing in the long past ago a long time ago where we would give all this bank around I mean the background is is not part of the contract so so let's take it off that's that's what we did we may want to say a few sentence though right about the background but not the amount of text and achievement that has was done in this previous slide I think this one um first intense here is perfect the rest is a little bit too much a thing anyway there will be called multiple iteration right so once the working group is ready then uh propose it to the isg with some review and then it's proposed to the active Community by your last call where we can do another change as well so I think I mean a little better all right so so we we give you like this block of text and if you want to pick some some of the sentences the first group and move them in a second in this slide here I mean I'll be also happy to do that I mean we kind of move the background away because that was your recommendation if you want to take one sentence back we'll do it uh a super short question here uh because right now it's the like the the charter starts with like the group will extend its scope to enable the benefits blah"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:28:00",
    "text": "blah blah it can isn't I mean um okay uh and thinking about someone coming in reading for the first time the charter um and it's like okay they extends something but what's the something right uh question last time as well yes and and that is background tells right and and the previous chapter I mean it's a recharger so the English people they still have access to the old chapter that's one thing and the thing is it's written there in the envelope but it's not part of the contract okay then in the next slide we'll see extending the Old Charter as the first item or about working and you know the old scope with your old scope new scope we activated the deliverables In old Scotland scope okay can can we say the the scope of the group is to extend okay I mean okay then it it it's good um so if you have already discussed that point then it's good to solve well we can always do better right but at least whatever is done so far is there is texting the envelope in the previous slide and the and the way we structure the data variables okay we're close to the end that this is not so we have to move on but are you good so the home wants to get something and Eric wrote in the in the chat that you know about the tense you know to like to this completely different and and not like will extend it because this is the"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:30:00",
    "text": "new school so but it's I mean it's mine I think it's minor detail and we can fix that uh uh so exactly you want to edit the first sentence let me just write it down my draft tonight all right okay okay so uh no yes please yes just one minor comment and we can discuss offline but the last sentence the group will continue activities on previous chapter Charter I think if if we have a chatter and we forget about the previous one so it's just to say what we we are doing in this chapter well in this chapter uh you can because this this introduction is this slide is there to say why we have this which continues the previous chapter and that which is the new work with this Charter that's that's basically this sentence remember this is those three slides that we want one continuous text okay now so from the previous chapter so those two items were there last week it's just that if you look at this the after the end in the uh first item you have and providing additional reliability mechanisms such as fake for fragments so now it's it's listed explicitly when it was an implicit last time okay okay I think it's I mean it's good and if Eric is okay with this then of course we can we can then see the feedback and I'm sure gisg will tell us why guys you need to change the this"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:32:01",
    "text": "thing in this way but I mean it looks good to me he has to do the more contentious things could be you know the new proposed Charter items which is re I think this is the most important slide right that's the last but most important that's where we we go and discuss what we will be doing and what we could be doing you see the big man for the the bar uh because we were not very clear on which bar we would support if you remember last last time the discussion was okay we want to do some chicory food and some Baro vershek but we don't want we don't know yet that we will add documents for all those things that we could be doing and so we can't commit that we'll do TCP or ipd4 for instance which are listed here or the LMS by the way so so do we want to still list them uh if it is nothing it's just open bar on the video as you would not like it if you list things I mean at this point of time you cannot commit to do them all it's more like we pick some in that list like if if that's that makes sense how do you prefer it it is nothing or we give like a too exhaustive list I like having the examples and then you know yeah that will provide also the isg the possibility to say hey like a pv4 is no for example uh uh or something else right yes hello companies if we list them can we work in something that is not listed in the problem that if we don't list anything that's open well that's why I was saying so you could work on anything but the NSG will probably you know fight if we list stuff we try to say hey we we are taking some"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:34:02",
    "text": "of them now if you want to do something which is not listed it's gonna be hard because it can if we are providing the envelope from which you would pick now see some of some of that is open like ICM pv6 based protocol it's very wide then custom wants to speak maybe it's it's on your question yeah it takes a while to unusual it's our media goes very slow um so um the legal people have something called which something which is called espresso unios as the exclusive arterios so whenever you mention something in a legal document that means anything else is excluded yeah of course they have uh wonderful uh classes to avoid this principle so uh without limiting to blast something I don't think we need that because really these these work items um should be in a list of milestones and not in the actual Charter proper so typically when when we discuss a charter we always discuss a list of Milestones with that uh and uh yeah this looks a lot like a list of livestocks the the exception here um is that there are statements about collaboration with other organizations so I think these need to go into the charter uh yeah I see what you're saying uh so you would eliminate every four and every bar from from from the charter that's what you would do because yeah Milestones so that the charter remains somewhat generic and we don't run into"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:36:01",
    "text": "the problem that that if we have forgotten something here we um yeah we have to recharter we just have to update the Milestones which is a smaller operation it is but the concern about the ngsu would not leave us with just open bar foreign you know it's just completely open if we don't list anything and and the the worry was that they would not be happy with at least let us know because when we discuss the the Milestones usually it's just with the the idea right it's not the ISD it's just our ID so our height himself has to work within the contract yeah relatives don't know I mean it's free for for the ASG to tell us uh if if they're happy that we remove everything from the list uh that's better I'm with you and at least to to based on just as you say it really makes sense but I think this list if we asked is kind of comfortable versus you know we don't have this list ready for that yeah so I would not overdo it um this chapter will be revised by the isg and we make minor tweaks like this so I think in this working group what you should do right now is to not select the precise wording but more about the topics you want to work on Among Us and then you send it to the area to myself and together with the IG we'll use the right word so don't spend too much time on this right now okay so take this into account I mean do"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:38:01",
    "text": "you see some protocols that you would like to work on in this form that is not listed here I guess in this case the U is the working group right it's not me it's exactly I'm sorry Eric yes I mean everybody in this call or you know can we can ask them in English because we copy that on the meeting list um is there any protocols people would like to work on which is not listed here no for me I mean not on my side is quite okay I really I see okay foreign microphone I'm sorry we can hear your Pascal we can hear it very well I I was getting from I was getting from Dominic that it was saturating I maybe yes maybe a little bit but I was understanding you oh no rush you can fix that late everything about it straight on it so I've turned the button tell me if it's better now there is a game button on this thing is it better a bit let's try speaking now after that it's it's maybe some some setting inside just seems to be good but it was when we're not speaking loudly I don't know if I can change the volume of the mic from here okay um so so let's move to the next uh item in the agenda I guess didn't hold the the body is yours"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:40:03",
    "text": "since my microphone too is it better I mean it was good for me from the start okay so I'm trying to find where is can you share the slides if I was lost yeah Okay so as I say I I work on the open cheek implementation to play a little bit with the data model and it works well but uh I I found some little details that can be changing if we do a a new version so I cannot change the slide the Pascal can you go to the next slide okay so what's uh wrong in fact that when we Define the data model we Define a type and inside this type it was a union between two things one was an identity and the other one was an integer so this type is used for example for the field length and the fins length we give the size or we call a function so that's why we we need a union here and we stayed that with Union was included in the rules that works for with the compression so when you run some tools to validate this there is a strange behavior is that they ask that the integer has to be a string and so that's uh quite strange because it is defined as an integer but in my understanding of the problem is that when you do uh a model in how you put"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:42:02",
    "text": "data in XML then there is no difference between strings and num number but when you do Jesus hello Laura we cannot hear you anymore foreign okay so I don't see the slides but I think I don't know where I have been cut but I said that the representation in uh in XML is Json you have different type and so it means that the the tool that check I think I've been tested widely on XML and do not detect this and when we go to Jason then we we may have this problem so what I propose I don't see this fine anymore but uh I can do it by memory so uh what I propose is to move this Union and not so to keep a type Dev that it will be just related to the identity and then we will have uh we put the union directly on the compression structure so for me it's better because here when we use existing tools we have we can put this value as an integer and the second thing that it's very close to the model so validation tools may have an easier access to this information and unconstrained device maybe it will be"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:44:00",
    "text": "more easy to to implement because you don't have to to look at the definition so that's why I made a new data model a new Young module sorry that include this so you have in a slide if you see the slide because I don't see them uh in the slide you you have the change and the change are very very limited it's uh just few lines for um okay this one so it's just to to move the union from the type Dev to the definition uh the grouping so what uh what I will propose to to change in uh in the in the draft and since we are doing the change I also put in the next slide some change that counter with a discussion with content we we had was just about the co-op option and to create a sub uh uh can you go to the next slide please Pascal yes for uh for Co-Op for option now they are in the current data model are the feed Co-op base type and we can create a new identity that will be feed Co-op option and this way we identify a little bit more uh the co-op option but this is this has no impact at all on what we we are sending foreign if you have any comment or if you disagree with that yes thank you for the addition"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:46:02",
    "text": "um maybe an extra point that we've discussed as well whether the addition of the Raw on The Wire uh fields for the co-op options in this registry is this something that we can also consider for reference the idea was that um the co-op option when we describe Co-op options uh there's a there's a need to actually pass several Fields so basically the co-op option Delta the co-op option length option value and Etc and um so so the question I'm raising is is there a an interest in also being able to address those raw Fields as well so not not using the inter what what I call the interoperated field because in the packet itself there's not a cloud option if much there's there's a sequence of Club options Etc and yeah that was part of the discussion yeah so is this still on the table or is this uh ruled out uh I think we for this version it's too late to to do that because it's a lot of change and we have to discuss about this change what I propose here is just uh I'm not changing the model in fact the data you will if you have generated data with previous all the actual young data model they will be compatible with this version so I don't change anything to the representation the only thing I changed is more in in the model by itself to have something that is is easier to to implement and it's more easy to use existing tools"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:48:00",
    "text": "okay yeah thanks and by the way if you there is a nice video I put on the list I hope it's a nice video and but explain all the things we can do with open cheek and move from Json representation to sibo representation and use yongsan for example to validate a model Okay so that's for the first part so the second issue was about access control so in fact I I had some idea when I made the slides and I wanted to discuss it before uh writing uh a draft on that so Pascal can you go to the next line and just to remember the discussion we we add when we made the the draft and also discussion we added the site meeting at the ATF in I think it was in London so the idea that if you look right now at the Young data model all the fields are read write so everybody can modify them and also we don't have defined some Access Control to give a some authenticated device access to some field or not the reason is on the next slide is that because we don't when we do a young data model in fact we don't give if we give access to a field as a previous data model is to give access to a column for example all the six column we say it's read write or write only and it's not really what we expect what we would like to say is for example you cannot change the source address or the"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:50:01",
    "text": "application address or you cannot change the some this Co-op URI so here it means that we don't we have to give access not to a column but to align and say for example the third line cannot be or uh Changed by any one else anybody so to do that in fact it's quite easy because we we can add to this model a new one tree and this entry we say it is possible to change it or it's not possible to to change it so we can extend the current uh young data model with that and so next slide so it's what uh I say so we can extend the model for the compression and say this entry can modify or not or this line can be modified or not we can also add some more generic property to add or delete entries for example in a compression rule we can say I want to add a new topic a new field in this world so this is a possibility so we can allow it or avoid it we can have also a possibility to remove some some lines and what we can have also is the property is a the possibility to add a new rule inside the model or to delete a rule inside the model as for example I show in in the video so I think that these properties has to be added to the current young data model to allow this so the question also is to whom this means that can we say the device can we say some directory can we say uh anybody so we have to Define who has the success and it works well for compression"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:52:02",
    "text": "but for fragmentation it's a little bit more complex because if we change everything in all the parameters then I think for implementation it will be very difficult to to follow so for me for example if we want to modify something in the fragmentation it can be the timers as Edgar talk a little at the uh a few minutes ago it can be also the number of fragments we can send a certain time for example it can be used to to do flow control and so an application say okay now I am saturated or the network is set rigid so please stop sending so that's this kind of thing that can be done but to change over parameter for example I want to change now I put data in the old one or I don't put data in the or one uh I think it's maybe too complex to do so in my my vision for fragmentation we have to limit the thing the number of things that can be changed and if an implementation one to make a big change then it will have to create a another rule to to do that so that's the primary reflection on on what we can do on access control if you agree if you have comments then I can put them on on a draft that will describe this Eric yes no just a quick thing that's a new draft you are talking about right yeah okay yes it's in fact we yes we augment and we don't change the current young data model this one is the is finished except for the previous uh slight"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:54:01",
    "text": "modification I wanted to to introduce thanks to the clarification now Justin I'm still having a hard time imagining a situation where I want this fine-range Access Control uh so typically I would expect that that rules are managed wholesale by by one entity and you don't have multiple Cooks staring that that dish I mean this would create lots of Chaos for for me when for example one possibility you can be in light with M2M first when you start you you have an ID that is given by a device or by the core and then you use this ID for all the communication so here maybe you can use the management to to set this this ID so so actually there is something and I'll go into the sense of what Carson said uh maybe what we what we need to do is because we discussed a couple of times already about the different like the use case so what are the things that we envision as possible attack vectors so that then we can as you say like all these Access Control lists maybe it's too fine-grained maybe it's not enough fine grind right so if we say that hey there's this there's this possible attack and there is this possible attack and there's this possible attack and and and and I mean we had um we I think we identified at least one or two use cases that that will that could not be addressed otherwise and then we can go with the solution yes I mean progress on this we we need"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:56:02",
    "text": "to to have the specification of the use case we want to serve that there is an another item that that worries me in in this description is we don't really say in which chart I will process the rules do we so if somebody writes a rule which is uh almost the same as the existing Rule and and both match could it be that depending on the device one rules is taken or the other rule is taken I mean how do we know there are two rules that match which one is picked by the implementation because as you discussed attack vectors I mean writing a rule which is similar to to an existing one could be an attack vector I mean that that worries me oh so that's why maybe we should not allow to create new rules but we just allowed to create to add or to change some parameters some specific parameters into a rule if I go back to lightweight M2M for example you may want to change the ID that is used in the co-op URI but you don't want to change the destination address because you want to keep the same server just one thing and and I think so what pascara was said so I agree with you maybe so my feeling about this is that then I think that we need a document here because like we are talking otherwise and like this we I think we mostly agree but then the devil is in the details so start with the document in which we start describing we have like a maybe a bullet list of saying hey this is a possible attack Vector this is a possible attack vector like I can create what Pascal said I can create a new rule that is that also matches and I can divert the traffic from other device to me so I'm an attacker right and and just list the types of attacks like this and then I mean we know the solution and you already have described the solution like we have an ACL and"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:58:00",
    "text": "blah blah blah blah but start at least with the okay these are the attack vectors and then you know uh and then when we when we agree that the list is complete enough then we can we can say okay well all this is is okay or maybe it's a little bit too much so maybe we don't need all of that or maybe it's not enough right but maybe start with the document where there are like the list of attack vectors and and I think that we can all pitch in about this Econo counter yeah yes I I share kind of like the same thing as custom especially uh with regard to the discussion we had on the definition of context and and the fact that uh rules live within the context and this would limit uh who has access to the rules uh and and especially like the idea of having an attacker that would provide kind of like a rule that has the same signature or the same matching properties is something that we should discuss with regards to the scope that is defined by this by by the context that that hosts our I'm not so sure that this is so exposed to attacks but I suppose that's something to be discussed yeah it have to be discussed but there is two kind of attacks you have a core that attacks a device on the other device but may also change things in the car and but for more in but the core has a collection of of contexts for uh sets of endpoints and the question is we can access the core for a given context and therefore who has access to a context and those those does it provide enough"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:00:00",
    "text": "uh security to say the ACL should not be on the rules themselves but on the context but again this is a great discussion but I guess we have to take it to the mailing list and and continue next time so uh if you don't mind we'll have a slot for your access code for discussion I hope that we start discussing the use cases first exactly what is the exposure of the current thing and what is it that people would want to do um yes once we agree on the use cases we can really progress but for now we are at the top of the hour so I have to thank you for being there thank you to the note takers as well and yes we need to adjourn is there any any urgent thing somebody wants to mention before we go yes just like one point for our re-architecture where is the source document is some the GitHub or yes it's um yeah I think Anna is editing it no so now you have access you can shoot off she doesn't show me anything I don't want to know well the last version is you that make the submissions I don't know if you put the last version in GitHub oh yeah I mean I'm putting I'm pushing when I do attention Okay so it's good in the GitHub okay so um yes we can always discuss that offline on the mailing list as well have an issue that they consult together but just normally everything is on the GitHub and that's our reference so if when you do changes please push that money"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:02:00",
    "text": "okay and with this the meeting is a drawn and I will publish the minutes thanks to the note taker so that again many thanks to the net takers and I will go ahead and do minor changes to the to the Charter as well based on what we discussed many thanks bye thank you bye bye thank you [Music]"
  }
]
