[
  {
    "startTime": "00:01:04",
    "text": "The machine broke at this time, so I have to go to an Does anyone here displayed from a Mac to one of these guys, you know, Recently? Should work. He spent the good, you can delegate this with power I don't think you're gonna do it remotely. Right? You have to be hooked up to this wire. I just I'm trying to don't think that that option is afforded here, and I just don't know how to get it to even recognize that and have another display."
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:02:04",
    "text": "So is this the device they gave you? No. This is Yes. This is the plug and but but Vavian, not looking up to the right thing. No. There's that one. Check us the wrong end. because these two were sitting next to each other. I mean, I only have USB ports. That is the nature. But there is this nice USB port connector, and things are happening on try that, and if we can find an HDMI port. So -- This is a like, a phone port almost, but it's the only thing that seems to be here. Yeah. When I'm supposed to unplug that thing. That's things for the video, it says you can't use keyboard or touch what matter, touch it in any way. And it treats cables. You know what? That's what I just tried to do. because they're awkwardly taped altogether on the ground, a little bit trickier than I'm like the other one. maybe that's it. Yeah. No. No. I have to open Miteshco on my computer and present it from there. I can. I guess I can go to Newteko. Let's do that. Let's go to IETF. I just never present. Valerie did it the last time. I haven't presented from here. Margaret. I will I will present. I will present. Yes? Don't worry. do it? Yes. Just upload your slides. So if you can --"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:04:00",
    "text": "Just upload his slides to Mitrako, and Okay. I did upload my slides, but, I mean, I wanna present the agenda slides first. share slides, been shared. Yes. It's it's you're sharing Oh, it right here. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yeah. Okay. So we can start. I couldn't figure out because it wasn't coming through. Okay. So let's start the meeting. The this is the radius extensions working group? and If that's not where you meant to be, find the door back there. the I think the first thing up is the agenda. break with chair slides, the agenda, go to the next slide? So everyone should know that we are working under the note well. and the IETF code of conduct, they concern intellectual property and how we behave during meetings. and you should Read those if you haven't already and adhere to go. the chairs of this meeting are Valerie who's on the screen and me and fall Wouter's is the responsible AD, but he's not here today he had to be in a different meeting. this morning. So so Let's go. Let's go Next one. There's a blue sheets thing going on today. They say they're automatically, but they actually invented this new thing that looks really very much like the old thing. So you can use the QR code, though, to to check yourself in if you didn't already outside the room. Just passed around. Now We need volunteers. We need a Zullet Scribe. Can anyone here be the Zulu scribe? I can check it. No problem. There are very few And we need 2 note takers to take notes for the meeting. you and somebody else? Is there someone else who can take notes? Anybody in the back there willing to take notes for the meeting?"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:06:05",
    "text": "going once? Okay. I don't know. I guess we'll make do with 1, but don't complain if what you said is not correct. Next slide, Okay. So here's the agenda. That was the administrator right there. The first thing we're to talk about is the the the TLSD TLS encryption for Radius draft, YAN FRED IS NOT HERE BUT MAYBE ONLINE TO PRESENT remotely a sea Yes. Yeah. here in derived And The if you could I'll go to those slides, Valerie. Yonfred can take over. My slides will be right after isn't. They're already up in the Okay. Thank you. Yeah. So the radius detail as as a proposed standard. You can go to the next slide, So what happened so far, we had working group adoption call for the olks, version of the draft, which was just an update of radius TLS, RFC 6 614. we had some discussions about merging radius DTLS into the same document and also add portions of radius TCP, because there is actually a lot of aspect for radius that is relevant for radius TL as in the Radius TCP document. So we did a consensus call on the mailing list just before they IETF, and it was"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:08:02",
    "text": "It went through without any negative comments. So I've republished the the draft as draft, ideas, details, piece, which is a completely new text. So I actually throughout everything that we had with rfc6614piece. and just put the 3 documents next to each other 661366147360. and compiled a new text from the relevant sections. Sorry again for the confusion with draft names, replacements. with the the draft now in working group document state. Again, I think now the next version should be draft, ATF, cut x, something but that's for after the meeting. Next slide, please. So the status of the document as it is published in the data tracker right now. It's a more or less complete technical spec. with a lot of comments. I've put in comments for the sources where I pulled the the sections from. I have added some technical questions directly in the document as Comments will go through these with Margaret's slides soon. And, yeah, basically merge DTLS and TLS at the relevant portions and edit TCP and UDP specific sections. The security considerations, I've not yet copied to the new document And as of right now, I've completely left out the design decisions Next slide, please. So the next steps, of course, republish this as a working actual working group draft, and then we have"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:10:00",
    "text": "some open questions. The list there is not complete and also included in market slides which come next. maybe one thing that I tip. I did not see in the slides what I'd I I don't remember if it wasn't the slides is the question if we should add implementation guidelines and design decisions. or for for design decisions. Maybe it's enough to just reference the experimental RC for that. So if you want to know why we did things then go look there. This is just the technical specific session. Yeah. So this is my slide deck, and now I would suggest we'd switch to market slide deck for the open issues that need discussing in the working group. Before we do that, does anyone have any comments on the two questions is on the last slide. whether we should add an implementation guidelines section or a design decision section. Hello. This is Alan. Yeah. and I'm always in favor of guidelines because it makes, like, easier Anybody else have an opinion either way? Okay. So that's the only feedback we received was Alan thinks it would be a good idea. So you can proceed as as you see it. just for the implementation guidelines or for the for the design decisions as well? He's saying both from his seat. Okay."
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:12:06",
    "text": "I don't think you should include anything that's obviously bleatly obsolete and dates from 15 years ago. But if there's some useful stuff in there, I think should bring it over for the design decisions. I'm waiting for some new slides to come up. play. started to come up, and then it went into scam me. Are you still there, Valerie? I'm here, but as there are no use lines yet, it So I -- The -- -- sometimes -- -- the month that showed up. Take sometimes. I emailed them to you as well. I didn't change them. I it from there, but understand. Okay. I don't know if you can do probably it's better to share screen. Yeah. Well, I mean, I Because it takes sometimes from a ticket to prepared slides for the meeting to wire I just added new ones at the end, and they They said they were up there. a minute. -- a little bit of Just confusion because as you can probably tell, Yanfred is not here. He's in a tense somewhere. And so we had some last minute coordination on these issues slides, and see if we can get them up. I'm actually the sound engineer for the camp here. So if I could, I would just jump over and fix the the sound issue. I can walk through them verbally if we have to. They're not the slides were not interesting in any particular way. So I'll start, and Valerie can see if he can get get us there. So one of the things I think is important is that wherever the current text is ambiguous or unclear,"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:14:01",
    "text": "we wanna try to match what existing implementations are doing. rather than making up new stuff. So One of the good questions I think is what implementations exist for each of these protocols I don't know that everyone who knows about that is in the room. But what implementations do we know of for a Radius TLS. I know that's in free radius. I'm pointing to Alan to see road free radius. Yes. Get that out of the tunnel. Yes. And we know it's in radiator. Radiator, I believe, does TLS ISIS, I believe, also DTLS, but I don't remember either they're it it does or they're working on it. Free radius does not do DTLS. Radsecproxy, does TLS and DTLS. I believe ICE, ACS, whatever Cisco's calling it these days does both and NPS. does nothing. Okay. Well, in in some cases, we may ask what existing implementations do, and we may have to go out to the list since not everybody's here who represents all of those implementations. But Let's let's let's continue. So one of the questions that's in the current document is what is mandatory to implement for this specification. we've we have we've made one document that covers radius TLS and Radius DTS. We used to have 2 documents. So you could say you implemented radius TLS or Radius DTS separately But this specification is gonna have to list a mandatory to implement set of things. And the question is, is it Radius TLS?"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:16:00",
    "text": "radius DTS. or both? Or both? thoughts? Yeah. This is Alan again. I I I I don't know that we'd wanna make both mandatory But I I I believe giving people the option would be best. However, given you know, insecurity of UDP and TLS and all this. I do think there should be a strongly suggest to implement both It's just it it it really is difficult to tell people to implement both because there there is constant effort or Right. So what do you you think it should say TLS is mandatory, but it's highly recommended to implement both. Do you think it should not say either one is mandatory, in which case we could have 2 different implementations that implement the same RFC but don't work together at any level. sounds bad. That Yes. Yes. Given that given that everyone at least has implemented TLS. I I would say it's fine to implement. to say TLS is mandatory, and then DTLS is please implement I mean, we can put in a, you know, a strong recommendation to do both And once you've done TLS, doing DTS shouldn't be horribly arduous. But, you know -- Modular openness sell APIs. I took a look at it a while ago, After slamming my head against the wall, I gave up did more productive, maybe it's more possible now. I know Radsec proxy does it. maybe I'll just have to go look at their code and and do it. So anybody else have any comments on this question? Okay. Queue, I also agree that TLS should probably be the mandatory one"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:18:01",
    "text": "So easier to implement, as you said, with the current SSL libraries. I have the current open SSL dtls implementation is still a bit of a mess. Any other comments, opinions, So taking a a view of the room, The Let's do a show at hands. It's not not voting. Just trying to get see if there's a preponderance of opinion. I can't I'm not gonna be able hear people humming in the back as well as these people right here. So coming is not gonna work. So What how many people think that we there the 3 choices Make TLS mandatory, make DTLS mandatory or make both mandatory. because You can't make none mandatory. That doesn't work. So How many people think we should make Radius TLS mandatory in this document? How many people think radius D TLS mandatory in this document. How many people think we should make both mandatory in document Okay. We had a a preponderance of people who said radius TLS with a smaller group that said both. But I would call that consensus to do TLS which we will check it on the list to see if there are other opinions because there's obviously people who aren't here. k. Let's go on to the next issue that's using a single port for auth and accounting. On the current specifications, use a single IP port for authentication and accounting packets. radius TLS uses port, TCP port 2083 radius DTS uses UDP port 2083. and they just send. authentication and accounting packets over the same port."
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:20:02",
    "text": "Do existing implementations match the current specification? As far as I know, yes, unless Alan's gonna get up to tell me no. which I'd be very surprised by at this moment in time is Yeah. This is Allan again. Yeah. Everyone does that. I think the choice of 1812 versus 1813 is really historical and makes absolutely no sense. Well, the radius packets themselves identify themselves as accounting or access request. So I would have been surprised to learn there were any issues. So we will leave it as is to match the current specification unless anybody as a dissenting opinion that they would like to share. Anybody would vote no if we said should we leave it as is? you wanna come up and and explain what What the issue would be? Was that was that a hand raise? Oh, sorry. I thought that was a hand raise. No problem. So the proposed resolution stands, which is we'll leave it as is. Did you wanna say something? Go ahead. Yeah. I was just gonna say, yeah. Aaron, pretty radius. One of the considerations is splitting the traffic. going for a load balancer in different sets of back end it's easier. And it's it's generally appropriate to do this because you don't want your authentication function to be taken by a sudden spike in accounting packet. Okay. That's the one thing to consider. I mean, the concern I guess would be invalidating existing implementations. But know. We'll do a call in a minute. Just -- So so this is Allen again. Yeah. I mean, the the absolutely true. I'm not gonna disagree with people at, like, the the reality is any of those choices are site local choices. People can use any UNIP port they want. I think in terms of the specification, it makes no sense to mandate different port for different packets. It's"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:22:00",
    "text": "They're all bits. They're all good. Right? Once you accept TLS, it's your choice. and as to which kind of packet you accept, and there is text in the document which says, if YOU ONLY WANT TO ACCEPENDICATION, and you get accounting, you send a knack back saying, I do not accept this, and that's the correct way to handle that. You know, the document discusses this. Alright. So let's since there has been a dissenting opinion, let's let's just do a a feel in the room. So the two choices are Stay with the single port, or go to 2 ports. We'd have to get a new port allocation. That's Trivial, though. So How many people think we should stay with the single port like is in the spec right now. Okay? How many people think we should move to two ports so that we can do traffic engineering separately for accounting and authentication. k. That's a less strong consensus but I'm still gonna call it for a single port, and we'll check it on the list. Feel free if you want to say more about opinion to send stuff to the list and try to your persuade people. You know? we won't consider it closed until it's been checked on the list. So The next question the mid references were deleted from the document, the new the new document. the rationale was that the Mibbs would need to updated anyway, and they weren't updated, and maybe nobody uses them. I don't know. So the question is, Did anyone actually implement the Mibs for Radius TLS"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:24:00",
    "text": "or the counters from the Mibs, you know, by name, which would still imply they have some value. This is Allen again. We implement the general radius mibs That being said, I think almost all the references to MIDS are outdated, people still use them. but the current fad is yang and related things versus mids. I'm sure Bernard has strong opinions here. But from what I've seen mibs don't tend to be widely used even if they are implemented. So it's one of these things that we might just go You know what? If nobody cares, we delete it and move on. Some of the other radius specifications include counters you should implement. Conceptual counters. Right? And the question, I guess, I would have is if we remove the Mibs, the reference to the Mibs. Should we include conceptual. Should TLS request be counted separately. Should any any of this be counted in any way different from. And I don't know the answer to that because I would have to go read all that stuff. I haven't done that. So I think there's the question of should we put something else there instead. And I I don't know. I'd have to think. I -- I I don't know. Would would have to take this to the I mean, there are MIDS for ATHENICATION ACCOUNTING IPD IV, IPD 6 COA and all this. There aren't you know, the specific mibs for or TLS I don't know. There's no good answer here. if if you say no, don't do the meds, you will get some people going, but we'll use them. If you say do them, My guess is probably 90% of people will ignore it because they don't use I thought it might be more useful to say Yeah. implement Like we did in I think"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:26:00",
    "text": "Data server does say implement these counters. And Right. There's I think at least one other doc I read that said implement counters for these things. And We're not as rigorous as Amib, but basically, you might be able to count on being able to check those things. So let's I don't think this one I don't get the feel that this one is something that we in the room are are prepared to answer. So having I at least haven't even looked at whether there's anything TLS specific in the Mibs Does anyone else has anyone else looked at this and have a confident in an answer? No? Okay. So we'll discuss this. We'll put this up on the mailing list as a Someone saying something? Oh, Alex. Howdy. Just you just popped up in my to him. I guess you're right. Hello? I I don't know if if there's not too much appetite to be implementing any of this and using it in anger, I'm not too sure too much energy should be put into it. mostly because to try and dictate to someone do this when we're not really all too happy to do ourselves. It feels a bit of a weird position to think. We've got other things to do. It's I I certainly like I could I personally like the idea of some sort of standard way measuring it, but it's it's one of those things you always wish for, but you don't really get if you're a Cisco shop, you end up measuring things in one way. If you're a Microsoft shop, you end up measuring things in another way. And it's all not really that interopteral anyway. So a bit of a pipe dream would be nice, but I think It's not something we can do. k. k. k. Alright. Thank you. So, Lutz, we'll discuss this on the list just to see people think. But right now, it's not in the document, so there's not really any wordsmithing we we need to do. The next issue was watchdogs."
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:28:04",
    "text": "The when I said the current text here, I don't mean in our document. I mean, the current RFCs contain some conflicting text about watchdogs. And so the the new document actually contains some ambiguous text about watchdogs having brought in sections of the other documents and and having just added a flag that this needs to be resolved. What do current implementations do? use status server for watchdogs for Radius TLS I think I know of at least one that does. And Just do we know what anything else does? Anybody here have any experience with the other implementations and what they do for this? And then the question is the things that do implement DTS Do they use data server? Do they use DTLS heartbeat, which was another recommendation of the list draft or something else. And so I'm thinking maybe what we wanna do is makes data server mandatory for Radius TLS since it exists and is the only candidate. and allow options of the other 2 for DTLS because they both exist. But that would mean that everybody everyone has to implement details Harvey. Okay. And if they were to have to implement status or for TLS, maybe they've already got it for detail less. So so maybe that's the best way, but we'll if does anyone have any opinions they wanna talk about in the room? I think if we're merging the two documents here, we should probably use the same watchdog system for both. So DCLS heartbeat kind of has to exist, but ignore it for the purposes of this standard. Just go with state of server. and just ignore what protocol it's actually running on top of. So you would mandates. data server for"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:30:03",
    "text": "for DTS as well for both of them. Yes. so that it's just the same everywhere. That's how you check the service on. Yeah. I agree. But I'm writing clarification around Wendy should be sent. Is it sort of a consistent monitoring is it only when the far end is suspected to have issues. This is Alan. To answer that, 2865 says DON'T SEND Keep A LIVES. I presume, and historically, that has been the same case for TLS. However, I believe it's 3539 talks about application layer, heartbeat, and that's what the status servers So it's if you think the other end is down, then you start pinging it. But if you're normally sending packets, you don't do anything. if you're not sending it packets, There's no reason to query whether or not it's alive. I can't directly quote the spec, but it says something like, if you have an change packets and a certain period of time, poke it to see if it's still alive. 20 to 65, keep alive is considered harm. Yeah. Aaron again. I think that was one of the worst design decisions in the radius protocol. it it literally impacts every proxy implementation negatively. it causes real liveliness issues where you haven't sent packets in a while and then some need to cover a subset of your home servers or upstream servers are down. So I I really think this would be a good opportunity to change that and recommend that they are periodically as a a lightliness check even if no traffic as well. Okay. So"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:32:03",
    "text": "what's in the document now cannot possibly be right. And I no no disrespect to Yanfred. It was taken from different places, and it disagrees with itself. Right? So would you take the action to write to list what you think it should say? And then maybe you win because the rest of us will go, that sounds good. Yeah. Thank you. Yeah. So thank you. That was Aaron from FreeRadius, I believe. from network Radius. whatever. He that's who volunteered, so we get it. in the notes. the next slide. The document is currently making and I'm not sure if this came from one of the other documents or what, but Jan Fred could could could could could could could could could could could could could speak up if if it didn't. that we use an ID of 0 for status server request so that their use as a watchdog will not lead to exhaustion of the 250 spit, ID, space per connection. Do implementations do this today? Okay. So ignore in a if not. But I wonder if it would actually be better to or in addition to this, we could recommend the use of radius 1.1. and, like, baby, strongly recommend it and, you know, say the use of radius 1.0 is not recommended, but it's So so this is Alan. Yeah. That that use of IT 0 recommend should originally comes from RE POINTING THIS OUT. So free radius does this, I believe. radiator also does it. with 256 IDs, your your your stock. rate is terrible. I think for the purposes of this document, it would be useful to have a a a downdraft to the radius 11 document and go, hey, If 256 IDs are a problem, there's another document Go read that. However,"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:34:01",
    "text": "this document is Radius TLS. and that's it. Mhmm. thumbs up from the ad for you. Okay. Any other opinions on this topic? That's No? Okay. Next, slide This one came from Valerie. RFC9325 provides guidelines on using TLS on PLS and application protocols. He suggested that this this document should ref RFC 9325. include references to specific sections where appropriate, like about selecting Cipher Suites. there's a pointer to the document. My suggestion is we should just do it. Is there anybody who has any reason we should not actually be referring to this document, which is sort of provides updated advice on how to use TLS and DTLS in applications. Okay. So we'll call that consensus to just do it unless It doesn't carry on the list. So I think that was the last slide Yep. So that was it for issues in this document, and it like we got a few of them resolved at least, and got a stucky to help us resolve one of them. The So Let's go on to the next topic if we go back to the agenda or if you just happen to know what the next topic is, Valerie? It's radius 1.1. Hello. This is Alan for Radius 11. Next slide, So we got some minor"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:36:00",
    "text": "clarifications based on working group feedback, The flags field was removed. It was sort of a throwaway idea. Anyways, additional discussion of air cause One open question perhaps is signaling in the error tape. So when you're doing ALPN notifications, and both end support it but the server decides not to do what the client suggests, it can send the TLS alert of no patient protocol. If one or the other end doesn't do ALPN, then you simply close the connection and you get a big error of connection is closed because connection is closed. At that point, how the heck do you debug this? So the the throwaway comment is radius does have a protocol error packet which is meant to be the signaling that there's some protocol layer error and not you know, an error with a particular authentication and accounting packet. it may be useful to send a pre can protocol error packet. which is a response packet to a request that never was never said, However, you're gonna be closing the connection anyway. And so the theory is you send this thing which looks like a radius packet which can then contain textual reply message, perhaps an error caused attribute with value, no application protocol, when the poor administrator goes, why was my connection closed? he gets this weird thing that vaguely looks like an radius packet but which has information about why the connection was closed. as opposed to just Open TLS connection, closed TLS connection. what went wrong, screw you, that's what I don't see any issue with this, but it is a very weird thing to do"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:38:02",
    "text": "So if if anyone has you know, pitchforks or anything to speak up. Otherwise, it might be useful. How would you expect current implementations to deal with just receiving this packet of no lack of no lack Yes. Would would they just would they already happen to log it, or would we have to add new code to deal with this packet appearing and logging something to the administrator. Yes. The point is perhaps so to answer that question directly, The existing implementations will ignore it. they might complain. they might go, oh my god. I don't know what to do. and close the connection, which the other end is gonna do anyways. but the information here is less for the implementation and more for the administrator. who can then go look at things and go -- So you suggest they'd open a packet inspector and see this packet and go Here's what went wrong. if you don't support ALPN in your existing implementation That is largely your choice. Yes. because your existing implementations have no way of getting more information out of that TLS can be shared. They just try TLS. and the TLS connection gets closed. And unless you can phone the other administrator and go, why is your system closing connections, you're left with logs on the local system. and perhaps local system will log an error going what the heck is this weird packet I go, at worst point, you can either, you know, look at the detailed packet fixes be a lighter shot or something else. but it really is an administrative thing, and this should only happen when you're doing this migration. to Haki's point on the list, the recommended configuration for the AOPN servers clients initially, is to set it to allow"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:40:00",
    "text": "which is do it if you can. Otherwise, just do t so just do TLS. Okay. Okay. So it's it's sort of an ugly solution, but Look at the packet traces. Sorry. You can't update existing implementation. Yeah. service would be sent in clear. outside. No. It no. It would be sent as an app application data inside the tunnel. Okay. Tunnel is not. here's this weird collection of garbage, which might look like a radius packet put at least to something other than click click Yeah. It's just just not gonna be possible to see in the the connection goes down. a choice because it's gonna be encrypted. Right? I mean, no. You can put some kind of proxy in the Yeah. I mean, a lot of servers have the capability of logging the contents of the TLS connection. Absolutely. Open SSL has this SSL key file where it dumps the TLS parameters to a file, and you can decrypt it later in layer card. It just it sort of rubs me in the wrong way to say, yeah. Your connection is closed. Why? get lost. Not my problem. Absolutely. No. It seems like a useful thing. it also be used for inbound signaling for congestion control and that sort of that would be that would be different. You you'd need a new packet type. Margaret. So it I have a nice transition, which is One of the things that this opens up is the possibility that you could Log this. But it's kinda weird because you're in some air handling and you're gonna look, and you're gonna go, oh, This is a special situation. So I almost would like a different package type in the sense that you could have a packet type that's always logged, and that's So -- You know, you can look for. So the issue here is working with existing TLS implementations that don't do ARP yet. and"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:42:00",
    "text": "You can define a new packet type, but then nobody knows what it is. Right? And then you have to go look. Whereas at least the protocol error packet type exists, people should at least be aware of this. And You know, the question is what to do. You can simply send a textual string. Hey. Please implement ALPNN and people look at it and see it's asking text. the connection's gonna be closed anyways. it almost doesn't matter what you send. but you should send something that people can understand And sort of the initial straw man is is protocol error that they even looks like a radius packet. So you basically implement something that just whenever it gets a protocol error, prints out the error caused somewhere in the logs and hopes somebody comes along and looks at it, I guess. Yeah. I mean, existing implementation patients at least will go, I got a packet. I have no idea of what to do with. And at least then when the connection is closed, Right? The administrators can get something other than TLS connection closed instead they get weird packet, TLS connection closed. Now these cracks are hedging. What the heck is this? they go look at the weird packet, and it says, please implement ALPN, air cause, ALPM not implemented. oh, now we know what to do. as opposed to stuff didn't work. why. too bad. Yeah. I mean, I guess I guess I mean, it'd be nice to get any indication back opposed to no indication back. So IF. IT'S LIKE YOU THINK PEOPLE WILL IMPLEMENT THIS AND WOULDN'T IMPLEMENT A DIFFERENT PACKUATE TYPE, I GUESS, And and yeah. This this this can be a pretend response. and the thing is Right? it it can be anything because protocol error is a response packet You can't sign it. because you don't have any shared secret. You can't sign it. So you might as well go, here's a pre canned series of bytes. that you send back going You know, this is radius. It vaguely looks like a radius packet. We have an error cost attribute with values that can look at it, you know,"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:44:00",
    "text": "I guess, you know, you're you're protocol decoders, will decode this as radius. go This package isn't signed. But, hey. Look. a reply message with text that you can read. an error cause. And then I go, well, I know what to do to fix it. It's it's the least disgusting of the disgusting turbines. And I would rather have something weird and bizarre than connection that closed. too bad, get lost. Well, I mean, nothing at all is is very problematic. I mean, I've been worried actually about the whole radius TLS thing because of the number of things that go wrong that I have to get on you know, in TCP dump to figure out. So We I think one of the things implementations are gonna have to do is log more. when things are just you know, it's not like, I don't know what this is. Throw it out. it's, like, it's, like, I right before you throw something out, say what you threw out and why. So so on that, you know, years ago, I worked at a company where one of the engineers got tasked to remove all of the fatal errors which said What the hell? and replace them with actual description errors as to what happened and why? because what the hell is not action? One final query. I'm wondering why not use TLS error and define a new error type? It would seem to be more in the spirit to be seen. know that you can do that? maybe, Trolling through the open SSL APIs, it's not always true. Oh, yeah. I bet they don't support writing it. But Yeah. Right? So There there there is -- -- side of it. We had custom codes do it, though. Yeah. There there is a OpenSSL supports a hello callback, and you can send random alerts. in that case, So you could send some kind of different alert based on on hacky's comments, If the"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:46:02",
    "text": "client doesn't implement ALPN at all, and the server does the server can intercept the hello clientele via a callback and go hey. Rather than just closing the connection, it sends a no application protocol. alert 120, the ALPN RFC doesn't say you can do this, but it seems to be possible. Some other TLS implementations, according to Hecky, don't do that. It it's worth suggesting you have this error, please send it back. somehow magically, if not, you know, if you can't do it at the TLS layer, you're only remaining option is application data. Yeah. It seems like somebody should be mitigated because I mean, if you're running for a TLS proxy or something. you're more likely to get the TLS errors log. Yeah. That it it would be large Yeah. much preferable to do this in the TLS layer. So if the We know at least with open SSL. if the server supports AOP hand and the client doesn't it can send a protocol error. application error If the client wants to do ALPA, and the server doesn't, it's not clear exactly how you would intercept that server Hello and have the clients in the air back. Okay. Alex is in the queue. I I I was literally just what Alan said because that was the on the list I didn't even think about was which it's easy to deal with when the client doesn't sort of support the AL. again, the problem is when the server doesn't support it and the client just go, server thing says everything's pretty cheap. whilst the client's going, yeah. I'm not going to be doing this. I and it's only and that point is close the connection, but maybe you can send up a request that's kind of a reply that gets the server rather upset and grumpy."
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:48:01",
    "text": "So explode loudly with an error message, hopefully. say non expected packet. I think a bunch of things do that already. Another thing I might say on TLS errors is that just numerical. The the one advantage to the protocol, Alice, thing is you could ask in that when open SSL encounters a TLS alert, just says, like, alert 46. that's helpful. I've written that Hopefully, what happened there. And then I have to go look up what what is alert 46. this could be one of three things. Oh, that's really helpful. So maybe we should just put to mask you somewhere instead and hope that the ASCII gets logged instead of random numbers, which mean absolutely nothing. That makes sense. Yep. Okay. don't remember if there's another slide. Valerie, next slide, perhaps if there is one. Yeah. So this was written, I guess, Friday. The comments there have been comments on the list since then. Margaret among other people. One point I think was it thinking about something else. -I thinking about something else ignoring my last call. -Yeah. think you're thinking about -I'm the other document. Yes. It was Becky's comments that that were there. Yeah. So I'm working on updating that and double checking the implementations. but it's sort of 99% done at this point. And I I I I think it's there's very little dissension, and there's a lot of agreement which is very possible So next slide, and I think that's it. I mean, the only comment I made on it was next time you publish it, publish it as a working group document name, because we may be ready to last call and it should have a working group document name Okay. just so there's no ambiguity about I don't know. It's easier to find working group documents than it is to find other documents vaguely associated with the working"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:50:00",
    "text": "Okay? think that's it, Valerie. I the next slide? It's the last slide. a Okay. So I think we're we're done with that one. What's the next presentation. GLS PSD. Valerie is sharing. Thanks. Yes. So she wants PSK again. Not much has happened since the last IETIA. We can do the next slide. I think we're pretty close to getting it published. There have been a couple minor, comments, I need to issue a revision as a working group document, which I'll do after the meeting. But I think there's largely violent agreement on what to do Fabian had some comments on the mailing list, which I'll address. largely wordsmith, and they're not substantive change So unless they're violent disagreement, I think they did point out something in important that you should look through, which is that You sometimes use wording that's ambiguous about whether you're talking about the original shared secrets or the pre shared keys. And I think you just I you just need to walk through it and sure you're clear each time which one you're talking about. Yes. I'll I'll take a pass. through that, do that, and then issue a new working group document based on that. And I think then we're pretty close to last call. So I don't think there have been substantial disagreements Hearing done. Okay. What's next, Valerie? I think it's move on. reverse COA. Yes. Yes."
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:52:01",
    "text": "So not much to be said here. The document has a fired, expired, There haven't been much in the way of discussion on it. If you go to the next slide, Valerie, for people who don't remember, The issue is when someone comes online, The radio's client may be behind in that. Now how do you get COA package to them. You're screwed. You can't. It's impossible. However, if you have a TLS connection, It's TLS, all the application data is good, bits or bits doesn't matter. just send the COA packets down TLS connection. there's a couple of minor implementation issues There's some good discussion. or 8 months or so ago before London, I think. And there's not much been done since then. So no comments, no feedback, It's shipping Aruba supports. It's Cisco supports it. for radio supports it as a special bill So it's not on by default, I believe. there really doesn't seem to be much in the way of implementation issues it's really send packets down the TLS connection and get the reply. the document has a little bit of discussion about what to do for proxying versus the visited server that gets it. So when you proxy it, you proxies pack based on operator name, and not on username, and the packets end up at the visited network unvisited network magically knows how to send them to their right mass. How does it know that? It's magic. It's all local network stuff. And there's a couple of suggestions."
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:54:00",
    "text": "including, I believe, its original NAS or operator Nas identifier, but it's all pretty simple and pretty straightforward. I mean, only substantive comment I got on this, was from the open roaming people who said, hey, they have prefix 4 for operator name of the use for proxy. and they would like to use that. to to So I just need to update the document going yes. Yes. because it it refers to realms in operator name, but it needs to say, Anything else you wanna do in there is valid. too. So the question is, you know, it's shipping. It's working. There's not a lot of comments. we wanna make this a working group document and push it out the door? I need to update issue a new revision. I anyone have any comments on the document in general? Does Does anyone have any objection or concerns to us making working last call on this document. after its revivified and doing another mailing list. Okay. Seeing no objection. That'll that'll be the plan. So so Next topic. Think. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. This is all just Sorry. This is what I said. I think we should go to the next document with the next topic? I think the next topic is deprecating. Right? Yes. again, Here again. So, yes, this document again is mostly done. We go to the next slide. This is the one where Margaret had some comments which are on on point, I think, The current draft of the document discusses why UDP and TCP are insecure transports,"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:56:00",
    "text": "and why you should use TLS or DTLS. it needs a section added, which is how to make a UDP and TCP more secure So if you're going to be using them, for example, don't send user password in packets across random proxy environments because everyone can see the ClearTech password. use chat path. eat whatever. There's a bunch of additional issues which are how would you get the existing insecure transports as secure lot. So and that's really 8 or 10 more paragraph. but I I don't think that's that's very contentious. just summarize what's been said on the list. and add a bit of explanatory text. And, again, I think this document is largely done. However, it really needs to be published after 6614 Biz, because, arguably, you can't deprecate one protocol until you have another one to replace current standard of 6614 is experimental and not standard. So, currently, we have We don't have this as a working group document yet. So I think one question would be whether people think it's time to do a working group last call on the document I think the feedback has been my stuff, which is I know a little tangential to the document, and And in addition to what Allan said has to do a little bit with We're nailing down the security for hump to hop. And we're not pointing out that that still leaves a security problem, potentially, at the hops. And Alan and I have talked about it a bunch. I'm pretty sure can come up with text that he feels belongs in the document, and I feel satisfied with my concerns. So I'm not I'm not worried that's gonna block anything. does anybody"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:58:05",
    "text": "Think there's I haven't wanna comment at all on whether they think this is ready become a working group work item. How many people in this room have read this document? k? Kinda weak. But so I think we'll do the same thing with this one. which is put it out on the list for working group work item after the meeting. hopefully, we can get both of these onto the I mean, they're the only candidates for items explicitly listed in our charter. So I you know, it's not So unlikely we're suddenly gonna decide we hate them, but let's let's put it out on the list. Okay. Bye. think that's it And I think, Sri, you're you're up next. It's yeah, this is the this is a presentation on It's a new topic. previous attributes for 5gautengation next like this. Next one. I'm not doing them. Valerie is doing them. Just speaking to Mike, and he'll hear you. Yeah. Thanks, Nava. so some context. If you look at private Faji is getting deploying enterprise environments. So enterprise environments if you already know. It's a mature mutual architectures. It's a multi access support This Ethernet, this Wi Fi, There's a lot of existing gear. including you know, authentication functions, policy functions. right, and management infrastructure. Now the question is, when we're bringing private 5 g into these environments, do we I think the multiple ways of looking at it. Right? shifts in the night."
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:00:00",
    "text": "it comes packet code comes with its own authentication function. It's all mobility management function and everything. Whereas, whereas the existing elements for managing Ethernet and Wi Fi we'll continue to stay the same way. that's perfectly a valid way of deploying Phizy. But from the enterprise IT point of view, they want some correlation. to fund managing. 45 access and 5g access. I want to be able to understand, like, in essentially correlate. If a device if a device let's say, come with my handset. It has both Wi Wi Fi and 5 g. It may be connected to a Wi Fi access point or a prior 5 g. a general p. The enterprise IT point of view, they should be able to correlate that yeah. This is the same guy. the policy that I've defined for this user the recipe of which access it comes in, I should be able to enforce it. there's no the higher goal here. Right? in that sense, I think the larger objective is that if there's some existing elements, don't we make use of them? Right? One being the radio cell. That is the that's the context here. Next slide, please. Yeah. If you look at the 5 g system on a picture, this is, again, it say, Carrier centric. These are systems that are designed for operators. Right. Right. Now that world is now colliding with enterprise world where if you look at bottom picture with WiFi Right? Even even with dotonexethrinet. Right? Essentially, there's a client, there's an access point or a switch. And then there's a a replace over radius of something. Now our idea is, like, you know, if you triple already supports if you tell us if you tell us all the authentication methods Why don't we add support for Just a simple algorithm. That way, we can use the same function I can define my policies. I can define what are the use in credentials there, be able to authenticate the user. That's the the context here. That's the goal. Next slide, please. Alright."
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:02:02",
    "text": "So if you look at the idea, you know, the the system, and this is enterprise network. There's an access point. There's a gnodeb. There's a triplet server. how enterprise ID will define. Like, today, how they configure search or other know, credentials in triplet. along with other policy attributes. they'll be able to define a 5g the use in parameters. That way if our device comes in on the left side or on the right side, we will authenticate the device. pretty much, you know, generate Now the the keys of whatever is needed But, again, without impacting what happens, I think this is I think it needs to be we need to recognize that understand that the interface is truly between within a between the triple a and the an AMA function, which not on the ue2 the station to the to the to the AM if that interface is largely if you define a new attributes and if we support the method on the to play site, we'll be able to authenticate the links. Next slide, this one. This is a summary of the proposal. support is for a a new method, the 5g account method. It's a it's a simple algorithm. take certain parameters and switch out few parameters that we need to be that are used for the key construction and other things. So what we define or, like, essentially saying know, define these attributes. This is Algorton. Algorton is published. Right? And we even didn't you know, in Cisco, we didn't implementational enough. maybe year or 2 years back. So that's we were able to evaluate this. next almost like this. Simple, you know, message exchange. They use the u e You can KMS. and then there's a radio. So Right? On the UI side, There's a sin the use in whatever the parameters that are the Suki is the"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:04:00",
    "text": "considered identifier. dot Suki or Suki is what this is equivalent to But the m c equivalent identifier is superin5g But when it's encrypted, it's become. So these are the, you know, the larger flow or simple, I think, the the focus here is largely on the on the right hand side on the grid. a radio server, essentially, you know, when an access request comes from a from a node AMF. Right? I think for this, we need to define a new NAScode type Today, the number of Naspur types supported for Wi Fi and other things. We can find a new massport type for 5g. And in the access request, there are certain attributes How we use those attributes for generating the responses and what we send and how the m f will care send it back. again, the interface between the UI and AMF is untouched. Here, focus is between largely within what happens within the AMF in the radius. is about a a a higher level call flow. and I think Next slide, please. these are the list of attributes but we want to be able to be fine. motora5g@rand So then, you know, so the explanation is provided in the out of in the draft and also here. That's the next slide, please. next steps. I think we still have, you know, a few things to improving the spec we haven't there's some resync related things of the UI goes out of sync. There's a way to we need to take care of few things. It's not done yet, but that's one thing. We mainly want some feedback from the working group. I think we see value. you know, a Cisco"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:06:04",
    "text": "This is we do have a radio server. we do see value. We could if we can support multiple access techno if you can today, if you can support Wi Fi and other access technologies. Why not add a simple go through and support another. access type. Access type. That's the VC value in here. Appreciate any feedback from the working group. do you think? So one question I have in complete ignorance of the answer. is how does this relate to the existing Eepaka stuff. And, I mean, it doesn't seem to mention it or reference it, so I don't I don't know what why why you need something different at the radius level instead of using that stuff? Yeah. Like in 4gand5g, there are multiple methods that are supported e based and non e based. private. a good question, by then. should have some text. So 5. e based is what that's one of the method. And in 4 g, if you look at There's something called EPS And, yeah, that's the so there's a different way. That's a non based on non So -- But in 5 g, there's not. Fire is also the Zebra support. that's also there. But not that's not the default. Most is 5g account, the most obvious method that's default method that supported. Yep. not not Allied. guess Yeah. This is Alan. The document looks pretty clear. Couple of minor comments. I'd remove the ASCII art just refer to the data types in 8044 things will work automatically. The other thing is"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:08:03",
    "text": "you probably wanna require that message authenticator is in every packet otherwise, they can be trivially spoofed. And I guess the other security question is, These attributes are all sent in the clear is there any issue Yes. someone who can watch the UDP packets sees that. Or do we wanna go Right? hey. It doesn't matter so much if the proxies see it. but over UDP, we probably want to encrypt the the random numbers or something. just so people can't see. Absolutely. I I I I don't know. I I have to we need to secure We need to secure the method. So we didn't add have the time to add the security considerations. We need to work on that. But that's absolutely like, Thank you. Hey, Aaron. from Pre radius. Just to be clear, this is an enterprise running a private 5g network -- Yes. -- for their side. Okay. because, yeah, the the k i and the o. Oxy not usually Okay. Makes sense. Like -- Thank thank you so much. 1 Dan Harkins. So getting back to Margaret's question about doing deep. So you're saying that there's be now two ways to do authentication for base, and then and then this would always attribute. I think that's kind of a bad idea having 2 ways do the same thing as usually not No. Sorry. It's not a good idea. Right. Right. then thanks for that. Right? question. So e based authenticate 3 3G will be supports multiple authentication Thanks. 5 e based or non e based. I think what we are focusing on is, like, you know, the gap is with the on the base method. So this approach is for nonlinear storage."
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:10:01",
    "text": "I also have a a different comment on the on the document. it relates a little bit to the security stuff and everything, which is that We can comment on very little of this document with the expertise of this working group because you know, anybody can define a radio a statute. I could define one today. call it the red hair radius attribute, and it should be marked as yes. if the person who sent the thing has red hair. Okay? That's not really useful. Right? and understanding how these are gonna be used in some authentication methods that is defined in 5 g is kind of outside the scope of this working group in I mean, not maybe not the minds of every person in this working group. But But one of the things that I I would wonder is Has the 5 g the three g p p people asked for this document, there's a complex liaison agreement between the and them where They asked for documents related to their work, and They've already proofed all this, like, I can't tell you whether the statements you made. If they probably are accurate, I know who you are, and I But I couldn't tell you that the statements you made about 5 g are accurate because I don't have that expertise. And I wonder how how where this is document in that greater collaboration, system. That that that's a good question, Margaret. I think let me start with the the second part of your question. Right? So it's it's it's it's a process. Like, you know, as part of this, we definitely need to get reviews from CGP community as well. But I think the key thing is why slightly it's entering the IT of a realm is for the following reasons. Right? And, you know, radio server today supports, you know, different you know, like I said, different access technologies. Now if private 5g is is coming into their world. it you know, they'll have to implement this So, Harin, IETF document will help"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:12:01",
    "text": "think that's one one point. Right? But from the reviews point of view, like, you know, I think today, we sub we ship previous cells. Right? in that we support all of these access technologies. why not from a product point of view, we want to be able to implement one more We Right? That that's the so in that sense, IT of document builder. Now from the expertise point of view, 55 it does nothing that 5g constructs we are touching. Like I said, you need to MF untouched. Right? There's an authentication. There's an algorithm. it takes certain inputs it generates certain inputs Sure. Like, any any anybody with some reasonable security expertise. We'll be able to say that, yeah, these vectors, when they are sent to other site, construction. They are doing predict I think the at the end of the Alan's question is a key point here. You know, all of this at the end of the day, which of these are you know, how we are constructing is this very defined algorithm that can even put a source liter liter few 100 lines of 100 lines of water. That's a easy one. 2nd part is in all of this, this is a secure thing. Make sure not somebody on transit, intercepting the virus should not be able to be Reta. That's all for this. That's the expert. Level of expert is being here. But for com you know, for doing it the right way, we deal with reviews from the different term. Yeah. Well, I I think there's 2 Two different possibilities going on here, and I'm having trouble understanding which one this is. If this is something Cisco wants to put in their products, Obviously, Cisco knows how to do private attributes and does so all the time. Okay? If this is something the 3 gene wants, to add to their specifications then I think we need to make sure. I don't even know. Last time I knew it was Thomas Naartin, but I don't think he's been doing it for a while. Do we even know who the current 3gpp liaisons, Is it you? Who? Charles Eckel. Charles Eckel. Okay. I think one of the things we wanted to is talk to him and understand where this document fits into 3g plans and whether this is"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:14:03",
    "text": "you know, I I don't I don't feel to support it either way, but whether this is something 3 g wants, in which case it would make sense to the 3g name and stuff in the options or whether this is something you know, Cisco's gonna offer in a product that's outside of the realm of 3 g, and we case. I'm not sure that's as clear. So I don't want us to get in a situation where it appears that We're defining something for 3g that 3g hasn't asked for. that's yeah, I think, quick response to that. Right, Margaret? I think it's not just a Cisco's problem. Sure. We we are in that space. but Sui's HPE and many other vendors who ship proxy. Yeah. I just I it's a in the interest of the community, the Right. And but I think if 3 g asks for it, we could put 3 g's name on if 3 g doesn't ask for it, I think we should be very Careful not to put 3 g's name on it. Yeah. So so I think in the annex of of the draft, we've got the comparison. So so this 3 g would say you do 12 htv2 rest calls to register on your network. And so what we're saying for private enterprises, do they wanna do the 12 calls, or is there a way to simplify and align with existing enterprises. And this is just, you know, a Cisco problem. I think it's an industry problem, and the issue is yes, we could do all do this with our own BSA's. But do we want to try and move the full the industry forward in a in an interoperable way? hence the draft. Yeah. I I don't I mean, I don't get to decide the kind of stuff. I don't even this draft isn't even in our charter. I you know, I'll talk to Paul because I assume this draft is being proposed to him at this point? Is that to make like, I just think we need to make sure that Charles Echols and whatever idea is looking at this draft or talking to each other. And that's"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:16:00",
    "text": "I'm I can Send that. information up my side, maybe you guys can send that information up to the 5 g side. because I don't think we should publish anything. that says this is how you use 5gblahblah. that the 3GPP partnership hasn't asked for or at least said that's something they support. k. Sam. Okay. Thanks, Thanks, Adam. I think that's it. for our agenda. Does anyone have any other issues or other business they wanna discuss today? Anything you wanna revisit from the earlier part of the meeting that we didn't spend enough time on? Okay. Well, I guess we are done for today. and we take the actions on the list that we're were discussed and get out some notes and some confirmations. We on behalf of the chairs, I'll apologize for us not getting confirmation out in the last meeting in a timely manner. We'll try to do better this time. Thank you. I was like that."
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:18:26",
    "text": "Right? Now now So it makes sense. It's"
  }
]
