[
  {
    "startTime": "00:00:41",
    "text": "hello can anybody hear me i can hear you very quietly but now i can actually hear you well that's possible to be louder so how about this yes that is much better much better okay we have david as well hi wise hi david hi david do you have connectivity no not yet i see martin also so as soon as david's online should be good to go this is david i think i made it can you hear me yeah i can hear my echo so i must have made it one of the usual announcements is we"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:02:00",
    "text": "will need a note taker so if you are a person who might be willing to be the note taker please let us know or we will gladly accept your notes it's not an onerous job but it is an important job for us to be able to have a record of the meeting especially in case of other things don't turn out the way we might imagine and this becomes the only record we might have normally we have the audio as well so normally we can fix any notes from the audio recording um please volunteer if you'd like to be the note taker for this session hmm okay it looks as though we have magnus volunteering okay"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:04:06",
    "text": "okay i think we can uh assume magnus will use the tool and move on would you like to cover the note well gory or should i go ahead well this is the ietf note well so please note it well the no well hasn't changed but it still contains important information if you wish to speak up about the subject which includes ipr then you need to through the dnt ipr disclosure but we can also watch [Music] no it's not it's not volume it's um it's really breaking up sounds like some badly uh over amplification distortion or something which yeah which is like really really effective yeah mike's by some chance gory yeah west title [Music] david's rejoining and gory's gonna fix his audio but i'll go ahead in the meantime the um uh there's a brief reminder if you're gonna submit any drafts and you want the working group to notice them add the tsvwg to the id title and for meet echo today use the hand icon to"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:06:01",
    "text": "join the mic queue so we can see that you want to say something if you can avoid it please don't use the mic icon until we let you in [Music] there are a lot of documents in the working group that we're trying to get input on and have reviewed one good way to make sure that your documents get reviewed is to review other people's documents so we always encourage people to do that some particular ones of interest right now are the ones on udp options and dscp related ones which we'll talk about in a second since the last meeting uh some things have happened uh we haven't published any rfcs but we did get one id uh to the area director after the itf last call that's the 4960 biz document and we're working on revising the sctp nat document in response to area director comments uh there's a number of ids that are very close to going to the area director uh the two on ecken encapsulation and eckin for tunnels these are very close and have been for a long time but really need attention from uh uh bob and david i would say to uh work through what needs to happen yeah l for uh lfrs has been kind of pre-kind kind of preempting us um i think we need a a paragraph or two of carefully crafted text for the first of them as noted on the slide the second draft is also is is is ready to go but uh the first one is still caught still causing headaches and"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:08:01",
    "text": "bob and i just been putting too many cycles into l4s and my day job continues to get in the way of my ietf activity okay so hopefully those will be wrapped up soon then we had a working group last call on three of the l4s related documents and there is some time on the agenda to discuss that and the updates to those documents later on so aside from those there are a number of other working group drafts that are in progress there's the operational guidance on l4s the nqb diffserv php draft udp options datagram plp mtud for udp options which we have added to the charter and plan to finish up in parallel to the udp options there is dta tls with sctp updates and there's been um some discussion of the ipr disclosure related to that there's a new draft on the diffserv default dscp selection which martin has recently sent his comments on and we adopted the multi-path dccp work all right so here's some uh changes to milestones so the um nqb php we plan to submit around the april time frame and both the transport options for udp and the uh well the acronym is messed up on this chart but the uh datagram plpmtud for udp options those are both planned to go around the same time in may"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:10:01",
    "text": "we need to add milestones for some of the new work that's been brought in which is multipath dccp dtls sctp and the draft on considerations for signing new dscps working group chairs will work with the authors offline and try to set up milestones that we might actually make our our track record on initial milestone guesstimates is poor but uh we'll make some guesstimates and uh the first two items on this chart are the ecn drafts that we've been holding for a while that david will be working with bob to try to get updated and then there's still going to be a good amount of activity to be done here on the l4s drafts as we try to wrap up on those figuring out how to how to proceed with some of the um changes that the working group last call is calling for and we have no liaison updates but there are some liaison requests listed here david or corey do you want to talk about any of those the wba is all acquired in the wba front we sent the liaison response back over to them and have not heard anything since okay on on the tram working group we will likely take over maintenance to that working group when the working group closes um as is normal for transport area groups this brings back the behave and nut type activity to this working group here"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:12:04",
    "text": "oh and there's two other drafts which i'll just draw your attention to one of these drafts have some slides at the end of the slide deck if you'd like to look it's tcpls and there is discussion of iccrg ccid5 use the mailing list if you think it's appropriate use iccrg list and we will discuss the suitable venue for this draft after this ietf meeting okay so for today the agenda is summarized here uh we're going to have martin talk about code of conduct a bit then we have updates on what's going on with the l4s working group last call the updates to the drafts and the operational guidance and if time should permit greg has some material on the nqb drafts then there's also a session on friday which covers uh everything else so because we're sort of short on time i want to try to get right to martin's code of conduct charts thank you do you have the slide yep good day everyone um i just have the one slide this isn't um all that long but uh these are just a few highlights from the code of conduct um the ieb and iesg are have committed to make another effort to um encourage the tone of conversations in the ietf for reasons that i think are probably obvious um there are some uh remedies in the code of conduct for people who aren't observing these these tenets but for the time being we're going to focus on as maybe you've might"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:14:02",
    "text": "have observed on the list going to focus on just sort of identifying behavior that we don't believe corresponds to the code of conduct um and uh calling it out and hopefully establishing norms that get us in a better place uh i'm just going to ask you to do a couple things uh number one um i want to highlight the second bowl about limiting use of slang i mean i think many of us are kind of good friends and have have online you know have offline relationships and we kind of joke around with each other and a little hard in a way that's sort of jocular there's a lot of dry humor um that i certainly appreciate um and there's of course there's slang and it just i i i when we're talking we're up with the mic i really want people to think about a newcomer who maybe doesn't have english as a first language and what kind of message that says on how we receive ideas when you know uh like like when your friend gets a b and like kind of say hey you know this idea is garbage um uh you may have a good beer and laugh about that afterwards but that that kind of sets a bad tone for other people might have ideas that uh they might think would be received harshly and then finally um the other thing i would ask is i think many of you there are two ways to react to this effort and this stuff about the code of conduct one is to think about all the ways in which you've been wronged uh and many of you have been um but it'd be much more constructive think about how you know how maybe you have not lived your best self uh in with respect to this so i ask you all to use that constructive attitude towards it and not um worry about the former uh we can't really do anything what's happened in the past we're gonna try to fix what happens in the future so that's really all i had does anyone have any comments or questions bob go ahead bob i just just wanted to give a data point i'm probably getting about as much email about l4s off list as on list and a number of people say they don't want to talk on the list"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:16:06",
    "text": "yeah i mean you know obviously you know yeah i mean like tswg obviously is is um a group where this has been a problem historically specifically the air force debate and um oh yeah i it i mean certainly again i i don't want this to be out pointy fingers but like there's certainly um uh we do not this is not an environment that is conducive to newcomers and and uh differing opinions coming out into the open so uh it's one reason i wanted to personally get up in front of this group and talk about this any other comments i don't see anyone else in the queue if there's nothing else i'm gonna uh sign off and let the meeting continue thank you hey i think i'm talking about the working group last call status and on l4s so we had a working group last call from late july through late august on the three main drafts architecture dual queue coupled and the l4s id and notably we did not include the l4s ops draft as part of the working group last call that was all sort of according to plans that had been discussed earlier uh this was a great working group last call in terms of the number of responses we got which um i know i've been working in the itf for a long time and don't recall ever seeing that many responses to a working group last call in uh in this working group so that was uh really good uh we got the full spectrum of possible responses that you could imagine"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:18:01",
    "text": "however i would say there was a very strong overall support for the l4s set of documents that were reviewed in addition there were uh several very well explained concerns about uh the documents moving forward at the moment and uh so we're trying to work through those and uh as the next steps from the working group last call the editors have been making updates and uh responding to comments on the list some of them are similar to one another and we're closely related so sometimes the threads i think are a little bit [Music] hard to follow as as they are in any ietf working group but in this case sometimes they're a little more complicated than uh others it seems like um amongst the chairs we've gone through all of the messages that were received and done some tabulations and summaries and had some discussion and uh there are a number of concerns that were raised that were tracking uh the three bullets i've listed here are the topmost ones that i think we agree are definitely needing work and most important to get agreements on before moving forward so first of all there were a couple of people who made comments about uh going forward with l4s versus um and doing at the experimental uh level like we've been planning uh well 3168 sits out there um as standards track and whether we should actually just be going"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:20:00",
    "text": "straight to standards track and uh trying to obsolete 3168 the chairs didn't see that this is something the working group really has consensus on uh at least it didn't seem like it yet however we thought there might be appetite to plan to do that in the future if the l4s experiment is looking successful so we thought that uh before going forward with this we should at least try to sketch what the working group thinks the long-term plans are that this is a part of and that'll help the iesg understand um why we're we're doing this as experimental now rather than standards track now and and whether we plan to reevaluate that at some point then there are some comments that we received regarding rfc 4774 and basically the situation with regards to some of the recommendations in that document versus what we're doing with l4s at the moment it was unclear and uh bob uh has been uh working hard to clarify that and recently posted some updates that need to be discussed figure out if people um can understand and agree with what uh what the plan is there jonathan i see your hand is up once you go ahead so i saw those uh updates pop up about an hour ago and a brief review uh suggests that um alphabet is described as be as conforming to roc 4774 option three i believe that is inaccurate"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:22:00",
    "text": "um and of course we'll need to discuss that further yeah jonathan this is david i've been looking at at the notes um this is first text uh attempting to deal with them it is going to be wide of the mark as is typically the case i believe what's intended here is it's close to option three but diverges in some in some aspects uh if you look for the word compromise you'll find the initial attempt to write those aspects up which is not as clear not as clear as it could be and there will need to be significant discussion to make sure we've got this right and a particular we're just uh we correctly describe the places in which it does not align with options does not align with option three no i i think the divergence is more serious than mere um uh compromise i think it is not options at all yeah i'm not gonna i don't want to go uh split split hairs on words um there is divergence uh we get to sort it out on the list yeah i think we have uh time actually later in the agenda to talk about those changes more specifically um but i mean it is jonathan it is as a foundation i think it is clear all concerned that um l4s does not fully comply with option with uh option three uh which is a peaceful coexistence and uh i forget i think it's peace code just something or something like that with uh existing traffic and the extent to which it does not and whether that's a problem are things things that that the working group gets gets gets gets to sort out in discussion so your concern that that compliance is claimed is uh it is noted based on having read the text that's not where the final text is going to line up"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:24:02",
    "text": "right so thank you and uh and yeah finally the third item i think that uh was a big one for us was uh there's a disagreement um in the comments we received about uh the sort of results of uh risk analysis and uh uh how likely there are to be problems and if the is significant enough to motivate not going forward or not so we have more of a challenge with that one i think because uh we're dealing with the people's impressions and perceptions of uh of how things are going to function and what the state of deployed base of the internet is and what will happen during the experiment however we think that the outside of what you might call the rough it looks like the working group responses are accepting these risks and are informed of the the data that has been brought forward about the potential problems so we do want to make sure that that's the case and confirm that the working group is accepting the risks of l4s experimentation as it's been described so there will have to be a little bit more discussion around that and confirmation through the mailing list and there are a number of additional concerns that need more work these were the big ones that we had agreed amongst the chairs that could drive interims if needed but were most important to resolve a number of them are"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:26:00",
    "text": "we're considering lesser criticality for instance there are a number about specifics of the dual queue construction but since that is a um sort of optional component of the l4s architecture there are alternatives to it uh it's not something we think is blocking everything the way that these other big issues are and that's all i have on the working group last call status is going to present the updates to the drafts okay a little bit more on that that last topic on dual queue um dual queue is is fundamentally do dual uh dual pi 2. um there are certain decisions that have been made about the specific algorithms that are used that have specific consequences there are other uh aqms that could be designed for example a dual q algorithm based uh based on caudal uh which would make different decisions with different consequences uh the the general view the chairs have of this is experimenting with uh aqm algorithms is fine and as wes said gokus is definitely not the only aqm you can use for lforest or other opportunities um and uh our view is that of it doesn't have to be perfect as an atrium to experiment with uh for uh for these reasons and for time i'm going to switch to bob slides now go ahead bob all right there can everyone hear me can one person hear me great yep good"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:28:00",
    "text": "okay um so um the giraffes have um that the draft numbers are there um there's a number of other people have helped with this but they're the three main authors if i um move to the next or if you could move to the next slide please just to recap for anyone that doesn't know what l4s is um essentially it enables more high fidelity marking uh more high fidelity um congestion control so that you don't have this compromise between either low queueing delay low amplitude variation of queuing delay or low utilization so you can have tighter variation of the congestion control and that gives you a more scalable and lower delay and particularly lower delay at um at the tail of the latency um which um is necessary for or is desirable shall we say for um more interactive communication um particularly with high bandwidth at the same time so you can have both high bandwidth and low delay and fully utilizing the capacity next so um just before we get on to the drafts just a few other things that have been going on um pete heist's continuing testing and evaluation and jonathan's um on on in a sort of red team um characterization of that um it's worth going have a look at that link there look into all those tests and i i guess the main things that have been coming out recently are a work on um bursts from bursty lynx upstream of"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:30:02",
    "text": "l4s and unbestie flows and um i i'll i'll talk later about um particularly the latter of those but also well both of them actually um but uh so these are really heads up in fact the whole presentation is heads up because there's not really enough time to go into everything that's happening in detail so the next one um is that um tokay and eric dimaze have released a patch and it's been applied to the release of limits that's currently being merged in for the for net next which essentially takes an existing part of fq coddle that was designed for data centers with a low shallow immediate threshold and makes it so that it will it can only be set up so that it could only triggers for east t1 packets and these d0 packets go past it um to the deeper deeper coddle machinery behind it toki has done that with a nice using using the classification architecture so with the traffic control command you can you can set it up so you can also use diff service you want um as part of the classifier but um i've given the command there to give the ust1 field as the classifier for that threshold and then you've got alpha support in fq coddle so people can test it use it try it out all the rest of it so please go and have a look at that um and actually it also points there to section 527 of the rfc on fq coddle which included that facility right when it was specified at the start"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:32:00",
    "text": "except for the um ability to to separate the ecn field into the two code points which now tokay has enabled um and eric previously the other thing i want to give a heads up on is please go and have a look at stuart's emails um i won't presume to summarize them but um it's important people read them um essentially about um where where apple stands or where stuart stands on apple's experiments with ecn um so that's well worth um [Music] having a look at i wonder whether um shall we get to the end of the slides and see what the time's like yep yeah thanks next slide then um so the i've got three slides one on each draft and this is a summary so as well said um there was a lot of response and you know other than the sort of plus ones and yes i agree or don't agree or whatever there was um some substantial reviews and shown here um for each draft from each person um and i've added on the end um you know conversation that's been going on with the chairs particularly about the text on 4774 and also the authors themselves have generated quite a bit of um churn in the in the by noticing things in the drafts um while we've been editing it all so um i would also say that the probably the the left hand most um reviews particularly the the left"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:34:00",
    "text": "foremost um have done a really good pass through um a couple of them all three documents and two of them two of the documents and picked up a lot of things so thank you very much and thank you very much everyone who has contributed um one thing to explain there's the exclamation mark under neil um neil cardwell uh that is something neil didn't actually review that document but it was a passing comment on on the tcpm mailing list where i said something about um linux's um cubic response and um neil said hey no that's not right um and i'd got it from someone else and that's what we've been working on the basis of and i'd never actually checked the code and um it wasn't right and that meant some of the references we use where we did all the original maths and things in um that the dual queue relies on were um had errors in them it turns out the errors didn't actually change anything anything in the code because most of the code relied on the worst case to reno not cubic but it just meant that we couldn't refer to all these papers we'd written all the cubic stuff in so essentially had to rewrite all that um so that we could refer to it and and that's made appendix c in the dual q draft a lot longer uh because that has sort of re-create all that maths and and in ascii and um and that that caused a lot of work which is one of the reasons why um all the responses to everyone else's [Music] comments took so long to get started because i wanted to make sure that we had the foundations there again and it turned out the foundations hadn't actually changed um so apologies to everyone for"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:36:00",
    "text": "not getting to respond i mean some people are responded fairly soon but um a lot of those responses have come in in the last week or so and right over the last weekend and so um but but i guess once you're in working group last call you sort of get out of the itf meeting cycles a bit and for instance you're allowed to post um drafts even when the servers are closed and things like that so um um please bear with bear with us and i'm sure the chairs will give some time for people to now look at the new um text that has now appeared and i can i can confirm that i believe all those reviews um have been or i've attempted to address all the points in all those reviews some of which were considerably um deep um involving quite large amounts of change so thank you everyone and if you think yours hasn't been um dealt with your review of the the documents then um that means i've missed it um so um i i've also because of the rush in the last few days i i normally give a summary of the diffs of each draft i will do that on the mailing list rather than having to rely on going and looking at the full text diffs with which don't tell you which of the important diffs compared to the um unimportant editorial stuff or less important um and apologies again for just in time posting now the next if you can move the next three slides on the next slide i'll go through each slide giving normative technical editorial changes um and on the alphas architecture there are no normative changes because it's not a normative document in fact it doesn't even have a section saying anything about must and should and what and what they mean it doesn't refer to rfc 2119 about that sort of stuff"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:38:00",
    "text": "um so it's gone through four deltas since july the last ietf cycle um one of which was just a um a uh a formatting change to move to the new version of the rfc xml so i did that as a separate change so it didn't pollute the diffs and that's the case for all all three drafts um i i've said there are no technical changes in the off-road architecture i mean all the editorial stuff is pretty technical um but it's not it's not changing the description the technical stuff it's it's clarifying it so i would you know there's no technical changes um but there there was quite considerable rewriting of the descriptions of the technical stuff um so i i won't go through all those sub bullets on editorial um you can see them there read them in your own time i'll just pick out um a couple the um there's some new thoughts on traffic uh well particularly on rate policing just how that might uh um the interactions with rate policing that's not rate policing for l4s it's if alpha s traffic hits a rate please so what happens um and um otherwise let's move on next slide dropped a second and asked a question that came up in the chat was moving back to this chart um were you intending these uh check marks to represent the people whose comments you think are uh fully addressed and uh taken care of in the update or is this uh the uh exhaustive list of comments you looked at this is the exhaustive list um it doesn't include"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:40:00",
    "text": "comments that were i don't i don't want alfres at all and these are the reasons why that i couldn't really do anything about in the drafts these are these are reviews of the drafts okay well i think some of those comments uh can't be discarded in that way no no no i don't intend to discard them but um i mean say for instance jonathan's um i i i was going to go on the list now i i needed to get the draft sorted i was going to go on the list and and talk about those um points but i could you know the the attempts we're doing to to talk about the deficiencies and and things in um the drafts uh i think we'll address those things but it's it's difficult to tie them to a particular thing we're doing in the draft because that's sort of okay could you make a list somewhere for just process record of the people whose comments you've seen but fall into the category fall into roughly that roughly that category of uh of uh uh not seeing specific draft updates yeah jonathan and then other people who said i agree with jonathan so okay but we if you could send a note to the list that basically summarizes the peoples whose names aren't on this slide because of what you've just got what you've just gone through uh we would at least acknowledge that as part of the process um those comments are those comments are there and uh we will we'll get are in need of being dealt with i mean for instance pete heists no no no no no no this is a disgusting process this is a process yeah i know i know let me just say this um pete heiss gave her um pointers to all his experiments and then he reviewed the three drafts and at the moment i've only dealt but i've still got or someone some one of the proponents has got to"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:42:01",
    "text": "deal with um talking about each of the each of the points he's raised obviously a lot of them have come up in in talking about the the um the points he's made reviewing the um reviewing the drafts but um you know just to just for a process point of view yes we need to pick up each point right and from personal friends i'm asking you simply a summary that lists lists off people um whose names aren't on this slide but nonetheless have made comments that um that will need to be dealt with yeah okay thank you right so if we move forward again um right so i guess here there's a different characterization um with a lot more normative um bullets and and less other um actually the first two sub-bullets of normatives haven't yet involved any change uh but i'll go through all four and i've got a um spare slide on the on the last two sub bullets of normative if we need it um so firstly on the prague requirements particularly on the one about um uh detecting uh classic ecn aqms as amazingly didn't have any comments except for jake so in fact all through since we've written all that no one has commented on that normative text in in section 4.3 um except for jake and and jake tried to improve it i've i've responded to jake and he probably had no time to process it um because it was yesterday i think it feels like a hours ago but i think it was yesterday um and so there's likely to be some more conversation on that but you know i i think jake's suggestions ended up making it more lacks not more strict and um so i haven't changed it yet um"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:44:01",
    "text": "the characterization of it would be that the the text in the draft is conditioned on problems and jake was trying to condition it on uh the sender's uh what the center does on whether it's an fq or a dual queue but we we deliberately didn't want to do that because it the center doesn't know for sure what it is so we we tried to condition it on problems um in quotes you know what um detecting problems so anyway there's like to be more on that um the sorry someone trying to speak jake uh sure thanks um i did send a response actually after this meeting started so you probably haven't read it yet uh i guess the point i was trying to get at is uh which i said in the email maybe you could just read it i don't think we have to beat it to death here it's really just conditioning on problems without requiring attempts to detect the problems is where i'm a little bit stuck and so i think i agree that we'll we'll have to hammer that out a little more um but uh it seems likely something can be done okay cool yeah um there's there's a huge lump of new um subsection of of the um about that particular bullet about um classicity and akm detection that it none of it is normative in itself but it essentially justifies it says what the rfcs say it says what um or intends to say what l4s does and doesn't comply within those rfcs and and gives justification for what it doesn't comply with and some context so that certainly that"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:46:00",
    "text": "that's what um david and wes have been just been talking about and that certainly has only just appeared for people so that would require some bashing i'm sure um it has already had some bashing um from the chairs off list um but um we'll see and and to a certain extent that bashing had to stop for the meeting um and hadn't necessarily and i'm not saying that the chairs approved the text that's there although it did get better from what they did the next two they're fairly sort of tinkering type things and it may be best actually to deal with them with the spare slide um how are we doing for time with [Music] for this topic yeah uh i didn't just said there's five minutes to go okay right okay that's fine then um let's jump to the final slide this final spare side then for those last two bullets keep going no the the the spare slide um right at the end right so here um there are there are three areas where normative text it's difficult to say whether it's changed it's it's um the subject of the text of the of the um normative statement has changed to correct it but just th these aren't actual diffs um they're just sort of paraphrased diffs if you like this is the actual text now and the emboldening is just the main changes otherwise it gets really difficult to parse so the first one is in a section on on an ifa"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:48:01",
    "text": "node that's doing classification on the ecn field is also or wants to be transport aware or is willing has transport awareness capabilities um and just that text has been in there right from the start and um haven't really looked at it for years and it said that it treats a c packet the same as the most recent ect packet and when i looked at that i thought you know with the with the more um recent considerations of vpns i thought oh god if there's a vpn that's going to um um you know be switching about all the time so we've made it that it it should only consider a consider ce as he's t0 if all the previous packets have been um sd0 that obviously has connotations um when you've got transient flow state um as to what all means um so there may be some bashing to do on that text um the the other two they were both about um where it said the operator did something and it and it actually then implied that the operator across their whole network did it rather than alphas nodes so that first one um we made it the process of it including additional traffic rather than the operator so it didn't really change the sense of the mandatory statement but it changed the subject of it and um the last one both pete heist and um stuart picked this one up um and and i'm still not sure whether it's right or even necessary so maybe we can take that discussion to the list but it's essentially if if an l4s is about excluding certain"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:50:00",
    "text": "um um machines that are trying to you know wanting to use l4s from being able to you know as a sort of commercial or security thing uh there's some exceptions in the in the draft that allow operators to do that and it's about um whether they should then treat east to one of these t-zero or not and um i don't know whether we need to say that must not um it's um it was designed to not add further confusion um as more alfres knows to put in but um yeah there's a debate to be had on that one so if we go back to the dual queue so that um sorry to the uh alphas id slide just to finish it off one more one more back to have any time for comments we have to start okay soon as we're taking time from the abstract now yeah okay so um just move to heads up then rather than explaining things there was technical new technical texts put in about limiting packet bursts both from upstream links particularly from upstream links but also added some open questions on bursty traffic and had some conversation on the list about that and and trying to do more work on that and next slide the editorial we can jump um i've explained the stuff that got put into the dual queue um which is the fourth sub bullet there about choosing the coupling factor and rtt independence and all the maths there and again that's where the stuff on potentially bursty traffic um or the bursty trafficking the potential problem and potential solution is in appendix a um there's been some discussion on the parameters in the pi 2 parameters paper that's been updated and that's"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:52:01",
    "text": "the sorry i'm working backwards up the bullet sorry about this um and there's also been an improved explanation of the need for the conditional schedule based on gauri's review so that's that's um all the drafts that you know please go and look at all those points just finally next steps and then we're done um so as we've said like to be follow-ups in the next few days and weeks maybe um and then i don't know what's going to happen that's up to the chairs and those things expected to happen in parallel were on the slides from last time as well um they're the technical work that will continue on i'm sure thank you any discussion and comments uh do we have time from the outside go ahead uh thank you for that presentation bob uh you mentioned my name on one of the slides and said you wouldn't presume to try to sum up what i said which i understand took me while thinking about it i'll try to give a summary now um of my main points there in recent years on the internet there's been lots of work increasing bandwidth that's been enormously successful gone from dial up to megabits to gigabits but working latency latency under load has not improved and my real worry is we should not become complacent we this community should not casually assume that the internet will continue to exist we know there are various communities around the world working on creating a replacement for the internet and you can see all their web pages saying how great they are"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:54:00",
    "text": "which incidentally run over our internet but leave that aside the people working on x25 in america online probably thought that those would continue to exist too technologies do get overtaken so um we've been trying at apple to raise awareness of the importance of latency not just more bandwidth and some of you may have seen the network responsiveness tester that's now included in mac os and ios to try to bring awareness to users that it's not just about how many megabits you have that controls your experience so we're trying to do our bit there raising awareness and what i'm looking for from this working group is guys as one of apple's senior engineers what should i be advocating within apple that we should do to help the internet meet future needs better and the answer is not just more bandwidth one of my conclusions i've come to thinking about this is i am not too concerned about worrying about backwards compatibility with classic ecn rfc 3168 was written 20 years ago it practically speaking isn't deployed it failed so i i get very worried when people talking about 3168 and 4774 as if our hands now are tied by failed ideas from 15 years ago i want us to fix this problem because my fear is that if we don't somebody else is going to fix it and the internet will go the way of x25 that's it"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:56:00",
    "text": "go ahead all right so i would uh dispute stewart's characterization as of uh rcc168 style ecn as having failed um i think there is actually quite a lot of deployment of ecn compatible nodes in the internet but not so much deployment of endpoints that actually use it so [Music] i think that would be the place to to focus um i had been planning to make a more detailed response to his comments jonathan can you clarify what you mean by nodes and end points okay so news uses ecm that's a billion devices we have found basically no networking equipment run by any operator ever marks the packets that's what i meant by it's a failure we've for five years we've had ecm turned on on every iphone and linux has it turned on as well and we see no ce marking in the network ever um so i was about to get to that point um i was going to to do a more detailed uh response to your comments uh by email but i want to touch on what you said about uh heuristics about when to use ecn and when to turn it off and i think that those heuristics are giving you a misleading picture here so i'll leave it at that for now and continue on the on email okay i think we have to decide uh jake you have a comment and then i think we have to decide whether we have"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:58:00",
    "text": "time to do anything useful with l4s ops today but jake go ahead uh yeah just to respond as dirt's point i i do think there's good evidence that there are tens of millions of devices deployed uh they don't mark very frequently but the problem here is that as we get into their their deployment and their presence there causes trouble for other traffic marked or not but you know it's it's the it's the backward incompatibility uh in the signaling here i guess we've hashed this out a bunch but um yeah the uh um while we well i would not disagree with the characterization that it's failed uh you know it doesn't help that much and it's it's a pretty expensive location but um but that doesn't mean that there's no deployment and that we don't have to worry about it and this is uh yeah this is the the core of the problem to me but i guess we can discuss it more on this thanks can you do a real quick fly through the summary of l4s ops and perhaps we can assign some discussion time for the next session hi hi hi david um and everyone um yeah this this slide deck is just effectively a diff of um you know the edits that have been made in the draft since the last uh published version um so i think i can do it in a minute and then people can look offline and see if they have uh comments to take to the list so if you want to go to the next slide quest um uh yeah i won't talk about this one actually going to the next one um the outline um the only thing that's changed in the outline is the the"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:00:00",
    "text": "title of section 6.2 non-preferred options used to be less preferred options and that's details that are in the upcoming slides on the next one this is the summary i sent to the mailing list um uh verbatim um so um and i have in this deck a slide for each one of these um that goes into a little bit more detail about what the changes were so that's the next eight slides then um and i think you can just at this point flip through those um uh for just so folks know what's in the deck um and again um we can take discussion to the list i think on this one yep go ahead and put through and then the last slide um yeah next steps and this is not um ready for working group last call yet i don't think um the intention was not to try to get this ready for working group last call um for this meeting um a lot of these changes were made just ahead of the deadline for draft this meeting so please review and if you have suggestions for further enhancements or improvements to the text please send those to the list all right that's it running out of time for you to uh greg today but hopefully we can use some time at the beginning of the next meeting if there are comments on this doc that need meeting time"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:02:00",
    "text": "otherwise yeah the list is our best approach gory anything final to say yeah i would just like to say that we have quite a lot of things coming up in the next meeting which are not related to l4s so have a look at those drafts and um please use the list to pass comments all right very good and i see we're a couple of minutes over time now so i think we have to adjourn thank you you"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:04:00",
    "text": "you"
  }
]
