[
  {
    "startTime": "00:00:43",
    "text": "welcome all i think we're going to give it maybe a minute or two for any stragglers to uh to join and you can indicate whether my audio is still okay since i had to log out and log back in still good excellent i can confirm that i hear yours thank you hi let's all tell lars we can hear him yeah we can do the equivalent of a mail bomb and just everybody reply to me that they can hear me fine and then we'll fill the plenary that way how's that right while we're waiting uh to really really get started you uh can look at the slide that alexa has helpfully forwarded um for some tips on how to use meet echo which is the system by which you are joining the session um so basically you will be muted and your video will be off and you need to unmute yourself and turn your video on when you get into the cube please do turn the video on if you can do it at all i think it's nice to actually see each other in this virtual future um if you have a headset you can use one um i do have one but i prefer not to that's why i asked whether the audio is okay um"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:02:00",
    "text": "and there's some more details if you get really bored during this plenary um you can click on that link or copy that link into your browser if it's doable and look at that all right i think it's a couple minutes uh past 3 30 my time which is in finland so for me this is a great time zone um my apologies and condolences to all of you for whom it's the middle of the night i was in your shoes last time it's it's not fun so thanks for making it anyway if you did make it anyway if not you're listening to the recording i guess next slide please should probably say my name is liz eggert i'm the itf chair since uh march of this year um we have a reasonably um short agenda this time um which means we have lots of time for open mic or we can have a really short plenary as you wish um we have the usual uh round of updates from the various bodies and roles um all of them have published or in the process of publishing longer written reports that are mostly linked to from the itf report that i shared earlier so you can find them from there i think there's also links in the various slide decks that are going to be shown and then we have an open mic session as always in the order of iab itf llc board and the iesg next slide please first off i really want to thank erickson who is the meeting host for this meeting they were very excited to host us in madrid which was where we were all going to be had coveted permitted us to do so and they graciously uh kept their commitment up when we decided to move this meeting to a fully online meeting so so thank you very much for that um it's it's really you know you and the other global hosts that make it possible for us to keep the organization running while we're in this virtual forum and i really appreciate the support that erickson has given us again for this meeting next slide please and also thank you to all of you who's"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:04:01",
    "text": "involved in making this happen this sort of starts and stops with the secretariat but there's also other teams meet echo is doing a great job running the system for us the knock is as always great in getting our infrastructure running for this meeting um the llc signs the checks the tools teams write the tools and and they've been very busy um we have a little bit of an update on that later on and the hackathon i hear has been going great and the support team for that is doing a good job as always so thanks to all of the people involved in making this meeting a success success next slide please right my chair report um next slide is very short this time um basically we're going through the usual statistics on participation the plan for future meetings i'm going to say some things about our currently running experiments because as we put together the report the written report we realize there's quite a few of them and maybe not everybody is aware what's going on there's a already said there's more topics that we're covering online i have some pointers to that um we have a slide about um the tools.itf.org transition and we have a slide about the emoter activities next slide please right so as of uh second of november um which is not quite today i think um we had a 1037 registrations and 210 people used the fee waiver uh 200 people participated in the hackathon which is as usual a large number in 17 projects which again as usual is a large number um the breakdown also unsurprisingly is um pretty us heavy um given that the time zones work like i would say okayish for for the u.s this time and also for europe other regions of the world unfortunately are a little bit uh in a difficult situation but that's why we rotate um and we're gonna post detailed attendance stats as always after the meeting especially since the plenary is happening before the meeting week so we are probably going to pick up a few more late registrations as we"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:06:00",
    "text": "move towards next week next slide right um future meetings and also for this meetings if you have any um um issues um with the iatf or the meeting or anything please use support at igf.org as the one-stop email address for anything um you will get triaged to somebody who can help you um if you want to specifically talk about tools um there's a mailing list that you can join also to be kept abreast of what's happening on the tool side which is tools discussed at itf.org um we are again going to send out a meeting after the itf week ends and would ask you to fill that out especially since we're also going to ask for how this plenary experiment has been going for you the experiment being that the plenary is not part of the meeting week we moved it a week before so we can uh open up some working group slots for the meeting and then um we have the schmoon working group in the gen area which um is busy writing up guidance documents that informs the um llc and and others involved in planning the meetings on some uh guidelines that the community wants to give them uh schmooze rechartering at the moment so if you haven't paid attention you might want to drop in next week um and there's a bunch of documents that are in progress or finished about what kind of guidance we're giving and the list is the many couches list at itf.org next slide please right so i said we have a bunch of experiments running um first and foremost i mentioned the plenary experiment which is um the goal is to free up um session time for working groups during the itf week as you recall in this fully online format we run shorter days than we do in an in-person meeting we only have six hours of meeting time each day and that really limits the amount of working groups that we can schedule and since the plenary is scheduled across all parallel tracks by moving the plenary"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:08:01",
    "text": "outside the meeting weeks we can free up i think eight or nine uh session slots um which i think was very helpful um to get an agenda that has maybe fewer conflicts than normal i would optimistically say if you don't agree uh put that in the survey and also put anything else related to this plenary experiment and the survey that jay is going to send out i want to apologize to the people at nanak we dropped the ball on on making sure that we wouldn't conflict with anything um i thought we had done it but apparently we didn't and we missed that nano is happening this week um hopefully it's got not gonna be a terrible problem but for those of you at nanak i'm very sorry that you had to get up early and then still do the whole full net up day um after this is all right um we also are doing an online welcome reception i think this is the first time we're doing this in this virtual format uh which happens right after this plenary ends um so look at the agenda and there are links and i think the last slide of this presentation also has links this happens in gather.town which you may or may not have joined which is this sort of virtual forum in which you can interact with groups of other participants um i think this will be pretty exciting we're trying to sort of recreate the actual welcome reception that we have in person meetings um and one part of that uh has been the hot rfc session that aaron fox been running for a while and we're bringing hot rfc back for this meeting in a virtual form it's also in gather dot town um also after the plenary ends so um go and check out there's some some billboards and people are gonna talk about their proposals for itf related work um and i think that should be pretty interesting i'm happy to see that we managed to bring that into a virtual forum um we're for a number of meetings now um had the running experiments with scheduling uh the buff deadlines a little bit differently so that the isg and iab have the opportunity to give feedback to the people um preparing buffs in sort of the end result hoping that"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:10:00",
    "text": "the buff will be better planned and better run um if you think this is going well please let us know if you think you would rather have the one week or two weeks back uh and we should push the go back to a single deadline and move it further back let us know as well um at the moment we are running an experiment in terms of eligibility for the itf nomcom this is defined in rfc 8989 um the reason for this is that the original non-com eligibility rules um only extend eligibility to people who've participated in the last three out of five physical meetings and since we're not having physical meetings we decided to count um participation in virtual meetings such as this one towards noncom eligibility and there's also different other tracks by which one can qualify for the numcom become eligible for the num code one is being a chair and the other ones being a document author of a recent document um we've run that experiment for uh one cycle already so the current mom com ran under that uh under that extended eligibility and we published a result um based on it and the isg has decided to extend the experiment for another year which is one of the options in rfc 8989 um the reason being or one reason being that it was quite unclear why some of the tracks um weren't so successful in qualifying people when they were intended to be much more successful based on data we had when rfc 8989 was written and rather than speculate we decided to gather more data the other more pragmatic reason is that we're still in an all virtual forum and so at the very least we have to keep counting virtual attendance or attendance to virtual meetings as long uh eligibility require qualifying uh because otherwise we have trouble seeding in mom come next year and finally the isg has decided to do an experiment of doing sort of a 360 degree"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:12:01",
    "text": "reviews for ads and we just got the first set of results basically we asked each other we asked the iab we asked the secretariat we asked our chairs and uh document authors as well as um other document also that we balloted on uh to sort of give us feedback in sort of a set of short web forms um we get some interesting feedback from the community that we should revamp the questionnaire if we do this again which will take into account but i still think we got some personally i would say i got some interesting data out of this so the idea is that every ad gets their own review um and and it's not shared with the rest of the isg the entire isg gets sort of an aggregated view which averages all the individual feedback and that aggregate view um we're planning on publishing since we just got it this might take a week or two but you can then all see what the feedback was on on the isg as a whole and that's about the currently running experiments next slide please right we had zero appeals which is uh great as usual and we published one isg statement which is the aforementioned report on the rfc 8989 experiment it has a bunch of data in it so if you're wondering exactly why we are continuing it please give that a read if you haven't already and there are much more reports that i go into detail online on the data tracker materials page for this meeting and as always there's an itr blog that greg is filling with interesting content so if you wonder what's going on that's a good source to take a peek at as well next slide please okay about tools so um there was an announcement in may that the services that are currently running at the tools.itf.org url are being replaced and we're going to wind that down it's probably going to happen before itf-113 the original goal was to do it before"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:14:02",
    "text": "than was anticipated and so we we're moving that by a meeting there's a few uh um tools that are sort of um still waiting to be replaced probably um the xml to rfc page is the most visible of those there is an authors.idf.org beta that you can take a look at which is intending to replace this but we need still need to do a little bit of work on the bibxml and the conversion service before that's fully there there's a whole uh slew of other tools that were made available under tools.itf.org for almost all um that have a sort of sizeable community that uses them we have a transition plan there's a github url here that you can take a look at but i also want to be clear that we we can't maintain all tools that were under tools.itf.org going forward because we have limited resources and some of the tools specifically written um oftentimes for a very small community i think we have one or two tools that were specifically written for one participant and and i hope it's clear that we are not going to be able to maintain those going forward but we're going to try our best and if you have feedback on on the plan please go to that github page and of open issues or send email to tools discuss next slide please right um there's a directory called emorder which is the new home for the edu team activities and also other mentoring and outreach activities um which has been chaired by karen o'donnell greg wood and joey salazar and joey has just informed us earlier this week that she unfortunately needs to step down as a co-coordinator so i really want to thank joey for the contribution she's made to uh immorte over um the years um and um"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:16:00",
    "text": "i also want to mention that we're probably looking for another co-chair of this so if you're interested in helping um education efforts in the iitf or about the ietf if you're interested in the mentoring program that will be being that's being run if you're interested in helping with outreach into various other communities such as open source uh please contact immorter and get involved um there's a track wiki and there's a discussion list that is uh open uh for everybody to join and um we're really hoping to uh re-energize that team during these uh virtual corona times it's been sort of limited what we were able to uh offer as services um but we're hoping that we can go back to hybrid meetings sometime next year and that would also mean that we're gonna ramp up these activities again next slide please right and with that i'll hand it over to miria for the iav okay so hello everybody from my site um i also just give a few updates about the iab as i usually do so let's go to the next slide yeah the full ire report is already uploaded to the proceedings where you find all the admin stuff and all the information you might need and as always i can say now um for the last couple of meetings we will also have an ib open meeting next week during the regular um agenda which will be on thursday so the the iab open meeting is really focusing on technical work the iab is doing and giving the community a chance to to give us feedback and to have some discussion with the iap so happy um if you show up there and join us let's go to the next slide yeah i just want to take um this opportunity here in the admin planner to do a couple of announcements"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:18:01",
    "text": "so one is about a workshop that the iab is holding end of november and this workshop is focusing on analyzing ietf data so what we want to do here is to bring together the researchers and engineers that are working already on looking at like for example participation trends um and or author trends or author groups and these kind of things and bringing everybody in the room understanding what we know about the ietf already and what else we can learn from the data i'm sure there will be some interesting insights about what happened during the last two years what changed during the pandemic and so the workshop the call for position paper is already over so the workshop is kind of moving forward um but we're planning to of course uh record the sessions and putting them available after the workshop and also nice thing about this workshop is that we are planning for having discussion sessions on monday and thursday and then actually have some time for hacking in between so maybe we can actually come back with some nice results after the workshop and report back at the next itf meeting afterwards um so yeah looking forward to that um next slide yes also an important thing and we have the rfc editor future development program so this is a little bit of special iab program because it's it's actually driven by the community um and i have reported about this already last time so maybe you know about this already the important news this time is that they're basically done with the work so the main document which is describing the new rfc model uh is currently in program last call and if you haven't looked at the document yet it's the right time to do so so please reach out read the document provide feedback the program last call is open until november 5th but we will also try to reach out further in the community to get as many reviews as possible before we finally finally publish this document and there's also a session from the program next week on wednesday so if you want to join the discussion there or provide feedback there please join the"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:20:00",
    "text": "session okay and then another announcement uh is that adrian farrell is decided to step down as the independent submission editor his term will end in february um next year and we probably have another chance to thank him at the next meeting in march and hopefully in person but i already want to say very much thank you to adrian i think he has done a great job in this position by trying to to make sure that like all voices are heard in our community and discussion is ongoing and like also i talked to him and he said he's kind of also um working a lot with newcomers and providing invite advice to them so in that sense i think this is a really important position and he has done a very good job and is very encouraged and cares a lot about this so thanks a lot adrian but he decided to step down and make some room for somebody new um so we're looking for candidates right now as i said i think this is a very important position in our community and i think it can also be very interesting of course there is a little bit of work here to do but if you're interested please let us know i think adrian is also available to talk to if you want to learn more about this because he has all the first-hand information i can probably only point you to the rc where this role is defined if you reach out to me but i believe adrian is also available for questions so please consider this position okay and then we go to my last slide um this is also uh the point where i want to thank you some of our community members who have taken up some roles um we just seated somebody new on the icann committee we had two very qualified candidates and vittorio batala is taking the position thanks a lot for that this position is actually quite some effort so it's not easy to find people thanks a lot a lot for that"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:22:01",
    "text": "there is a little bit of news about the saw management so john clenson has served for many many years in the position of the zone manager for iso tc46 um he's already retired for a while so he asked us a while ago actually to step down in this position and we finally managed to find somebody so a big thanks for for john serving in this position so many years for all the experience he brought in from like both organizations and all his knowledge she helped us with and then also big thanks and welcome to peter cough serving uh in this position from now on and then the final thing i want to mention here is that we are again as every year are looking for a new person for the um icefock board of trustees um so far richard once was serving in this position and he reached um his term limit after six years so thanks a lot richard for serving in this position so we are looking for a new candidate um again this is the position that has a real time commitment and but it's also very interesting position i think you uh learn a lot about what what's happening in isoc and you can actually also impact there and we as the iab serve as the interface to isoc so we actually do get a lot of input about what ice work is doing i personally find it very interesting i don't have all this knowledge about the politics behind but it's always good to understand what what's happening in policy and and what other views are so this is really definitely something where eyestock is important um we are we are really looking for you to put your name in last time we had a very good set of candidates i think we had like eight or ten candidates um but diversity of that set of people was really really low so it was really um just people from the u.s it was only male people and it was only white people um so um icelock is discussing diversity a lot and they tried to fill their board with a diverse set of people because isaac has like all the chapters very"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:24:01",
    "text": "international as well um but i think we should also support them in trying to to provide them a more diverse candidate than we had in the past maybe um so i'm i'm really looking for people to nominate their self or maybe think about people who would serve very well in this position and ping them try to convince people to put their name in i would definitely like to see more women applying and i think we should also figure out how to get more people from other regions interested in participating in this work so um the call just opened yesterday it will be open until january and please put your name in and please think about other people who could be qualified okay that's it from my side and i hand over to colin i think uh yes i think so is this working yes okay uh next slide please so yeah i'm colin perkins um this is the irtf report and uh if we can have the next slide please so one one of the uh things we we organize in the irtf in conjunction with the internet society is the applied networking research prize now the the goal of the uh the anrp is to award some of the the best results in applied networking research uh to try and highlight some uh interesting new research ideas that are potentially of relevance to the internet standards community to the ietf and to the irtf and to try and highlight the work of upcoming people that are likely to have an impact on internet standards and technologies in the future next slide please so we uh what uh multiple awards per year uh we typically do six awards per year and we're making three of these awards at the upcoming ietf meeting next week"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:26:02",
    "text": "and these will go to thomas vertigon for his work on extend extensibility of bgp implementations and routing protocols and this is the the xbgp paper uh they'll go to x exercise for her work studying the effects of third party service dependencies in the internet and they'll go to kevin bogg for his work looking at internet censorship and these talks will be given during the irtf open meeting uh which is happening on tuesday in the uh 1600 utc slot and there are the the talks will also be on on the uh the itf youtube channel and on the uh the uh web page listed there uh and there's also details of the um of the talks and links to the papers on that web page i think we've got three really excellent talks here so please do consider coming along to those talks looking at that work uh next slide please uh and uh that will be the last of the the awards for 2021 uh but we we have nominations open for the applied networking research prize 2022. so if you know of any uh good um applied networking work um if you know of any people whose work that should be highlighted to the community then please do consider making a nomination and that the website irtf.org slash a rp is the site where you can make the nominations and it's got all of the details of how the prize works uh so pl please do consider nominating and please do consider uh self nominations uh uh if if you think your work is appropriate for the price uh and the deadline for nominations is in a couple of weeks on the 19th of november next slide please and that's essentially all i have to say this time look out for the irtf talks coming up"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:28:01",
    "text": "next week uh the the research groups highlighted in blue in slide uh are gonna be meeting next week uh and if you're not familiar with the work of the irtf and how we differ differ from the ietf please look at rfc 7418 thanks next slide please okay and with that i'll hand over to the rfc editor thank you since we're in madrid uh buenos dias um next slide please myriad uh told you about the rfc editor evolution program which is uh wrapping up i'm holding the fort until it on until we until we appoint whatever whatever bodies and people will replace the former rfc editor so i'm i'm sort of i'm keeping keeping the documents flowing next document please next yes next page please we have been publishing rfcs in xml for a year and a half we publish 461 of them the process is working pretty well i mean there's some nits the pdfs page breaks still aren't beautiful but the html and text versions are working pretty well um and again since the since the process is the xml is canonical and the rendered versions are not as we improved the rendering we can fix it um it took a while for the production people to learn the ins and outs of xml but they have done so um we are back to the service level agreement that we had before and they're meeting the service level agreement um so so although they're putting more work into it they stepped up so that rfcs are now being published as fast as they were before we switch to xml next please um what i'm still trying to work on are the tools i mean the uh a lot of drafts are still being being submitted in version 2 xml even though v3 is what we publish in and v3 is in fact stable and usable some of the"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:30:00",
    "text": "tools aren't complete um i have the discussions about like do we need to do we need an xml diff do we need other tools to make it to make svg work better and things like that um we're also having a lot of discussions i mean a lot of people write stuff in markdown do we want to do we want to support markdown tools that have an entire markdown um tool chain we're also doing some experiments in auth 48 anybody who's done an rfc knows that in in in auth 48 there's a great deal of email back and forth between the authors and the editors um confirming the changes and and and approving stuff that there's clearly room for automation there we've been doing some experiments in github for people who like github uh and as i said we also might want to advance and and we might want to change and do and make markdown and an alternative input this is all stuff that we're still looking at next please um when we went from v2 to v3 um the v3 vocabulary was known to be sort of retentive we expected some changes um the changes have all been pretty small and with one change about except for one change for postal addresses everything is going to be is going to be backwards compatible so if you use the vocabulary described in rfc 7991 that's valid that will work um when when we back out some of the postal changes um i this is something i need to discuss with the community but i would like to reissue the xml changing the codes not the text but the codes so that all of the canonical xml actually matches the final version of the vocabulary and we also have a lot of issues with svg it turns out we backed the wrong horse the the the profile of svg we use is one that's it's nobody uses it's abandonware and the tools have we have trouble producing xvg that matches our profile and the question is do we need to change the tools or change the profile or something um so we're talking about that so the svg subset will likely change too but again this is a this is a minor evolution you know if you lots of people"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:32:00",
    "text": "have produced dot produced rfcs with perfectly good svg both line diagrams and equations um next please and i think that's it yep so thank you hello um so my name is gabriel montenegro i'm nom come chair next slide please so i have a very short presentation only three slides of which two really are content the first and foremost is uh i need we need feedback uh there was a recent call for community feedback that i sent out this is a continuation of that we need feedback here's a very very easy way i'll go to this link on the data tracker non-com slash 2021 slash feedback you click on that you'll see the names of all the nominees you can click on all the names or the names you know better provide feedback on them there's also a quote unquote topics at the very bottom of that page don't miss it if you have feedback that is not specific to any given nominee you can provide it there but uh be mindful of the scope this is feedback that is useful to the non-com 2021 it's not general feedback it's not a general discussion uh facility uh basically this stems out from the fact that all of this is highly confidential this will only be shared and seen within the nom-com there are 17 members you can see them on the long-haul page who they are so these are the only people who will see that feedback so of course again don't think that the general or topics capability is a it's a general uh discussion for that you can go to other venues like you know the itf"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:34:01",
    "text": "mailing list or wherever uh so please help us reflect the community give us feedback i would be remiss uh if i didn't mention what rfc 8713 already calls out for please give us feedback on the incumbents you have worked with them you have seen them in their positions as ads or llc members or whatever the case may be so please give us feedback from those incumbents that are standing again and let us know how they're working how they're doing as well as all the other nominees next slide please uh final thing i need to say is thank you thank you thank you to all the nominees and i wish to also include the quote unquote almost nominees because i know there's folks who were considering i had discussions with some of you who were very very convinced you were going to go forward with the process for some reason you know life happens i understand not everybody who intended to made it uh finally as a as a nominee so but you considered it and i thank you for that and we have 30 nominees and we have 32 nominations because two of those nominees are vying for two positions each so a huge thanks for all those uh nominees and almost nominees and please if you don't get selected this time uh please offer your service next time we need many nominees for non-comp to do its job next slide please here's some pointers you can use these to get in touch with us we have office hours this week they're in the agenda please look for those they're on gather there was one yesterday one this morning one tomorrow one next week if those don't work for you please let us know send me emails send email to nom-com we can arrange"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:36:00",
    "text": "a meeting through webex zoom whatever the case may be phone just contact us give us feedback thank you very much that's it all right and with that we're going to the llc which is either j or jason or both i see jay yeah it starts with me thank you next live please and next slide again please so yes thank you to um uh ericsson and um to gonzalo in particular for making this happen um so as lars said erickson um stuck with us um twice now when we have cancelled in-person meetings and move them fully online and continue to sponsor us and also offer to sponsor should we when we go back to in-person meetings so this has been um very helpful of them thank you very much next slide please um thank you to cisco juniper um for and the the webex part of cisco for their equipment and services sponsorships we receive a lot of equipment from both cisco and juniper that really helps us with um running the network for the in-person meetings um so we'll begin to start seeing that use them hopefully next year next slide please um so thank you to the other 112 sponsors specifically our gold diversity and inclusivity sponsors akamai and cisco next slide please to our silver diversity and inclusivity sponsor huawei and to our bronze sponsors comcast and donuts and to our running code sponsor cn nick"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:38:01",
    "text": "as you'll see our new set of sponsorships um bring about um a substantial amount of um ongoing support from these companies because i think we've managed to get the point where we're aligning with the values of these organizations well and people are comfortable supporting us thank you next slide please so thank you to the many generous volunteers who make this happen we had a code sprint last week focused on performance of the data tracker and we had lots of people involved there looking hard at that stuff so thank you very much for that and thank you to the knock who continued to provide our significant support such as during this meeting and thank you particularly to their employers who provide their time to us for free for us to for them to work on ietf related things that's very generous of them next slide please um so i'm going to go with all here but i've listed out all everyone who's part of the team that hasn't been thanked so far so we have the secretariat team we have the not contractors meet echo which is obviously crucial for us we have the llc staff which have grown a little bit and we have the contracting members of the tools team so thank you very much for everyone to making this a success next slide please so iatf113 we are close to negotiating a new venue for this all i can tell you so far is that um it is going to be in europe we um have had to move away from bangkok due to the covert situation there we've been unable to find any other alternative venue in asia due to largely um restrictions on travel and in some cases due to the state of the pandemic there"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:40:00",
    "text": "we've also similarly had to rule out north america due to travel restrictions and we've therefore been working on europe for some time now of course it's likely by march that many of the travel restrictions will have changed for those um other regions but that's not something we can take the risk on we need to know now and so we've been working in a number of countries in europe and we are close to being able to sign somewhere and give you good news about that um so that i think will hopefully be the first meeting that we're all able to have together we're aiming for a smaller meeting than normal probably capping out around 650 people rather than what might be sort of an 1100 plus meeting which we think is reasonable given the um reluctance that some people will still have to travel and the practical difficulties that some people will still feature um still struggle with and then but then we're going to ramp up again for the middle of the year and later in the year for the meetings to enable us to get back to normal sized meetings again relatively soon we hope next slide please and so finally thank you to all of our global hosts so our global hosts make a commitment to us of generally six years where they agree to fund us throughout those six years and to sponsor one or to be the host meeting host for at least one meeting or two meetings during that period of time so these are people who made long-term commitments to us and many of them have been making for some years having renewed um at least once so thank you to cisco comcast ericsson huawei juniper nbc universal and nokia next slide please so this is all we have so far about the future um meeting locations and venues we we are we as you'll notice we have a number of slots open um one in 2022 um"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:42:00",
    "text": "in november we are close to negotiating somewhere for that the asia slots in 116 um itf 116 we're also close to negotiating someone there that the reason we haven't done those is that generally we need to do site visits and we need the hotels to be up and operational and functional for us to do business with them and the hotels have really only started coming back on stream in the last few months so that has been problematic until now and for mike's comment in the chat to know the dates haven't changed those are still the same dates we did look at changing the dates to see whether that helped availability but there was no reason to do that and so no we haven't changed that and then looking further you'll see that we've rebooked vancouver later on and my tf-119 of course we've had an asian cancellation that we're looking to try to rebook as well so this schedule should hopefully fill up quite soon thank you next slide please registration numbers uh for ietf 1012 as of the 2nd of november we're doing quite well here as you'll see the we're generally quite conservative about our estimates and we are getting better and better about these these are coming in quite close to our expected numbers if you take the fee waivers off the um the budget uh generally works out quite well for us and particularly want to thank those people who we know who deliberately wait to register until there's a late fee so that they can pay us more to support us thank you very much for that next slide please so this is now the full complement of llc staff there's uh yours truly the handsome man on the left greg wood director communication operations lee berkeley shaw who i'll be"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:44:00",
    "text": "introducing shortly who's our director of development um working on raising money for our endowment kasara and nick giard are our two senior developers they have slightly different job titles because uh where nick works the lives the word engineer um is regulated and so we couldn't use the word engineer for him so but otherwise the same roles and this is it for our plan for some time for recruitment we're not going to be adding another slide on anytime soon next slide please so i'm going to hand over now to lee berkeley to talk about the endowment and to introduce herself over to you liberty thanks jay um hello everyone my name is lee berkeley shaw and i'm the new director of development at ietf llc i've been charged with overseeing fundraising activities with special emphasis on the endowment i've been here a little over four months and while i've met with some of you i look forward to getting getting to know you all better and hopefully in person soon i wanted to take a brief opportunity to mention the ietf endowment for those who don't know it was originally set up in 2012 and the iutf llc assumed the legal and administrative home in 2018. the endowment is a designated investment fund created in support of the itf and its activities and it is intended to ensure the long-term sustainability of the ietf this is really important as the sponsorships and registrations associated with the meetings essentially cover those costs of hosting them and as such ietf is currently being supported almost exclusively not entirely but almost by the internet society and as many of you know our relationship with isoc is strong and we hope to have that our support long into the future but it's not prudent for any organization to be solely dependent on any single entity the hope is that this endowment will"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:46:01",
    "text": "allow a home for a variety of donors and thanks to both a generous pledge of matching funds by the internet society and the interest accrued over time in the endowment it will help diversify ietf financially and ultimately help us become financially independent in my short time here i've been meeting with the community to learn about what you see as priorities and how you see the future for the organization my hope is that the endowment will allow us to make some of those goals a reality over time um as such i'm very pleased to announce that we have a new gift to the iutf endowment as of september of this year lachnik the internet registry for latin america and the caribbean has made a hundred thousand dollar gift to the endowment this is a first time gift for them we're so pleased um and they join aaron and ripe as key donors and their gifts will be matched two to one by the internet society this is really exciting and we hope this will be the first of many gifts coming down the pike our special thanks go to oscar robles and the entire board of laknik for their contribution and i'd just like to say if you want to learn more about the endowment as an individual or on behalf of your organization i encourage you to reach out i'll be and gather throughout all next week and i'm happy to catch off catch up offline with you anytime you'd like i think that about covers it jay anything you want to add oh wait she can't hear you no thank you very much that's great um thank you for that so um before i hand over to jason i'm just going to remind you that straight after the plenary session we have the welcome reception that's in gather we've deliberately made gather space smaller more cozy um so we're all pushed together and have to start interacting and talking so come join the fun and gather afterwards so that we can them at least see each other in person even if we're not able to meet"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:48:01",
    "text": "in person at all and now over to you jason thank you great thank you very much next slide please i don't know why my camera has gone blank um but these are the folks that serve on the board no changes here let me try toggling my camera sorry there we go um no changes here so all of the same board members as last meeting next slide please these are our upcoming board meetings as is our practice we publish our board meeting dates long in advance so that folks can join as they are able to do so and ask questions when you would like to during the open session next slide so what's the current work that we're uh doing since the last meeting a few things first and foremost um i'll be speaking to this later on we've completed the iasa 2 3-year retrospective and i'll have some more slides on that uh in a bit we also completed a consultation on the llc role requirements that we send to the nom-com that was some feedback that we had received from the prior years in oncom and so we put that out to community comment um over the past few months and then sent the updated requirements over to the nom-com in august i don't think there were any major changes there perhaps just these minor tweaks item number three this is an interesting one that just came up um one or two board meetings ago you know we've only just adopted an investment policy but our advisor goldman sachs has recommended potential changes to those um and we'll be considering those we've"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:50:02",
    "text": "started to look at their their recommendations and we're going to at the next board meeting in december have an independent you know advisor kind of facilitate a discussion and there are two things which are notable that they're recommending one they've recommended that we increase our allocation or exposure to equity investments to be perhaps a bit more aggressive from that standpoint but number two have recommended that we consider adding private equity investments and to date we focus really on low-cost investments with the idea that you know we can't really beat the market but we can control our cost of investing and so if we can keep those costs slow um you know that's a way to you know eek out better returns in this case you know private equity is uh certainly less liquid and higher cost from a fees standpoint but potentially offers higher returns we're not sure you know we're just learning about the recommendations and plan to dive into that a bit more you know i think you know no change is is the most likely default position here meaning we've you know just a year or so adopted the investment policy statement um but we're looking at it nonetheless because they are the advisors and and you know we're willing to listen to whatever they recommend and consider it so stay tuned for that um and we'll see what happens and then of course item number four um lots of work with uh with jay as the executive director you know the secretary at isg iabi rtf and so on knock team um you know the different technical vendors to see what we need to do to get ready for our first hybrid meeting in march again nice to have a bit more time than when the pandemic first struck to have that transition to online only so uh you know some some work is going in there mostly around you know the"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:52:00",
    "text": "contracting and support for any technical investments that might be needed next slide please so this is the view of the current operating budget um really the notable thing here is that the current net income is solely a result of the isoc funding the timing of that um and so that um investment comes uh in december i believe so you know the numbers look better what we'll plan to do next year is to account for that a bit differently in the budget so that it doesn't show up oddly as we explained earlier in this fiscal year the way that that got accounted for was a bit unexpected and we had to sort through that issue with our accountants and so we'll present that in a an easier to understand way for next fiscal year which means that you know this timing of that one large investment will be you know more apparent in the budget and won't show these distortions up until the moment of that investment next slide so these are all the ways you can get in contact with us no changes there next slide all right so let's do a very quick review of the iasa 2 retrospective next slide so a three-year retrospective was required by bcp 101 so that was rfc 8711 that was adopted as part of the iasa 2 you know sort of list of documents in april we proposed a high-level process for this and a timeline um and you know asked for feedback starting then in june we began the consultation process by first releasing a draft document for comment asking a bunch of very specific questions as well as general ones"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:54:00",
    "text": "um and then in the june to september time frame we made a number of revisions to that assessment based on community input and then we've just released a final report and so you can take a read through that lots of details in there we'll touch on some of them here next slide so the feedback mechanisms that we included were a number of these this is to some extent reflective of the fact that you know mailing lists alone are not um sufficient for getting feedback in the community so we did a mailing list so admin discuss we had all the documents posted on github so people could do pull requests or open issues we held two live webinars for q a and then we held itf 111 meeting office hours of course we also you know opened up regular board meetings for comments as well next slide so we had 63 specific enumerated requirements 61 of those were rated as achieved or on track two we were noting here as partly achieved or in progress and those specifically were requirements number 50 and 61 so improve the ietf's technical environment and develop a sustainable funding model next slide please so on that first requirement 50 improve the technical environment i think the conclusion there is that much technical debt remains i think we're all aware of that in the community and we can all see as lars mentioned a number of the the transitions that are happening and focuses on you know improving performance and you know up resourcing the development uh folks that have been brought on and so on um and you know in essence you know the llc has provided the executive director with whatever"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:56:01",
    "text": "financial resources are necessary to fill out the team working on that and provide whatever resources the folks in the community that are working on that might need and so you know we expect more to come but you know i think looking at it at a very high level it's clear that not only is there a lot of technical debt but the community is really in the midst of a transition to you know maybe newer and updated um you know tool sets or technical workflow processes and so we're here to support that and resource it however we can but um you know certainly there's you know maybe a higher rate of change you know over the next few years than perhaps the past five so ongoing in process next slide please uh so requirement 61 is developing a sustainable funding model we feel like there's been a lot of progress here but clearly you know this is an area of continued focus so first and foremost we were you know pleased to have the new funding agreement last year with isaac with the great matching program that lee berkeley mentioned a moment ago and of course thanks again to lac nick for their new contribution we really really appreciate that and the leadership they've shown um we've revised the sponsorship program you know so for example we have different types of sponsorships that organizations can make some new opportunities for that we revised the endowment policy created a sustainable fee plan for the online only meetings including fee waivers we hired obviously that director of development lee berkeley shaw and we've been working with the community to define what the hybrid the covet excuse me impact hybrid meetings may look like including what a sustainable fee plan may look like and a newer way to contract venues for more flexible sizing if you will and so that's still in process where as jay mentioned very close to um hopefully a first"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:58:02",
    "text": "announcement for that march meeting um and it's clear that you know going forward there needs to be a little bit more flexibility on the sizing of um you know those venues and how those contracts work and so you know the team's been adapting to that and clearly you know we've only just kicked off you know that agreement framework with isak and that you know uh you know lee berkeley has just been hired so you know we didn't feel like we could mark that as complete by any means we think that we're making substantial progress but we've got more work to do and this is where there's a lot of board focus next slide please in terms of recommendations for future work we included this at the end of the retrospective first and foremost we recommend that a periodic assessment be repeated essentially every three years just like this assessment was the idea here being to sort of move away if we draw an analogy to software development move away from waterfowl development to a more agile development model and to draw back to iasa instead of doing a review like every 10 years and then having you know a huge amount of change that can be very disruptive and take away a lot of the focus of the organization having smaller amounts of change and so sort of driving that as a periodic assessment every three years hopefully can be used as a mechanism to make more incremental change and not push things off you know in doing it once a decade in a much more disruptive fashion so we recommend doing that every three years and that's something that the llc will be scheduling and driving um two we recommended making a couple of modest uh financial planning adjustments one during the annual budgeting process just updating the target for reserve funds and annually reviewing the investment policy which we'll be doing again um you know late this year as i"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:00:01",
    "text": "mentioned with the goldman sachs um sort of prompted review of that and then three it seems appropriate that the itf trust should initiate and lead a consultation on their legal structure just to provide a little bit more background on that of course the document explains it more but the ietf's trust structure is very unique and the directors of the trust end up being essentially personally liable uh for things related to the trust and so you can ensure against that and that's what traditionally we've done for the trusts in terms of providing them funding for those policies but it's not possible anymore in the way that the insurance for those uh issues work to increase that policy coverage and so that really is one of those issues that's potentially driving a change and we really just identify that this is a potential issue i think the trust totally agrees and they're going to go off and work on a consultation about what that might look like and you know lead that discussion with the community um next slide so i think that's all for us and uh next up is the internet architecture board thank you yes uh so that's me again um [Music] i believe we have a next slide where we have photos of everybody right so no not everybody has to turn on the camera at the same time you can see all the faces and names here um that's the iab last you can stay here if you want you don't have to disappear um yeah we have the iab we have lars here and we also have colin and john with us for any questions so now i should look at the queue and see if there's anybody who wants to ask a question"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:02:06",
    "text": "doesn't look like it i'm waiting a few more seconds but good news is you also and there we have somebody great andrew i believe you should be able to turn on your audio and eventually camera on your own android why is that worked that does work that marvelous i've got a question about rfc e3890 which the iab public [Music] to do to actually implement some of the recommendations or practice that was described in that rfc89 and how might get the voice of in youth um more directly [Music] into the activities of the idea thank you okay uh thanks for your question you were breaking up a little bit but i think you're talking about rc that um uh says that the user intent should be considered when designing protocols and the question was if you if the ib did something to implement this um i'm inviting other ib members to add a an opinion here and like even the authors of the draft who are not on the ib anymore but like from my point of view this is the advice given by the iab for the ietf community i think it did trigger um some discussion in the ietf community but to actually take action or implement something and consider this in protocol design and that's something that needs to be done in the iatf community itself and in the protocol development"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:04:00",
    "text": "process and i hand over to tommy all right yeah just to comment a little bit more yeah miria is right that this is mainly advice to that community however in the ways in which the ib does get to give input such as when we're doing reviews of buffs and charters we've noted specifically that this document is one that we want to kind of have on hand and that we will look at and review during these times to make sure that it's something that's in our mind and that if we see something that we can comment about we will so that's what we're doing conan go ahead yeah i'd also like to um note that the iab workshop for organizing in november december um looking at analyzing the atf data what will hopefully give us some idea to what extent the you know the people developing the standards are representative of the broader community [Music] so so we we can at least understand uh whether we are at all representative of the end users good point so um let's move on with the queue we have aaron in the queue i see only one buff on the agenda and maybe a half dozen side meetings i'm wondering is the ib concerned about the arrival of new work to the ietf and are you do you have any thoughts on [Music] you know how to keep the intake uh moving along so i see less already there because i think um maybe concerned is also not the right word but the ieh is talking a lot about this so last one yeah thanks so"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:06:02",
    "text": "joint topic um we had a recently had a little workshop with the iab and the llc board where this was what one of the sessions right um we we are monitoring sort of the sort of activity of the itf and um we reported on it i think at the last meeting a little bit more detail um we do see that sort of currently chartered work is sort of progressing okay i want to say there is a like i think i remember like a 10 reduction if you look at emails being sent for example but it's it's not sort of what i would call dramatic um but we do see a distinct drop in the submission of zero zero drafts and i think that translates into um you know a reduction in in buff proposals um i think everybody is sort of finding it difficult to socialize a topic especially something that's maybe a bit controversial or you know requires some some more shaping in this virtual format and we know also sort of anecdotally from a few people that basically are waiting with their proposals until they get to be back in person and can present to a room rather than online um so yes we are we are sort of hoping that we can go back to at least a hybrid format and we're going to hope that that'll sort of maybe revitalize the intake of new work but yeah i think the isgn leadership overall will sort of see that concern that you raise down is there any way that you can add some transparency to so your observation that you think that there are there are topics that might be considered too controversial to socialize now was something that i hadn't heard and i'm wondering is there a way to sort of share some visibility if those things are out there um you know i mean maybe that's not an accurate assessment um maybe it is but still i i think that from a from an organizational point of view it would be reassuring to know there this is that this is a uh"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:08:00",
    "text": "a temporary you know uh a pandemic related uh change as opposed to um you know that you know the itf's uh utility may be diminishing so so uh i agree so all signs that we see point to this being solely based on on the pandemic and not being able to meet and so one thing that i um i'm actually happy about is hot rfc so thank you again for that uh because i think that is actually a pretty useful um vessel in which people can bring sort of at least the nugget of an idea for new work and expose it and get some private feedback and maybe that private feedback can be you know you should really bring this as a buff um right which we we haven't had that for a while and so i think people might might have been hesitant to jump straight to the buff stage which often times is a little bit difficult we also mean we have site meetings also um in this virtual format but i think i don't have numbers but it feels like there's fewer of those as well because maybe also the site meeting uh crowd doesn't get what they want out of the other virtual meetings which i can sort of understand but i sort of i wish i had a better answer than sort of hoping to be back in person but i think this is really sort of special sort of new work seems to be something where people really want to sit together and chat and brainstorm which doesn't lend itself well to performance so i i don't want to believe the equipment let me just make i i feel like we're uh we're completing two slightly different topics one is um sort of um i'm suggesting that when you say something like uh all signs are pointing to the fact that this is temporary i'm suggesting that it would be helpful if those signs could be collected together and shared with the community so that we can all develop that assessment that what the actual signs are are you know that then those the specifics i think are you know they are what they are but i'm just saying that uh you know you or maybe the isg are in a position where you're seeing sort of more potential stuff than the rest of the community and i think if there's a way that you can"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:10:00",
    "text": "share that um that that would be helpful so maybe let me say one thing i think um and this is a topic we've been discussing very often before and during the pandemic i think we do have generally a problem to onboard new work in a good way to find the right contact person and to bring people to the right stage right so it's not like i think the isg is actually exposed to much more of this these ideas and new work what we're also seeing is that and we're all seeing that that there are components of an in-person meeting that we can't um replicate in a virtual environment and these are simply missing and a lot of this was was where you actually talk to people about new work and so on and we can't replicate this and we don't just don't have it right and i think what the signs that we are looking at is just the numbers that everybody can look up from the data tracker or the email is like we see less emails we see less zero zero drafts and these kind of things so that's that's very good hints but it's also not a full evidence what's happening there yeah i get it okay thank you uh spencer's in the queue um sorry i also want to go ahead if you if you feel like you want an answer from the isg maybe bring it up again during the the later plenary when the isgs on stage because this is probably more topic well as much a topic for the isu than for the iap i definitely agree i think like a lot of people contact 80s first so they might be exposed differently than and the ib is just trying to help later and we're we're trying to improve that process so now we go to spencer yeah uh thank you uh i i may be talking to the okay so two two questions um the the comment about uh work being considered to be controversial uh do you have were you actually saying that that was the people proposing the work were concerned that it was too controversial or someone else was concerned that was too"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:12:00",
    "text": "controversial i didn't understand the response to aaron yeah sorry maybe i sort of spoke a little bit sloppily here uh controversial might be the wrong word but what i've heard from several people is that they feel that they're that they need to have a discussion at a at a depth and at a level that they don't feel they can have in a virtual form maybe complex would be a better word than controversial oh okay yeah uh that's helpful and i'll uh i'll follow up during the iesg uh open mic so uh with it with anything with any other clever thoughts that i had thank you thank you okay thanks spencer um then we're moving on to sanji had a quick question i got quite confused with the work on the shmu group and the hybrid and all so it's vancouver planned to be hybrid as of now i mean i realize things could change since we are mentioning vancouver i assume there will be some in-person meetings there i think you have to join the queue at the next open mic again that's the question for the lhc sorry but you can you can probably take this question or we can take this question at the very beginning of their open mic session um yeah you are in the queue but you're on the iab so i'm not sure if you want to ask a question or yeah thank you thank you thanks yeah i wanted to return to the previous discussion just a little bit and so the initial question was are we concerned about the bots and i think we are but i think there are or at least in my opinion there are two factors here one is the pandemic which sort of easy to understand but i think there's a longer term issue that it's not easy to bring new work to the ietf and we've been discussing this of course many times but we make it relatively"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:14:00",
    "text": "hard and some of the things that are making it easier is you know what rfc laws already mentioned that uh but also that the hackathon like if you compare the experience of bringing a new thing to the hackathon versus bringing a new thing to ietf it's quite different like go to the hackathon yeah you're welcome and you know have your team have your table and and you just uh move forward um it's much harder in the itf side and of course i understand some of the reasons why and i understand that many proposals are also all over the place and not very easy to add up to any standards organization but i i think we should at least recognize that this is an issue it's it's difficult in the idea to do these new things yeah i just want to add you say we're making it hard i don't think we're making it hard on purpose it is hard to bring your work you have to understand a lot about the itf and we're not doing enough to helping people with that and that's definitely a job for the iab and that's what we what we do discuss at the iab but it's also not easy to find the right ways for that so like if people have more input please let us know and start a discussion with the iab okay um the queue is empty now and as we already had the first question for the lac i just handed over to jason thanks and jay maybe do you want to speak initially to the uh vancouver question yep um so just double checking when vancouver is but it's a little while off um vancouver is 2024. um so uh yes i imagine that will probably still"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:16:01",
    "text": "be some form of hybrid meeting but i can't really guess any more beyond that being almost three years away if you have a more specific question i'll try and answer it but that's best i can do i think at the moment my apologies i misremembered the slide who will the next itf which is placed to be in a city is it will it be in person since the hotel and all has been booked so the next um planned itf meeting itf113 is we are looking to book we're currently in negotiations with a venue in europe and hoping to book and that's the one that i'm as i mentioned earlier we are um expecting or planning for a smaller number of on-site participants about 650 um down from what would be otherwise about eleven 1100 and so yes that would inevitably be a hybrid meeting i think it's fair to guess that the we will have hybrid meetings for the next couple of years at least um given the uh the ongoing nature of pandemics and the way that diseases work you jason yeah other questions uh looks like dominique yeah hi um i just wanted to follow up on the community survey i think that was mentioned um and i note that it's both the llc and um esg i think both that are covering it i just wanted to see if you had any more follow-up on it um in terms of the"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:18:01",
    "text": "actions from it i know that you have a whole year that you're going to review it but any any information would be great thanks do you want me to pick this up jason yes please i'm gonna quickly join i'm getting an echo outside of here sure um the the just the the other week we had a joint um iesg llc iab workshop spread over four days and one of those sessions focused on the community survey and the output to the community survey and the major issues as reported through that survey so um there i won't go into the details of what was discussed um because that hasn't yet been written up and agreed properly yet but it certainly was um there was an understanding that some things there are important that need to be tackled by all of us and um considerable effort was put into thinking about how we might tackle those so i think that's probably all we can say unless lars wants to add anything to that i can assume no then so should we go with spencer i think you're next in the queue yeah i uh i just wanted to take a a moment to uh thank you all on camera and live for the work that you all are doing uh i've been following at a distance you know the work that you all have been doing in the current environment and uh this is this is the uh i think this is the itf meeting where i"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:20:00",
    "text": "finally realized there's no possible way i could i could even contribute to this so thank you for the work you're doing i know it is not easy and i know it really matters thank you okay i don't see anyone else so i think we can move on thank you everyone thanks and that brings us to the isg open mic session and while we're reading uh if if we get questions and somebody on your she wants to speak to that question please just uh start your camera i will see that spencer go ahead battle the iab open mic session about new work and things like that uh i think one of the things that's important to uh to to say is that um we have to you know we have tools now that we that so i'm not talking i'm not talking to you guys i'm talking to you guys and the community uh we have tools that uh now that we could use more so the hot rfc thing was kind of shut down during the uh pandemic and it took us a while to figure out that uh we could actually do that uh in a virtual meeting or in a hybrid meeting but that and you know we've had uh the publication of"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:22:02",
    "text": "public side meetings in the wiki for a while as well one of the things that i note uh is that uh gather is and i didn't realize this for a while but gather is up between itf meetings so you know anything that you could do and gather you know today or in the in the coming week you could do in february also and that that that does actually have uh the ability to have audio visual conversations and things like that that i think would would be very helpful for people you know one of the things we've done with side meetings so far which is fine is uh leaving people to find their own conferencing facilities but if if gather is uh is capable of uh supporting you know the small the small meetings that we kind of visualize assigned meetings that may be a that may be a a good thing as well you know it's it it's that i think it's important for everyone especially the community to remember that bots have never been a required part of this they were just a convenient way of us of us evaluating new work proposals when the community gathered you know with much of the community gathered uh three times a year but there's nothing magic about boss the the thing is basically to focus on quality new work proposals coming in and being able to move those forward at the itf um you know i'm curious if you all have uh uh reactions to that but uh i'll uh i'll uh hang up and take my uh take my answers on the air thanks spencer"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:24:02",
    "text": "yes but i wanted to say uh i i think the idea of having a high quality idea not going through a formal buff to directly kind of chartering is a very viable kind of path that is one of the outcomes that's sometimes recommended at a sec dispatch that the idea seems baked enough there's enough kind of discussion on it let's let's do a little more mailing list discussion to get charter language firmed up thanks roman so one thing i want to pick up that spencer said is sort of i'd be curious to know if if one reason why people find it difficult to uh progress work is is the lack of sort of tools like uh gather i think so given that sort of hangouts and other sort of free collaboration systems are available if that's the case we can certainly try and invest there from the tools side um if this is really sort of an issue for many people um if so maybe send email to isg or get into the queue now i think i still have spencer in the queue go to him first and then i see wes that was me actually leaving the queue and then popping back in in front of west uh my apologies west the so i wanted to uh really uh thank you for the for the uh for the comment about uh sec dispatch uh as a reminder to me almost all the areas have uh some form of dispatchy uh function these days don't they and i wonder whether i wonder whether being able to do something with those kinds of groups where they're you know where it's more formal than a side meeting together but less formal than a buff request uh being able to do that on an ongoing you know like once between ietf meetings say as an"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:26:00",
    "text": "example uh just so that people aren't waiting four months to have you know see how things go with the ietf uh the you know the thing that jason that uh jason was talking about with the llc of you know looking at stuff more frequently that we have been looking at things i think that you know i think that may be a good model for the technical work as well as you know to say uh what what are we gonna what are we gonna wish we had a good proposal you know had approved a proposal for at the next ietf meeting and i always say you know you guys you guys would know better how to do that on the uh with the current structure and uh in the current environment but uh i did i did want to respond to that uh as well i think i think you know i think you're digging in the right hole thank you lauren go ahead yeah thanks so i mean i think one of the things that things like buffs give us that dispatch type groups don't is it seems as though we get more cross area input from buffs and similar and one of the things i'm concerned about is that we don't end up in sort of silos of people in areas one way we could try and mitigate that is try and make it so that people are more willing from other areas to show up at the dispatch meetings possibly by scheduling things that there's less conflict so that with dispatches or just trying to have more of a culture of dispatch meetings are more open and accessible to people from other areas i'm really concerned we end up with silos of apps working on apps ops working on ops routing only are not routing and we don't get the the white cross area review yeah um one quick um point to"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:28:02",
    "text": "that is we actually sort of discussed um briefly yesterday actually and also a few weeks ago the idea of whether we should have like a dispatch dispatch or or just dispatch meaning where basically it's something i call ifc but with discussion uh and an itfy where you can basically have a first stop for new work and and where it gets triaged um maybe into areas or maybe just in some other directions and that by by its nature would be done because area so that that could be sort of a thing to try out but i want to go to west has been patiently waiting in the queue let's go ahead so first off apparently warren says we should be wearing hats so i thought i'd join in but i wanted to follow spencer's topic a little bit um because it's an important one and you know it's definitely easier to have new work when you can get together and do it in person but we're not going back to fully online or fully in person for a while i mean if we're we just heard earlier that you know we expect march to be sort of half attended and so hybrid meetings you know may still mean less incoming work unless we can you know find other solutions that you know allow us to continue bringing in new work even when some of the potential participants can't actually make it to the meeting because they're in an area where travel may be restricted for example um so it would really benefit everyone to concentrate on reaching out and helping you know through some of the existing tools i'm very happy that uh spencer you know mentioned gather for example as being around in between meetings um i will admit myself i haven't joined gather as much as i as i should and i should i intend to make a concentrated effort to do that but just you know even responding to email or helping out with the guides program or something like that you know would greatly help bring in new work it feels really good when you actually manage to you know help somebody take a document walk them through the ietf process and"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:30:00",
    "text": "then later find you know that that new member that brought in new work to become a active member of the ietf community and there's been a couple of cases over the past i wanna say five to ten years where i've helped somebody come in and you know now they're now they're actually writing more mail than i can because i really am not great at keeping up with email but um so you know final point is really try and make a concentrated effort to help you know help newcomers come in and help them because it will just whittle away if and and wither if they don't get help through the the weird processes the ietf i'd argue every standards organization has the same issue not just the atf thanks thanks yeah that was a good point so i actually got matched up with somebody through mentoring that was trying to bring new work i think it was to transport and and that was i think a pretty interesting engagement for both sides in terms of you know you can really sort of help somebody explain you know what should you focus on when you first present this what are some of the questions you're likely going to get and so on and i'm i'm wondering so also think about emoji and the mentoring effort whether this is something we can maybe strengthen right whether we actually don't only focus on new participants that focus on new work that might come from existing participants but uh that it might be work that they don't quite know how to bring could also be something for further discussion i see an empty queue at the moment does that mean we are ending almost on top of the hour aaron go ahead yeah uh so uh before we break um uh the the sort of the general the comment to everybody capabilities and gather are a little bit limited and so i want to take a minute and just sort of talk about the hot rfc structure if that's okay with you okay so uh so we have a space and gather um"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:32:02",
    "text": "for hot rfc um the the links on the um on the agenda page uh and um notewell is the password to get in um if you go in there you'll see where you enter and after you decorate your avatar um there's directions uh on the floor to take you to the hot rc space it's laid out like a poster session uh and so each talk has a little essentially a private room and gather where uh folks who are in the room can talk to each other but you don't hear people in outside the room or and uh or here at the video uh there's a youtube video for each talk where um you can asynchronously watch the talk if you haven't seen it already and there's a whiteboard for uh you know leaving messages to other interested folks and um or you know having a real-time discussion and i've invited each of the presenters to be present in their uh their little uh poster room uh for folks who want to discuss their proposal so um we've got an hour nominally starts at quarter after the hour in about 12 minutes um and you can wander around and talk to folks this this is co-scheduled with the reception so you don't have to go there you can go to the reception and uh and talk to anybody you want uh and um uh we do have the space for the entire day and so if folks want to run long for any reason that's totally fine you're not going to get kicked out uh and i will be there you uh if anybody has any questions on how to interact um and the secretary is also around and they're helping people as well so i think that is everything i wanted to get out there so hope you all show up and can make it and yeah enjoy it and give me feedback if things that you liked or didn't like"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:34:01",
    "text": "so that we can figure out whether this is something we want to continue next time thanks aaron that was useful um and yeah thank you all for joining the plenary um i know it was early for some of you but i think we had pretty good attendance um probably under the same order of magnitude as the last few that we've done so that that's a good sign for this experiment and i'll see you all over and gather now and then next week in the working group sessions enjoy the itf bye guys you"
  }
]
