[
  {
    "startTime": "00:00:07",
    "text": "what did you have some like ridiculous tattoo artists who\u0027s never heard of an empty so each of them says that\u0027s right okay like just gets a little let\u0027s do that for oh did you actually look in on three open issues for the marketers draft not figure out all right okay wait how did you just get that last bit who done time you need to know okay um they\u0027re live streaming this on YouTube my question is why well because I was told to so I think it was because they were live-streaming the last one and they just decided my attitude said no one was watching the last one and that was about IMG no yeah yeah okay we should have a very short agenda so we started 3:20 right yeah so when we\u0027re ready for some of the trick later some people all right let me get started everyone this is the get working group thanks for coming like I said hopefully this is pretty short but you never know how these "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:03:08",
    "text": "things go this is the note well you\u0027ve probably seen this several times before so if you\u0027re not familiar with if we take a look and you know try to abide by it or don\u0027t try do some administrative things so the blue sheets are going around please fill them out if bosses are yeah do we have a JavaScript anyone willing to volunteer thank you rich minute taker any one minute taker should be really easy open up the text editor sorry minute take a minute taker anyone I hear Shawn John Turner we are you be willing to take notes thank you this is the agenda you have any comments on it it could change things you know please let us know but otherwise so basically since it\u0027s not clear everyone normally does agendas by putting draft file names the first two things here are the two drafts in the working group we will discuss them reasonably briefly the third thing is actually not a working group item it\u0027s a tutorial that people have been putting together to help other working groups sort of with what we\u0027ve done but the first two will actually probably go reasonably quickly and that\u0027ll leave plenty of time to talk about the tutorial if people have been reading it all right yeah so with that we\u0027re gonna start there\u0027s there are no slides for that the first presentation which is the github configuration document from Vaughn Alyssa we do have however three issues that it would be great if we could just march through them and do something with them ideally close them or do something else so to that end I\u0027m gonna click on the first one yeah this was brought up by I forget exactly who on the list well I of course I filed it the title is pretty self-explanatory I wonder if people have a particular thought about this Paul seems to think that this should possibly be something that\u0027s in the other draft I\u0027m happy to put this in that other draft or accepted pull request that would do the same excellently this is perfectly "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:06:08",
    "text": "appropriate the there\u0027s a section there on using continuous continuous integration in order to produce draft things adding that not only do you produce the draft but you produce a diff with various things would be perfectly reasonable great yeah so I will make I\u0027m not gonna do here to sign in but yes I will I will file the issue on the other document and then we can just help maybe I\u0027ll just manifold yes it\u0027s a one-cent I think we can do that oh great it is resolved this is one Martin knew filed but I actually from mark do you want to speak to it this is Mark\u0027s one we moved marks issue I can probably speak to it briefly a lot of documents have a brief note at the start of them that explains what it is that the the document is doing where to discuss it where to find the repository where to file issues that sort of thing conveniently I recently added this capability to the template so it will be automatically added by anyone who\u0027s using a modern setup so yay another one that solved but we can probably make some notes about that as well in your document or the other one it\u0027s like the last one night I really don\u0027t care yeah Jeffery askin this is incredibly useful the w3c also does it and you can look and like bike shed for examples of how to do the metadata and stuff yeah great I don\u0027t think anyone\u0027s questioning the video just where does this actual Texico or less mark Nottingham um I really don\u0027t want to like get in the way of year I\u0027m shutting down this working group party but what\u0027s the delineation between these documents again because it seems like it\u0027s really fuzzy a lot of the time it is but so the document were that we\u0027re discussing is what is the tooling that the ietf should be doing to help working groups use github and the other document is how to use github especially if you\u0027re not using tooling such as you may want to add this you may want to do this and that\u0027s why I had suggested this actually goes in the other dot in Martin\u0027s document my feedback would be that that\u0027s a really artificial and confusing delineation and and that in a better world we would combine those documents but you know you\u0027re trying to close that and working group the documents did at one point overlap to a much larger degree so I think we\u0027ve managed to separate them to some extent along this sort of grey fuzzy line I "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:09:08",
    "text": "think it\u0027s actually could be a bit more clear but I think it\u0027s a little more crisp than that I I see the the one that I\u0027m editing to be far more about advice on how you enact processes within working groups to deal with this that is abstract of the specifics of how that\u0027s that\u0027s done so I would say it is it is useful to put a note in the draft pointing to where the repository is but I wouldn\u0027t specify the mechanics of that whereas the other day the other draft is very specifically hey tools team we want to link in the data tracker that points to these repositories all similar so I I think it\u0027s fairly crisp when you get right down to it but I do agree with mark that maybe it would have been better in retrospect had we have we not had this delineation but I don\u0027t I don\u0027t see much point in trying to fix it at this stage mark are you bringing something up where we don\u0027t have complete consensus what if you\u0027re gonna make the joke get it right I you know I think I read the documents relatively recently perhaps you can improve this by just making it absolutely crystal clear in the abstract in the introduction who the audience for the document is and ideally in the title of the document who the audience of the document is because I didn\u0027t get that sense from reading them yeah great suggestion you certainly do that alright next issue all right another one for mine yeah so this one really belongs in this one right here this definitely belongs in this document Oh rich thank you you can you can tell us how what\u0027s happening yeah hi rich sauce yeah I just added the comment oh let\u0027s see six minutes ago um we\u0027re doing some work in the data tracker to normalize all of the links or like additional URLs field will have normalized names for most of those things so you can like sort of add it programmatically so for example if you use the scripts that I\u0027m also developing then it\u0027ll automatically put the links in the data tracker to the repo it\u0027ll you can add your github user ID in your name account so someone can look it up and say oh this is someone\u0027s so in progress right so exactly yes alright so thank you all right well you still have that question or all right Martin you are up "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:12:14",
    "text": "so one of the one of the kind of long-standing issues that we had with the the sort of more abstract document was how how this fits into the existing standards processes and BC p9 and is it 25 I\u0027ve got two slides on this yeah 25 yeah I always forget that one how much this sort of has to consider how it fits into that broader picture mmm this is just my proposal for these ones if anyone wants to disagree with me I\u0027d be happy to discuss that but I don\u0027t think that this document relates to be cp9 I went through it in a little bit of detail and it talks primarily about the process by which the ITF decides to turn internet drafts in to standards not the process by which the internet drafts get hammered out in the working group and so my suggestion is that we don\u0027t deal with basically nine at all in in this particular document does anyone have a different understanding of the purpose of that document and would suggest that we do otherwise okay I see some thumbs up the next one we already cite vcp 25 which is the working group process document and though BCP 25 is extraordinarily high level relative to the sort of thing that this document that we\u0027re talking about is there are some aspects of this that we we already address very now narrowly targeted so most of the uses that we\u0027re talking about here relate to the the document production process I know that there are some other aspects of BCP 25 that people use github to assist in that being primarily things like session planning management of agendas and and presentation materials for instance and I know that a lot of working group charters end up on github and get beaten out on that one my proposal which I wasn\u0027t gonna merge but then Paul did it for me violating one of the golden rules in this document we\u0027ll talk about that later oh you have a co-author and I\u0027m working group chair so I thought it was okay yeah I had hope to discuss it here before I merge that was that only documents would be in scope and I\u0027ve in that pull request I explicitly said that this is only documents though these other things can be used now I thought that Paul\u0027s tacit acceptance of that indicates that I was not entirely crazy but I\u0027d like to make sure that people in this room also think that I\u0027m not "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:15:14",
    "text": "entirely crazy so that\u0027ll appear of course in the next draft which will be for working group last column so I figured putting that in since there had been no traffic on the list about it was a reasonable thing right yeah this is Shawn Turner um just to observe that if you told me I couldn\u0027t do it I would probably ignore that advice and I would keep right on doing the other the other things oh it\u0027s super helpful should be able to do it for meeting requests figuring out when people are going to show up but all of those other things yeah so I think I think the primary focus on on documents here is important because those are the ones where you need the process yes complete library having an having that advice and applying that advice to the save the development of the chart or a revision to the Charter is it crazy people are going to do that and it turns out that most of this advice is still applicable in that context but I didn\u0027t really want to get too bound up in dealing with that problem in fact that the proposed text did say that and I was gonna maybe put that up on screen but we can deal with that and working group last call okay next oh and the last one I don\u0027t know who open this issue but there was a point raised about the fact that github does occasionally tend to attract spam and and misbehavior of various forms there are moderation tools but they\u0027re not centralized in any way that would be available to us so for instance we couldn\u0027t if we wanted the equivalent of a posting rights action block someone across all of the different organizations that the ITF would use so there\u0027s some limitations there so I have a couple of questions here and then these are a little difficult for me to deal with here because I don\u0027t know whether this expands the scope of the document or not so a like a bit of discussion about this things like could we do we need to have rolls around things like dealing with someone who\u0027s misbehaving on github we can block them from repositories can we do that unilaterally or on the basis that well maybe they can just go to the mailing list and and take the complaints there or do we have to have these repositories in the and and all the things associated with an operate under rules that are similar to the mailing lists themselves and to what extent do we need to support the whatever actions that we we take in in that word tooling and and whatnot so Peter action is not like a very common process like we don\u0027t use it very much and so I\u0027m curious if you\u0027re aware of other communities or some place where "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:18:14",
    "text": "the kind of case that would raise a PR action in the IETF has actually happened like lots of works and repos not just in not just in one so I am aware of at least one instance of this sort of behavior in the w3c I was involved in one of those peripherally and certainly had to deal with that individual and they were blocked from the organisation on a number of different points and it was just done on an ad-hoc basis and I I would probably advocate for the hot process until such time as we identify something that turns out to be a systemic issue that we need to deal with differently but github does have pretty good support with respect to abuse and so I found that if you do observe someone doing bad things you can just block them and it just works and I would not advocate for doing that unless it really was bad but it\u0027s possible okay yeah the question then would be what where we put anything in the document about that and and I would be I\u0027m in two minds about that really I should on Turner again so I would I would like to know that in my you know three years I guess of using github or something like that something call me out on how long that I find that there\u0027s a whole lot less times where I felt like there was any kind of bad behavior that raised any kind of the level of the bad behavior that I\u0027ve seen on recent mailing lists in the IETF so maybe we just let this go because it\u0027s just not there and we\u0027re trying to solve a problem that doesn\u0027t really exist and if somebody does show up and is a super tool then we can we can quickly figure out what what it is that we need to do with them so yeah I\u0027m comfortable with that that answer anyone else this is Barry leave I\u0027m comfortable with that answer also I think what makes sense is to yes treat github is a mailing list not for the purposes of PR action for the purposes of abuse mitigation in general and just whatever you can do with a mailing list you\u0027re allowed to do with github and just leave it at that we need to say nothing more yeah rich sauce I I agree I used to run the open SSL repo on git and it got more than its share of harasses and you know it\u0027s not a big deal you just closed our PRS and move on and let\u0027s remember we also have the working group chairs mailing list so if this comes up later it\u0027s not like we need to rev the RFC that\u0027s coming out of this working group chairs talk among themselves and someone would say how do I do this and things like that so I\u0027m I think the conclusion here would be that we don\u0027t put anything in this draft on this on this topic and we deal with using the the existing support infrastructure that we have I think that\u0027s that\u0027s a pretty sensation because based heavily on people so which is based heavily on people and this is a "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:21:14",
    "text": "people problem and like Sean said this is not a problem that\u0027s really been a major problem in the past it was worse in the case that I identified at the w3c and it required a little more process than I think you know just closing there P HUS would suggest and I\u0027m sure that rich has had similar experiences himself but I think we can manage that I mean that\u0027s all ahead so you know we do with the issues accordingly and looks like that document is mostly ready to go everyone please take a look at it and read it hopefully we can move it forward I guess we did story last yeah fine so yeah so basically I do know one question sure do you as chairs want a rave before we go to working group last call yeah I will get your ribs very shortly thank you all right so yeah we\u0027re basically at a point now where both documents are fairly stable and mature ready to move forward at least the chairs think so so we\u0027d like to start working group last call for both of them right after this meeting ends and we get Martin\u0027s updated version are there any objections to that great I guess that that would go back over to the tutorial so another thing that we\u0027ve been working on sort of inside this is not you know a working group deliverable by any means it\u0027s just something that we kind of put together to help people not familiar with github or get in general and who might want to start using it to better contribute to working groups so it as the title suggests workflow or a you know tutorial for kind of getting used to these new technologies what the terms mean what the typical workflows are like the link I should a link but you can find it on the github repo or page for this working group I can send around a link to the mailing list as well for people to read be useful if the folks in this room who are interested in sort of helping improve this content go through it provide feedback as the documents suggest that you can provide feedback on the github repository that hosts this particular tutorial it went around on some other threads over this week so I believe you know other people in the ITF are looking at it not gotten any kind of signal as to whether or not it\u0027s been useful but hopefully it\u0027s caused or hopefully hasn\u0027t caused too much damage and hasn\u0027t confused anyone so again if there\u0027s any way we can improve this particular content please do let us know on the mailing list or ideally on the github repo and we can tweak it accordingly I think there\u0027s already some issues on there to help "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:24:14",
    "text": "clarify some things yeah great so with that the last question for the group tutorial like I was saying is not technically deliverable for the working group but there are like various tools and things that have come out of the development of these documents including it updates to you know the Martins template tool if there\u0027s is there anything else really that you know the workgroup should spend some time on thinking and working on together as a group if so perhaps I don\u0027t know let us know at the mic or on the mailing list there is there are suggestions for things and tools that might be useful in one of the wiki pages should have brought the link up actually I could do that right now on speaking to it and if folks feel so inclined in doing some of these things or commenting on them that would be lovely but again none of this is required it\u0027s mostly just you know suggestions for interested parties to work on things that might help the community so with that said unless there\u0027s anything else sorry so current thoughts for timing is Martin we\u0027ll turn in a new draft we will start working group last call just given us holidays and bits like that we might take it towards the middle of December you know it doesn\u0027t have to be a tight two week during that time if people have ideas for what they would want to see in a recharter of the working group or additional work we can sort of have that discussion as well at the same time because that might even tie into the two documents or one of the two documents but barring that or barring agreement that we should do that then post working group last call we would send them on to our glorious ad and the working group would stay up through the deliberation of the isg and then probably close down mailing list will stay up because it has a cute name it\u0027s quite attractive to people who have problems related to this mailing this could absolutely be used for other things such as talking about the tooling talking about the tutorial and things like that but the working group in my mind is likely to shut down before the next IETF meeting assuming the ISG moves these things through at sort of the normal pace Melissa do you want to comment on anything or does that mostly make sense alright great with that we can adjourn super-early thanks everyone for coming "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:27:23",
    "text": "are you serious that\u0027s what no no I understand Oh on its own front page of our of our github repo come on but I can just we see I think we might have actually had it on you know what that\u0027s like are you on the mailing list okay so let me see if I can just put it up now if I did this correctly "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:31:17",
    "text": "you "
  }
]