[
  {
    "startTime": "00:00:04",
    "text": "they are like 12 seconds old so you don't need to apologize but i think we we quickly should discuss the intended status of the document because right now it's marked as a bcp and i find it weird for bcp to actually define what is essentially a new protocol all right so uh we should maybe not uh which i guess that should go on the agenda rather than just please a moment so we have a working group meeting where everybody has switched on the microphone that's uh no christian doesn't no he does yeah and so and and john just came by so but yes and i just find it i like the way how this is getting started to just flow along anyway no i just find that leaving the microphone enabled and using the local mute works much better because there's no delay when i unmute that way yeah that's a really good plan actually should do that um it's so annoying that delay whether you have a proper local mute well no there's in the lower right corner of the meet echo screen there's a there's a mute that that mutes it it mutes your audio without disconnecting your audio stream oh wow i didn't know that that's a great feature yes and that that that makes it so much nicer but so anybody who's talking frequently can just leave the microphone enabled on"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:02:02",
    "text": "the left and mute on the right yep but it makes it harder for the chairs to recognize when somebody has forgotten anywhere themselves exactly um so but yeah i mean for people like i said for people who expect to pipe up a lot it's a it's a big help so it looks like yeah we got sean turner came on we're still just the four of us and sean yeah i'm not sure we'll be too many more francesca mentioned that she's another meeting um marco often drops by yeah marco is usually on and ian did not send regrets this time so i was expecting him but you know we don't really have an agenda this time so yeah there also wasn't a reminder mail yeah that's my rely on those i know i i meant to send one and i and i neglected this wintering in florida stuff is throwing my whole schedule off speaking of which michael how's the weather up your way well it's very canadian of you to ask about the weather um you know what else do we talk about here uh it is apparently minus 42 today this morning with the wind chill oh my god"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:04:01",
    "text": "uh not it's in the negative 30s plus a wind chill uh i very happy to work in the basement under the heating vent um but my family has gone out to uh work in school and uh we'll see if they ever return or if i have to dig them out of a snow bank in april or something so meanwhile in washington dc where i am there might be a couple of inches of snow and we're preparing for the worst yeah well you know it's okay it's it's okay that's the right way it's okay uh the president from toronto is it is you can call the army when you get an inch of snow dig people out yeah yeah so people always making fun of toronto for that but the truth is that they that you know they'll get like you know two inches of snow in the morning and it melts by the late afternoon and so they really don't actually own much snow removing equipment so that's why that happens whereas in ottawa it actually snows every year uh despite what the city staff think um and we actually own a significant amount of snow removing equipment so it's a difference of like preparedness right all right with the with the weather discussion of part of the meeting over we should put that on the agenda properly yeah there you go so i think we're uh it's we're five minutes in so let's go ahead and talk about whatever we can talk about and uh move on from there the file magic intended status was one of the the open points from the original from from the earlier chat my christian the pr is not recent oh [Music]"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:06:00",
    "text": "the comments are recent yeah i'm looking at your comments um karsten and i'm i'm not actually sure what to do about them at this state i guess i need to let them sink in a little bit um are we talking about this now yes yes go ahead yep okay so um i think let's the the big the big the big point is i think that carson thinks this should not be a bcp and as the document started to me it's now a year ago that the reason why it was a bcp is that uh it was a practice and it was not in any way you could do anything you like at all but here's a suggestion on one way of doing it um nobody needs a nobody following this needs to uh do anything specific because the ayana actions that you need to follow are all uh first come first serve essentially which you don't need to do anything about um and so that's why i was like you know what this is just this is what i did if it works for you then you should do the same thing too for the same reasons and that's why um it you know you might have reasons to do something else it's not a standard that anyone should uh put in an rfp or something like that um but we've now evolved a little bit and uh we say a lot more things and so if someone felt that it needed a bigger amount of"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:08:02",
    "text": "acknowledgement or whatever i don't have any problem with that but it wasn't something i would have pushed for a year ago yeah i think the fact that we're using numbers that happen to be in the fcfs space is not really deciding this issue i mean it might be an additional piece of information one would use but um i think the question really is what is the level of normative intent here and um of course the the the idea is that if you use those tags then they mean what is written in this document that's why there's a pointer from the registry to to this document yeah originally that document wouldn't have registered any text would just have phrased how you given guidance on how you registered text thing is even even if the um even if the um if the tags are registered um doesn't mean that this needs just because the tags are registered doesn't have any impact on the documents status either because it's first come first serve it could be a scan cheat sheet of paper that someone scribbled notes on that would suffice as a reference um so yeah it's probably not not a push for the documents that's another way another direction"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:10:01",
    "text": "yeah i think the the main decider for me uh recently has become do we expect to have this as a normative reference in a different document and if that is the case then i'd rather have the the document being normative in the first place instead of doing the downref procedure afterwards so this is really the interesting question do we expect to use this as a normative reference in in some other document right i think that's the major thing is there's someone going to going to reference it oh this is ira sorry for cutting in um what document are you referring to i'm sorry for being late the file magic document and by the way eric you're very quiet that was because my microphone was nowhere is near my mouth sorry about that much better thank you i i would suggest that file magic might well get normative references yes i think that that leaves bcp and uh senate strike and bcp is kind of weird i mean we can we can just do that and and see whether the isg has a different opinion um but uh yeah really from from the systematics"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:12:01",
    "text": "um i think this this is a standard strike document as as boring as it may be in the end it's still something that we expect to be specified in other places yeah i certainly don't think that um yeah i agree standards track is the right answer standards track is the right answer just repeating what i think you said yes okay i won't argue with that um so let me bring up another uh comment that carson had um which is relating to i said the i said in my rewrite of the introduction i said the third method is also proposed by which seabor format prepended tag is used to identify non-sebor files um and carson says there's actually a seaport tag for non-seaport data and i'm just wondering if uh actually what i would like to do is is have some more comments as to how to explain that best and succinctly um and i think just someone else looking over the making another suggestion would be great"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:14:00",
    "text": "yeah i was trying to make a suggestion and then someone couldn't remember how to do this oh there's a you you there's a plus button the plus in the front becomes a button yeah make suggestion and then you click the plus minus insert a suggestion would you like me to share with my screen no um i figured it out i just had very little time and wanted to to put the stuff in before i had to go to somewhere else uh so i i do that um essentially the the i was just reacting to the sentence saying it is not really about sibo and well yeah no actually it is about zebra yeah yeah i get it so there are several comments here for me that that were really just about the the sentences on their own saying something which wasn't right except when you actually add the context and and in a standard document you're trying to make sure that that there is no single sentence that people read and say that's not true so that's why i reacted to you at one point files were all record orientated and i definitely opened record-oriented files with a block-oriented access mode in the 70s that was standard procedure so it was not the operating system you tell me i'll all i was trying to say is that at some point this was not a problem because the os knew everything about the files and then we went to stream of bytes yeah and that's actually not true but okay well you know what i i was four years old at the time so uh i will uh i will defer to someone with a longer memory um but but the point is i actually think it was i think that i think that"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:16:02",
    "text": "tcpip could not have evolved without us going to a stream of bites thing and so it's not like i'm saying that this is a terrible thing that we went that way and lost the tag um and you know so that's the that's the point we could i could delete the sentence if if you feel it's uh if if it's impossible to make it accurate it's just uh trying to ease people into how we got here right and i'm not trying to make a yeah i think the the point is more like it used to be a situation where the operating system manages for you and unix was kind of radical i remember when when i learned this i was kind of surprised uh it was kind of radical in not having uh file types and so you you didn't know with which access method which really was the the thing you were looking at in the 70s uh you would need to open this file and now the the byte stream representation of text is kind of orthogonal to the question whether you actually have uh file type information so mac os has had file type information for a long time before they gave it up to be like unix and um so yeah again this is i think it's easier to to not uh try to make this point based on the somewhat limited uh review of history good uh so you think i should just delete the uh delete the sentence probably it's better that will probably help yes i think we can find a sentence which actually correctly says what you're trying to say uh but i don't think we have to invest the effort"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:18:02",
    "text": "and i actually agree it was an interesting conference of of tcp getting mainstream in 83 and and unix getting mainstream as well um that really anchored the the byte stream or our network tiller type uh uh model and the point is that we don't have it we don't have a a sub type of tcp that tells you what uh uh what is the record format right no but ftp is that yeah but only for telling you it's binary or something yes anyway all right so i'm just going to delete those two sentences i think the the sense sentence is okay the second sentence is okay but it starts with the so it has since very early is okay the the one about all fights were record oriented that's not okay and then the next one that changed with unix it would be better if i shared my screen yeah so i was not thinking we were turning this into an editing meeting here uh christian i recommend the the intro destiny uh internet history mailing list uh they have some really interesting views into the 70s history i i i wasn't on the internet in the 70s so i only got there a couple of years later so"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:20:00",
    "text": "on the context of turning this into an editing meeting and sorry for earlier when i typed and didn't notice that my global mute button went to another device maybe let's cut this short here if we if if there's still drive to use the remainder of the hour later to progress to make progress here we can still do that if um once we've covered everything else because there's one more item that i'd like um get done on the agenda um before this goes into a collaborative editing meeting which it can be but at which point some people might want to leave already uh that is are there other things you definitely want to have on the ipf 113 agenda um and if so please let us know or just write them down here uh say something now so that we can plan accordingly yeah we still have one technical item on on the five magic document the sea ball is a cbox uh thing we we could discuss oh yes we sorry we i mixed up the items and i thought we were all about that already and yeah anyway um yes right let's continue there and then yeah doing the notes here yeah so i made an argument with which is more on the matter of principles of protocol design and and less absolutely this cannot be done this way i i die on this hill otherwise uh point uh so we last at the last meeting we said we're going to discuss it on the mailing list and we didn't uh so i think we at some point we should close this because it's not that consequential"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:22:01",
    "text": "so we just had this this nice discussion about this the fact that the new rfc xml format has two ways where you put the document name and of course there are hundreds of documents out there where those two places don't agree and different tools have different at different times looked at diff at different places for this information so it creates a ton of of confusion and that's exactly the the same principle of protocol design that was violated there you really want to normalize your information in such a way that it only occurs in one place so you you don't get different implementations that look at different places and react differently i agree with you but what was the context that you're specifically talking about in which doctor does the sibo versus cbox thing oh yes okay that part all right um so i i agreed with you that if uh not a hill i would willing to fall on die on if you want to remain keep it as cybor then i'm happy to keep it as cbor i feel that it's a little bit weird but i don't mind okay any other opinions on this this is ira i withdraw my suggestion of a c box or something though i actually would have preferred it but um i understand your rationale for why we should just say sibor yeah i'm feeling bad because it really was a good suggestion i like the term"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:24:01",
    "text": "cbox but it has a problem everything has a problem in computing okay good we've got we've got consensus michael you have your marching orders okay so the authors will will see to it that we get a a new draft that that has these uh comments in it i'm only going to get to it to next week thank you so on the topic of um itf 1413 agenda because i don't think we have any other items left for today um michael just suggested chat whether whether we actually need a full meeting so yeah that will depend on on what we want to do in vienna and how much uh how many things we hope to make progress on so yes that's one reason to to collect that list so kind of last plan was to just ask for one meeting uh slot again because uh experience says that we make good use of it but um yeah let's see what comes in in terms of agenda and if that's far less than expected we can still reconsider that based on the state of our drafts and things like this i don't think we have much more than a status update and i think that we could easily do that"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:26:01",
    "text": "with another group and i would rather we didn't ask for a slot at all to be honest um rather than waiting yeah i think we we need to coordinate with the date at some point on on the time tag document but i don't know when that point will be and whether it will happen to be at the end of march so i'm not going to suggest taking this that as an agenda item and of course we have to work on sibo packed but i think both things are really easier done in in terms how about the the statues with cddl2 is that something we need time to talk about we could again that depends a lot on on whether we we expect spectators to come in people who have committed their their week to the itf and and come to related meetings um if we have a reasonable number of those it makes a lot of sense to to discuss this at the itf uh but that's hard to predict i would say if we were having a thousand-person in-person meeting that we would get those tourists um um but i think that given the remote that many people will be remote again they could just as easily join our virtual interims and um"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:28:00",
    "text": "i think that the conflicts will mean that we won't get people anyway um to to i think that i think that a presentation about cddl2 would be useful but would be useful in a wider audience even as an ieb tech uh talk um and i'd rather see us do that than have a meeting about it well a meeting might be a presentation plus a discussion yeah we also could do an interim and just make a wider announcement so people know at that particular meeting we are going to discuss city day too and i'm sure the the rats people and and the suit people and so on uh will will come and discuss that so that may be another way to draw in additional people from everything gathered gathered here i take it the cdtl2 can if if we were to have a meeting then cddl2 would be the main attraction and probably also the main point of it yes are these these tech talk enough talks announced and scheduled they are probably they probably have need scheduling in ahead of the of the meetings right i have been involved yet i think the the whole issue of reviving the tech talks after the"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:30:01",
    "text": "lull we have had i mean they stopped taking place before the pandemic so the benedict was not the reason why they they stopped but they the the pandemic may be the reason why they haven't been uh started again because nobody knows how to do a a proper plenary in in the current hybrid uh situation so carsten are you which are you talking about the deep dives or the um technical talk at the regular plenary meeting i'm talking about the plenary meeting okay that that was always set up by the iab and the iab picked a subject that they think had brought enough uh interest across the community uh that that they wanted uh to put that in their portion of the plenary and they're always looking for for for stuff right we have had them during the the during our online meetings we have had a couple of those uh where we haven't it's because there hasn't been a topic they found or speaking right so if you're if you're looking for that then talk the the talking to the iab is the right answer if you're looking for the the other the deep dive kind of talks that was set up by the iesg uh but that's in a separate session from the plenary so if i were the iab i actually would be thinking about having a more general topic of data modeling because we have more data modeling technologies than just cddl in the iitf and in particular yang has made some significant progress in in the last two or three years and it's probably worth presenting that alongside uh what we've been doing in cddl and"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:32:01",
    "text": "maybe an sdf as well so that's a really a worthy plenary topic like like a shared shared presentation of of yang cddl and and whatsoever not um illustrating what the state of the art and sdf illustrating what the state of the art in terms of modeling is well that that would be a dream but uh i think more realistically we we would have separate represent presentations from the different camps that are coordinated a little bit so um then then i think uh carsten you should approach the iab about that you can just send a note to iab iab.org or if you like you could approach a particular particular iab member who you thought would be interested in taking it forward either way yeah that's certainly not something that will happen at 113. unlikely yeah yeah so it would be the the new iab we would be looking at i still think um that uh probably if you were gonna go with an individual member maybe tommy pauly or david skenazi would be the ones to approach or as i say just approach the iab as a whole yeah maybe i should send the heads up to to a couple of individuals in the iab so"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:34:01",
    "text": "when when we have a slightly more well-formed proposal and bring it to the iab there will be some people who are seated yeah that's a good plan let's do that and so what's what's uh our decision on 113 are we i i've already made the request for a session which i can withdraw yeah my summary of the discussion would be withdrawn yeah that's what i'm thinking uh a christian do you read it the same yes okay i will withdraw the request yeah well one of the problems with the current setup is that you don't really get to supply a reason neither with won't meet nor with withdrawing uh requests so i think we we always have to make sure to send a follow-up message that that explains why we are doing this because the message just on its own looks like we are shutting down the working group or something"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:36:03",
    "text": "yeah that's that's that's a good thing to write i can i can do that um i just need to check which uh who whom this should be addressed to whether that's only sibo or one that's more recipients of the withdrawal request all right i i will i will change the request to indicate that we're not meeting and christian i'll leave it to you to send that note okay yeah i would just reply to the message that goes to the zebra mailing list um read the chat uh actually i thought my summary of the uh 112 separate plenary feedback was that it didn't work uh but maybe i'm i'm just misremembering well it was not universal there were certainly some people who didn't like it and some people who did so that's why i say i don't really know what the iasg has decided not being on the isg anymore so i don't even know if if they've decided yet because scheduling hasn't been done yet so i think it was discussed on some mailing list i just don't know where to uh where it was and how to find it well it was either on the main ietf list or on gen dispatch i don't i don't"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:38:01",
    "text": "remember which either but yeah when it really should be on many couches well it's who knows all we talk about on many couches right now is uh uh this andrei petrescu's uh concerns about um having anybody within 20 feet of him yeah i'm not following that mailing list fine to comment on the basis that this is recorded indeed so onward anyway i have done the uh cancellation so uh this should be enough there should be a note gone to the seabor list yes got it okay so now whatever else is i left if nobody has any other business to bring up that would conclude this meeting somebody put this side the ups a working group side meeting on top of the regular seaboard slot very mad at them so on february 9th there will be a meeting on what is essentially doing asset management in gang and that is of course well kind of related to what we are doing but i don't think that that should make us do anything it's just annoying"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:40:04",
    "text": "where is that announced on the op say working group permitting list this okay because it's not listed in the um in the upcoming meetings it's a side meeting so yeah yeah we don't have a good way to handle these correct all right so i guess thanks everybody for coming and we will be adjourned yes yes thank you see you in two weeks see you in two weeks and i'll try to remember to do a reminder next time thank you yeah so bye"
  }
]
