[
  {
    "startTime": "00:00:04",
    "text": "there\u0027s a note-taker and the jabber scribe do I see a gem described in the back no oh hello hello hello that\u0027s Mike do we have someone who will volunteer to be a jabber scribe okay Warren thank you welcome to OPSEC we have a yes we have warren jabber scribing welcome to OPSEC we have exactly one present - hello hello oh I guess you have to do this welcome to OPSEC we have exactly one presentation today for me no ray you know rehear oh you\u0027re presenting okay so did you get this light that I sent [Music] [Music] "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:03:14",
    "text": "[Music] so let\u0027s try to do a presentation without any slides they were only four slides so that will be the same thing right so that\u0027s about this OPSEC v6 document start it so yeah so we studied this in September 2012 right it\u0027s a long long one it has been hearing the queue for many years of usually governors feedbacks and at some point of time we need to go once on the working class goal we failed and basically my ass for today will be can we get another in group last call and as you know that\u0027s of course of operational security consideration so it\u0027s not recommendation right it\u0027s very important the difference here so the main change since the last one we are currently at - 15 compared to the 14 as we do it every six months we need to refresh the references they are a couple of document that we\u0027re - base that they know an RFC so we need to change this also stating to the introduction that we do not cover the IOT world so we say recover is be residential and enterprise but somehow quite often we don\u0027t say we assume IOT is part of ipv6 but we do not cover IOT here and if you remember all the discussion was about because we\u0027re a section and we still believe we need to talk about ula and we wanted to put some recommendation about ula and simply what we did is scratch this section right simply because it was too controversial they were then we were shortening shortening and now what we simply say please go and this draft go to the ula usage consideration and two lines before to explain what ula is because it\u0027s document is assumed to be readable by anybody even unhappy v6 expert so more security guy that come to understand implicational v6 so we say what ula is please go there so if somebody still find this small section controversion I would love to know yes yes you Alisa look similar curve C 90 18 19 "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:06:16",
    "text": "can we don\u0027t face it because we\u0027ve got enough problem with people thinking it\u0027s a private address space for v6 okay okay yes so I suggest we do not introduce that confusion even more so we go from three lines to two lines that\u0027s right what did we change as well so this section about temporary addresses was sometimes not very clear so we get couple of feedback many foreign and the guns on this so we clean it following up all this suggested change let me get better a section about looking and monitoring somebody suggested into a review that we also put the Vasavi logging so that\u0027s basically you remember to get the mapping between the v6 address and the MAC address basically for user tribution there we recommend to do well severe again if is possible sorry is the technique that allows you to keep the mapping there and basically I am already on my last slide right wrong you said it was a fast meeting it will be near the first meeting we want to go on the last week a group class goal I think now the document is ready we mostly remove all the controversial section fernando gaunt made some review wrong you start it on your own your own review so if we can get more review and go again replace goal because these are to manage to go out right simply one Bonica speaking as an individual contributor since we have a bunch of time in the session I\u0027d like to bring up a couple of the issues on from the document sure the first is the very first section recommends that everybody used P I space for security reasons the first question is do we really want to do that and risk exploding routing tables what oh well does it say so I had a hard time okay nobody we do not cease consideration so if we still somewhere recommend something hmm then we are wrong because we need to do consideration right the title the document so we may want to change this text there but I still believe that for an enterprise getting P is pace is much better because you are independent of your service provider well that I think it\u0027s obvious right all of us in the room but I think it should not be like security decision right I think there are criteria area sir which I blush to the use cases for pi versus PA so I I do not think it should be in the document which is a fair point as well yeah would your fault I really would be interested if there is an security argument for P I I\u0027m not able to find one thank you too much I mean these are community said my front of my eyes for I "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:09:16",
    "text": "know seven years right I don\u0027t read it anymore right so there\u0027s really why we need fresh air so thank you generalizing that comment to other sections there are other places where you talk about an idiosyncrasy of ipv6 and you talk about a consideration but it never really shows up as a good security consideration it\u0027s just an idiosyncrasy for instance you mentioned when you\u0027re discussing extension headers you mentioned many networks drop packets whether it\u0027s extension headers well yes that or maybe the door is open you only from the inside this is a security working group so we keep the door locked it may be true that lots of networks drop the packets with lots of extension headers but it\u0027s not a security consideration it\u0027s an operational consideration there yeah again and then it\u0027s easier to remove tags and edits I still until now maybe and the last point we really really would love to get reviews of this all right so I will apply the to change recommend it today is your dash 16 and then we send to the list and get to review that\u0027s what do you need them return to my working group chair roll how many people have read this document within the last year thank you how many would be willing to comment on list within the next year Nathan ripens you see I\u0027ve been following the work for years and also the latest one I think it\u0027s great work I would like to take in the comment about PII that should not be distinguished from pa since we\u0027re and also Jen\u0027s comment about the RFC 1918 addresses I think that should be revised as well other than that I\u0027m perfectly happy move forward ok so it looks like it\u0027s everything linked to the section about addressing and there are seas so we\u0027ll ask for some some commentary on the list in the next couple weeks and then ask for another Westfall yes Tim Chang so the comments about P I in the comments about extension has maybe maybe those things are more about risk management and security maybe it\u0027s still worth capturing things that are you should document as risks and your action "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:12:17",
    "text": "against that so you may well decide that you want to you\u0027ve identified a risk that your provider you may need to change provider or they may go out of business and God knows what happens then you identify that as a risk and maybe your mitigation is to deploy PI it\u0027s not necessarily security but it\u0027s risk management which many people do equate unfortunately to security so maybe there is scope to either put that in another document and just shorten this one so you can get consensus by making it less things for people to read or maybe it\u0027s an appendix or a section at the end that\u0027s risk rather than security it\u0027s a good suggestions is also a PVC some surprise guidelines or something I think the two of us where author is there right yeah so there\u0027s faith so somebody mentioned the issue you LA\u0027s and I think it came up there and we eventually tried to shorten the text we were saying I think we ended up referring to this internet draft that no doubt will never be finished the ula recommendations or considerations draft this that\u0027s been going for about five years and it\u0027ll never get accepted because it\u0027s too controversial so it\u0027s just a pointer to something that will be never finished let\u0027s be honest to me it won\u0027t be now I will check on this enterprise Gatineau narrow see to see what we see there oh yeah yeah so you could just refer to that yeah and then even easier is this actually scoped though to enterprise or is it that just an example that you would point to is this document this document is this just everything always answer moment I don\u0027t remember to be honest okay but you\u0027ve obviously already ruled out IOT which is a very wise thing to do but yeah okay but as of Wednesday you may have an ad view on this as well I suppose not in this living room though yeah any more questions on this so with my co-chair hat we can be clear the meeting adjourn oh you have oh you want to present I come in sorry do you want to talk about your documents oh yeah yes you come just abri√≥ I see so regarding your document I\u0027ll be happy to read and offer comments so the draft that I want to very briefly talk about is not a presentation just a commenter - two requests going to working group last call so that that the draft is titled enhanced physical path unicast reverse path filtering we presented it a couple of times in in this working group and in April of last year there was good discussion on the list when we requested "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:15:19",
    "text": "an adoption call so there was a lot of good back that was offered we factored in all the feedback and updated the draft in October of last year and more recently jeff has myself and that Montgomery we took a close look at it and we discussed it between ourselves we are satisfied that the draft is in a is in a good shape to request a working group last call at this time so we would like to request that ron balakay chair i think it\u0027s in good shape - and what\u0027s Eric you agree let\u0027s go we\u0027ll have a last call after the ITF thank you so I think now we can really adjourn the meeting thank you for coming thanks for reviewing and doing today we came to Brasco with us enjoy a flag and thank you for doing it acres and the JavaScript solar big work you volunteered right so that\u0027s good thank you "
  }
]