[
  {
    "startTime": "00:00:06",
    "text": "oh yes my apologies [Music] connected all right good morning good afternoon good evening yes it is 12 30 um i'm slowly going to get started we have our responsible ide we have major participants we have my co-chair excellent uh right welcome to email core at itf 113 from the list of people i can see you are probably in the right room"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:02:04",
    "text": "this is just a reminder that you should be familiar with not well one point specifically is a reminder to be professional and just be nice be respectful even if you're disagreeing with technical arguments this is for the list of documents you should be familiar with again itf code of conduct this session is being recorded uh we're using metacore uh we have a note taking pad we will need a note taker which is i thought that would be great if you can take the notes um so yes please um maybe can i can just covalently you to fill in blanks unless you are speaking if that's okay yes my apologies uh is this better microphone wise okay yes much okay"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:04:00",
    "text": "sorry i was just mumbling to myself it's friday it's the last session in the week uh i was getting ready for the session the whole week i'm so over excited and so over exhausted now so um um right we have no takers let's that's roughly our agenda most of the tickets are on smtp couple tickets on applicability statement at the end and at some point i'll just do a quick update on email format when pete is back in the room so i don't think we will be you uh we will have to use the whole two hours but if the discussion is productive and we're making progress that's fine um is john oh okay i don't see actually john clanson in in the room at the moment he said he had technical issues yes maria i appreciate that it's 4 30 in the morning so um right uh so while we're waiting for john i can quickly i suppose i don't need pete for this"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:06:01",
    "text": "either so um basically email core has one ticket outstanding which is about printable versus visible characters um i will do a follow up on this i think there is a valuable proposal that will work basically suggestion is just to say instead of using possibly ambiguous terminology in various contexts we're just going to say which are character which is um effectively the intent of the text um pete also has um one outstanding change related to trace header to which he agreed a couple of months ago he just didn't get around to doing this once he pushes a new revision we will be starting working group colonet so yeah which hopefully will be exciting that's the first working group last call in this working group alright with that i would like to start on this on the main body of the discussion but it's kind of going to be a bit hard if john clenson is not here so let's just give him a few minutes"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:08:08",
    "text": "i hope he is not right uh you know running windows and it didn't decide to update to windows 11 or something which will take a few hours um hmm so i'm actually so uh john levine is volunteering to discuss his issues i'm tempted to do the other way maybe we should start from the end of the slide deck and talk about enhanced status codes okay right ken sorry i i'm trying to um"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:10:04",
    "text": "yes reorganize agenda a little bit while we're waiting for john so let's let's start with your topic so um i read the uh the thread in the mailing list uh two or three times and uh the summary there is what i boiled boiled the issues down to at least my understanding of it and came up with this the following suggested text i don't think it's worth my while to read it you can also i'll read it and if there's any objections to that i am more than willing to accept some uh some text okay do you want to just give a very quick sorry i'm just a quick background so the originally your document was saying must support enhanced status codes and then um some sort of implementation said what does it mean uh for us and yeah so yeah there was a bit of pushback from some implementations yeah in the original text actually said you must implement the the spec that was actually the original registry for the code so that was that was confusing so uh this actually says you uh it's recommended to implement the enhanced status code extension to smtp and then also refers to the list of codes in the registry uh any comments i mean obviously we still need to double check this on the mailing list but i think that's kind of uh would be nice to see if people think we're going in the right direction"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:12:12",
    "text": "okay sounds good to me so john john clanson you're back hope uh all right so let's get back to our regional right okay starting from the beginning of list of issues uh we have an old ticket 11. talking about possible clarification about mail transactions and transaction state so john's original note was that section 33 should be would be improved if it be more specific about when mail transaction begins and ends um and what's part of the transaction um there was some updates to the document since the original issue was raised i had a look at the text in this section and i quoted the first paragraph of it which i think talks exactly about what john was asking about so it says me on transaction starts with mail command um followed by one or more rcpt2 uh etc and finished by data um there is a follow-up uh paragraph also talking about quit and our set so my suggestion is it looks like this ticket is closed john"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:14:03",
    "text": "uh i hope you can hear me yes uh i i as as i've looked at this more uh i i agree with you no no change is needed i think a small editorial twitch uh would probably improve things slightly and uh and propose the insertion of uh uh of the word normal in that first sentence uh before smtpm mail transactions as a slight improvement but uh this is uh um not worth a lot of time okay sounds good to me uh if you can propose [Music] can you write the proper proposal where to insert the word on the mailing list uh i from my standpoint i could i consider that a small editorial tweak for which we do not need to have a discussion but it's up to you that's fine i'm okay with that all right so uh tentatively i will post a message tentatively this is closed subject to my editorial tweak which we'll see in next revision okay um now another um ticket that uh rose out of our discussion at itf 112 was iron registration policy for smtp extensions basically the current document says as rfc 5321 that it's a standard strike an experimental rfc approved by sg we have removed um"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:16:03",
    "text": "x-extensions so they are not prohibited from being registered now and i think it will be a good idea to register some of them which raise the question whether our iron registration policy is correct so um roughly uh on the following slide there are two proposals one is specification required which is as a quick reminder this is expert review plus specification which can be rfc it doesn't have to be ietf stream rfc um alternative proposal is first come first serve with registration templates requiring specification so i'll show the next flight slide with the proposal and we had some discussion on the mailing list i think we'll have more discussion now about alternatives so yes let's have a discussion okay john do you want to say the first word yeah i don't know how many of you have managed to see the notes i sent to the list uh not too many hours ago um but uh i'm a little a little concerned about clutter here and uh and vanity activities and yeah we've got some dead ones but the dead ones seem to be reasonable at the time um i'm uh so what i'm i'm sort of feeling for and and i'm also concerned about the possibility of getting a an extension proposal in conjunction with some special application that the uh that the expert reviewers don't necessarily understand um so i've been feeling around and the"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:18:01",
    "text": "comments on the list summarize some of it and i've had some separate conversations with murray uh about the uh the possibility of uh of creating a sort of in between here where we uh where we don't quite require the level of of approval the current text does uh but we still do it a community last call in which uh uh which which gives people who may have expertise that the experts don't and this mailing and this mailing list doesn't uh to uh to chime in on the thing if they see something that others don't um uh it's a much lower bar than requiring standards track but it's a little bit more than uh um than allowing the my pet rock uh extension so i think it's sort of like specification required with extra uh itf list last call uh that's one way of looking at it okay um murray um yeah i i we did talk about that and i i think that or what you have described here as new one are both palatable um we recently had a document come through that looked more like new to where it's first come first serve but there's some provisions around that and vcp 26 doesn't really support the i like it says that ayanna will basically accept anything that's well formed if you say first come first serve asking them to make a judgment about whether the reference describes a particular thing or looks a particular way is outside of ayanna's remit so i think new too might be a harder sell yeah i tend to agree um very can i volunteer you to try to defend"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:20:02",
    "text": "sorry i i sort of got very not yeah so i i wrote this this thing here the i'm okay with either of these options specification required or first come first served with a reference the reason that i proposed maybe we should do the second one is that i wanted to really stress that that we would rather have these registered than make the bar high to get the registration specification required ought to be a very easy level but changing to that requires that we appoint an expert for this and go through that process when really we'd just rather have people register everything that they're using but we do want some sort of reference to say what what it means so i'm okay with either one we pick we just need to have the discussion about which way we want to go okay murray do you mind if i insert myself before you no go ahead um my counter argument as a participant you know i i kind of i will be okay either way um is um as murray pointed out earlier that ayan is not going to check names so if i start if i request an extension called my shiny balloon it would be very hard to refuse and say no pick a better name or something um so um but i i guess my point is that if somebody wants to use one called my shiny balloon why should we tell them not to who cares um i i i i think the way to resolve that is the the clause you have here that says that describes the extension's purpose format and usage if you drop that i think we're good all right because because you're not asking diana to confirm what's in this what's in the reference well no okay the this text is for the person who's going to do the registration all we're going to ask guyana to do is make sure that"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:22:01",
    "text": "there's a reference and that it doesn't say chicken chicken chicken chicken and beyond that ayanna's not going to do any checking but i want the person making the registration request to know what we expect to have in the reference as kind of a guideline okay yeah that's i think that'll fly yeah and and if we decide to go with specification required i'm happy to volunteer as the designated expert who will basically approve everything so john i i'm i'm pushing back a little bit on and i don't overburden overburden diana i think we're agreed about that and i think we're agreed about the principle that it's better to have registrations than to have things floating around which aren't unregistered uh i'm i'm concerned that over the years we've seen attempts to extend things here done in various ways that are loony and i'd like to be able to get enough community input into the process to help the authors understand where things are loony or where things won't work i don't want to create a bar to registration in the sense the standards track thing does but i want to create the opportunity for input and discussion and entire at a more extensive level than the authors talking themselves or the reviewers um uh having to review something that they may not understand even for whether or not there's a specification that makes sense fair enough you know okay uh john levine do you want to comment on this you commented on the mailing list i just trying to get a bit more discussion yeah um i think i'm aligned with barry here i mean i understand sort of that in principle there is a"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:24:01",
    "text": "writ you know there's a risk that people might want to sneak horrible stuff through here but given that we're not the network police if they want to do horrible stuff they'll do it anyway so i would presume i would presume to be documented yeah again if if we could figure out a way to write first come first serve after an ietf last call uh i i i'd be happy about that uh it's something we've certainly never done before uh but uh but i do want to give people who are proposing these things the opportunity for uh uh for community input um so my sense of uh john clenson my sense of what you want you want is you you you don't want to block them from registering you don't want to say uh you need to prove to us that this is useful you just want to have them have the opportunity to have an exchange and get helped if they need it more more or less barry and uh and the only qualification is that uh that i'm inclined to try to require that because as we both know from other contexts the people who most need that help usually don't understand they need it right yeah exactly yeah i have sympathy for that and i i need to respond to the note that you sent to a few of us about that kind of how we could come up with a new kind of registration process that would help with that so we can talk about that another time but uh yeah i have sympathy for that pete do you have an opinion you sorry i'm i'm i'm trying to track everybody he's got his shoulders hunched over pete resnick i'll repeat what i just said in the chat room um i have a"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:26:01",
    "text": "leaning toward make this as close to first come first served as we can do it and i like the idea of some sort of documentation that gives people the ability to you know get some advice from the community if they want it but really that you know this is not a closed name space at all and you know if people like shiny balloon as their you know as what they want to register that's not going to do any damage to the protocol so i have a friendly proposal to my first friendly proposal um maybe what we want to say here then is first come first served with the reference must also be provided describes this and say it is highly recommended that registrants post to this mailing list and get feedback before they proceed with their registration something there that will encourage them to ask for feedback but still allow them to just do a fast track registration if that's really what they want to do what do you think john clenson i could probably live with that i do i do think the implication i i'm still hearing marshall's voice which is in the text [Laughter] and uh and the uh the implication of needing to fast-track one of these because somebody has come up with a brilliant idea they want to get in the ayanna registry right away uh is uh is an invitation to having to revise it later for which we have no procedure at all right uh and uh uh and generally creating a mess if anybody pays any attention to registration again i don't want to do anything which will discourage people from registering but i do want to try to find some way to"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:28:00",
    "text": "encourage people to think about what they're doing and uh and and we have all seen over the years in ietf people come up with brilliant ideas at least in their minds which are so important that they should be deployed immediately many of which are described as ipv10 but there's a trade-off there yeah or or you are in uris that don't have colons in them or whatever so yeah precisely yes and and and we have proved that this has happened multiple times all right get ready pete uh yeah the speed again um i i think i just want to address the um fast track i don't think that's the reason that i lean toward first come first serve it's pain in the ass right it's we want people who have something to register to not think oh my what a pain in the ass let's just skip the registration and start using it which i think is what happens now i don't think people really want you know it needs to be registered today i don't i think that's a very rare instance i think the real problem is that people view it as a hurdle and so we want to say there's no hurdle you just register them but please announce them here and you know get some feedback okay um again as a participant uh i'm sort of in between varying pete and john i think i would prefer for registration requests to be posted mandatorily to the mailing list but feedback yeah to"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:30:01",
    "text": "but then have first come first serve after the you know two weeks period this uh kind of quite similar to what we're doing with some media types um so you know in other words so you're okay with the idea that somebody posts to this mailing list gets feedback saying your idea is really really bad rethink it please and they say and register it anyway without paying attention to feedback that's that's my preference because i'd rather see it read if they're going to use it i'd rather see it registered than not but that covers john's concern that they need a way to get feedback i think i can live with this basically i would prefer that people engage in the discussion but if they say well that's just a thing that i just need to send one email and never have to read any responses well as you guys said we're not police the the the the my my other concern here it goes directly to the question dave asked in the chat is that we end up with a um with a registration of something which seems to have something which looks like a specification and then they discover it doesn't work and the specification changes they don't bother it or adopt a registration document because that too is a pain in the ass and i don't know that can be prevented but again if the community gets a chance to discuss the thing it may be possible to uh um to get the thing uh uh improved a little bit if uh if possible before the registration goes in and anybody tries to use it and i'm not trying to set a bar here i'm"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:32:00",
    "text": "trying to provide an opportunity for for discussion uh if we take that much out uh the other question for the working group is whether i should simply remove the text which argues for minimizing extensions because they cause it because they inherently cause interoperability problems okay ken hi ken richardson um i think the the bigger issue that we want to try to solve here is not having two different vendors start using a keyword at the same time without either one of them registering and then there's eventually name clash i think that's more important than somebody registering a an extension that ends up being technical garbage because as pete said before no one's going to use it there's no interoperability problem but if vendor a starts using fubar and vendor b starts using fubar and they did two different things then we've got a problem dave good morning um it's 4 30 here even though i'm some distance from murray um the last comment goes to what i think is the only operational problem that has a serious effect um the the general problems of posting stuff that's crap um is their problem it it the name space will get a little noisier but it doesn't actually matter and the some of the discussion has sounded like it's trying to create additional iana policies and my guess is that's not actually what's being intended but rather the intention is to use an existing iana policy but add various uh items of advice"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:34:01",
    "text": "to this document and uh well that wasn't actually clear from the discussion and um putting in various commentary uh might seem like a good idea uh but the more detailed that commentary is the more opportunity since this will be new text the more opportunity there is for it to be confusing uh and and as an example of that i'll point out that i was confused listening to this if i was confused listening to this what are the odds of somebody reading this in a document is going to think that this is a requirement rather than advice so i might suggest my suggestion is minimize the changes address only the the problem that is on the table which is getting people to register and don't try to quality control the registration process uh or or because if they want it to be used they will come and get advice if they are convinced in their arrogance that they know truth they're just going to work around this don't add more text that is basically parental even if it's good parenting all right so uh my feeling of the room is that we're leaning somewhere toward first come first serve with some kind of suggestion about mailing lists posting to the mailing list yeah and i hear dave's comment i i i unders i have sympathy for that too so maybe what we want to do is introduce apart from this text somewhere else from"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:36:01",
    "text": "this text that there is a mailing list to discuss extensions and it's useful and put that somewhere else that's not right here so people don't think it's a requirement but it's a place they can get feedback i i don't know i'm designing on the on the microphone right now uh you added yourself and you took john yeah i'll i'll i'll repeat what i said in the uh in the chat which is that if what we really need if the issue is making certain that people can register these things absolutely painlessly uh one one additional possibility is to allow immediate registration on request which is very much like first come first serve um and uh and then give and then post something to the lit to a list and give the authors uh um 60 days to listen to whatever comments transpire and at the end of those 60 days registration becomes permanent that's actually not a bad idea i think yeah i could certainly live with that dave does that address your concern or does it um fall into parenting that sounds like it's trying to create revised iana procedures it it it doesn't date because after a careful look at the ayanna procedures and barry can comment more on this that i can because he wrote them uh but uh but the iana procedures require do not require that any of those standard categories be used it requires only that the procedure be clear to"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:38:00",
    "text": "ayanna right that's correct and there are in fact some pretty bizarre twistings of these that people have used in various areas and they work really sorry right and they're a mess sorry so so as you try to create conditions you create opportunity for confusions this is the problem with new specification i thought the goal of the working group was to make minimal changes not merely make whatever changes seem like a good idea but dave this making any change here is is a change and uh and a change which preserves some of the current properties of what the document says uh while loosening the requirements is a minimal change and it's no less a minimal change than uh then or no more or less than a of a minimal change than saying well check it all and go to first first serve going to first come first serve invokes an established process that is reasonably well understood the downsides of doing that are also fairly well understood as soon as we start adding more conditions we're creating a new specification with more opportunity for misunderstanding and miss action but but but if we do what i suggested more or less the only complication is whether ayanna can make a mark on their calendar and count to 60 or some other period which somebody picks and per the diana specification document again barry can say more about this than i can if iana doesn't think they can count to 60 reliably then they say no that doesn't work"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:40:01",
    "text": "so no i i think what john is saying there is in fact a cue and i understand we're doing a little colloquy here but i would like at least the chance to step in my ears i'm sorry the the mask right pete then barry this is pete i i want to um actually disagree with john on this um the the simplest way to deal with this is do first come first serve and if we want some sort of iana instructions in the iana considerations that they announce it somewhere that's fine putting a 60-day delay is exactly the kind of fence that is going to cause people to not register these things and i think the amount of damage they can possibly do is so minimal that it should not be done we should just simply do it first come first serve if we want to give ayanna instruction that they should announce this such that we can interact with the person because they're going to provide an email address anyway and we can cc them on this that's fine that's certainly not changing the registration policy it changes an iana procedure but it's basically an announcement um so i i i think we're asking for trouble if we're going to go away from specification required and not require expert review if that's the decision we're making then let's just go to first come first served and make an announcement okay there's actually something new in what pete said that i'll follow up in a second but what i wanted to say first was i think john what i john is is looking for something yes john is john is trying to propose something that is very different and what pete said that um that keyed"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:42:02",
    "text": "there is if we instead of trying to put this on the registrant we put it on iana we ask them to post to the discussion list i think that helps i think that makes that takes the load away from the registrant i have to agree with dave on this that um there is no need to change this text at all we can leave this as standards track or experimental rfc specifically approved by the isg for this purpose and we did say we're going to make minimal changes so that is the minimal change is not to change it at all the next minimal change is to say well but this is really is ietf review is really what this means so let's change it to that even making its specification required is more than a minimal change and making it first come first serve with this and that tweak is a bigger change so it depends how we want to go with changes i i am fairly ambivalent on it at this point okay i'm going to lock the door in this room and nobody leaves until i make a decision remote people have a slight advantage here they just just run um i think the path of least resistance is to to go with specification required and have the have somebody review it but it doesn't have to be the ietf reviewing it works for me personally this is pete my only concern about specification required is i don't think it"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:44:00",
    "text": "significantly changes the barrier that the current text has such that we're gonna solve the problem no it does actually i understand the difference between the two but i i suspect that anybody who is unwilling to even do an experimental rfc just submit the draft is not going to do specification required yeah but specification required can be you post something to your blog right this is a go doing an rfc even if it's through the independent stream is more of a burden dave so in response to barry my question is so what so what on which you you were you were laying out a possibility of uh some um let's call it casual uh uh behavior which might have some uh uh challenges in utility so posting to a blog might or might not actually uh be useful um and so they register a name and they only post to a blog um and gee that's that doesn't work very well let's let's just take that case which is just what i assume uh why you mentioned that as an example and to which my response is so what their their option perhaps isn't useful so what yeah that basically what i was saying i'm agreeing with you there yeah no what i was saying is that as opposed to having to do an rfc which is what they have to do now which which is oh okay i thought you were raising it as a worst case an example of a worst case scenario so specification required is an entirely reasonable barrier but it's a very high barrier if we're trying to lower the barrier"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:46:02",
    "text": "then get rid of the damn barrier and that's why i proposed first come first serve yeah right sorry i i yeah okay and i'm just pointing out though that first come first served is a significant change and if we're really looking to make minimal changes to the document we have to consider that so i i hansjorg who was patiently listening to our bickering all this time uh yeah hi this isn't indeed i might probably have a little bit of an unpopular opinion here so um i was wondering for myself uh for quite some time actually with any ayanna registry that's i'm not really sure if this is a core part people use a lot actually and you know i'm they do yeah they do i'm wondering actually i mean i i i totally understand why this discussion sort of is necessary however i'm wondering a little bit like we are discussing here something for quite some time now um which actually is probably not even as such a big deal because just not so many people will actually ever register something here i mean one could argue because currently these policies are too strict but i'm actually sure that's not the point the discussion in my opinion rather should be on a much more meter level maybe like you know how in general could could ayanna registries made more useful for users of the services and doesn't that kind of stuff need redesign overall i know that it's probably too big of a topic yeah right now it's probably out of scope that's why i said it's an unpopular opinion maybe well so so i guess the point here is um and i have no data and so i'm just sort of groping but it may be that that people who have cockamamie ideas that are not really useful are deterred from putting them into their stuff by having to do an rfc and they can't do an rfc because we're never going to do it we're never going to approve an rfc that has this bad idea"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:48:02",
    "text": "and so they don't bother at all and they just don't come with it and if we made it easy they would come with it and put in a lot of stupid ideas i i doubt that that's going to happen i'm not really expecting that if we just said first come first serve with no restriction i'm sure we're not going to suddenly get 300 requests for bad ideas as smtp extensions but maybe john has some data to refute that or dave's next in the queue actually dave sorry i was distracted being too clever responding to me ago so i didn't actually hear what you said you do you mean to be in the queue or oh sorry your hand is up no i i i i was i i thought that barry was asking me a question so i was trying to respond oh i just saw that i couldn't answer sorry right um i can think probably of four documents that will this will affect right away three of them or rx extensions in some common use published by sendmail and others uh one probably fall into the care of their bad idea category um i don't know if it helps us but so i i can see that uh both there are things that are not registered because of current registration procedure and i can also see some cases which might might not be registered depending on which bar you know which level we"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:50:00",
    "text": "pick basically and i'm perfectly okay with seeing a few bad ideas come in and get registered but i wouldn't want hundreds john i'm uh i think we're spending far too much time on this discussion than it is worth relative the rest of the agenda and uh and we either take this the mailing list or drop it and uh and adopt the principle of minimal change which i of absolutely minimal change which i would oppose as well but um but i think we're going around the circles right now and the fact that i'm having trouble hearing speakers who are speaking almost next to micron into the mic uh doesn't help much but it's just an added aggravation we're spending too much time on this okay so yeah uh just doing a mic check is this mic any better for you to hear from john uh no okay that's the same and i i'm right now i'm right up against the mic so no no though as as i said it's uh it's about the same i uh i can hear you barry when you're speaking close to mikey clearly i've had trouble hearing other people who are a little more trouble hearing other people but it's still very faint okay right um buddy i will delegate you to follow up on the mailing list on this i will do that gosh you can just never predict which topic is going to be easy i thought this one will be easy one so you better help me out on the next one please"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:52:00",
    "text": "oh by the way uh so john had technical problems so he was late so i talked about this already so yes thank you though um all right uh moving to the next one is one of the issues that john lewin raised was about verify being required command and observing that a lot of implementations either don't implement it or just have a stub implementation um so one thing that we sort of discovered while researching this um issue is that uh verify actually can be a capability and emitted by some mtas it is however not registered with ayana which probably should be fixed so basically the question is should should the document either say that verify may be implemented but doesn't does is not required or uh alternative we can just keep verifying the document and say if it's implemented then you have to emit verify verify capability thoughts comments john divine yep and the interest is minimal change i would you know i always say leave it in and say it's requested i mean just leave it in and require it since like i said if you don't actually if you don't want to actually provide a useful answer you're allowed you're allowed to do it to do a stub you know in my poking around it appears that in fact everybody does everybody does just do a 252 so that would also match existing existing practice"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:54:04",
    "text": "okay so uh right maybe there's a sentence saying about the stub implementation then or or is it right well i think you know it already allows this stuff um yeah i don't remember where the sentence allowing is the stub implementation is it may be okay already yeah i don't think the text quite allows the sub implementation there is uh certainly text saying that verify should should spend more energy trying to verify addresses than rcpt2 does which kind of the opposite of what we are proposing i can't jon uh yeah just remember too that we've got enough loopholes in uh in five three two one even uh for uh for not doing things if they don't seem sensible or don't seem operationally reasonable or seem insecure that an implementation or configuration which doesn't feel like supporting verify simply leaves it on the hello list and moves on so one can not implement this while implementing it or something like that that's an argument for no change um yeah so maybe i think what we are"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:56:01",
    "text": "it seems like it would be nice to add some text to as but maybe the base pack doesn't need to change is it roughly what i'm hearing or maybe not at all john would you like uh do you think we should have some text about verifying in is if we don't do a change to the base pack i i think if people want to we can clarify the existing rules a little bit because it's convoluted and different sections i believe after trying to review them say things but uh but it's very very easy to read them in ways which the uh in which what said it's not consistent or is he is even contradictory so that may be a little maybe a little straightening out but i don't think there's a strong case for making any substantive change here like trying to deprecate the thing okay pete was in the queue and he said what john said um todd yeah just to clarify the earlier bit about stop appearing in the spec or not the word stub doesn't but um in section seven three it speaks of if a site disables these commands for security reasons and one of the commands is verified the smtp server must return a 252 response so that kind of speaking toward the sub to the stub topic without actually using all right all right fine uh okay so i think what i'm hearing is or what i would like to propose is"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:58:00",
    "text": "no change in the base pack uh if people want some extra explanation in as we can discuss this on the mailing list the separate minor issue about verified capability we can just take this directly to ion i think john do you want me to go through and see if i can see just clarification and editorial cleanups to this collection of statements about verifiers so we just let that go um i think it would be useful there might be like three sentences in different parts of the document that might look contradictory but maybe you just need to cross-reference saying this is what you know typically is done but look at x yeah okay i think that would be useful my guess is it'll be a few words here and there and maybe some cross references but but let me make a proposal on the mailing list okay sounds good [Music] right moving on uh john levine raised another um question about what is restricted capability client section three three restricted capability client must not assume that any smgp server on internet can be used as their mail processing relaying site um so uh i think it's it's a valid question what what is meant by the student capability client um also depending on what it means uh if this is talking about open relays"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:00:01",
    "text": "not not being a good thing uh then maybe the text is misplaced and should be moved um john levine would you like to talk more about this one i think i would i didn't understand what restricted capability client meant and i just you know it like if it if it means it like the example i gave is my printer which sent which sends notifications to one address i mean if that's what we mean by a restricted capability client then the advice is fine and maybe we should define restricted capability client better i thought it might i thought it meant an mua that knows how to send mail to anybody but doesn't know how to it doesn't know how to find an mx in which case then it's the advice is kind of wrong so i guess yeah so yeah yeah my preference is just to be a little clearer about what we mean by a research capability client pete yeah um now that i read the sentence do we just mean clients i mean no client should assume that any smtp server on the internet can be used as their mail processing relaying site well i mean it's about open relays that then it's in the wrong section i i think that's what that is referring to i mean it it it's you know there you might not be able to get to an open relay you might not be able to have something that acts like a submission server um it you know not every smtp server on the internet can be used as a mail processing uh relay site uh unless someone thinks we meant something different there and and i mean maybe it should be moved but basically you're saying drop restricted"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:02:00",
    "text": "capabilities yeah we're not saying anything magical there as far as i can tell i i'll go re-read the context but i think it's just clients john the the first observation is that uh uh as as the several exchanges between john levine and i um uh indicated prop probably indicate this this text is confusing and horrible and in my defense i didn't write it i was told to put it in um [Music] and we certainly need to clarify it one of the clarifications is that it was this sentence and a few others that caused me to raise the question as to whether we wanted to switch back to smtp sender rather than and smtp receiver rather than smtp client and smtp server because i think this texas intended to talk about smtp clients not muas and that immensely changes the meaning what's going on here although it still doesn't make it clear uh and uh and again the uh the note i sent to the we are the morning about this may at least clarify what the problem is if not what the solution is and i have no opinions today beyond that okay dave so as i posted there's sort of two different uh lines of thinking that can go with this text the first is do we know of existing operational problems being caused by this text i think the answer is no i think that the concern being concerns being raised are by the static reading"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:04:00",
    "text": "of the text and thinking about it rather than having reports that argues against making any changes given the nature of the current working group effort that said there are problems with this text first of all the idea that software makes assumptions doesn't make any sense which invites confusion about this the second of all this actually is not text that is operational it isn't specifying it it isn't specifying a meaningful action or prohibiting it isn't meaningfully prohibiting an action that makes any sense and that argues for just dropping this text completely because we don't know we don't seem to know of what problem this is trying to the text is trying to solve we've just had several people make some guesses about it but we're not sure and so if the text is confusing which it clearly is dropping it in the absence of knowing what problems it's picking uh would would actually be the simplest thing to do leaving it given that we don't know of field problems it's causing is the other choice so dropping it or keeping it make the most sense changing it does not okay uh speaking as a participant i would be in favor of dropping it john i feel really strongly about this and i will drop it if people tell me to drop it but uh but i am reluctant to remove text that uh the drums the drums are yam i don't know which one at this point uh put in uh without without understanding what that was intended to say uh so i would argue for"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:06:01",
    "text": "clarification in preference to dropping if we can figure out what that clarification means and i think clarifications are clearly in scope okay and i offered a hypothesis about what it means the um the text from 5321 we we've omitted one word from this sentence here that the sentence actually starts with the word consequently and it is contextually it is sort of talking about um open relays so that may inform any future direction we take on this text it doesn't just say restrict capability clients must not assume it says you know that the prior sentences these restrictions may make the server useless as a relay for clients that do not support full smtp functionality consequently restricted capabilities must not assume in any server on the internet whatever so i just want to throw that out there yeah todd i i think it's still a a lousy construction um but uh by the indeed when this is taking context with the uh with the associated text it it makes some sense and actually gives a clue as well speaking about what he was intended so a very small amount of this problem is that the text is recorded out of quoted repeatedly out of context john said that uh it looks like this text was quoted repeatedly out of context because we the previous sentence is not quoted"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:08:12",
    "text": "john can you suggest a clarification to the sentence john clenson in real time though no no uh uh yeah i'm i'm like in the next week or so um let me uh let me try to do that next week or so and uh uh and if john if the other john wants to have an office conversation about how that fits should be written i would appreciate it uh i would also appreciate for your reputation in mind if you would clarify how his last name was pronounced before we get completely confused okay pete yeah um i asked in the chat room uh john you you indicated that if we can figure out what this means you'd prefer to clarify it what if we can't figure out the history of this sentence would you be more inclined to drop it or more inclined to just leave it there and ignore it and anyone else can answer as well but i i'm curious what your particular take on this was um my my my prediction especially when it looks at the context of this half sentence uh is that we will be able to figure out what it means so i hope you're i put your case is entirely hypothetical uh having said that if we can't figure out what it if we cannot make it clear that i prefer dropping it then leaving it there okay all right so yeah i i think that's probably the best way forward is john will propose a clarification if we can agree on it great if not uh if it generates lots of other discussion and confusion then we'll just drop it"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:10:00",
    "text": "i i i i do think however the condition for that is that it is that everybody make a good faith effort to to to read whatever it is i write and then see if we can either fix it or agree rather than not agreeing in order to take it out in order to take this text out and that was the reason i was a little bit reluctant to answer each question yes absolutely everybody should always act in good faith are you joining the queue pete no no all right okay okay moving on uh to the next issue that i would like john and john to discuss um this is around nullimax and some terminology up here here i am nope here here i'm not um did you put in the other the other slide that i suggested about this yeah there is no slides yeah here we go yeah so the question is yeah we have a host that handles mail for yeah so here's the setup mail.example.com handlesmailforexample.com but not for itself so if someone sends so if someone addresses a message to mail.example.com what should it say and as the next slide suggests we have we have two competing answers one is 550 which is what it normally says and the other is 556 which says it's a null mx"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:12:00",
    "text": "and while i don't think 556 is wrong i don't think it's i also don't think it's realistic i think in my experience mail mail servers know what domains they handle and they know what domains they don't handle but they don't know any they don't know why they don't handle other domains so this basically would require every time a receipt two fails you know it's got to do an all mx lookup and say oh i know i know what's going on there and it's actually you know it's it's it could be surprisingly complicated because um it is not rare for mail servers to have 100 different names i mean like at microsoftoutlook.com every the mail server has a name has the mail server has has a name for every domain that it handles you know so there's a lot of possible looking up there so my inclination is just is i think not not to change anything and 550 550 is the normal response for not our mailbox john clancy actually i just both stay in the queue and just you're the people who who seem to understand the issue you know i i to be honest i was a bit confused um i want to agree with john on two things one of which is that this this gets rapidly and and the other is that probably we're better off just leaving it alone not going to disagree with that sorry did you just suggest no change basically no change to the document"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:14:07",
    "text": "okay okay moving on uh right this and the following issue is actually um slides are now out of date because uh discussion on the mailing list moved on a little bit but we don't have a proposal text so this is uh basically clarifying about when [Music] like how blind copies and rcpt to work and also when the foreclose in the received header fields can be inserted um john clanson um you had a proposal you would like to pursue um [Music] i think this this needs some cleaning up and uh um and i don't know whether it's best cleaned up here or in the as i think the minimum change argument are used for the as but uh but that would still require some changes here uh and uh uh and i outlined um several cases partly the"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:16:02",
    "text": "complexity here is that the statement discussion of blind copies which i of course wrote as my fault uh is is itself problematic because the uh the an smtp server which is following the rules uh has no idea what's a blind copy of what isn't and uh and this gets inexorably tied up with four and uh and i think what i've said on the mailing list is probably more articulate to what i can say this morning right so um you propose to have a look at this i suggest so firstly uh i talked to pete and he was happy to help you out with this if you like his help i i i always appreciate constructive help and peace health is always constructive okay so petraeus thumb up uh so um you will have a look at this text uh suggest clarification uh or you know things to delete things to add i think probably the best way is just you suggest set of changes we'll review it on the mailing list and then we decide which one goes into base pack which one goes to as if any works for me okay um again uh if we can get this done within a couple of weeks that would be great i think we need to to do some kind of"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:18:01",
    "text": "aerobic exercise in the room everybody is sort of like come on come on exercise exercise jump up and down uh well they already had so much coffee there you know um right trying to get through the rest uh as energetically as possible this is a follow-up on the discussion we had at the january interim about the text which seems to prohibit list exploders to add any header fields uh i think where we'll end it with this on the mailing list there are four options no change remove the set uh in option one uh the sentence and the discussion is actually listed second choice remove the sentence um third replace it with this change to mail from doesn't affect the header section of the message for this change uh replace it with the this change to mail from doesn't affect the header field that is already present in the message um i don't want to have the whole discussion all over again so i pro i think john and i are happy with choice three and four if people have any strong object objections if people have preferences for either three or four maybe we can have a quick discussion here battery set three ken says whatever"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:20:02",
    "text": "pete is shaking his head as well okay and the winner is number three um i mean uh realistically number three and number four is kind of so close that i don't think it matters in absence of any objections i think john please implement change number three and i can close this issue sorry i was distracted by an emergency telephone call the only advantage of four over three is that if there was some weird case which so far nobody's been able to identify that uh that would uh would cause somebody to want to put a um trace or other sort of receipts other sort of fields into the message that indicated what was done here uh three prohibits that probably and four does not accept that three is uh except that there's already text there and says you can't cannot change any header fields that's already in the message so they're uh right right click i i guess you write me down is indifferent and if the consensus is three i'm happy with it okay mary gal this is barry lieber um the way i read this is the the the text that isn't quoted that comes before this just says you have to do this stuff to the mail from yes you change the mail from the only thing that we need to say is and we're just talking about the mail from here it does not affect the message headers and that's the straightforward thing"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:22:02",
    "text": "that and that's why i prefer three i don't mind four but i think three is all we need to say and it's less confusing than anything else wow okay all right all right okay so what's that they've had a question in the in the chat room um in the the jab room whatever so okay yeah this is pete to answer dave yes i i think the reason we need to say something here is because people have had trouble with this people think that changing the mail from means that they have to change the from field in the message which is a bad thing and this clarifies that we only mean changing the mail from doesn't affect the message header in any way as far as instruction goes there's an instruction here um that we're going to be leaving in which talks about changing the mail from but that doesn't affect the header section so i think this clarifies and doesn't change what's currently in the text it just clarifies the meaning of what's in the text that people have screwed up in the past yeah and adding to that the reason we want to make some change to this is that some people have interpreted the message header section must be left unchanged is that you're not allowed to make any other unrelated changes to the message header if you're a male exploder and we want to dissuade them that we want to make it clear that we're not talking about that at all"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:24:01",
    "text": "yeah dave so i'll repeat the point mailing list exploders are acting long after mail delivery they're creating a new message and they're posting it so the problem here is much deeper than this bit of text fixes the idea that we have a separate ticket for that we have a separate ticket about male explorers which i i postpone because ned is not here you're right we need to do some other changes if that's where you're going with it so my to to apply the point here that says option two remove the sentence the sentence is that i mean this is sort of beyond layer violation since it's 53 21 talking about 53 22 topics but it it's sort of beyond that in that it's trying to fix a problem with something that's completely out of scope for this spec the fact that historically it was in the spec at the time was there weren't really meaningful choices were 30 years later yeah let's for what it's worth i i i could live with two i think three adds the clarity that we were trying to get to but i could live with two as well"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:26:01",
    "text": "right let's just go ahead with three and done with this one right right so peter's saying if we're going to discuss alice's and mailing list clarification so there is a separate ticket for this we were supposed to discuss it and ned was supposed to propose some text or possible document but he got delayed so um we are going to do this later so how much time do we actually have left half an hour i'm going to mix up things a little bit because i am in the front and i can um todd do you want to do a quick recap of your slide sure um i posted i've posted several revs of proposed text to the list since january the most recent was earlier this week um incorporating whatever comments have been made after the interim alexi made a few minor comments i have incorporated them in my working"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:28:01",
    "text": "document but haven't posted them to the list or in the ticket or anywhere i would encourage people to look at the list and give it another pass when they get a chance uh let me get you the proper or the the actual subject name here as soon as i can find it in my threads uh the subject is ticket number 54 authentication and encryption for a asrev4 so if anyone uh wants to take a look at the list and make some more suggestions uh i appreciate it but that's really i'm not going to sit here and read the text to everybody today pete sorry i missed that pete seems to be in the queue but i don't see him okay right so um let me make a proposal maybe we have a couple of maybe you can post the latest version we'll have a couple of weeks of comments and then if there are no further comments then ken just can incorporate the text okay it's like one big section with sub-sections you know so but i mean yeah yeah that's fine with me ken loves text already written for him sounds perfect okay are you ready are you ready for the last ticket of the day are you ready to can i get your commitment to be"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:30:01",
    "text": "productive okay right you can see why i did i didn't want to do it earlier right john mentioned some of it earlier on in relationship to other tickets basically question is whether existing use of mta is sufficiently defined whether we want to use senders mtp and receive smtp instead of smtp client smtp server okay and the next slide is definition of mta i wrote this slide long time ago my proposal is to do no change but you know if if we can get some useful discussion out of this topic john uh there's uh a small interesting complication here and i think some of it is changes the working group told me to make this time around and some of it may have crept in in five three two one but at this stage the document contains both sets of terminology in different places and the principle of minimal change would say that uh that we just leave it alone the principle of maximum clarity says we've got to make a decision and i should clean it up and i'm agnostic between those two principles"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:32:04",
    "text": "actually i prefer the minimal change one because it's less work but that's not a very good excuse pete miss pete reznick i i actually would argue in favor of minimal change on um what i now take to be the crocker principle of this really hasn't screwed up anybody as far as i can tell no one has come to us and said what the heck does this mean or that mean i think people get it now sufficiently that we could leave this exactly as it is and it really wouldn't affect implementation at all yes speaking as a participant i i have kind of similar feeling that even though the observation that there might be two set of terminology used is correct it doesn't seem to affect readability of the document shall i quickly close close this ticket and everybody can go home going once ken wants the last word i have no strong opinion on what we do but i just noticed that the proposed text that i have for the as document with regards to enhance status codes uses sender and receiver so in the interest of being consistent i assume you want to change that to be client server"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:34:03",
    "text": "and pete has a response yeah this is pete since john said that there are still instances of both of these floating around in 5321 i think the as could do well to clarify the meanings of these terms and and you know be explicit that 5321 uses both sets of these terms and and they both mean the same you know they both mean the same thing but um i don't think there's any particular reason to go one way or the other in the as we'll pick one when we get to that you know uh discussion but you're going to that as is there for clarification purposes anyway we might as well clarify in there if we're going to do it okay hold on thank you hans yeah is this antioch um i would like to say i probably prefer send a receiver because there's an smt client for me could also be a mail user agent you know sending the email this is actually a client for me um and also like the sender smtp still techn in a technical sense might be an smtp server component and in fact in many situations it is just the same piece of fulfilling the role of a sender smtp and a receiver smtp yeah but i agree that probably it won't have much of an influence on interpreting the rfc but as i hear this is also used in other contexts might be still worth thinking about that okay i think you're volunteering to review the whole document and point out every case where it might be better are you scared yet"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:36:03",
    "text": "yes you cannot leave the room i will lock the door as i said um john yeah in indeed uh following up on the last comment um most of the cases where one senator where the sender and receiver terminology was introduced or reintroduced are cases where what is talking about a uh a single piece of software acting in both capacities and the and that distinction is is more helpful than talking about it is the server or the client it may not be entirely consistent that way and the question i'd like to ask is whether people would object to um simply inserting the sentence that a sentence equivalent to what murray suggested uh into uh in the thing which says that in general these two things are just uh interchangeable these two sets of things just interchange and would move on that that's a clarification which really ought to be made for people reading 5321 bis and not merely in the as okay i think that makes sense i just wanted to be sure that before i put it in that there were were no strong objections on the claim that it was on the basis that it was a claim we that it was a change we didn't absolutely need okay right with this i think we at the end of the session um"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:38:02",
    "text": "nobody complained okay yeah um i uh i was uh i want to talk about whether we do interims or not so um as you might or might not know i spent probably five hours this week working on slides and communicating with everybody this is taking quite a bit of time um i think it would be nice to be done so we have email format document in walking group plus call very soon uh i would like to maybe have one or two interims to just nail the remaining issues we have some of the stuff we are going to discuss on the mailing list like the whole exciting and registration procedure then again if this is the most exciting topic no let's have an interim to discuss that interim to decide the next set of tickets to discuss on the next interim you might as well get my job then you know just just just just just take it so do people think about interim in a month or two i'd like to make a case for people actually trying to deal with these things on the mailing list the extent possible uh it is at least for me much more much easier to uh get texts into documents based on mail english discussions than to remember what happened in an oral discussion and and transcribe for minutes uh and uh and in theory we shouldn't be making any of these decisions"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:40:00",
    "text": "without confirmation on the mailing list so if between now and the next ietf for the next interim or the next lawn party uh we can all pay more attention to mailing list and uh and and respond to things there make suggestions there um i think it'd be well be much more efficient for me and i and i think for everybody else uh john i i agree but you know from our recent experience obviously interims and video meetings uh serve as a focus point so we do get progress on things we get stuck and unfortunately we sometimes get on the stuck on little things absolutely and it's been very clear that the interims have caused a uh a focusing of attention and a burst of activity which is worthwhile uh i was just making a plea for and and and based on experience that's the right thing to do i was just making a plea for a change in behavior if you want to schedule an interim and then we can accomplish a lot of the mailing lists and then cancel the interim i think that'd be great that would be fine with me uh yeah uh this is pete just to agree with that i would prefer you get the interim scheduled because getting getting time on the calendar for a good block is sometimes tricky and uh you know getting it on the calendar and if we have to cancel it is way better than waiting to see if we need it and then trying to squeeze it in fine so uh todd and i will try to pick a date maybe early next week early next week pick a date you know in a month months month or or two you know now we'll we'll just have interims monday tuesday wednesday thursday and friday next week and until we get everything done um"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:42:02",
    "text": "murray yeah there it goes um i'll be away most of next month so if you need anything please let me know before then otherwise i'll pick up whatever you have for me when i get back okay thank you so with this the meeting is closed any other business yeah come on is it is it uh okay it's a question for the draft actually okay yeah fine sorry for but i mean maybe for it anyway uh so when i was looking through my notes i was thinking about what's going on here so i understand you basically went through those two rfcs mentioned in the charter sentence by sentence and try to figure out where there are inconsistencies or clarities right um not quite sentence by sentence but yeah well okay some of us yes paid more attention to some sections so when singing about smtp one thing that comes to my mind which for me at least seems to be unclear in terms of overall rfc coverage is sub-addressing so as far as i know sub-addressing like these plus addresses you should use for uh um or you could use in siri for you know um doing nice things uh with your email it's actually only mentioned in an rc by this guy in front of you it's only insane yeah because it's um so if we are talking about clarification of um rfcs in particular smt prcs it might be worth why i'm mentioning it i don't know okay um it's a local convention even though commonly implemented one so it's kind of out of scope for this mtp itself it was just an observation okay and i jumped in the queue to say if if"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:44:01",
    "text": "we want to put something like that in the applicability statement we can discuss that in the context of the applicability statement but it's definitely out of scope for smtp okay fine on that note i think we're done thank you for thank you for attending thank you for getting up early in dave and murray and maybe others so first come first serve wins as the most ridiculous discussion of the entire meeting i'm happy okay can you send me mao because it's not there it's it's not part of smtp okay it's something that some people have rolled in but it's not okay the purpose of this is is okay"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:46:30",
    "text": "yes"
  }
]
