[
  {
    "startTime": "00:00:44",
    "text": "all right all right it is nine o\u0027clock welcome to AVP for the whole screen oh good yeah because I don\u0027t return it so i cant particle imaging um loads and the goodie girls it\u0027s in the browser if people see it okay it\u0027ll probably look oh yeah alright so people see it ok its people sweet people rated ok I mean I\u0027d rather be poultry but it will do anyway front row is fine how\u0027s the back row Bernard here in the back row you think Petey read the slides talk without sorry I I can\u0027t see you so crazy George is all right um anyway so all right this okay so we have volunteers we have ball and baroda spell checkers in magna from the upper room you are without if you can people are please use the music oh he\u0027ll if you can I\u0027m fund up the attention everybody yell at me to say they hit pay has a little to impress read by taking notes is ball and Varun photo yeah you can guide you downloading fuzzy little different yeah all right blue feet should be going around yeah the bullets out of the the site princess everything if you get automatically because say this mutt at the level are you throwing up 11 0 recommend definitely better control L it talks to her well is it that better not was there we are excellent exit good so yes a blue sheets are going around join the "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:03:46",
    "text": "meeting you know if your remote you do really a sub but want to do oops yeah I have the wrong URL to me to go so hopefully don\u0027t try to go to the medico for sole one of a good time not too much going on there anymore all right oh no well um hopefully to see this before if not we fuck your lawyer um ok working group status so yes we have now you might think looking at the two of us up here you earn a dbx but no you\u0027re in a ticket car because we have merged the working groups so but we are figuring under the name agency far because that was the easiest thing for the data tracker apparently I was hoping to go back to apt but apparently if we did that we would the data cracker would decide that you know this is a group where nothing had happened in five years with the toilet all the status and five years ago nothing sits so it was easier to keep the AVP for days so thank you to Magnus Ronnie for carrying a BP car and we are happily too noble for them and will still be relying on them for helping us understand what happened in a PC to our property sir alright then this big wii virtual start with our then the back and status update which what we\u0027re doing right now then we will have mo doing great marketing and then my very last minute addition say i decided to write this draft there at the welcome reception on sunday and submitted it yesterday afternoon well sure you all right if I now it\u0027s very short and most of the text i copied it takes it from the graph from 2007 so hopefully it straightforward but by what could be talking about that and then at the end if anyone has any other business it couldn\u0027t be a very cold and then we can actually against then we should the payload is in this room after that but i think it\u0027s not scheduled till ten-thirty so people who take a break be doing all right since we heard some definition of lee had one i get to another puzzle as well go 471 RFC published which is better controlled messages to their codex some clarifications for basically the guts of it is what f ir means that you\u0027re using the layer codex but that\u0027s another details thank you nice okay we\u0027ve got for the port for docking oh it\u0027s more oh we missed the abp for what we do all of them i can yes and my insistence so i get to RFC\u0027s published "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:06:48",
    "text": "from david course I\u0027d one is the RTP circuit breakers and the other one is the RTP multi-stream so yeah even better than we thought okay oh yeah so that we\u0027ve been for documents in this raft i believe all of these are blocking bundle but I\u0027m not sure Oh splicing as well that\u0027s why things are ions and i\u0027ll see if your eye on oxy b-52 3285 peace all right we got 135 fists and the other three unbundle so i think now great rid is probably also the qat budget that doesn\u0027t matter anyway they\u0027re all in this rest the screens are basically we\u0027re done unless anything here comes up in all 48 which hopefully it was and even then that\u0027s mostly between the authors in this and the RFC editor so that\u0027s also that also counts as productive for us and then milestones is this Corp you still have to do so let\u0027s talk about that so aria um it\u0027s venule 2 comments on an aria stuff to us is one save me my back people on the front total clarity it\u0027s a bad spot for lady this in again it\u0027s a bad blogspot too i dropped my lap this is we were starting so the i forget the name of it but the one that is with me with the ietf re SG is right SRT p I think that is ready to go cant rember if we need to go back to ETF last call I had some questions for the Shepherd or chairs that whoever it\u0027s now shepherding which you decide that and that i\u0027d like to get cleared up first that should be easy enough in particular there were some comments and the Shepherd\u0027s review about some outstanding reviews that I wanted to see if they happened or if they were still needed the other one I\u0027m waiting for the working group okay all right okay so yeah the one thing to go through the side is what should happen I mean I am of course happy for Magnus and Ronnie to keep Shepherd and graphically we\u0027re already doing but if they don\u0027t want to do the work i also understand that so um any comments from your bio Eckert look review with shepherding this one of it Ronnie okay i\u0027m the shit up for this one little East will be too I don\u0027t find if you want me I can just have me finish that it\u0027s probably if you\u0027re not to try to have to have knowledge wrestling okay okay I\u0027m gonna try to finish this percentage and answer "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:09:49",
    "text": "that is Jenny and comment about the reviews that then I\u0027ll have to go back because as far as I as far as I remember then we did all of it it just for the SLPP was the last change look because lady was just taking out the SS registration from the document because that was the comment that were made to the I think to the IDF last call about the concerns about registering doing a stunt attract no comment and of course it\u0027s no information on the area is OPP rref it up today alright so the issue was that s death was better track required don\u0027t even yes I think this is the major problem in the moon at least when I was looking if I was it\u0027s not clear why the Estes is requires a standard trac RFC while the SLPP and the what\u0027s the other one the Mikey person trick doesn\u0027t require so basically asasta pls this should have the same registration requirement but that\u0027s not up to to us to do that so that\u0027s that\u0027s a problem of the documents have created those registry I\u0027m not going to fend defend the SS policy we have lots of policies that are inconsistent it don\u0027t make sense I would have to look back at that one to make any any a judgment if people think that\u0027s the problem one can always start an effort to change policies all it takes is a RFC updating some other RFC I have to say I\u0027m not terribly enthusiastic about doing new workout security descriptions um I tend to agree on that too now actually oh we\u0027re talking yeah we\u0027re talking about security descriptions I keep being the 2\u0027s says it\u0027s okay oh yeah yeah that\u0027s one there\u0027s reasons for that policy oh is that part of the story people using it I kind of okay so I mean I mean so I guess the question I would always have this arm given that we want to discourage you or using the strict security descriptions do you know do we actually want to publish the RAS very descriptive news at all I mean it\u0027s not i mean this this document doesn\u0027t do anything about the it\u0027s just registered this security profile in in the registry that\u0027s all it does i mean because they are not by the way all right surface is i think it\u0027s in its informational or something that\u0027s that\u0027s there but it\u0027s it just they only I had a problem also with this comment saying we don\u0027t want to have a standard dr. Eck document registering something that is not that is a sum that it\u0027s a country-specific codec or something but I mean the "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:12:53",
    "text": "registry should be more easier to handle on this case I don\u0027t understand what\u0027s the White was in the first place in and the answers I got to a not releasing the answers i got when i try to figure out why this like that they were saying we don\u0027t remember i we just did it this way there\u0027s no really thought behind it i think it connects I think the registry is the way it is because when you\u0027re updating something as fundamental of the security of this stuff we want it to be reviewed by the working group that was it right SFTP investigation required right so maybe that\u0027s wrong do we care right I mean you know it was it was they just were formed at different times with different like by the time we were on dtls srtp the general motivation at ITF that the wind had shifted to the we should let anybody register anything they want otherwise they just sit on our code point so they should be free for everyone unless there\u0027s not enough of them are something like we\u0027re discussing so it doesn\u0027t really matter I\u0027m is there it is any of these registration policies causing a problem now other than their inconsistent I guess I well I guess the question is can we get a EDF consensus on registering this point the VRA people want which is right that that attract so I I think that what we do is only the registration of the code point not the Aria underlying outlet right yeah i mean what why couldn\u0027t we it should be like 10 seconds yeah I hear you know yeah who does anyone object to doing oh a corroded the great the security ad object um no but just know but he objects to area being a standard tracks algorithm write something which is not okay originally stewed work two or one right and the objection was that that seemed to give Aria the cachet of a standard strike draft so now we\u0027ve split them right so the srtp one and the one that\u0027s describing the I think the ones describing the cipher suite is is informational and that\u0027s what we\u0027re talking about today the one that\u0027s the one that is before they write but then the working group has to figure out what they want to do with the other way base what I\u0027m trying to do here maybe I was up there you know what I mean I you know personally I had the problem with you know the security descriptions registration being a senator document but I just worried that trying to get secor that we want to do a ITF consensus on a cipher double cipher he doesn\u0027t like using a key mechanism he doesn\u0027t like might be challenging you know sometimes you just need to be challenging with a DS I don\u0027t mind helping with that um look I think that you know my point of view is if the working group decided to take on this work and put a milestone for it at that point in time we more or less agreed to "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:15:54",
    "text": "give it a code point um you know like that that\u0027s ridiculous to go back on all those decisions at this point in time I mean we\u0027ve got exactly the right solution I strongly support what we\u0027re doing and I am willing to argue with the isg it\u0027s the right thing okay so so have it emits calling volunteer to argue my name is Kristen yeah I mean in the discussion we had before I think he\u0027s lost meeting I think it Chris position was that if it is having different policy it wouldn\u0027t be considered vetted by ITF and therefore not really approved so that\u0027s what did receive a shame to policy but I think the right thing you asked out to do with area it\u0027s just to push it through next milestone is called about our duty which is your own video a bonus oh I don\u0027t think so i think the last time we met we discussed it maybe a year ago and the output of that was that we\u0027re ready the documents ready it needs some work on the Security section but apart from that it needs wider review I think some people Wallin tiered but i did not get any feedback so i guess we need to run through the thing again anybody want to go on here at this time and actually mean it you\u0027re pointing at somebody who you\u0027re putting it hemel oml is gone Emil volunteered last time or yeah the email looks very shocked with this in some fantasy where think it means like a year ago you volunteer group leader taka yeah but one was not enough I think we need more so okay anybody else like to volunteer a beautiful image ideally with the time with a deadline I\u0027m not volunteering but I\u0027d like to sort of feel like you should try and get Ted Hardy to review it uh yeah they\u0027re different work for you do that you want to volunteer any of people work for your column does that give the or 12 all right so so that being said I guess the main point here is that it needs to view I think it just expired today so I guess the question I should I just do my bit orchard job I mean I\u0027d say if you want to go keep alive and the reference update is to make show that it\u0027s still there all right i mean the graphics firing doesn\u0027t matter very much with you sued because they actually still say enough accessible but it can\u0027t get never hurt her own even so what do you want to be able to do it and plus cold for sleep user sounds like I mean if you know that there\u0027s still no patience and security variances probably not ready for from the past all but I think certainly doing a set of reviews "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:18:56",
    "text": "for free I powered here yeah I think it would be nice because it\u0027s being implemented and by various people and I\u0027ve gotten feedback from implementers so it\u0027s kind of ready from that perspective a last time we discussed that we should put something for security there and there\u0027s some discussion of like with what way we want to go with this I believe some people in in the IETF are working on NPR DP with srtp do TLS thing some we don\u0027t have to wait for that we just have to say that there might be multiple ways of doing this yeah probably even site there you could cite the you know there are we at the RT member but the rioters not a single triple fool driver could be but the two to draft a two other teas are not mandatory esta articulating on mended ok so yeah so I guess FML are you actually well turd ok pull the mill sets will review it and um I guess New York is asking something that huh I was on the road do you want to reach out to attend heartiness hearken unto glory I know of him so I could but I don\u0027t know if that gonna be sufficient but I can reach out and see if if I get up in back if I don\u0027t then I\u0027ll okay all right multiplexing guidelines I think oh so that\u0027s all multi thought okay that\u0027s okay 35 right if you\u0027re sorry can you have myself here good dirty talk this is in aiding review so it\u0027s better there anything cooking there just or find us what you up like it but then it\u0027s like a mile and a half to walk yeah some yeah minus with lunch yes so there\u0027s two comments which shacks needs what I think yeah so but yeah they are not closed yet but it\u0027s remember how do you think that I actually remembered olive oil I just looked at them new one is one is about security security requirements on related to stp offer answer and brownie game you the first comment was about there was a texture about that you can do it if you because it\u0027s negotiated support for the tube a mode that you it support both or one bite and to bite but there was a cop there was a texture saying that you can do it also if even if you\u0027re no negotiation if you have some other ways to know that it the other side supports that and that was "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:21:58",
    "text": "the comment from from been about it the reason that is that it\u0027s because it mostly was because in the cases where you\u0027re doing a declarative sdp you don\u0027t get a response in we don\u0027t know if the other side supporters and in order to do this mix of one back to do by then you have to know that that is supported by some other means that\u0027s the major reason for that it was not saying that negotiation is nothing that you want to talk about this now or you want us to take it offline it\u0027s pretty easy so I\u0027m is it uh I mean probably on the downer I mean it get something quick to say otherwise quickly going to say that one could say when using oftener answer one must if one is using the other mechanisms all right and and what about the second issue where did yeah yeah yeah and then the other question I have is what you do with Shepherd for that and you want to keep it I can continue considering that we actually already native elation so you mostly they never does not a lot to do a lot of them oh yeah yes so I expect your only to do an update here to resolve this so all right now we\u0027re not now mother put some guidelines okay recap of history here so multiplexing guidelines in all those one a half years ago in Yokohama we discussed this document and considered okay we need to scope it down focus it etc and that was a significant editor task which I I kind of took on but never have gotten to each other things so and and the question is there anyone who\u0027s actually willing to do any editing on it now so I I might suggest if you actually drop this milestone rather than keep on I\u0027m doing it would be good to have the document but I don\u0027t know I I don\u0027t really have the time for I mean I guess the question is this document um you know is it like a needed I mean I know that there was I feel like it was sort of a it\u0027s all such a position paper when we were fearing a bundle but now that bundle is in consent as we have more or less consensus on what that looks like it is still needed yeah so I mean that\u0027s opposed to kind of refocus and say okay trying to be clear on giving actual guidance form from the position we have after Bongo a little all other things come into place let\u0027s say so it\u0027s it would be good I still think you can "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:24:58",
    "text": "figure out most of it from other sources but it\u0027s just that you you have to look in round bits to figure out how its land lies saying what to think about it but yeah I I think it\u0027s there\u0027s lack of energy to actually complete this so Ronnie Evan so but I thought madness are there any documents that reference is documented information yes there are a few reference on it so but it\u0027s what and it shows up by thinking in the multiple media types for example and it shows up in the how to pay love how to write file formats I think that\u0027s too which I know why would be sad say word Robin a we\u0027re not going to publish document it turns out to be in the web RTC dependency check I would probably not look it up well it\u0027s it\u0027s an information reference anyway and I mean I can go back and look at how it drifted because I looked at this in the for the how-to and said trying to basically removed from their sub because it was really not that needed in that document some of these similar in this rap that means they\u0027ve already been approved publication model of it I mean these documents should be an information anywhere being you finish reference it\u0027s not blocking in the documents so you want to get published as a reference to the final vertically ID you wrote no I\u0027m us i mean yeah i can actually i can send an email to do list okay then make it make clear what what\u0027s the reference this exists and what it\u0027s not a lot of energy to finish it must of the Collin I see you\u0027re on the kind of the other thing to comment on this or you look even burn the medical / take a bit and ever again he\u0027s in the room but I don\u0027t oh here he comes freedom I can hammy yes hi I think like magnesite and out of cycles to work on this a great would be good to do it but I can\u0027t see myself having time to do so in the future all right so it sounds like in the absence of any editor if every time to work on our nothing any other volunteer to be ready if I\u0027m willing to take a look and see if i can walk how it isn\u0027t decide whether but i can be an ethical and need help from Agnes and calling them in food with the text button text with it I don\u0027t Magna video could you be wounded if if Molly take the primary editing plan are you going to help me so we\u0027ll i\u0027ll talk with Medusa bodensee hopefully "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:27:59",
    "text": "I\u0027d like that because I think it\u0027s important to finish this docomo [Music] lrr is mine I think we\u0027ve been on these slides saying ready for working with last call for a year now and I\u0027m thinking at this point just go ahead and do it I mean you\u0027re trying to make sure that we had all the interdependencies with trademarking we were not going to say that um so I think I i think the lrr is ready and then he\u0027s been marking relationships to it and you figured out in trademarking so i would suggest that since i\u0027m the author on that you want to go ahead and do a booking the best of all I\u0027m totally half a minute okay buddy looking the left column at and free marketing is on nigga so only 15 minutes late but no execution so I think I\u0027m ready to start trademarking let somebody a little more on the feather edges but well if you\u0027re to this fine yeah but yep we are now in a half an hour some people probably figured on things happening operatives in the time I know I did okay so this is the video frame marking arts better extension version for slide please just a quick review of why we\u0027re doing this work the goal is to have a narc middle box will call here are two piece which it could be sfu or one of the other topologies but the key point is that it\u0027s a middle box that wants to avoid deep payload inspection and number one to avoid decryption and some architectures may not even be able to perform the decryption may not have been Dinky\u0027s required to look at the at the media payload so work would be a prime example that I mean even if it did have the keys for for scale it would be advantageous to avoid having to decryption if it could so that\u0027s another motivation and then finally you can design your middle boxes hopefully to be payload agnostic so that even future payload formats can be supported transparently and that\u0027s another goal of this work so that all media payloads that conform to certain basic requirements can use the same header extension and allow the middle box do forwarding decisions without even knowing what the payload is next slide and some some other motivations around "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:31:01",
    "text": "improving the operation of both the middle box and the end points we can get better recovery when you have packet loss scenarios identifying where the start and end of frames are is tricky with current payload floor mats and this unifies it and makes it more robust you can do clean video switching at iframes so you can identify when each recipient has all of the packets necessary for intra refresh and under congestion switches can make decisions about the relative importance of packets so if it has the draw packets towards a particular endpoints downlink it can make an intelligent decision about that drop and they can drop entire layers if it wants to bring down the the quality of a particular stream to a particular receiver and endpoints can also use this header extension for some of the same benefits the better information about starting in frame markers allow better recovery so you don to decode and display dirty artifacts next slide okay so this is the extension as it stands right now if you remember in the last version we actually forked it into two different versions of it a short form in a long form so this is the full long form it has the layer IDs that did layer ID and teals there pickin index fields and that\u0027s when you have length equals 2 and the 50 285 length is 11 plus so 2 here actually means three bytes following it that\u0027s the long form and the short form if you put length 0 then you only have one bite afterwards which is basically the flags the frame flags sei DB and the rest of the course of the fields are emitted next slide please so the changes that we made there were some comments about what if the middle box doesn\u0027t have all the information required for all the layer IDs and so the earlier verte in version 3 we said that the short form was only for non scalable strains so if you had no scalability in the stream you use the short form if you have skilled lid in the stream you have to use a long form and so there was English to type out that right you get their reversed no I think it\u0027s right so okay it\u0027s it\u0027s contort head it was for the nonce Caleb all right the short header was for the non scalable and it was only for the non scalable in version 3 there were comments about what if the middle box knows it\u0027s forwarding scalable streams but it doesn\u0027t actually have all the scalability and so it\u0027s allowing the "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:34:02",
    "text": "middle box to use the short header even for the scalable streams so I know I stream is scalable but I really don\u0027t know what the layer IDs of it are so I can still use the short form so the text is there they we recommend using the short header for non scalable streams but you may also use it for scalable streams if you don\u0027t have information about the scalability and then the flip side of that is also allowed so you can use the long version the full full extension even if you\u0027re forwarding non scalable streams and so this may be a simplification and some and some boxes to have uniformity of the the headers as they go out and when you do that you must you must set all of those scalability layer IDs 20 right that would everything was fine with that right okay so next changes a lrr there was a request to have lrr and framework harmonized and so Jonathan I had a at a talk and we look at the different fields and um we think we have what we need it was just a message a few a few minutes before the meeting started about vp9 payload format the VP not scalability fields and I believe that that\u0027s correct it needs to be updated this version of the draft still reflects the old pre working group version of vp9 draft so vp9 changed its scalability information along the way and I think we needed update to include that but I think it still has been for that we need for lr yeah so I had a question Mel I know for temporal scalability we have the tl\u0027s Europe pick index so if you lose a base layer frame you can figure out what depended on it jonathan is we have everything for a loss of say a spatial packet to figure out what what the dependencies are young bucks arm as an individual so the answer is I\u0027m not sure because I so I mean obviously if you have a codec where your layers are numbered sequentially you do but there\u0027s some that are particularly to the tour SVC i think is the DQ ID so they\u0027re actually almost always not going to be sequential arm in which case no you don\u0027t right so in that case yeah you need to know somehow what the structure of you know i mean obviously if you\u0027re a "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:37:02",
    "text": "situation where you know how the leds are interpreted then you can presumably but the part of this is that you can be work for a router which is agnostic to what L IDs which doesn\u0027t know anything about the codec that\u0027s doesn\u0027t know how all I these are encoded so good competition yeah so basically so you know I like the first is I think for on agencies for SVC stream your LEDs will actually be numbered something like how many bits it is but it is only like 0 8 16 24 because the the Q the Q layer is the bottom three bits and the others and the D layer is the upper bits so you like so uh a box which is ignorant of uses for SVC you know sees layer 0 let\u0027s seize they are eight and I panicked ago my god i\u0027m missing layered or something so I\u0027m so I mean I don\u0027t think we list something information what put in the headers themselves because it\u0027s big putting in the signaling of your heart i\u0027m not sure what you\u0027re talking about the the scalability structures yeah the full scale in structure i don\u0027t know i mean i mean full scalability structure would be sufficient but big and I don\u0027t know this necessary definitely not for framework yeah no I don\u0027t think so so unless you want to somehow send it out a band or something cause of it so um yeah so that the current graph does not say that the that the ids should be interpreted sequentially it does say that that higher ID zindagi up higher right fidelity yeah but it doesn\u0027t make the assumption that they should be contiguous in it and of course the mappings show there\u0027s bit fields within those right so you should know is I guess the point is kind of kind of a canvas you know Kotick agnostic middle box tell if something we know whence when something\u0027s missing it upgrade and the answer is no I think it can\u0027t tell when something is missing something\u0027s missing basically like 40 0 0 pick index you can tell the temporal layers if you\u0027re missing a dependency but with spatial you can\u0027t right but there\u0027s also the the B bit which is whether or not you have a base layer siloso be layers in the be faced our sink which likely is another point I want to get to let me finish doesn\u0027t miss much it um is but I mean so but I guess so the point is that so a them I mean if your situation where spatial layers are always the same time stamp then you can tell just by probably but you know whether you are to be sequence numbers missing you know but you know in you know in sufficiently weird layering structures you might not be able to tell but maybe we don\u0027t care I think yeah yeah I think we have this discussion before you if your scalability structure is very complex or not even fixed yeah I think there\u0027s no hope of any yeah no hope of any "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:40:04",
    "text": "extension that would that would simplify things so it\u0027s only for if you have a simple and fixed scalability structure then then this could be useful and your forwarding decisions could be automatic right otherwise there\u0027s really no hope ok so I\u0027m so we want to pick in the draft saying you know this is for you know scalability structures that follow these don\u0027t use it for complicated scalability structures because you\u0027ll have a bad time though sort of basically have some sort of applicability statement saying these are the sort of scalability structures you should use this for don\u0027t use it for anything else because he\u0027ll just confuse people right okay my dad say that can be a good clarification dr. arm the other coming to heaven lrr I think this is good i would strengthen so to the one thing I\u0027d add is in addition to saying they are they they are the same i would say that when you\u0027re defining this for a new codec it you know if your freedom ideas for new codec which supports both lrr and frame marking it must be the same a sleaze have a stronger statement saying for new standards they must we must encode them the same way ok so just must correspond to the CI most yet offered yeah I think they do correspond to the ones who defined and must for anything future defining prefix using both ok yeah that\u0027s that\u0027s a and then the other thing is stronger state are just guidelines for so I think this is just a matter of you know right doing the right thing with the B bit but guidelines for recognizing when you have a layer refresh point it\u0027s probably just do you have the right Dean debt but basically so when how do you know when your lr r has been satisfied he\u0027s gonna mean you sendin lrr four you know al ID you know four to forty five right you get a packet in has it been satisfied so maybe that\u0027s just you know you you know you got a thing with LED 45 and the me get set and that might be sufficient but I think which at least I\u0027ve got have statement to that effect okay okay and then my third comment about the vp9 so no takers getting though these things that have to put in yeah let them so von Bruener could get you to get that I mean me to clarify what I said once again well the whole thing kept let\u0027s just quickly somewhere so you wanted to say first of all you got the must yeah must correspond yeah our must use the same values yeah as as frame markings yeah and then number two number two was in the frame marking graphs it\u0027s just saying I I thought I need to you know make sure this is correct basically saying that when you send an LR are the way you tell what the lr has been satisfied I think is that you get a receive a packet or maybe a start a frame packet this is the detailed who didn\u0027t work out with the be bit set and that TI d and li d in the packet so identifying when layer refresh "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:43:06",
    "text": "has yes through frame working guess right and then the third thing I was going to comment about you\u0027ve mention about the vp9 I confess that I\u0027m moving very rather slowly on the vp9 payload format so it might make sense to pull the vp9 stuff out of this draft and move it into the vp9 draft saying this is how you use this is the encoding for frame marking for vp9 okay that would that would remove the Miss refs that we\u0027re going to get exactly a long time yeah exactly okay and then that also gives us a template for how a new payload format should describe how you use it with frame working okay yep running even just a question about the point you made about the was the lrr why is it important that when you sent it in are all you have to to review it review it in the frame art I mean it\u0027s it\u0027s mostly you have to know it when the encoding but I don\u0027t understand why you need it for me to be to identify it in the frame of um Jonathan so I mean the the goal here is that I wanted to be possible for this codec agnostic middle box to actually both send them receive lr ours so that he can do the layer reefer he can handle the layer refresh without buying the hood a I guess you could avoid forwarding you know partial layer information that you know that the receiver is not going to be able to because you could avoid sending him bad date useless data then I guess you could also start start sending them good data when when the switching points arrived so Ronald so it will not be that simple because the middle books will also need to suppress the request that may come from the from the remote side that would ask for that I mean it\u0027s not like yeah I definitely don\u0027t plan the document of that in frame working I was just document the when you receive a frame marking what does it mean and and and when do you know that that means the lower refresh happened so we can put that part of this in the spec complex things I thick should go on the lrr little box considerations okay so anything else in lr are we good with it okay okay one other thing that um Bernard I think brought up was uh how does this work with repair streams and we updated the document to show that this only applies to the source RTP streams not to the repair streams and specifically only to video payloads so if you\u0027re trying to use this for audio or for fact or retransmission payloads that\u0027s not gonna work it\u0027s not specified "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:46:07",
    "text": "here you need of the draft for that now we\u0027ll note though that really probably what you want is to recover the original packets markings from r-tx or effect and the RTX effect format will tell you usually how to do that how to recover header extensions that were on the original packet so it wouldn\u0027t be this draft showing how how those packets get marked it would be the repair format would actually show how to preserve the header extension of the original packet and Magnus wisdom I guess that actually comes into question how you structure your repair springs I\u0027m thinking about the park use cases here when you went when it\u0027s encrypted etc you need to structure the things right so you you can have visibility into the Paris dreams yeah that\u0027s a son in the we ran to the same issue at flex pack and you\u0027ll see in the in the next hour we have a suggestion for the order between feckin srtp for for situations like Park also going back to my previous question about the lr our stuff then if the middle books dozen lrr then there\u0027s a reverse dream but she doesn\u0027t know about it and why should it senator or are in the first place because I mean it\u0027s like bit contradictory in that case what so again Magnus\u0027s point if you\u0027re an architecture you know like part one of the goals is for the middle box actually participate in the repair and and not be blind to the repair so so in that case the middle box can receive repair and generate repair if it wanted to in that case it would be able to to you know decide whether or not to forward lr RS or whether it has all the information for the for the lair anyway and despite the lrs okay so no objections to I\u0027m making sure that this this only specifies source RTP streams and only video payloads I mean anybody ever come from where\u0027d audio codec if I have to look at alright slide so there was a also a previous draft from Bernard about general considerations when you\u0027re building in SF you it has a lot of things in it not directly related to frame markings but some things do directly relate to frame marking into the previous versions we had a reference to it and I don\u0027t think the work is going to progress so I think the decision was to import the parts that are relevant to frame marking so we did that and the most liberal part is actually we were just discussing a little while ago the scalability "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:49:08",
    "text": "infrastructures when you have fixed fixed scalability formats those scalability structures autistics for male impacts the headers or actually payload units and 265 now in Passy info those those things are pulled over from the from the other aspect so we can we could let it die if I if we want to now without any kind of file reference issue and I think we also need to add the vp9 scalability structure oh we will remove anything about vp9 wheel at the vp9 spec add you can scale scalability structure info alright next one so the first point with open issues that the first point I think we were ready this is not going to support redundancy streams the next the next point something that a meal had brought up when looking at looking at this in the context of perc probably longer discussion that we need to have in in the perk session since it\u0027s going to presenting something about about it there but the quick higher-order bit here is that when when a participant or middle box is using RTP to probe the link and it may only use padding it\u0027s not actually sending any media payload at all just using RT padding to probe the link with different you know bite lengths the the problem is that in part the padding is encrypted the padding it length indicator even is encrypted so middle box wouldn\u0027t know whether or not this is real media or padding only media so may not know whether or not afforded so one of the proposals and real spec is to extend frame markings to be able to indicate that this is padding only one of the things that we considered is maybe this is a good use of the discardable bit if the padding only packets Marc Marquez discardable and middleboxes could drop them if they wanted to and then also another option is um don\u0027t use the real halo type of media stream it\u0027s a little odd to say this is you know 264 vp9 media and you really it\u0027s just padding probe so you could use the effect or retransmit payload type or or even rtcp something that\u0027s not indicating an actual real milk media payload type to do that probing that would be another option so if either one of those are acceptable I think we could avoid the impact to frame marking I mean we will show up thanks for taking that into consideration first of all it\u0027s it\u0027s poor suspect expect but credit get much praise to you and I don\u0027t think discardable would not be enough what\u0027s that don\u0027t hold your hand over your mouth when you\u0027re talking but "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:52:08",
    "text": "it sounds more mysterious this way so I don\u0027t believe this carnival would work because you have this carnival Pakistan Yemen and twin and these basically must be dropped at this DSF you so unless I\u0027m missing some clear way you could distinguish between the two well I\u0027m assuming that this probing phases like precall probing this is not no no it\u0027s dear it\u0027s midco probing okay sorry um what do you can try to do here is this an MP discovery no no this is just families they almost never have it public or you could do in to you also there\u0027s no there\u0027s no actual payload there\u0027s no it\u0027s only padding you\u0027re not just padding out a packet so I\u0027m just concerned that actually so if you send a packet claiming identities for and say it\u0027s only padding but you know what you\u0027re actually sending is a 0 wens thank you for packet with you thought of validating 645 so I don\u0027t see how this is valid at all it\u0027s oddity on the last word I mean yes we could it\u0027s not invalid either and every packet is required to have an alia together so it\u0027s almost like a no-op it\u0027s almost like RTP elephant ya know so no taken up this is not not trying to defend that way of being bandwidth probing that\u0027s how bandwidth probing is happening today in chrome specifically I\u0027m not sure about Firefox maybe it\u0027s the same and the third bullet there the third dash there is a very noble goal um but it\u0027s not how things work today so I I think it would be if you compare the workload necessary to get these implementations to change with the workload necessary to add a bit that says you can drop this um I think it\u0027s it\u0027s clearly easier to just to just add that bit not not to mention that it\u0027s I mean there\u0027s nothing wrong with it it\u0027s a great so my personal view is that the second the second one is the best recommendation that it\u0027s it\u0027s odd to send real media pelo types with no real media in them sorry and then yet avoids Jonathan\u0027s point to that you wouldn\u0027t confuse a decoder by sending at a 00 by agree that this is how things should be done it\u0027s not how things are done so i am going to say i would not say you know saying we\u0027re going to standardize how chrome currently does WebRTC this is like about you know 95th for the list of things they\u0027re currently doing wrong but but but you have to make some change right if we add it in frame marking the implementation has to change to support it so I think it\u0027s in a quick and easy change to do the second bullet use affect payload type for the probing that would be to interpreter us I completely understand these points and it\u0027s I guess it\u0027s just "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:55:09",
    "text": "a matter of implementation preferences and they\u0027re probably alternative solutions that we could just look at and / we have enjoyed a grounder or ones that I figure out your response right um yeah sure but um we reserve ourselves the right to come in beg again for this to be included in frame markings so if anybody\u0027s interested there\u0027s a in the perk session there\u0027ll be a description of more detailed description of this end and another aspect RTX formats for park and is padding only formats so we can follow-up discussion there that\u0027s it i think so i guess we\u0027re not ready Wes long as we\u0027re going to remove the vp9 stuff out of the draft I\u0027ll work I\u0027ll work with you at the Opera see behind a figure we\u0027ll put into the 59 grab yeah okay other than that I think work we\u0027re done alright so hopefully you\u0027ll get a new ground with those feelings of losing better looking for contraband all right all right anything else on good working it\u0027s not do mine my surprise last-minute additions of draft so yeah this came up when you know I\u0027m trying to bully various implementations and to finally moving away from scary descriptions and they said but we\u0027re doing you know aes-256 what should we do and i said i looked at the registry and said hey there\u0027s no registration for aes 256 counter in dtls srtp that\u0027s bad so excellent so well I looked over the I did some you know draft archaeology and discovered that you know the thing that became look at those numbers right I think I got the numbers wrong whatever the detail is our key piece back you know up through like draft 03 of the working group draft had definitions for these but the AES 56 graft itself wasn\u0027t ready yet so i take it out but then those rich never got put into the aes 56 draft be sure this was just an oversight if you\u0027re not going to Cabo gawak automotive them an excellent that\u0027s going to say I don\u0027t I think that was a deliberate decision at the time and the argument for it i recall which may be very hazy it\u0027s a long time ago was that we were trying to reduce complexity of the sure number of security options we need to negotiate and no one had any argument for any use case where this was better than the other ones so it was like why at we were trying just to reduce the comp the implementation complexity of having like note by adding this registration you\u0027re not redoing removing the need to do GCM you\u0027re just adding another thing you have to do as well right so that\u0027s why we removed it back then and I I\u0027m still a very solid argument today I\u0027m going to make it at "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:58:09",
    "text": "the end of this but all right um I don\u0027t I don\u0027t think it was too because uh reference to go away it wasn\u0027t just like oh we can make this miss Roth killer yeah I mean certainly I think there was not the one that he do because nobody cares about 192 but um I mean so I read over the I mean certain i mean i read the if this was the decision it wasn\u0027t documented anywhere because i read over the mailing list archive with from the relevant time period and as none of our decisions made in working group meetings aren\u0027t documented you are correct yes yeah i mean i could see if i don\u0027t know if that was it yeah i mean i could see if i can find the minutes for that or the relevant meetings but um oh let\u0027s hit the root cause here look I\u0027m very sympathetic to like what do we need to convince people to do new stuff so what was the actual problem people had in terms of what what what what you said you went and wrote this because some people didn\u0027t want to move to something be really so know what right now I mean you know they have customers who probably for stupid reasons thinks you want to use aes-256 rather than a it\u0027s 128 for our circuit because it\u0027s more secure oh okay the I\u0027m fully on board with that I know it\u0027s it\u0027s bigger it\u0027s better I have a bunch of customers like yeah and so and so what and but you know these you know their crypto kernels you know don\u0027t have you know gah what counter mode in them and you know it\u0027s subjective certified so it\u0027s not gonna happen anytime soon so basically if I can\u0027t tell them yeah you should great move to teach a lesson straight they said great I say but it means either you have to cut back to 128-bit keying or move to gamma counter mode they say no I think I\u0027ll say what security description so it\u0027d be really interesting to understand which crypto kernels they\u0027re using that don\u0027t have that that do have it for 256 counter mode because that\u0027s the one I\u0027m not a I\u0027m willing to believe there\u0027s something out there I\u0027m not aware of any that don\u0027t have I went this was a year of my life that\u0027s why I upwards of the short answer is ours ah ok I your pip sitter by 2 on it oh I feel your pain and I\u0027m Lauren ok that makes me more positive towards ok yes yeah and the other point is you know Libous rdp actually implemented these code points because as far as i can tell nobody noticed that it got taken out of the draft and so you know i actually i submitted a i pull request on removing them for the beta that\u0027s about to come out because they said hey wait a second this is never defined but then i thought about it that way this is a bad idea i should maybe just define so the next next slide again why not what gives you a few cm and the answer is you want to make it easy to move off of security descriptions and "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:01:09",
    "text": "like I said our crypto colonel doesn\u0027t have you see Evan um that\u0027s fun ok again and thoughts that I mean so i guess colin is saying you know we want to minimize complexity and you know i understand that that\u0027s said like I said the lib srtp has had this in the code for a while now so probably if you\u0027re concerned about what Cisco fermentations will do the problem answers are probably already doing this I mean I know how their new coach I mean it doesn\u0027t matter if they\u0027re already in the code or whatever I know what\u0027s negotiate with a lot of that stuff is we generally move it out of the policy level higher okay so you know in that what we\u0027d offer and what\u0027s generating the SDP is different than what yeah under all those Ricky last nothing you have to be anyway because it\u0027s all in the yeah it\u0027s all in the I\u0027m say I\u0027m doing dtls and figure it out I mean my preferred path to this would be to figure out how to get you GCM code I think that would make the world a better place right um because you know I mean you are if you go down this path you still will not have an implementation that is compliant with dtls srtp rich requires GCM as mt I know it doesn\u0027t not for her to be I mean yeah the dtls I get weird it\u0027s a weird situation we\u0027re not using that for our we\u0027re using different crypto kernels for the dtls part than for the actual srp people are so stupid but it\u0027s the way we don\u0027t want to say okay I\u0027m clearly with things so stupid I don\u0027t want to explain them III don\u0027t know okay I don\u0027t think this is a casual decision I think that this actually makes interoperable harder on the long term and I and I on the other hand would like to make sure that we can make things easier from people trying to actually build stuff so I don\u0027t really know what we should do with this but I do not think this is a trivial discesa and I\u0027m a little I\u0027m certainly sad that were opposite TLS because I\u0027d you know the time I schedule do they wouldn\u0027t have thought that would be a conflict but I wrote this graph yesterday this has been and that you said that I haven\u0027t read the dress but I have a comment okay give talking about we\u0027re talking about a registration in the dtls SFTP protection profile right right right which is specification required not not that\u0027s true we just had that discussion earlier yes um that\u0027s true but that doesn\u0027t mean the working group can\u0027t have a consensus yeah feels like something you know I am you know I i would but yet feels like a very weird thing to do given that you know it\u0027s a you know standards track spec in but yeah I could just yeah but it that bad yeah and all the other thing is they know given of the expert avec earth oh by the way lacquer would seem to be enthusiastic seem to be Lisa so I\u0027m sorry sorry minus whistlin I want to voice my opinion about this because she suddenly understand Callens at the "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:04:10",
    "text": "same time it\u0027s not like we have tons of detail as a satrapy protection profiles it\u0027s only one other 256-bit skied one and that\u0027s das UCM one and in total there is currently six registers two of which are the null cipher you know we never did what I didn\u0027t you ya know which we skip 182 entirely with us cuz everybody knows useless hey so I I do think it\u0027s it\u0027s reasonable thing to actually register for the SFTP cryptos Cypress that we do have a habit ITF consensus on to actually have it possible to negotiate so I\u0027d allow this from not having rather drafts I wrote it yesterday and as understand so when we make a registry specification required it\u0027s usually because if someone\u0027s using crap out there with a consistent number we want that number in the registry so whether we recommend it for use or not is a completely different question that if someone out there is using this number or name or whatever it is then in any way shape or form it\u0027s better to have it in the registry them than to leave it undocumented mercenary they\u0027re just a clear for one thing on Collins point um I think maybe the reasoning would be that you know we allow a bunch of crap into stp because we we all think it\u0027s crafty anyway and and you know love you want to move away from it you know to something else in the future we typically don\u0027t have that philosophy in dtls and we don\u0027t want to pollute detail s with things and so maybe the pushback is that this actually has to go into the dtls a certainty you know profiles you know in those structures and so that does add you know crofton to dt allows something we don\u0027t expect to replace something we don\u0027t want to grow absurdly complex like STP so maybe there is a difference there between allowing a spec to go forward in sdp versus allowing it to go forward in dtls fatal structures this is ben again did I hear you correctly at the beginning of the discussion that this is to enable people who are currently you think security descriptions to moving to dtls srtp and if we don\u0027t do this they won\u0027t um it\u0027s or at least it\u0027s III mean won\u0027t is a strong word but I have to argue with them a lot more and you know this helps enable that yes so then I would say we have a competition of arms here and and which do we hate them which one would you rather have the people moving to "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:07:10",
    "text": "using dtl FFX be worth of keeping the registry clean I mean I certainly not which what I would prefer and like I said I\u0027m still not convinced that you know I need to check the history on Collins point about 56 cuz I just want to highlight look I\u0027m I don\u0027t know what I think about this anymore okay okay um because all good points made it too much okay um but I do worry that let\u0027s say we go down this path and these people do exactly what you\u0027re proposing here we now have just created dtls srtp your implementation will not interoperate with our implementation and that sounds like a failure of the ITF and I\u0027m not saying that means you\u0027re showing the one code point I meaning the problem is you do not have a detail SSR to be implementation unless you implement the MTI ciphers witching which has just one GCM you have to do GCM to have a compliant detail SS department no i think that the client is why differ okay i may be wrong on the RFC\u0027s maybe but you have to do that to have it verbal implementation what is the fax number do you see I think says aes-128 I see ya oh it definitely does you know I believe that the underlying dtls SR one of the other ones does as well actually I\u0027m not positive on but anyway it doesn\u0027t matter the point is the path you\u0027re taking us down leads to non interoperability which was exactly the reason I originally we didn\u0027t go down this path right yeah my name is Weston I think I mean detail s si Capitano required to implement the asn.1 Tate bitch no no it\u0027s not easy I know then if you think is that there must be some updated details yes the detail aspect that may require the same but the detail SSH v-spec only requires you to have hunt wait date the counter mode how to love the strong i have now unheard two things that are completely inconsistent in my mind one is that the registry is specification acquired the other thing from from curtain is that putting more stuff in the Jag astray will destroy interoperability that\u0027s what I heard you say Harold I\u0027m not arguing that in the slightest I agreed with all the comments are made up here okay I\u0027m saying that the argument to do this that the proposal you\u0027re doing for adding is sort of thing right you know I find a motivational it\u0027s good maybe we should just go do it but I\u0027m I\u0027m not talking about the iono registration bullshit process that doesn\u0027t matter that is irrelevant here right the question is is like what trying path do we try and encourage implementers to go down to get us to what we\u0027re trying to accomplish "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:10:10",
    "text": "right and and the original argument why we took removed a whole bunch of profiles was we thought that they were actually causing things to be harder for implementers not easier for implementers and he is you know is that the case here or not it\u0027s hard sell I don\u0027t know I\u0027m like I\u0027m not objecting to this draft I don\u0027t know what I think I it\u0027s just brought up through why we got here I\u0027m certainly not arguing Mindy I mean if you you have a dry you can go request this in the registry tomorrow it\u0027ll be in there right I mean come out they doing that ID but I mean you have a specification in the form of draft that\u0027s a specification as far as I\u0027m concerned so and you can get it in the registry with no input from this working group now I understand thank you alright so I\u0027m sure what the best way forward is I mean I could do it as a I mean I could do it as a pure specification require but I still feel odd about this or something that feel that you know for a a crypto you know that\u0027s our PP spec which is itself an ietf satyrs track so they\u0027re not 80 advice known even I think you you should pollute it and register it here among its I don\u0027t understand the argument about inter probability because the interoperability is not as in this but inter bilities in the implementations and and both the RTC weapon I had to do it also include EP mapping to specify what is what it must be supported right yeah nothing anybody is recommending making this an empty I of anything so and and it\u0027s a where it\u0027s made mpi is is in the Indies in these specific documents because it is in the clue in the RTC web and include because it was it not see web I got a comment from in the IPF you that the tits needs to have we need to specify one Cullen if we were to would you accept being in the rough if we decided to make this work with your item now yeah for sure I mean this is as I said I don\u0027t even know if I am in the rough I just like and will certainly try to consult with you know I mean like in general like a plot thank you for bringing it and considering the way you do versus just going in filing out how you could have right you\u0027re going to use process to act this but me let\u0027s just like obviously the bets think about what\u0027s the best thing we can do to help you guys get to it in a robber okay yeah sure right overall I have no problem with whatever the word besides my name is Kristen I "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:13:10",
    "text": "would make another comment i think is really should go to the list etc and maybe you should go talk to some of the people\u0027s not here by karen oh geez I\u0027ve talked to some of the people offline I mean both Martin and Ecker seemed like they were okay with it but I mean yeah because eating at this big currently head running against us it\u0027s yeah i\u0027m going to take back my statement merely go about having no particular ad advice i will point out that making this a working group by them takes working group resources a time for something that can be done a specification required so getting the advice of the working group is perfectly fine going through the glass call process and all that sort of thing is probably overkill I you know if people really think this is a problem that we need to relook at the registration policy alright so maybe what maybe I should just talk to Diana and figure out what they watch you want for specification for this kind of situation require because I think an ID would not be sufficient I would because it is an expiring document yeah hey we can I ask what the side conversation it sounds interesting apparently not Magnus can you we\u0027re curious what it says what were you saying it sounds interesting okay so sorry I\u0027m yeah I mean it\u0027s specifically required you still need the specification that normally meets we prefer specifications from some type of sto right which means that yeah Bassam agree you need to get it proved somewhere written up and approved and they have a stable permanent reference that\u0027s together I could publish this is informational rather than standards me in this working group but that\u0027s not actually that\u0027s work for the working yeah I think having in github sufficient for specification required it would be glad to take on that argument all right uh I\u0027ll talk to I Anna and figure out what they actually want for specification and see what and probably also talk to security people and see what they think they think with us all right no idea anyway backing chair click at the end of the meeting that\u0027s anybody having anything else along to raise 480p or correct to anyone 11 all right 15 minutes the payload everybody turn the blue sheets do over that the magnets were there "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:16:33",
    "text": "so we were having a payload in about 15 min something like that you "
  }
]