[
  {
    "startTime": "00:00:00",
    "text": "like, Hello? Can you hear me? We hear you. Cool. I can hear you. Of the Eric, And what's your password? 5555 Thanks. Do they want to become a family member? If I is it anyway, stuff Hi, everyone. Hello, everyone. I think we can start if you Thank you. If you're looking for another working group, then derive. You're not in the right room. But you but you're still welcome. So Let's start the session now."
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:02:00",
    "text": "We get a pretty huge agenda. So this is a new slide, not well, So take your time to read it. If you have any question, you can ask our AD And let's move to the agenda. Well, I think you can read what we're going to present. I I hope, Endry. You're ready. Yes. Okay. So if you're ready, we we may move directly to your presentation. Oh, So we we're gonna move right away to, Endress presentation. Yeah. We have already We have the notetaker. It's 2. It's 2. They're not here. And I I see Jim coming. Stew, Are you online? I am. Perfect. So, Andrea, you you want me to to show your slides. Okay. Then then position updates. DAC Yes. Yeah. So you you just tell me next and I I go to the next slide. Okay. So this is implementation update that to enlist students in, Lynch open universities with them. Next one. So as you all know, the the group is working on your drone ID, and, key factories with hierarchical cost identity tag I'm"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:04:01",
    "text": "also now we work on, authentication draft. And, using DNS as a registry to Keep the event the role list. Next place. So, we have updated our code, according to the latest are received 9374. Because before very open hip code used, to follow this, obsolete, now draft about hip hierarchical hit, but, the format is corrected. So there is correct number of bits, allocated for each field as you can see from a picture. Next, please. And, last year, we have implemented, REIT 32 draft and, Now we have a final RPC published, but maybe only minor changes actually in in formatting a grammar and so on. So there is no changes in record. But, we have been also testing the Python scripts for generating 8 sheets and, did some conversions, to transfer it, actually, to the XML file and when the the transmitter code It will do 4, 5, and 5. And then started to modify and draw it up for that. And you can see the pointer to to the code repositories where you can get Next, please. I see in the line of BN. So you want do you do you have a clarification question, or do you do you have a question? To Henry. Or maybe that's an old end. An old hand. Yeah. And, I'll observe we're up available on, Google Play So we cover updated it to, open the street. Maps, so it's not"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:06:02",
    "text": "reliant relying on on on Google API anymore. And, looking forward to port it to the Iphone, I think, open drone ID announced on its page that we are coming with, I phoned cold so as long as soon as we publish it, probably, we can modify it for for purposes. Next, please. So latest work mostly was focusing about implementing the authentication and and DNS, drafts last year, we had the 17 version, and we're now we have a working group plus call to them, version of 31st, and even more, 5. So there is quite a lot of changes. And, as usual, when we're when you implement, there are some questions and and maybe unclear things. So Hopefully, we still managed to provide feedback before, final draft will be, published. Next, yeah, and, Regarding, backhand, Historically, we were using, like, private, server backend as well as blockchain based, arrangestry, but now we want to go to this standard, sort of what what is working group? Proposing, So we have been, setting up local DNS server based on, discussions on the mentalist and, where where latest draft to do to do the testing And the next slide, So we actually fortunately do not have to modify, actual code of a DNS server so we can use, like, bind, 9 code, but, provide some special, resource records based on the registry's 13 draft And, when Well, it's already running, in the test mode and,"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:08:01",
    "text": "We also tried to access this, DNS server that was setting up, but seems to be, not reachable publicly. And one question I have to working group is that, do we have, like, integration with DNS or is it, like, going to be handled through? Over over the means, like, authentication So I'm That's for the working group. I just saw the The buying people coming oh oh oh oh oh I just sold a the the vine people coming. So I mean, the questions is whether we should have DNS sec or not. So Bob, it's in DKI. And we'll be working with How far does Dina set go down in the tree and the rest of the nest things which I I do need to expand some more on. But I believe that belongs in DKI, not in registries. We'll cover that. And do my flat. Thanks. Okay. Any other comments? Alright. So we had also some challenges when implementing this draft. For example, using different types of, DNS records, and integrating with, application and, So far it's, only small scale tests, so it's not clear, like, If we have thousands of these drones, is it like scalable or or not and how Big workload will be for, DNS server. Next. And also, we were working on updating the open hip, code, which is mostly useful for component control draft that we have with, both One of the major challenges is to go in, to the latest SSL open SSL version because"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:10:01",
    "text": "The API is quite different, and, version, one is not supported anymore starting from September. So it's quite urgent, thing. Also, we use so called core, emulator to to do, set up and and test, like, keep, connections and so on. And there was also many changes from version 7 to 9. So it was challenged to to keep it up. But, so far, we set up a new, like, Docker platform so that we can speed it up, and, it kind of works and establishes connection, but far, there is some problem with data plane. I also saw where it was some mails about, changes in the beat, code in the Linux kernel and, and, maybe it's related to that. To investigate also I'm glad to say there is a new hit version 2 implementation in Python from scratch, by Mitri Kupso published in Lidoux's journal. So welcome to to download and test it, that's it. Basically, if you have any questions, can answer. Any comments, any questions? This is not yet another example of why we need the test environment so that, I can do an HDA on delegation to university team like Andres, and they can then be putting all the stuff in the DNS and then have globally accessible and the rest of it, not as a student of private DNS. And that is an important next step in how we start getting into deployment. Thank you, Andre, for your work. Thank you. Yeah. Indeed. Thank you. So Any other comments? Nan,"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:12:06",
    "text": "We will go to the next presentation. The Hello. Hi, everyone. Can you hear me? Yeah. We we can hear you very well. Okay. Cool. Okay. Let's get started. Hi, everyone. My name is. I'm working in TII security resource center within TII. And mainly focusing on cybersecurity of, cyber physical system end to end security of the cyber physical systems. So we started last quarter, we started work, in the context of UTM, which is basically adding the, drip importer as part of the surveillance supplementary data service provider. So I would like to showcase the work we have done in last quarter and what the road map, what we have in the context of DRIP Next slide, please. So we started with, ASTMf3411compliant, dot cost rate test bed. So what we have, as part of the test bed, we have the broadcast devices where we have, dri, base out of Wi Fi and Bluetooth Ellie based, reduce. And on the observer side, we have the app application, which is derived from the, open drone ID. Spec, open to an ID code base, is next slide please. So in terms of the, proof of concept, so we have, integrated and discrete broadcast read hardware. So in the integrated we have the mission computer where we have integrated the"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:14:03",
    "text": "radio, which is basically not only doing the command and control, as well as it is doing the broadcast trade operation. So here, it is using a long range Wi Fi. And using the Wi Fi, we are running, basically, the mesh plus the AP mode on the access point, we are advertising the broadcast rate. On the discrete side, we have, 2 proof of devices where one one is, having the Bluetooth plus Wi Fi functionality. Other one is basically network grid. Plus the broadcasted using the Bluetooth l e advertisement and it is supporting Bluetooth, 4.2, and Bluetooth, 5.2. Spec So in terms of Wi Fi, it is having mainly 11ac and 11, capable chipset. So this is the week of the high level architecture, what we have implemented, So we have the, red transmit service followed by the radio help, which is managing the radio. And as part of the, DRA sec, we have implemented basic signature algorithms for, EDDSC, HMA, ECDSA and RSA. That is basically for creating the auth signature in the dri payload. And in terms of radio, so we have, following a radio which is ESP32 and rf4285 and rf52840. And then we span, which are basically giving the long range aspect. So we can even, achieve more than because if you see the ESP 32 and and RF, they don't have the better radio front end, so we cannot achieve the long range. So this is one of the field trials we are doing in terms of the long range hours the reliability aspects, on the rate. Next slide. Next slide, please. So this is the high level architecture. What we have in the context of the UTM deployment. So we have drawn"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:16:00",
    "text": "then we have a, ground control station where we have the UTA adapter extension integrated with the Q ground control. So with this UTM adapters, now we have the know, basically linked to the UTM service provider. And then we have network remote ID link and direct remote ID link using the Wi Fi Bluetooth as well as the cellular devices for the network remote ID. And as part as part of the work, what we have done is right now, we have created a drip importer within this, open UTM, stack so just to give you the context, so open UTM service provider is basically the collaborative work we are doing with Rishi Rishiquis Balal from Open Skies, and, that is he's basically leading, a lot of things in open UTM contact So this is, one of the good initiative having the open UTM, system in the open source community. So, later, what we want to do is the drip importer we want to extend as part of surveillance SDSP. So this is, as part of the future road map. Next slide please. So in terms of the, SDSP parser, so we have the US the drone, which is having the integrated or the discrete, red device is then we have the observer. So observer side, we can have phone or some of the infrastructure devices, which can basically relay back to the open UTM, USSP. So here, we have flightblender. So where it is implementing flight authorization network remote ID, conformance monitoring, and the weather services And we have here the drip importer, which is basically currently having the decoder based on the ODID HTML 34 double 1 spec. So we have operator ID location, basic ID system, and as well as the authentication data. So this has been validated with some of the data that that is shared by Adam, as well as the one what we basically locally generated"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:18:01",
    "text": "based out of the spec. So, this is the GitHub repo, where we have right now the DRIP importer so this is the initial work that has been done in the last quarter. And and what we want to do in as part of the future road map, next slide, please. So we want to create a, drip best bet, so where we can have a local deployment of the freeze DNS and then basically whatever the drip importer we have created, that we can basically do the end to end verification of this pack. So, right now, we are going through the spec and basically trying to digest all of the information that is there. And then figuring out how to basically integrate with this creating the local deployment and then, basically, contributing back to the community and then giving feedback as part of the spec spec review. So, you can contact to this email ID as well as Rishikesh from open skies, who is leading, the open UTM initiative as part of the flight blender Okay. Thank you. Any any question? Thank you very much. Any questions from the floor? From the remote participants That's oh, I see 2. Just wanna say thank you very much, Vivin, for this work. It is so important that we have independent implementations from Andre, from you, from others. Thanks. Thanks, Stewart. Yeah. Looking forward to collaborate more and contribute more. We just started the journey. So hope, like, we will Yeah. That's, at least that's, for the working group. It's really good to have 2, very open implementations, And we know there is a third one So that's very good."
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:20:00",
    "text": "So if there, if there are no no questions. We will move to the next presentation. It should be. 15 minutes, man. Yes. I do believe so. Oh, yeah. I managing things. love Bob is taking your place. Sit back down by Alright. So I'm gonna go through a little bit of the registries document. What's changed and, where we're kinda going. Next slide, please. So is there some minor changes since dash 12. The document was Incorrectly marked as an informational document, so it has been switched over to standard track after a bit of a discussion on the mailing list. Along with that, references were updated architecture has been released up to this point, so RFC numbers were added in. I'm gonna talk a little bit more about the serial number proposal later in the presentation. We've had some discussions about the prefix delegation, there was some text added into the Ayanna considerations to seed that discussion. And at least give us kind of a framework to start thinking about it. And then, of course, we added a couple other things to the Ayanda registry. It's mostly just keys for the endorsements. The full diff can be seen from the link. Next slide So this is probably the biggest item that happened from 12 to, 13, and hopefully into 14. If the working group approves it, it's the proposal of removing the serial number discussion from this document. So as"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:22:00",
    "text": "the moment this document is titled, and focuses mainly on debts in the DNS. That is Very well defined. For the document, we use ip6.arpa, the nipple reverse domain, is the apex point and further delegations as we've been talking with Ayanna. And to look up a debt is a must for interoperability. Whereas looking up a serial number is optional. It'd be useful. Definitely useful, but it isn't something we need immediately. And adding debt serial numbers into the document, created a little bit of confusion because another APAC has to be added into the DNS. And we're not sure where that's going to be who delegates it, who has administrative control, etcetera. So it was kind of more of an orthogonal discussion that kinda got roped in. So a new document, personally was created to handle, serial numbers in DNS and in the dash team, there are author notes sprinkled throughout that kind of mark text blocks that would be effectively removed in their entirety, to handle this transition. And so I is listen. Feedback from the working group. For it. This doc this picture here, thank you, Dan, for the next slide. Is effectively what you saw in the interim. And the entire dotarpetree would be effectively out of scope for the document. Only We'd only be dealing with the ip 6. Dotarpadomainand the nipple reversing and the delegations of that. Next slide, please. So I wanna talk a little bit about what's in press now in dash 14. There's a pull request on the GitHub."
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:24:03",
    "text": "Where the document is, and that's where all my changes have been as I've committed them slowly for the past couple of weeks, next slide. So the One big thing that has been part of this discussion is a debt resource record. We've gone up back and forth a little bit on how we wanna handle this. And at the moment, we've landed on the This resource record is a metadata record that contains drip specific information a couple different reasons why that kind of fell back into that state, the hip resource record handles the public key at the moment along with reverse lookups, TLSA handles certificates, and D TLS support, which Bob is very keen on having for his secure c 2. And network work. And the URI is a very common thing so that we can point to well, a URI. We're the public the private information registry is. The debt resource record in dash 11 of the document basically trying to subsume all three of these resource records into 1 and an argument was made for why are we reinventing things just use what exists. So the debt resource record kind of slimmed down considerably and became more specific. As such that in the dash 14 version, which is yet to be published hopefully, we'll be soon There's a lot of cleanup in this section. There are subsections added for each field. There is a entire, IAna consideration second section for 2 particular items, the type and status field. And a lot of the examples in the appendix have been updated. There is an open issue on the GitHub. I think it was raised by either Eric or Ned on whether or not the debt resource record needed to be its own own own own own own document. I wasn't sure if that was resolved or not, but I know that"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:26:00",
    "text": "we were starting with it in the document to get our thoughts together. And the last line here, you'll see an example of what a debt resource record currently looks like. So it has the debt is is hexadecimalvalue a type and status field an abbreviation field that's basically a text field for the hierarchy ID, the serial number, and a broadcast endorsement, object. Next slide. Thank you. So other changes, Bob gave me Big block of text on a C509. Certificates, which are seabor encoded X 509s, this kinda ties into his I CAO work and He's making good strides in progress on that. So thank you, Bob, for giving me that text. There was a security consideration section added for public key exposure. This was originally in the auth document. Or just or just incurrent. Currently in working group last call, so I encourage people to review it, and make comments, on that document. But but but but but but but but effectively, the pk public key, exposure exposure problem was that we realized in the auth document exposing the public key too early could could potentially get you to have an attack vector, mainly that a private key could be 4 inch, especially we were using small keys. We started the discussion and off and realized it needed to be in registries. So the Text has been adapted and moved into registries and removed from off in the latest version of off. I think it went right before working group last call. And then I added an appendix for the hit abbreviation. This particular piece of Texas moved around. It was in the body of the document, then it ended up in the, notation section, and now it's in the appendix."
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:28:00",
    "text": "Well, ended back up in another section of the body of the document then ended up in the appendix. Stu raised an interesting point. I think it was privately to me. I don't know if it actually went public. But I'm raising it here now. And that is if we're unsure if we're touching into the client domain, a lot of the text in this particular section is kind of recommending or telling it client, how they should format the string that they represent an aircraft using a debt. And We became a little conflicted at least amongst the 2 of us. Which way it Whether that's even in scope. So it was moved to the appendix, and I have weakened the language to see if that rectifies anything. And if it it it it it it it breaks anything. So comments on that would be more than welcome. Next slide, please. So I have a couple open issues that are left I am a registry for RAA values. This was actually addressed in a small side meeting that happened yesterday that I think Jim is going to chat a little bit about later. I have a slide that I was basically gonna throw it to Eric sorry, Eric. The cert resource record usage, I believe it's deprecated, but we had some stuff about Odeds. And or OID allocations. And doing seaborne a cert resource record. I don't know if that is valid anymore, especially considering the TLSA records in play. And then there was a lot of open issues from the opsster and the DNS reviews. I think a lot of them were fixed in dash 12, so they might just be hanging issues that need to be closed. But we might wanna have someone review them very quickly. Next slide, please. Or to Do you wanna Bob has them. Yeah. yes. We'll just stay here for Bob's thing. It's a The cert rate resource record, cut that out."
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:30:03",
    "text": "It's deprecated. We're gonna cover much better with the debt resource record. So Yeah. Yes. It it was a good starting point, but we need to do our own one. And Jim showed us how easy it is to do itself. Excellent. Alright. That's fair enough. Alright. So that can close a number of issues. So this is the hold slide that I had put in for Eric to come and talk about the DNS prefix del delegation because we talked to Ayanna but I believe at least from a conversation earlier that Jim might be making a presentation on this. Can can chairs, confirm or deny. Okay. And then, otherwise, I'm done. I any do you have anything questions, comments, concerns, and discussion, the draft. Comments are always welcome. Please email me. I I am, I am, I am, I am, I don't bite. And, You know? Oh, so Larry hates. Thank you. You know, Okay. We had a short site meeting yesterday, to try and sort out or 2 issues that have been left dangling where various people had various bits of the but nobody had a complete picture of what was required to be done here. So happy to see they've got all pretty much all their stuff resolved. And First of all, he says very much thanks to Kim and his colleagues from Ayanna. Because they've said that we can proceed with the delegations for this because the prefix has rarely been set aside, so we don't need to go back to the IETF leadership and get some special thing done there. And also that Ayanna is very kindly going to operate the registry and the DNS in structure for the debt prefixes until such times as Ikea is going to a position to ultimately take control of this because"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:32:01",
    "text": "Eventually, that's where operational responsibility and organizational responsibility will rest but it will take a kill quite some time to get to that particular point and get a budget for it So until such times, as that gets sorted out, happily, Ayanne will sort of fill in the beach there. We decided that we needed to have a designated spent to review the delegation requests, which we think are going to come from the national aviation authorities, and I didn't end up quickly enough So Eric decided that I will be this designated expert are thankful to what Adam had done early on. We've decided we now know how to do the mapping of the debt numbers into these ipv6 addresses. There's a outline of that in the conversion of the registry's draft. And that'll explain how we can essentially have this done in a country by country basis. And there's also some chunk of that address space or serial number space which can be set aside for the experiments, and that will also deal with problem that Robert had been talking, Bob had been talking out before about trying to proceed with interoperability testing and all of the rest of that. So we can take care of that. There's one action on Bob, which is to go back into talk to the folks at Ikea, probably solo, which cause whenever these delegation requests come in safe from the FAA or whoever, Somebody needs to go and talk to Ikeo who can then talk to the relevant National City Asian Authority to say we've had a request for this prefix delegation do you approve? Yes or no? Is this the designated contact for that in your country. And that's only something ikyo could do for us. We don't know how to do that neither with that. I don't know how to do that. So this model broadly follows what's being done for for anyone that can remember that from about 20 or 20 odd years ago. Where you've got somebody acting as an intermediate"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:34:01",
    "text": "to deal with the registration requests and we're also dealing with an international the organization to make sure that the allocation of what is fundamental resource is handled in the careful incentive manner. And that point of contact, I I had AkiO still has to be figured out. I'd be very surprised if it wasn't solo, but that's me just pressing a a personal opinion. And so with that, I think we've pretty much got this thing done. At the moment, still to write up some notes from this particular meeting we had yesterday And I think we'll certainly have to write up this notional procedure here about how we deal with this just so it is not left with institutional memory. I think what we did with the the situation, Mathena, all those years ago, there was memos of never an end of our understanding. They went backwards and forwards between the same parties, be between involved parties. So probably we'll do something similar to that this time. But certainly we will document this was a clearly understand procedure, and there are also responsibilities are clearly defined And with that, I'm going to shut up and take questions. Are there any questions? On the floor. Maybe I have one for Kim I'm just wondering if everything is clear for from the for an interview or if you need anything, to to be clarified, just to make sure that we We understand the same thing. I hope we do. I mean, I think we had a constructive discussion yesterday. I think Jim's summary was on point. There's a few implementation details to work out, but in broad strokes, you know, I know is happy to host these certainly in an interim capacity I'm assuming at least initially it's low volume, we're here to be helpful as best we can. Obviously, we administer ip6. ARPA as our normal business. So this would just be tacking on to that. Then over time, we can explore Icare's role and how that evolves."
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:36:00",
    "text": "But if we run into obstacles, we'll certainly bring it back to, the group Yeah. Okay. Yeah. Thanks a lot. Just to reinforce that, Kim, that you said yesterday that if we're going to have a high turned over in terms of registration transactions for this thing. Iana, we probably need to look at trying to automate it rather than deal with it by hand. But since it's like written by hand because we're not going to get very many of these in a short space of time. That's probably good enough Yeah. I I agree. I mean, until we know that ongoing transaction volume, we start small, and we'll we'll go into it if if the circumstances demand it. Yeah. Yeah. In other words, we'll make it up as you go along So on hold there in a second, in the And now Bob, now. Too late. Okay. The drip debt key infrastructure trapped. Of DKIs and PKIs. So let's go on. Why did I do this? I tried to implement a test environment. Based on the registry app, and I couldn't. There were a lot of unknowns, and there were no tools to make the stuff. And there are potential security risks as they start looking at how we were organizing the levels in the endorsement. And this came apparent as I started working through the actual use. So I started as I started laying things out and trying to make things, they said I need document all this. So that's so next, And this, I've bid 2 documents. That Dine Technical matters is in the drip registries. It has a likely endpoint for publishing."
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:38:00",
    "text": "Know what it has to do. What it has to be in there. But when we get to actually how to implement it, that's gonna take some work. We're gonna have do testing. We're gonna have to work with various agencies there to see what works and what doesn't work. This is gonna take time. And we don't want to have our technical document being held up by working out the actual deployment. So but at some point, we will get done with it. We'll have things deployed and we'll say that this document is done good enough. For historical records. So that's why I envision that do need these 2 documents that the DKA needs to be a separate document in been documented. Next, So what my objectives It was, what does it take to deploy debt support? Present a full debt endorsement trust tree and adult and and alternative development strategies. So look at such things as we don't want to have the, the endorser, to be In terms of what's exposed for attack typical PKI issues. That you have an issuing issuer CA which you which is constantly being hit on and constantly attacked, but it is sign by a CA, which is in a locked safe. And really ever taken out. We learned this painfully with X 509, and I need to file the same model here. Then we have the problem that IKEO is not going to be able to fulfill. It's a role. Till there is pressure, to be be frank, that there's actual people doing things and then Arakash says, now we need to get the funding and do this. So we just like for their, PKI that they're doing for for, commercial aviation where they're cross certifying because they can't do the bridge yet. We need to do a similar"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:40:00",
    "text": "sort of thing initially here, and it get things going. And then I, Kayl could say, okay. Understand what to do, and here's how we're going to proceed. So I need an alternate deployment strategy. Which is which is in there. Then I have various vendors who for for for air to air and air to ground and interacting with with, general aviation, They want X 509. They do not want our neat little, neat tight endorsements. So I defined a share to separate channel PKIs based on 2 different profiles in there. Because many of them will prefer to have certificates and then I can be compatible with the IKEO certificate policy. I can put these properly into their certificate policy. And how that will go in a legal framework. So I have the light PKI and the PK peekix like profiles in there. And then finally, even with with this, what we want to do for air to air communications sending X 509 certificates, even these which are like 300 bytes long are too big. And so I've been working with the, seamore group with with cozy on the C 509. We even got some changes in their their draft. We talked about that earlier today. To cut down the overhead on these air to air transmissions. To to, and and significant amount, which I'm squeezing out X 509 ASM 1 encoding. Versus seabornecoding. Next. And then the DNS deployment as we've mentioned just a little while ago, using the, the IP 6 arbitrary, and and and and it hit 40 tree that I actually need to to deploy a test RA. I need to deploy and just We just heard from from Andre that he has a private, DNS It's not publicly available in the rest. If I had this done, I can say Andre"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:42:00",
    "text": "for university. Here's your HTA. Go ahead and work with it for for for her, she, and and and and and did say, okay. Here's yours so they can have their delegation. They can be doing their work. And and we could all, work with their stuff as well. And the final thing is that I didn't know how to generate these things. How do I actually look at these things. So I had to learn Python. And so if you look at my Python script scripts and you can make them better, please do. Because I don't really know Python. So I've I've created a debt generation. Script. I generate the various DNS records. I generate the endorsement. The initial effort in that. So I can say what do these things actually look like and I'm gonna have to now work with Jim. So so we have this what textually the the debt resource record looks like, but I want to make it right now a type record. What exactly is that content so that we can put a type record into DNS right now so we can start testing with that. So this is how we now start working and documenting this deployment testing environment. Next. So, fine. I've done this work of testing. How does this relate to the charter. I want to make this a work group document. So dip registries, in my opinion, inadequate to deploy is technically correct and inadequate deploy. How how much has we heard that? In the ATF. More is needed as shown in the DKI draft. And we need to interact with the IKEOPKI. If we want to have, you know, look at our our international legal standings we want to be well connected with the with what I can always do. And then there's what ASTM and various a to x work groups are doing. And what's called certificate based broadcasts. So in terms of of working in this larger arena and being relevant"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:44:00",
    "text": "the I feel that the child has have a place next live. Just, I just have a one clarification first. Mean, if we interact with, Ike or PKI, do we have someone from IKEA involved into that? I'm kind of contact them. That that's the trust framework panel. And both Stew and I are experts on the panel. It takes quite a bit to be to actually get on the panel. And right now, the certificate policy is rather closed. FAA And Euro Control are busy restructuring the certificate policy. So there is a the policy portion, the the guidance portion is one document and then have multiple technical solutions. So then we'll be able to have a be the, IKEO certificate profiles be able to have the the drip certificate profiles and and so then I'll actually then have to write a certificate policy at some point for this. Would there be, like, a year out that I actually do the certificate pa policy to fit underneath the So that's how we're gonna interact. They're rewriting their current certificate policy and being able to break it down. And then we write our certificate policy for ours and it just will slide right in. We we have a road map, basically. Yeah. One further, I would say, clarification, a question about the slides. When you You you say that's the, the current registry is is, I would say, inadequate to deploy. 4 minutes is is really, a big war in SEO for the registry. Do you mean that the current specific and, its own cannot be implemented and deployed for the purpose, which is set by the draft. Or do you mean that the full registration system cannot be deployed Be because because if if this is it's cannot be the deployed as current in the in the, I would say, drawing the specification edited by Adam, that means that not progress the documents from my point of view. Because"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:46:01",
    "text": "This cannot be deployable. So Can can you please clarify that? No. The the in the the the registry's draft, it shows 3 levels of of endorsements. And and and theoretically, that is all that's needed. But In practice, the Apex is not gonna be here for some time. So that means we have to, from the second level, have trustless for the second level. Not that we're saying that it's wrong to have the Apex, but we weren't not gonna get there for probably 2 years. So until we have the Apex, how do we operate? We're gonna have to have a trust list of the RAs. Second thing, it shows the, the RAA we're actually the HDA, just being having creating UA certificates. But when you actually do the deployment, if you have only one level there. You have this one level exposed all the time. If it's compromised, then you have really no you the only way to move forward is go back to the RA to reissue for the for the HTA. So instead, what you do in in an actual deployment is that the RA signs an HDA indoor, level. But then the HGA signs a level underneath it, which is the one which actually then signs the clients, and that's documented in in the DKI. So in theory what's in registries, is proper. But when you actually and if you look at any real PK deployment, There's this other level that gets slid in there. Because of the potential risk of compromise and how you recover from a compromise. So I don't know. In terms of that, and was you can blame me for for not saying wait a second here. And but and it's against, like, when we do these things, we do these things in peak kicks, going back 20 years, peekix never documented. This was always how implemented"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:48:04",
    "text": "thing. So that's why I said in PCCX, we never documented this. So why am I gonna documented here in in in the registries. It's more this is how we this is how we have learned painfully to implement things. Because that's kind of a long answer. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. For those of us who've lived on PKIX 509, we have the, this, the the wounds. On that. Okay. So in particular, the the tire says leverage internet standards and infrastructure as well as domain name registration business. So so what are the DNS resource records in what domains? That's a question how we'd actually Put that and registries has pieces of that. P kicks used by others, and and So how do we how how do we work with our particular endorsements methals endorsements to the X 509 used elsewhere in the world. So how do we do that, that mapping sort of process? And or or require existing protocols to be extended So we have DRIP certificate X509 profile. To be integrated with IKEO certificate policy. And I don't see that, again, that that belongs in registry. This is operationally how we integrate, but the the the chair in my Reading of it says Yes. This can go into the charter. So that that's my reading of the charter and why say we can indeed adopt this as part of the work, the, work group. Documents. And think do I have another slide yet? So the value to the workgroup adoption content and drip DKI will be used outside of IT. As I said, Iko, PKI,"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:50:00",
    "text": "our past UTM Panels ASTM and the various, UTM, UAS Industry Groups. Industry has matured since drips started. We need to stay current and stay relevant. And we need to inform to credit history is, a needed technical tech content. So, that's why we need to, adopt this and to the next one. One more, I think. So stand out as live record implementation. You know, we have people who are actually testing Drip code. They have to be able to put entries into the DNS. We need to set things up so they can. And then so so adopt this as a support document And then whether we publish this in RFC, we'll be determined some sometime in the future. That I think completes my slides that I have on this. And I I am calling that this that this document be drafted by the work group, and and go so I can go forward and get out there and compete to use it. So everything has a responsibility for for Regarding adoption call, I think we need to talk with the chair. And read whether it fits the the charter. Right. No decision taken, but I will not take the decision right now. So I think everyone can understand this. Support document. Why not? Because I think it's we still have to gain operational experience on this. Protocol are not yet fully defined. Right? So we cannot publish something or something we don't have a personal experience yet. It's an operational document. So you're having a support documents that leaves either is a draft or is a Wiki page somewhere there? Perfectly fine. It's the politics of the naming of our drafts It's it's not the 46th. So we we need to"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:52:00",
    "text": "to follow some process. So there's no new politics. No. When I go to to ANSI, I'm talking about with with with Nancy to have a, you know, And graph IITF, not draft mosque goods. Makes a very, very important statement. Agreed, but we have process. We need to fully Yeah. So so so Let's let's let's get the process going and everything. other questions? Any other time on that one? Any Any questions? Any comment? So I don't see any Okay. My next slide's the future. Future. The future is now. Right. That's moving with the industry. That. I'm getting visibility outside the IETF. At than presenting this talking various venues and people are looking at what we're doing here. We are being seen. We are late. There's already stuff being put out. And, people are are seeing the attacks against what was done. That's totally spoofable. You can get an ESP 32 put, code on it, and you can pretend to be any UA you want to be. And and do some, some unnice things. So what a marketing drip as being Reputation Protection. And some of the, the larger players are very interested in protecting their reputation that nobody else can beat them because of how we've done the trust model here. But we need to stay relevant as the industry matures. We need to get to network remote. I that was mentioned earlier pre presentation. So that's the focus of other CAAs, UK others. They all want to do network remote ID."
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:54:00",
    "text": "But there is no standard for network remote ID They're all proprietary point solutions. This USS does it this way. This USS does it that way. There is no document open standard for it other than what I have started to do here. In my document here. This will this and how to do command and control in an open standards method. I K O, our past UTM, and others, US, and we we we again, the the press that we had before, they were taking the broadcast grid, and they were importing it into the UTM. My document, there are actually a number of products out there that all do this in various proprietary methods of how to do a a surveillance service provider And what I've tried to do here is an open way of how to create a a a a a broadcast rid, surveillance service provider to collect that data. And feed it. How good is the ATM if you don't get the data into it? So how do we get that date into it? So these two documents, I had here for a while. And they have got attention outside, and people are indeed looking at the And this is where we need to be, again, to be relevant on how it's moving. Next slide. There's more relevant issues. And that is that, a year ago, ASGM spun up yet another work group device to device certificate based communication security framework. For US And UAF. That's the name of workgroup 8 4631. And there are 3 options and how to do this. There is one based in IVE. There's one based on, I typically, 1609.2certificates And there's one based on draft, Moscow strip, a 2 x, At Hawk session, So we're already in that discussion But So this type is already getting looked at outside"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:56:05",
    "text": "The IETF. And we need to get our input into what I'm doing here. Am I doing it right, the rest of it, and we need to have a discussion because this is ongoing. And and There is a tomorrow an a 2x stakeholder's call that I'm going to be on. I'm gonna see a the idea plenary. It's between the ICHF plenary, and there's going to be a number of of people on that. And in there, where they're talking a 2x, Again, these, basically, these 3 proposals on how to do it. And we want to be relevant in this discussion and and how we're going to going to play in that. And then then beyond just air to air for HX with an air to ground as well, And and my other document. So I have been then coming up with suits with how to do things based on how the industry is moving. And I request and and plead that this become work inside the IETF as standards work so that we stay relevant to how this industry is maturing. And I think that's it. Oh, there's there's more. There is a privacy concern that that more and more people are raising issues about. And I I came with a solution on that. And I'm been working on, in there. And finally, Thursday after presenting my my h and g draft on there as well. So, those those are some again, the the work which I've I've done here, and I've not done this just for the fun of it. I've done this because I'm actually working in the industry, and they want to do things how do we in the IETF present solutions for what they want to do? So again, staying relevant. Can new work to stay relevant in UAS UTM fit in the current charter. Or do we revise the charter? Eric med"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:58:06",
    "text": "Sorry, I jumped at you. Revise the chatter, it's not up to me to decide. Right? After the working group to decide. And then be approved by the IST. So don't point at me. Pointed you. Meaning the room. Yeah. But but this is just in in my participation, in the wider framework. These are sorts of things that we need to do. Now how do I do them? And to come back on the revised chatter, one point important for the HD to decide whether we can extend the charter is whether there is more than 1 person writing the draft. Like, it was kind of the the problem of drip. I can't. It's not the only way we can group in this case, but that's not a good sign somehow. Yeah. And congratulation for this a few Otters. Right? Hershey, are you on the call? Are you on on there? Open skies. No. There there are a couple vendors I'm talking to and if I can get them to to come forward I'm, you know, working on some some vendor specific applications I'm under NDA with 3 separate vendors. And and as question of how I can get them to come forward and actively participate in in the open part of it. I'm very frustrated because I'm I am under NDA. Specifically with some vendors now to implement things. So now I gotta get them to participate. I think that it would be probably a, a big chance. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Because, I mean, one of the vendors is actually presented in ASVM how how they're doing it right now and the direction they wanna go to. Maybe I can get them to more actively play. But they're bit too busy doing their proof of concept development right now down in, Texas. So they're they're attention elsewhere."
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:00:02",
    "text": "So okay. So so that's my where the future This these are in in my participation, and if anybody else has any other input to it. I'm No. I I'm not the only hopeful I'm hoping not the only one. Who's sticking their their nose outside of of here. Or sticky, trying to stick notes from outside into here. And what we need to do. But, this this The other one closing thing I want to say is that the thread which has been going for the past 5 years is that the future of air traffic control is unmanned uncrude aircraft traffic management. UTM is the future of ATC. So we really have a chance to be really really relevant. In the total aviation framework. And how we'd what we do here. Thank you for for your continuous report for for Yeah. Promoted some work here and you did I think it's it's the same situation we had last time in the interim meeting. We need to, I would say, have more people coming, and they would say, fine, good use the could have something that will be a corrective work I know it's it's really difficult from the standpoint. That that that we need to do to do that so that we make sure that the what we are doing here It is yes. Is for the benefit of, I would say the community has not only for some people at some sentences. I'm hoping that the, meaning that I mean, December, So I can, knock a couple heads. Yeah. So just just just please let them let them go to the mailing list. Sent business there. Say, with the motivation, why do you want to support some of the work? And then we can we had that Okay. Thank you for your time. Yeah. You, Bob. But that's very interesting that you're re reaching out the larger community. That's Pretty much appreciated. I think we're done. I don't know if we're late or on time, But, roughly."
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:02:00",
    "text": "So, we are roughly good. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you, Adam. Alright. And I'm still"
  }
]
