[
  {
    "startTime": "00:00:11",
    "text": "folks it's the top of the hour i think we're gonna give people a couple more minutes to see if they can straggle in and then we're gonna try to start i will note that i asked for an hour and they gave us two so there's probably little chance that we will use the full two hours a couple more people coming in so that's good give them a go we'll give another minute and then we'll get started"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:02:03",
    "text": "okay i think we've kind of waited long enough for people to show up um i guess i want to welcome everybody to wpac um at iatf 112 um the chairs shawn and david um we're here i see the um our editors are here as well um just a reminder we're gonna record this uh please if you're not speaking uh make sure your your microphone is muted um if you wanna come off uh turn your video on when you're speaking that's fine um this room is small enough that it shouldn't really crash it um there's some links there for the useful things uh um for the links for the meat echo audio only in cody md um so next there we go click on the next slide this is the note well um this relates to you know all the the um ipr notices that we have um you know how to working group progress all kinds of stuff i'll get to the annual harassment things later in the code of conduct the copyright patents basically um if you know anything about uh ipr in the space you declare it before you participate and that includes basically communicating in any way to the working group um next we're gonna go you might have seen this in a couple of working groups where we're trying to trying to focus on the code of conduct guidelines um this working group has not had this problem but i think it's worth just kind of repeating everywhere we've got an rc that defines the code of conduct basically the highlights are to treat college colleagues with respect speak lowly with slowly which i sometimes have a problem with um try not to use slang so everybody can kind of get on uh and understand what's going on um we should dispute ideas by uh reasoned argument yeah use our best engineering judgment find the best solution for the whole internet and contribute to the ongoing the itf um and remember that we'd like this to apply everywhere not just in not just on the mean echo channel but also in the mic uh jabber media etc and the mailing list for that matter"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:04:01",
    "text": "all right i kind of know that that's us the agenda is pretty straightforward like i said um i did request an hour and they gave us two so i basically just split it down the middle we have two documents that we've adopted we have more that we need to adopt but these are the two that we're starting with um and kind of just split them between use cases in bundle um i do note that i put felipe's name on the bundle uh draft i think it's probably just going to be jeffrey um and that's really it we didn't have any particular slides i thought we would basically just go to the um repo and start working through any issues and have an open discussion unless anybody has any other ideas and wants to bash this agenda jeffrey go ahead cool um i also asked felipe to kind of discuss a little bit um about kind of his work and his team's work on uh bundle implementation progress and so when we get to that section um i think he'll have some stuff to present great um so you know i put his name in the right place then come completely call um all right so let's get into the use cases i'm just going to switch first yes there is one thing that we uh skipped right over when that is we need a scribe please oh yes take notes into the cody md uh hopefully other people keep an eye on it and the chairs will definitely go over it afterward but somebody to get the initial set of notes into the cody would certainly be helpful call for volunteers can't be jeffrey he's busy is anybody else paying attention mr bishop"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:06:00",
    "text": "mr shaheed can i implore upon either of you to perhaps pay enough attention for notes is anybody listening other than jeffrey yeah we only really need to keep highlight the decisions made we don't really need blow-by-blow minutes okay oh siobhan i was encouraged by seeing your name but i appreciate that you might have to duck out so yes we should have worked this out ahead of time sorry we did not is there anybody who doesn't possibly have to duck away in 15 minutes oh and jeffrey has volunteered to write down the decisions which also the chairs are capable of doing so um okay thank you very much justin we appreciate uh we appreciate that highly and like i said the chairs will go over the notes um to corroborate with you know our sense of the meeting and of course there's a youtube video so that should be sufficient thank you again justin and away we go with jeffrey right so the um the use cases document is basically the the content that you all have seen before um it's still on my plate to to split out the um the controversial use cases into an appendix um and leave the rest uh in the in the main section um i believe that the primary non-controversial use cases are um"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:08:00",
    "text": "basically the the uh prefetch of of content unit of like sub resources um and so so just about everything else will will go into the appendix does anyone have particular and then i'll also split out requirements um similarly so that they the only kind of essential requirements are the ones that that are required by the by the read on use cases um does anyone have particular use cases that you that you want to kind of see stay in the top section that um that kind of shouldn't move to the appendix i don't hear anyone um so yeah i'll i'll proceed with that oh uh uh free to go please can you hear me okay i have to obviously i'm not a news case but i'm just wondering and this might be addressed by the change you have and but just wondering why is that resource funding was so like low in the list of the use cases i think they ordered by priority right yeah at least roughly bright priority um it was it was not kind of in the in the top set of things that that i was interested in when starting the the work um kind of we were we were looking at uh at ways to replace um or ways to to compete with native apps where you can share the the installation file um but it seems like there's kind of we can we can get part way there by doing sub resources and there's a lot more consensus in the community for for doing sub resources first and so that that seems like the right thing to focus on uh initially"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:10:02",
    "text": "yeah um jeffrey one thing i'll observe too is a couple of weeks ago uh larry has um asked about this whole um my multi-part thing and then he wasn't suggesting we use it necessarily but he wanted to add it as a use case and so on and so forth do you have thoughts um perhaps that you could even then uh share with larry on the list for others to digest because larry keep coming back to this my multi-part thing um and so far we haven't seen energy in the group um to uh go down that particular path but if you had some some relevant thoughts it would certainly be welcome yeah the the multi-part kind of scheme like clearly clearly the bundle format does compete with multi-part um but the particular use cases like multi-part is a set of formats rather than a set of use cases um and so it i think hasn't been clear like what use case in particular we're missing here um and this kind of the the use cases that we've listed are seem like the ones that that we want to focus on um and i don't think larry has said like like here are use cases you're missing he's just said like here's a bunch of multi-part stuff you should you should look at that kind of completely replacing it right i i've also been confused on what larry sees as the use case there as opposed to the possibility of compatible formatting um and i will follow up with larry on the list suggesting that if he sees a relevant specific use case there that he follow up to you with actual suggested text yeah and and it i think we do i think we do replace most most or all of what of like the particular subtypes of multi-part like you can you can accomplish them"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:12:00",
    "text": "using bundles um and it yeah it's not clear what what in particular would need to change to replace the rest great thank you um i guess the question is do we want to talk about the implementation experience or sorry are we done with use cases yeah so we're done with your cases i guess the question is should we talk about implementation experience um before we talk about the draft i think that might be interesting because it might inform um the bundles draft so do we want to get felipe the floor here and let him let him talk that is my suggestion all right felipe welcome to come to the front of the room thanks let me see if i can share my screen over here okay okay hello everybody i'm yeah you're gonna say that well yeah we're good okay so i'm alex from realia we've been working in partnership with io feel free to reach out after the meeting"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:14:00",
    "text": "if you have any questions and this is a short update on the work that we have been doing on the use case of resource preloading using bundle responses you can have a look at the explainer for more details the general approach is that a page could provide a list of resources to preload and then we'll send a request to the server with the list of two resources that are not in the case and then the server would reply with a web bundle containing the resources each resource can be stored in the cache individually and our proposal restricts the origin and the path of the resources to those of the reference bundle file and also enforces url consistency in the sense that for a given url the server must return the same resource regardless of whether the request has been done individually or as part of a bundle chromium has an implementation of a similar set of ideas and we have an open issue there where we want to gradually converse towards a common complete specification in the last meeting of the group we discuss some changes to keep the spec as simple as possible and to focus on consensus functionality like reloading while also allowing for additional sector sections that may extend the format for specific use cases related to the implementation of this spec there is a node.js module to create and read bundles and one of the things that we have been doing over the past weeks has been to update this tool to support the new updated version of the spec"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:16:00",
    "text": "while also keeping compatibility with the previous version so with this node.js module a we can prototype uh implement a server that is aware of bundles and is able to handle and manipulate manipulate them this is how the backwards compatibility works where the new version is used by default but you can specify a previous one and then the code in the bundle will be able to pick the right version and this node.js module can also be used in the browser to get some experimentation that we managed to do it which means that since we have support for web bundles in the server and in the client we can prototype the whole bundle preloading use case so that's what we have done our client parses the declarations in the html file that lists the resources that the page wants to preload and then sends an http request with a specific header that lists the resources that are not in the case in the case of the prototype we are using a service worker so the cashier is the service workers case and then the bundles or those requests are served by a small web server that supports where abandoned preloading with subsetting and is able to create bundles on the fly so if the client requests only a subset of the resources that have been listed on the page"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:18:00",
    "text": "then the server can return only those resources in a new bundle so this is how the current syntax that we have been using looks like whereas you basically specify a reference web bundle file in the server and then list the resources and you can use absolute or relative urls for this and this is just a draft one benefit of this prototyping strategy is that it wouldn't take much to try out different syntaxes for this we have a couple examples at the moment in the experience repository the first one is a very basic test where some resources are pre-loaded and you can use the dev tools in the browser to see how those resources are retrieved and then one by one they are made available in the cashier so they are retrieved in one request but then they become several entries in the service workers casino the the second example is a small react application that uses webpack as a bundler tool and in this case bundle preloading is already able to improve the performance because the resources can be loaded in parallel in one single request whereas by default what webpack does is that it loads the javascript and then the javascript loads the rest of the resources so it happens in sequence which is slower so what have we learned so far well first that this approach works for prototyping and for trying out a solution for this use case it already allows us to test different scenarios where the solution might be used and it gives us an"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:20:00",
    "text": "easy way to experiment with different syntaxes for the html tags or for the http headers so far the performance is actually reasonable of course using a service worker has its own overhead but other than that we are seeing that the solution has good potential for improving performance in the future because we are seeing that we can reduce the number of requests response round trips we can parallelize downloading resources we can put individual resources in the cache and so on the next steps for this line of work is to have better integration for with blender tools so it's easier to try out in in more use cases anymore pages one of my colleagues cam is working on benchmarking this solution and comparing it with bundle tools and with other solutions we want to create more examples so we are really looking for ideas of scenarios where people feel that this could be a good solution and something that they would like to try out and a final thought is that i'm really wondering if this approach of prototyping and then iterating on that can also be applied for other use cases that we have on the table and that's all for my short update if you have any questions thank you"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:22:00",
    "text": "your last point is there any reason that you think that what the way you're going wouldn't work with the other use cases not necessarily i mean some of the use cases are pretty specific i'm not sure that they would be suitable for prototyping just with uh just in javascript but it was more of a of a general thought of whether this is something that can be used to try out other scenarios and other another use cases basically because one of the things that we are looking for is to find um areas where people would be interested in seeing this being being tried out the some of the use cases the more long-term use cases like being able to install a web app with kind of accurate trust uh can't be prototyped in javascript because you have to bootstrap somehow like you can't install the service worker that that does the kind of that is the prototype um if you can't bootstrap somewhere um but for instance the the other use case that um the chrome origin trial is capturing where um kind of ads are being served as as more self-contained sub-resources that probably could have been prototype this way i think so i think so because basically what you need for that is just to be able to load the the bundle and then retrieve each of the of the resources that's a good thing thank you yeah uh siobhan please"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:24:04",
    "text": "yeah i just wanted to say that they definitely believe that preload is the way to go where the client can choose which resources it wants to load um and i do wish that the original trial also i've gone with that approach because i think anything else like where the client cannot choose a resource to load would just basically be a non-starter yeah one of the things that we want to try out is some benchmarking because we want to see for example what happens if the client requests a lot of resources in in one go does that have a very big impact does that create a very large http request and has to travel to the server and so on so those are the kinds of uh mortgage cases that we that we want to try out that was oh sean's back well john were you moving on before the same thing that i think that we've uh we drained the queue on that one that i think we're off to um jeffrey to talk about the bundle yep the the biggest question that i that i discovered recently was how to interact with um the new uh http working groups uh binary hdp format um the kind of uh and i forwarded it to the list but the the direction that that seems appropriate to me is try to try to converge them"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:26:00",
    "text": "um even though that'll that probably involves several changes to the to the bundle format um and i was curious if people had thoughts on on anything about that that binary representation well the person most likely to have thoughts about it is unfortunately not in the room right now yeah um and just not to be opaque or anything that's uh martin thompson who's working on the other binary representation draft but yes uh javon has said in chat um convergence here would be good minimizing the differences so um until we get a little bit more information though about what challenges might be involved there you know i think you and martin have to start seeing how you can work it all out and then what issues that that might bring up let's see what's going to basically what i was going to say um you know if we we should we should definitely try to uh achieve uh consensus to use one format because if we have set performance i think it's a recipe for disaster yep um here are the here are the issues um on the repository um i don't i don't have kind of i don't think any of them are are particularly like urgent to answer right now let's see does anyone want to kind of dig into any of these today i guess holler on the chat if one looks interesting to to ding it to otherwise we could end early and"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:28:00",
    "text": "go back to the list to dig into um the binary format and the use cases i think we're uh lightly enough attended today and low energy enough that um i'm just curious what are we clashing with during the agenda on the agenda that uh it's probably trains people away from us i know priv probably pulled martin away yeah so that's that's something we'll have to make sure we i just this is only for like the next time we do this to make sure that i get the um clashes correct yeah probably suck yeah i think though jeffrey it does uh seem like we're not gonna get any public comment on these outstanding issues right now so propose resolutions on the list is probably the way to go next yep um and hopefully we'll be in person next time which will help improve energy yeah okay well sean oh wait felipe has something to say please please yeah one question that i did want to ask is about clarifying the process for the next steps in the use case document and basically to see also where where i can help you're asking how we make decisions about what to change in the use cases document yeah personally that and also"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:30:01",
    "text": "you know what the new next steps would be i believe the next steps are for us to send a pr uh reorganizing the use cases document and then we'll send that that to the list for comments yeah that's my understanding as well that if you if you go ahead and update the document and then people will comment then i think you can engage people will be engaged to be like yes that one is in or out that the ones that are still in the front at the front part of the document um and then we can actually get to whether we're done it might be as easy as just moving things um and that would be great and then we could focus our energy elsewhere um i highly doubt that i'm sure this would be something that's controversial but um i uh yeah it's basically just reorganize the document and then we'll go from there because now it's a working group document that one of the reasons why you want to submit the old version the way it is is so that when you submit the next version that's the 01 version of the working group you can see what's changed as part of the working group document process and all that stuff so i think that uh yeah if you guys can just get that that the next version up uh when you're when when available that would be great okay thank you yeah then i guess we can coordinate among ourselves in the in the coming days the only thing the only other thing i would add is just to make sure that uh you know do it do it in the github so it's open and people can see what's going on and if we have any questions we can just refer them to the list we can cc the the list we probably should go ahead and get uh wpac uh mailing list set up so there are weekly summaries sent i think mark nottingham has a cool tool that'll allow us to do that and um so that if the you know the tempo on the mailing list um or the tempo and the github repo picks up then the mailing list will automatically get uh cc with whatever gets changed"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:32:10",
    "text": "i think jeffrey popped on to say yes i don't know exactly but um sorry yes that's what i said okay the audio didn't actually come through but it was brief enough that i thought that that was and uh felipe must have done the same uh you have to give it a half a second for the audio actually channel to connect um but uh sean i think we are probably in agreement that uh much like we expected with only needing an hour session i think that we're gonna be ending early here at only half an hour right do you have any other business you need john i do not the only other thing is to think about is that um we do have other drafts in the working group uh in our statement of work that we agreed with the isg and so at some point we'll need to begin engaging on those and i guess there's probably some other things that need to get done first but um if you want to start working on those drafts feel free um you know we basically will start the process the same way we did with the other drafts with individual drafts that we will then evaluate and you know run an adoption call on so if there if any of the other work items that are available on our that are on our charter um feel free to jump in there and start working out yep that's it for me yeah and i think um now you all have some time to go ahead and drop over to priver hrpc or whatever you like um and we're gonna call it here thanks again for the note taking and we'll see you on the list bye all right yep thank you bye-bye you"
  }
]
