[
  {
    "startTime": "00:00:09",
    "text": "yeah okay um so this is now the lamps working group and Shawn has decided that he wants to volunteer those eight minutes for me this this is probably like going to be the easiest meeting to take minutes in a bit more than five vineland be surprised okay so this is this is the lamps working group the note well which everybody at this point and here probably have seen at least once [Laughter] there\u0027s the agenda so we\u0027ve got many should do to take care of the need the first half anyone who wants to to subtract remove change things in the agenda a now is the unspeak up you can read the agenda it\u0027s off it\u0027s on one slide it\u0027s still here I haven\u0027t seen her so there\u0027s presentation Oh actually that\u0027s me nevermind this new stuff so issues the 18 in update basically it\u0027s ready to go to I think it\u0027s still stuck with ekor and these it\u0027s just question giving it to the ietf at this point i yes you at this point [Music] the two s/mime updates are currently stuck on me I need to finish dealing with the AV review comments with any luck um I need to get that done by the end of this week and then we can then the Necker can sit on it for a while and and then send it to iesg for review with the two of us been alternating not managing to not get to this document to finish it so so I mean "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:03:10",
    "text": "so I tuned in actually has been proof of iesg and it\u0027s just um we\u0027re waiting for the food announcement to be sent okay right so I\u0027m excused for not actually knowing that was in the cabinet so neither of the authors of the I ate team draft are actually here they\u0027ve done some changes they\u0027ve done a few edits to deal with things and as you\u0027ve said if this this was now ready for publishing stuff okay so yeah you\u0027re up next sorry just for clarification the ien document on the t28 --red --red has been approved the eai document i put on the telecom for like right one from now sure why not okay well let\u0027s skip this until he manages to come back and get some place so he\u0027s trying to get through okay we\u0027re not exactly overloaded for mm-hmm me being tires yeah okay so let\u0027s just skip over so okay "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:06:12",
    "text": "hi-yah so if it\u0027s useful I can give us some money issue welfare lips trying to connect so I\u0027ve been pretty involved in it too and I have a draft out some of the issues published which I hope to see adopted as the beginning of a working document for the working group what happened at the sea a browser forum which is the self regulating body for the CIA industry is we went to mandate CAA and discovered some ambiguities and in Felicity\u0027s in it in particular there\u0027s this tree climbing thing we do where we go up you know from the first label the parent label to the parent label looking for CIA records the way it was specified said that we should additionally we should do some additional processing on see names and D names and be that same tree climbing for those see names of the lives the downside of that is it creates a really huge number of lookups and it creates these really that ambiguity in terms of which CAA record you want to use so the C Bowser forum wound up adopting on inner Atum so currently there\u0027s an erratum on CAA and says this process seems normally don\u0027t do that special processing and so you have a fixed member of whatever if there are three labels in the domain name you\u0027re gonna do three lookups modular the cname processing which is handled by either the cursive resolver so this is a sort of awkward situation right now where the see a browser form has adopted this RFC bossanova bottom that\u0027s held for document update so one of the big things would like to do is actually do a document update that fixes that issue what I have done in the ancient draft is rewrite how that\u0027s specified part of it is that the specification you know try to get into the see name resolution when that\u0027s already handled by RFC 1034 so instead it kind of shells out okay - RFC 1034 do you know more thing say three times if you have three labels and use the results for those I\u0027m not sure what else Philip I wanted to address in his slides here if he\u0027s ready he can jump on I wanted to flag one other thing which the see a browser forum wound up kind of patching in which is error handling so right now the what\u0027s specified in the baseline of elements is that if you get "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:09:13",
    "text": "an error during lookup you can treat that as permission to issue so long as it wasn\u0027t a DNS that base yeah I\u0027m paraphrasing it so it would also be useful for us to specify error handling and the idea specification and it\u0027s all see the screen now so fellow can go Bannen the slides thanks for me okay soon okay for now okay it\u0027s you getting sound yes okay so the basic problem with said you go to the slide to the basic reason that we have to do all this bizarre discovery thing is some DNS records are not are private and this isn\u0027t something that we can debate they just are and CA is regularly issued for city hit cuts that can\u0027t be seen on the Public DNS and so that\u0027s why there is the tree-climbing algorithm NCAA the first problem in the first place and the problem is that the CIA records are intended to be communication for the domain name hold at the CX so this is like three unfortunately DNS records are published by domain name holders so that might be directly or through a third party and so cname is used to map a set intent names onto a single target it\u0027s also now used widely to delegate domain name holder to a third party service provider so this is what is done by MX + srv4 well behaved protocols unfortunately HTTP is not well behaved because it was invented before SRB and there\u0027s no MX record for it so the prop basic problem of the discovery is you don\u0027t have the distinction in the DNS record telling you why that cname is that so I\u0027m go to slide 4 the big complication is that D names aren\u0027t really DNS records there\u0027s something else they\u0027re really a sort of placeholder that goes in the zone file that is used to generate cname records "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:12:14",
    "text": "on demand only the reason that it now appears in on the wire is because of DNS SEC and you need to be able to say why you synthesized a cname as Saudi name appears on the wall on the wire so ca ca a client should be processing thee names as part of the seat name validation but only really in terms of their DNS SEC validation so if you\u0027ve got an N SEC 3 record that says that you should have had a seat D name then you\u0027ve got to understand that in your CAA code if you\u0027ve got a DNS if you\u0027ve got a DNA record that says that the cname should have been synthesized you\u0027ve got to understand that and you\u0027ve got your understand if the C name retro turn is valid and then the C name returned is invalid so those are all things that your code has to understand about when you do the CAA record processing with DNS SEC but really you\u0027re just working off the C names I\u0027ll come back to this in a moment okay so one of the big problems that we\u0027re working around is use of C name is restricted because the idea is that you are so this is slide number 5 the idea is that you\u0027re delegating the entire zone so you\u0027re not allowed to have anything else in a see name in the DNS so that means that you aren\u0027t allowed to have a phone that has a cname and the CA a record and that\u0027s the thing that gets us in trouble because we have those administrative C names that are used for internal delegations and then you\u0027ve got those CD MD names that are used for external delegations and you don\u0027t know which are which and if you\u0027ve run the CDN case well you can\u0027t put your CAA record at your zone any so that was what led to the requirement that the CARF clients follows C name so I\u0027ve got a couple of use cases in 3rd slide 6 so these use cases are showing to see names in series so first of all web example.com is going to be name - WWE example calm and that\u0027s a ministry of internal redirect and then we have example.com so www.example.com going off to see the end of example net and so that\u0027s the third party redirect so if you look at the original algorithm this is in slide 7 this is assuming that cname mappings are administrative and so you have a discovery path it starts up great dot example.com ghost of WWE ample comm then goes off to see the end of it "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:15:17",
    "text": "and that\u0027s really not something that you would like to do the first two were fine that\u0027s what you want the next one example dotnet that is really bad duck net mutts are bad but irrelevant and then you\u0027ll go back to example.com and then com so CDN have made the RFC eight six eight four four algorithm bogus so now slide eight which shows what happens when you have the errata and basically this cuts out some but not all of the bogosity if you have web block example.com WWI example comm you still go off to the CDN got example dotnet we then don\u0027t chase the tree up any further then example.com and then com so that\u0027s what is in production today because cab form requires us to do the errata and then we go to slide nine the solution that had been proposed is to use a prefix record and just ignore the cname issue completely so instead of the algorithm chasing see names at all we don\u0027t do any of that and instead the discovery path will be web example.com underscore prefix web not example calm then WWE example comm prefix the same example.com prefix of the same and so on so that means that you don\u0027t end up doing any bogus records the only disadvantage is that you\u0027re doing slightly more rip-rip lookups but you know this is ca work this is validation this is really not something that is a huge deal so if we go to slide 10 which is the final month I have the remaining problem we then have is D name and D name throws a spanner in the works in that the stick system I just described is not compatible with DNA and there really is no way that you can make it compatible and well the solute the only solution that I can think of is you just tell people not to do DNA the problem with D name is that you\u0027re not like any records underneath number one and number two the specification says to weed out any records that are there so there\u0027s a lot of infrastructure there that is going to ignore any labels under D names so you can\u0027t use the prefix in that so [Music] talking to D and s people it sounds like D name doesn\u0027t work anyway for anything useful so maybe we can just forget about and that\u0027s it okay um so Jacob C in the "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:18:21",
    "text": "queue after you so I\u0027m going to run over to him but so to add a little context on dname at let\u0027s encrypt we did a scan of all the domain names of issued to and we found that out of about 40 million domain names only 40 of them used D name at all so I think you know if we find a solution that you know doesn\u0027t work with DNA that\u0027s okay in terms of adding the prefix records there\u0027s two things I wanted to discuss you know one Phillip suggested that you know if we implemented this prefix algorithm we wouldn\u0027t actually do rap MC names I think that\u0027s the wrong approach to take I think the problem with RFC 6844 is it tried to reinvent the basics you name semantics for self and pressed by different processing I think whatever result we want should you know follow normalcy name semantics so in other words if you look at web example.com using your recursive resolver you\u0027re gonna get back a result that includes following the cname chain and you should process that in the normal way so in other words one of the records you\u0027d get back would be from the CDN or you know whatever this cnam target is and I think that\u0027s not a missed feature I think that\u0027s a what you want in that the target of the cname is you know that\u0027s the canonical name of that domain and does have some say in what\u0027s authorized I think there are some interesting questions here about CD ends setting hostile records with regards to their customers but I think that does come down to the relationship between EC the ends and their customers at a higher level I think you know there\u0027s this question of you know okay we we took four years to finally implement CAA and production you know we got agreement among CAS it\u0027s actually out there and it\u0027s live for about two months now as of September it\u0027s mandatory for all CA so we\u0027re just now starting to see some of the real world implementation so I think it would be a mistake to fundamentally change discovery algorithm at this time I think one approach we should probably take is revise the RFC such that you know we fix the bugs we found and it clarifies how to interpret the errata manners and that way the cab format can refer to a specific standard stock that fixes those and then independently pursue a more radical change that\u0027s likely to take more time to get adopted "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:21:22",
    "text": "go ahead Phil um my first question would be what is it you want to do with this current document yeah I\u0027m not going to problem with what he said people have a use for cname I got no problem with that I was merely replying to precisely the set of requirements that I had seen and I hadn\u0027t seen somebody saying that they wanted to see name as well so yeah following the cname for 1/2 seems reasonable to me so I\u0027m ok with that as far as the document is concerned how much processing we do only depends upon what the algorithm we choose is so what I wanted was the choice of algorithm fillers and then write it up the other choice the other proposal that Jacobs made is use txt instead of the CAA record I don\u0027t object to that at all but I think there are people who might so as far as the spec is concerned I can write stuff up I need to know what to write do you expect this group or the cab forum to be the ones who are actually making the decision of what to do I do not want the lawyers telling ok ok I\u0027m gonna switch over back to Jacob yeah so I\u0027m the text record thing I think somebody else may propose that I\u0027m actually in favor of keeping the CA a resource record type it was a little bit of a pain at first because some networks reject it but support has actually been pretty good so I think there isn\u0027t a need to switch the text records for the main discovery but I think there was some discussion around doing it for that underscore pretext in terms of like I mentioned I actually have a draft and I\u0027m going to participate and actually authorship there I think the next formal step IETF process wise is to get that adopted as a working group document and we can collaboratively iterate on it and "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:24:23",
    "text": "I\u0027ll definitely agree with something Phil said a cab forum doesn\u0027t want to be involved in specifying this it\u0027s not standard-setting body it\u0027s the body that adopts these things I\u0027ve been separately involved in encouraging cab forum members to participate or the IETF in this process so they can have that input and I think that was it I think there\u0027s something else develop said I wanted to respond to you but I forgot there yeah I\u0027ll just +1 what Jacob said then so if we take off so we can I\u0027ve got no problem doing the joint or the chip thing so we\u0027ll just meet offline and merge our drafts or whatever okay any input from the room hi this is Shaun Turner um I think we shouldn\u0027t stand on process if they\u0027re gonna implement it and they found bugs and they wrote up a way that they were they\u0027re doing it now we should document it to fix what we did wrong it would seem silly that we wouldn\u0027t if we have this this way and the authors seem like they\u0027re actually agreeing with each other so all we have to do is identify people that read it and kid-like agree to it in the IETF right so we have to find like one friendly DNS person in their mafia that will read this and tell us that they like are kind of okay with it right because that\u0027s the one hurdle we\u0027re gonna have to get through but it sounds like once they merge the thing we should just adopt it yeah one of the things that I screwed up when we did the transition was I didn\u0027t think about the transition to the errata so far very upset with me should we go to documenting what we want to move to or should we also document the errata version I don\u0027t know that I have an opinion on that and there\u0027s anybody else care about documenting the errata version instead of just saying this is what we should be doing now just do it as a supersedes rich sauce Jacob yeah so my position is that we should document the errata version essentially not literally with the errata text because there were some in Felicity\u0027s in that as well the simplification doc I have proposed implements the errata algorithm from the "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:27:26",
    "text": "one that\u0027s actually in production but uses much simpler language with fewer ambiguities basically by pulling out the the parts that try to we specify cname so I believe pretty strongly we should document what\u0027s in production making RFC for that that supersedes the old one and then move on to something that would fundamentally change the discovery process but it you know I think anything that\u0027s going to fundamentally change the discovery process should be motivated primarily by seeing how things have played out in production and for instance if people say you know this algorithm that we all know that isn\u0027t serving me correctly I can\u0027t express this policy that\u0027s really important for me to express and then we\u0027ll be able to decide okay is it worth the ecosystem disruption to fundamentally change the process again and then we\u0027ll have you know a long period of transition but for now I think we really want to lay in an RFC that supersedes the old one specifies the erotica hey they\u0027re in a really clear way and maybe clears up some questions about how to handle errors so JEP are you basically saying you don\u0027t see an immediate need to go to the proposed algorithm from Phil yeah that\u0027s correct I think you know there have been some hypothetical cases postpone of policies that would be hard to express under the current proposal but I\u0027d like to see more real-world usage of people trying to work with the current system and finding ways that it doesn\u0027t work for them I\u0027m not the actual chair so I can\u0027t make any sort of actual final decisions from a peer process point of view we actually can\u0027t reach arter until we get one document in and through the iesg we\u0027ve got a document there now so and it is actually through because you push the publish so we can actually start that recharter process okay so this is Sean Turner um I guess I can get them you know so I I like the idea of a supersedes but I\u0027m not really super strongly and like one way or the other if somebody has a really strong opinion let\u0027s just go with that one and do it like get the errata out it ought to be pretty straightforward pretty simple to do it shouldn\u0027t take years to get get that version out the door let\u0027s just do it bill do you have a super strong opinion about this or not okay so I think that\u0027s what I\u0027m hearing is we should get the new RC published with the errata version and then potentially start working on a draft for fixing problems with that if if we actually find any other is wrong do I "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:30:26",
    "text": "want to hum on that okay so that\u0027s question number one do people understand what we\u0027ve been talking about yes No okay there\u0027s at least one person who thinks he does it is there anyone who has a who believes that the okay the solution of we published the errata art rata version as a new RFC which supersedes the current one and then look at doing a second draft do you want to proceed that way yes no okay so that sounds like a very weak opinion that yes we should be doing that sounds like most people don\u0027t care about the problem itself okay thank you so next thing up is shape hello at the last meeting we adopted their new work items and one of them was to specify shake for pickax so here are the two Hadees NIST has specified for the two shakes the shakes they do have variable output lengths however for this purpose we we just need to fix the output lens to 256 or 512 for for the two shakes so that would make thing you know symbol and conforming with what we have been doing would be kicks for you know what a decade or so and currently we are we\u0027re describing Oh "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:33:33",
    "text": "Eddie\u0027s for DSA is see they say and and of course I say and here is the the IDSA the exact numbers will be specified by this later that it would be a very easy work for me to do so right now I just we just put symbols X\u0026Y for now and those will be updated later and Oh Eddie is in the same category of the signature algorithms in the NIST sock and this is for ECDSA and very similarly the pacific values will be specified later and the or information about ECDSA specification is in the s 962 Oh the format\u0027s and keys identifiers will be provided in our draft and our document later for now we just put a placeholder in the draft and this is something I don\u0027t know should we specify oh I DS for both I\u0027ll say standards or just only one of them in some of the previous documents I saw we specify both for PSS and because she has one by five but that we all know the one by five is one people are actually using for pickets so so I don\u0027t know what what our group want to do and any suggestions and comments to improve our draft please send us emails or speak to the mic now or at any point hi she\u0027s non Turner again um can we seriously drop the DSA stuff I don\u0027t know anybody\u0027s implemented the last time we went and tried to find out if anybody said that they used it nobody said anything I understand it was documented and it\u0027s like kind of in baggage that we\u0027ve been carrying around do you know of people that really said that they needed it and would they ever get to a microphone or send any message to the ITF left and say yeah I generated 10 certs with D si signs I mean there might be people that did it but if they didn\u0027t can we just drop it Eric or squirrel no hat yes please like let us not have DSA any longer "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:36:36",
    "text": "Jim no hat yes I agree yeah but again most of the the content actually from from ASEAN\u0027s at raf earlier so we did copy I just copied it and fix the syntax it included to be complete so it\u0027s all listed there and then we can reevaluate and say do we really need to include them yeah I think the answer really should be no so that we can make it easier on everyone and then people won\u0027t do silly things like use Ayana registries to measure you know implementations and how well they conform to all the things listed in the standard because people don\u0027t do them at least that I\u0027m aware of hi-yah here can you go back to slide number 4 that\u0027s the one with the BSA and yeah so it says here that ID BSA with shake is number 3 and can you go back forward one slide so here it says it is the ECDSA is also three so what they say well they same identifier no no the why the x and a y well sure the excellent white tell you are different number but is is both DSA and VCDs a number three [Music] because we have like that we put all the signature in the same branch okay so the so they\u0027re actually the same the same prefix yeah so basically so basically the four numbers will be with our different numbers so what Y Z and Y prime Z prime something like that yeah and Jim Shh nohow I\u0027m an asked a really stupid question since shake is a variable-length thing is there any reason other than we don\u0027t like doing parameters not to more closely match the output of shake to the length of the he that we\u0027re using we could do parameter for the shakes but this is an option to go consistent with what we have done in the past but the "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:39:38",
    "text": "group want to do with the parameter lens then it would be fine as well yeah in that case then we have a variable length output so either way would be fine and what we put here is to be consistent with what we have done so far and that we thought was the group wanted to do but I would be happy to switch back to to put the lens indicator in there and would that will be just fine I guess when in deshaun trainer employing new algorithms we should go first like this the kiss approach right but let\u0027s just pick the ones that we know people would want if they were gonna drop them in if their variable length like has anybody actually asked for them to be variable length we fair enough but I mean like before we would just go off and specify like $20 value of values or whatever for the length of them we probably should have somebody say that they wanted it for us so I think that like the the idea was that these are going to be drop-ins okay and so closely matched the key size so you fill it all the way up if you\u0027re using like 128 with a 256 bit cute so I guess maybe I lost track of it but this only applies if you\u0027re doing DSA right so if we just follow up showing suggestion previously we can nerd listen to our discussion right we see DSA keys are fixed size so you could just require that the that the keys be expanded in the same size right so um as a participant not know I\u0027m not an ad I propose we jettison DSA and hence is identifiers that answer this question and and require the pre CDSA they\u0027d be meant to be you know they\u0027d be same length but no so so there could be could be some case when people use a large curve and I want a faster hash and that\u0027s why variable ends would could could be useful in that case do uh I\u0027m not following for example you use like curve like two of 200-220 or 521 for example yeah and you shake one one candidate wow I\u0027m not a jerk no I\u0027m just saying yes but then you should make then you then just why not simply use shake up to the size of the other I mean why just keep applying it multiple times yeah I know that that note okay - a two visits would be best and and would be better used but I\u0027m just in theory somebody you know wants something strange like that no I I "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:42:39",
    "text": "guess what I\u0027m suggesting I mean maybe I just like lost track of how the heads working these days but like otherwise not bound to the curves no they are not bound to the curve well I said I could see poor unfortunate um that was the idea but it\u0027s okay III think I think they\u0027re bound in a hash algorithm but not I think I think fixed land would be just fine and but the the whole idea of the shape variable and originally was you know for to building the whole symmetric crypto core in one thing because in any case if you run a system you need a random memo generation right anyone that want to be efficient and in different applications you want my one different sizes so that\u0027s why did the reason to design something with variable our lands because it could be used for many different things that does a beauty of it but in order to utilize all those beauties we need to have we have need to define a new application new scenario something big something are you know something new in order to use that but we are using the the popular standards right now so is any more questions on this presentation one question Jim so some I understand is that you requested me to drop this say in the next version right that would be my yes okay but I just check what\u0027s we confirm okay so the next graph is the same as syntax and using the shake function with signatures and Mac so right now in this graph there\u0027s nobody\u0027s there and you know I used the Russ houseless graph and I just changed to the shake instead of shell 3 and right now we have the key CS number 1 1 by 5 and we have ECDSA and NK Mac which is a matte function using the shakes so the same is for the sheiks we just explained in the previous talk so that\u0027s a big ETS number one version 1 by 5 and the same thing F and Y will be provided later and the same with is easy they say and "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:45:43",
    "text": "then for the shake instead of the H Mac we\u0027ll just use a normal shake would have in this specification we have a fix a boot lens for for for the TAC and we use the the the the shape specify in our in the NIST FIPS 185 and it\u0027s very simple and is efficient and that is way how to do macking with shakes so I my understand is that the first item will not be there and any questions comments and help me to make a draft better and more useful for everybody okay Sean Leonard so despite I guess what the room said I think adding TSA to shakes is okay so I\u0027m just skeptical that it shouldn\u0027t be there that\u0027s all I wanted to say that it\u0027s not unanimous that it should be out oh okay because he here oka met he said something different so I don\u0027t know what you would like me to do or what a group decided would like me to do they got into a dad thing the essays days yes the essay goes I think that\u0027s a pretty conclusive opinion all right room I mean my recommendation would be take it out now people can always object on the list if they want it back okay so we are going to update it drops and from now if people have more comments for us just send us emails and we we would we will try to make a draft for better wrap up so we should be starting a charter discussion relatively soon there is a candidate charter which I have not read as in my mailbox but it\u0027s not clear "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:48:47",
    "text": "exactly how soon that\u0027s going to start Russ is going into surgery tomorrow and he has an expected five to six week recovery period after that so I\u0027m not too sure how much he\u0027s going to be active between now and Christmas so we\u0027ll see what happens in terms of that but we will definitely try to get the current documents done that should not take any additional cycles from him as they have all been basically pushed out of the working group and on to the authors and the ABS and then we\u0027ll see what and then we\u0027ll see where we go from there so there\u0027s any other business any questions anyone I must ask thank you for your time if you haven\u0027t signed blue sheets it\u0027s complete [Music] so yeah [Music] "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:51:47",
    "text": "[Music] you "
  }
]