[
  {
    "startTime": "00:00:05",
    "text": "good morning folks what about audio tests here also for a good day folks good good something it's all very confused this week hey John and off by an hour across the pond as well something something like that and you you never know which which direction they're going to go either it depends who created them and where they were on holiday at the time when does the UK switch its time zone two two more weeks I believe yeah it's always the last Sunday of March okay that's a good way to remember it yeah it's it's the time when you guys used to do it maybe we should bring this to a standards body to see if we could align on times yeah well I would just rely on not not changing them at all so that would be easy cool could I ask a favor um just in the first couple of minutes while people are coming along hannes uh it probably will be along later but certainly not for the beginning of the call so I'm leading and taking notes today and someone just checked the Hedge Dock and see if you can see uh heading meeting minutes for 2023.0313 because I have a feeling it's put me in some kind of private note um I see meeting minutes for a 313. okay nothing else yeah that's okay also yeah okay cool right good then I will take the notes Here John the U.S Congress decided we needed to do something different with our daylight savings time so that's why we changed I'm sure I'm sure everybody has their reasons it's a very divisive thing here you know in heaven and Heaven only knows with"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:02:01",
    "text": "your size of your country but our country is just about long enough that the people in the far south have a very different opinion on the people in the far north anyway it feels like most of us are here so I'll divide is well so I believe the free after so I guess we can we can start to get going I believe the only thing that we're looking at um is the continuing large update to the architecture document um so I will in a second pass over to Hank and Steve for that does anyone else have any other agenda hacking to do quickly before we get going that sounds like a no so um also in keeping with last week because we are really under the clock now or on the calendar for getting this stuff done and ready to submit and approve what I would like to do with the queue is um allow the editors to go through a section at a time we'll collect up all the cue comments and then try and address them kind of as a block uh just so that we don't run out of time on uh on the things we're covering so if that doesn't work for us then then I'll change it back but I'll try and try and do it that way for this week um so I don't know Hank or um Steve who wants to start but I reckon we should just go through each of the issues and outstanding PRS and and see if there's anything controversial yeah I guess I'll I'll kick off just uh because Hank Did the majority of the work with the um the vast overhaul uh"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:04:01",
    "text": "terminology so we did get that merged we did get um I captured as much as I possibly could which some would argue is too much but I try to capture as much as I could of the open issues so there's a bunch of issues capturing and then I think it was Friday I tried a triage what I thought we needed to land for today versus what we would do later so I did a bit of a triaging process in the issues and either was set to 116 which the deadline one of the deadlines is today or it was set to 117 and 117 was more of a bucket that it was triaged so if nothing's assigned to a release a milestone then it hasn't been reviewed yet was the thought process uh the the doctor get merged we got a lot of the updates in there because they were all piecemeal there is a little bit of species that we were trying to clean up over the weekend and we didn't actually um note down some of the decisions we made in the open issues so that added a little more confusion at least to me because I was trying to the term is consistent and I didn't realize we switched one way or the other so with that I'll leave to hang because I know he's been looking at it as well okay thank you Steve hi this is Hank um yeah okay architecture internet draft for skit uh there was a task to consolidate the terms claims and statement and assertion and how to deal with that there was a outside force an outside pool of inputs there were people really really drenched into"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:06:02",
    "text": "the depths of how this should look like like the hardcore for more formal people the current PR that was merged actually I think represents consensus of both sides so uh um there was enough a lot of contentious discussion I think uh I want to highlight because I'm not sure if every uh stakeholders here that there's a strong for the strong notion on separating the formal term of signing something of uh the from the formal term of using cozy to signing something because when you sign something that's cozy you separate every matter that are into two buckets one of them is a bucket that goes into the signature and one of the bucket bucket is that does not go into the signature and uh there was I think I think formally and for everybody globally the most contentious thing for for some people from the ITF coming from Jose and Jose this is all of this like obvious right but uh but from the outside looking at the ietf there was not obvious so I think we remediated that by retaining most of the uh basic uh terminology that was the in actual initial proposal to be honest and then uh changing some arrows that add some cozy and some some signing procedure and some specialization there so I think when you look at changes from the uh the changes at the uh figure one and the architecture I think uh you will see that the most uncontentious items are in the boxes and the actual new parts that were the solution to this are the arrows so that's my summary for the architecture on the vast overhaul uh"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:08:02",
    "text": "remaining terminology issues are there of course there's a vastly inconsistent use of log and a ledger and and and other forms of phrasing the the uh the the repository the retention system and and I want to highlight and spoil here first that I think that somehow Lost in Translation between the two meetings after meetings was that we are basically going the most agnostic term that the append-only ledger so if you have a I don't know um sqlite file in your tee and you can guarantee that that is handled as a append only mechanism you're good uh the thing is append only and you're never removing something you're only add in something you want to remove something you're amending it with another statement I think that's the current understanding here uh that is the terminology issue not resolved in the current VR there is still a little bit all over the place in the current text and as please stay tuned uh that we fixed up so if you have a problem with the append only structure in this case log uh please say so on here on the list and and and and and argue why this is bad but I think that that's the that's a common denominator everybody agrees on but this is open items um so I know also referring to things solved and things open I think that's the gist of it yeah cool so thanks Hank uh and right on time you'll guess you have a hand up yeah I mean um I think um thanks to Henke Consolidated or summarized very well so regarding I just wanted to clarify Hank you saying append Only log right because"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:10:00",
    "text": "uh way back in October before the idea from I we agreed we agreed that we will remove Ledger and because it's more takes it towards blockchain and uh very implementation specific term would use append only logs so if that is what you meant the and I'm I'm happy with it and if anybody has any objections I would love to hear that as well if there is any objections to this so before the objections can be raised I want to highlight yes uh registry has the drawback of iitf connotation because of we don't want to really delve into a yeah and a territory here and reuse the term registry yeah and a ledger yes that somehow also is a term burned I I know um that uh sometimes ontologies are sold via the using the term Json ID uh obvious catering is a termite ontology while you're still using them so we are not trying to do that here I think obfuscating terms the new terms is bad um nevertheless Ledger is really connotated not even uh annotated but the connotated with with further meaning that we want to watch here and and I understand that the term ledger to some um facets of the surveying are viable and useful um I think uh they're not useful here so avoiding it for now and then elaborating on and in future text is better and that's yeah Registries probably out uh they're just probably out which basically leaves log and I think everybody can agree on that and that that's my my point of view but we are not doing anything any changes right now of this first of our opinion uh please speak out so just to and so regarding the terminology I Ledger or log I think"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:12:01",
    "text": "either is fine I um opinions either way my opinion is let's get pick one and move forward so append Only log makes sense um the uh question I have though is skit skit transparency service or registry I if we're talking about an instance of this thing is it a is it a transparency service that's another that's a point item three you have of course the service that provides apis that that's very intuitive an API and I think that's race comments has an as a customer phase inside and an internal facing side and I think uh people who read from it are put some things to it um yeah it might be different and I think Ray made a good a very good point about that so that's that's future work also flash that out transparency Services also includes uh vital Parts one of them is a log and I think one of them is the concept I'm not saying it's a function what I want to say today it's concept that really really resonates with everybody I think who who tries to understand what we're doing as notarization of the notary that doesn't understand the content that just you know notarizes all the parties in the room and that it was said and that you know assertion and so um so I think that has to go in there and has to be a part of transparency service so my current way of thought from my individual point of view is Lord yes because that's that's where you cryptographically do things and then functionalize wise notarization who which part is on wall what is going to to that cryptographic function these are two parts of the transparency"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:14:01",
    "text": "service but I'm I'm a little bit going into the guessing realm here but I think that that looks pretty feasible to me yeah so I I hear you and I I agree with the concepts because remember there's the there's an instance of this thing if somebody refers to somebody running one what do we want to call it and so I I struggle with the term transparency service because we've got ourselves caught up in some things are opaque some things are transparent I'd be perfectly fine to call it a transparency service for now um just so that Doc is consistent if we can have the document be consistent from begin to end then at least we know that we can do a search and replace for a single term should we choose to do that but right now we're using so many synonyms that it does get confusing so I just so I think we've the ones we I know we've solved is statement uh sign statement transparent statement that's good yes the other one is log over Ledger which is the thing that we're writing to which is a sub component of the overall system obviously this thing needs to have some durability so I'm hearing it's a trans uh sorry an append Only log when we refer to it in the dock Now not no decisions but that's a candidate most favorite candidate from my point of view yes okay well in a favor candidate just to the point of can we update the doc with that because I what I'd like to suggest not today not today not today uh no no no no no I think I'm not the chess again yeah sorry yeah yeah that's I think the having a name for that is very important what what the name is um we could just spend another month going through um I think it's worth just pointing out um this is a useful opportunity that a lot of our conversations get into"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:16:00",
    "text": "discussions like that um like can we call it transparency service when not absolutely everything is absolutely fully transparent um there are always abstractions and Shades of Gray in what we're doing um you know all the identities strong enough well it depends how how hard you look and how hard people are trying to hack you but yeah we have to draw the line somewhere so I think that the consistency is super duper important um Exquisite linguistic correctness I think is going to fail us because the English language isn't very good at the kinds of abstractions that skit is dealing with so yeah let's let's get it in with TS as it is now um we lost did we lose somebody from the queue Charlie you were next for sure but anyway um yeah I'll pass in a second I just so I understand do we want to leave the dark as it is today Hank is that we were suggesting we submit as is today right not just today as it is now all there are a lot of things also Sorry Charlie you're really patient here I get that oh sorry um um yeah a lot of things are pushed back for today um we have uh other shown for example um there's a receipt ID it's good and we realized that the skits received ID basically represents a global concept of how to phrase Merkel tree proves and maybe the ordered paths in cozy so that's a thing we will issue today and uh we decided not to um the editors and authors of the architecture decided not to in last minute uh change the reference from received to This Global cozy Merkel tree thing that has not even accepted by cozy yet right so so we are parallel we're splitting"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:18:00",
    "text": "things out the the things spawning from the concept of skit to a specific format uh and and and security related other working group psychosi um we split them out in parallel so uh in this iitf116 you will encounter uh both uh up-to-date received ID for uh providing metadata with counter signing proves that something has to be added to a ledger next to a cozy IDE that explains how to in general phrase if you use some kind and there's a register there of hash tree and cozy how to use that so we are splitting more generic items off screen sketch into other working groups whether it's a process and therefore at the moment and especially in 116 you will encounter both the remaining specific document and sketch and also Co encounter the more generic item in cozy I want to really highlight that there's no discrepancy here but we have to wait for a response from cozy and we of course won't abandon our own thing but there will be consolidation between 116 someone around 17 in July and then we will find out where goes what and that's an interesting discussion but that's that's a little bit off topic maybe too too specific right now but but yeah there's a lot of sure and we are not turning into the architecture today we were discussing should the architecture document already refer now to the very very today released will be to be released cozy Mercury specification instead of receipt and I think the overall resonance was no don't confuse people with that spit it"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:20:01",
    "text": "off make it a discussion do it in parallel see what's better and then resolve this in the next step so so that's a long story for saying no uh yes I'm saying yes actually there's a lot of things going on but no there's nothing it's changing to the architecture document although there are some generic things happening at cozy working group look at that and that's my message basically thank you okay try to find a stable point for what we want to do with the architecture not um can we can we get 21 minutes yeah yeah so uh I just I guess I wanted to a couple of things first of all I think if we're discussing a document and some of those uh changes uh I think they're all uh excellent but I unfortunately have not been able to get deep into the document and it would be helpful to have it uh on the screen or at with some you know link or something to the uh the changes or whatever it is just uh to help follow so that's that's part one uh but I just also want to get clarity on uh where we are at this point in terms of terminology and if I could maybe restate what I think I heard uh We've settled on statement versus attestation versus uh whatever the other synonym was and then we've also settled on uh notarization instead of transparency uh if again if I heard that correctly and I think there was one more I can't remember what it was is that uh and then so and then for signatures we have decided we will uh not be dependent on cozy but we will put a magic happens here box in the architecture for the"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:22:01",
    "text": "signature process is that is that a correct summary um I'm just subbing in here so um thanks Hank I appreciate that that screen share thank you I'm oh I'm not sharing anything no yet but yeah looks like you attempted to at least which is physically in camera rough sharing anything um so the second item I think depending on things cozy um we are in skits yeah taking cozyen and molding it to what we think we can use it for and that's a receipt and then cozy and parallel we are telling them while we are doing this but shouldn't we do this in general like like in a global thing and we are paralyzing that so there's no no decision there yet there's actually two tracks that we want to see which is going to work so if if the global thing is a super contentious item that will never resolve a script will not benefit so skip will basically then go with okay you are wrestling is hard uh we're doing our own thing right and so uh so then we'll feed that through cozy that's basically it yeah okay so let me let me then make one quick follow-on because I do have the floor uh so the uh I guess my question would be why do we need to specify a signature method isn't any valid signature method gonna work no that is actually the real point of skit um if you have someone joining your supply chain they are coming from arbitrary anywhere you had a reliable partner for years and they are now coming in and they are signing something that's uh scrafu and you have never"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:24:00",
    "text": "heard of that before you don't know what scruffle is you have literally Googled that and you'll find a description in a language you don't know and now you're like okay how do I check authenticity that's a real problem so the authenticity check about the same thing doing over the world all over again it's a thin frosting it's concise it's security there are libraries available for all things that's the thing the content whatever it is okay be my guest but I think no the signature you can't diverge too much that that's the problem we were trying to accommodate other things that it seems as a payload and referring to them and like okay this is initially signed unfortunately there will be a next signature we are really apologizing please call this it's very specific guidance how to do this possible but I think on a global scale you can't diverge on how to check authenticity all the time because then again you're inviting all the problems so that is why the that's why basically the core Reason by our current candidate for the global authenticity checking is is cozy yeah and for scoped authenticity checking you can do anything what you want in a in in the payload does that make sense okay that does make sense uh I guess my I wouldn't say that uh you know Joe's authentication method is worth having but uh any internationally recognized uh standard or uh well-accepted practice uh would accelerate the adoption of skit uh in the absence of our own signature process so just uh just my two cents I'm I'm gonna yield the floor thanks and thanks for your patience Ray okay hi thanks all right I just wanted to recommend that we uh maybe have a discretion in any paper"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:26:03",
    "text": "about the terminology this is a lot from you know go through and and do Global replace or anything like that I happen to like Ledger better for the core you know um part of skit but also I think it registry is a better word for the whole thing because there's going to be I think stuff that's not actually in that ledger that it's referring to and so forth and that um it seems like saying something like skit registry would be good um uh for the whole thing but again these are my opinions right now and I think we can maybe um yeah I'm just thinking it'd be better maybe to to try to put this terminology details aside and I love the discussion that we were just having about how cozy fits in with with how the ledger works and and that's where like if I was here's what I'm trying to do I'm trying to take a ledger off the shelf um AWS qldb and then the question is how how do I how would I work with that with cozy that's that's something I was trying to study on right now and if we could have a discussion along those lines um that that would be I think really productive but I don't want to get in the way of any Direction at the that the editors want to go in terms of getting uh you know getting things completed for this this timeline thanks right right I'm just barging in here because I said the trigger word um sorry for being uh intrusive um we have this again this this Global cozy how to represent Market trees it's a draft and now we just decided to move"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:28:00",
    "text": "qldb not into the first zero zero because it's a branded thing and to reference something that's an algorithm that's a branded thing will be a big Opera and and to the Gateway functions of the ietf that are vetting algorithms so so we're going with the the least contentious thing in which is a certificate transference the transparency thing right that's our first residency item but but there are other I want to say named algorithms that are not easily referenced today uh to for for vetting of the crypto Forum research Group which is the I want to say semi official Gateway function for algorithms that are okay for the IDF and we have to we have to do that exercise to to to go through the cfrg here uh to to get something like 2ldb uh vetted but yes exactly that is why we are splitting off the Mercury proofs to the Cozy group saying hey this is the Place who register something there's just one cool candidate because that's already RC and all these other candidates one of them being qldb and unfortunately we have to pass them through crypto Forum research group unfortunately means sorry for taking this time but we have to be thorough here and we have to do the things right so the apology is for the time this will cost but uh we are not apologizing for foreigners and and feasibility so because that is the goal right so right uh yes qldb is actually on the radar believe somewhere but we can't just put that into an ID right now uh we have to really um appreciate and accepted process here and put like okay we want this to be an"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:30:02",
    "text": "accepted algorithm and the registry for how to deal with trees so we have to go to crypto forum and let them balance does that make sense uh yeah certainly um I didn't mean to yeah that I was pushing through ldb I just uh mentioned that one uh they've been mentioned in some of the other diagrams for the list um you know of available um off the shelf um solutions for a ledger and uh I don't I I'm used to using off the shelf things if they're available um so I don't think I think it's going to be wise for us to look at what's available and um and not just come up with something um that is absolutely new and doesn't fit into what people are likely going to do yeah I think that is that we've got two different two different Horizons here right because the the important thing for me and Tennis is now here um so welcome Hennis uh I think the really important thing for us is that the deadline for submission if we want it to be sort of officially considered at 116 is today so the big question for this meeting is is there anything fatal in the current spec you know the current merges that that we really think we don't want to submit um and then yeah we get to we get to keep working it does occur to me that if we're going super abstract with changing ledger to log that's kind of the opposite decision so we need to look at you know in the next phase of work um we need to to look at how far we take that because obviously an append only lock doesn't have to have Merkle trees in it at all um so there's a bit of inconsistency in my mind at what stage of maturity the document's at in those two different ways but yeah let's just make sure that we're"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:32:01",
    "text": "we're happy with the today submission and and if it's okay yeah anything that will be uh relating to changes to register uh log are um so so this is the open PR that Steve was so very kind to to create and they are not submitting anything any decisions on that today because that is as you said not entirely dissolved good so it's a VR yeah and just in case anybody hadn't noticed it's my screen that's that's being shared I've just got the GitHub open in case it's useful to open any of these um issues or the all the main docs if anybody wants a visual aid just let me know otherwise um I give the thought to dick uh thank you John uh dick Brooks Rea so uh I I I I don't know of any Show Stoppers we have today personally I'd choose log over Ledger but I definitely think the registry is is the proper term that we should refer to when we're talking about the formal uh you know manifestation of these actual statements signed statements uh transparent statements whatever is going to be in there uh one thing I I do know from the past uh work when I worked on ISO 15000 um which is the EB XML standard we faced a similar challenge with regard to the different types of payloads we'd have to address and the bottom line what we landed was look just just make sure that you have an a mime type associated with the payload and any recognized mind type could be processed so if it was a pgp signature or you know signed piece of uh you know artifact it would have a you know pgp signature mine type so I I think we could we could address this by"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:34:00",
    "text": "saying with skit we recognize mime content types as the means by which we communicate information about formats and signatures and and payloads thanks so I could definitely add to that that um media types at their registry are absolutely the scope of our seas and therefore internet drafts uh we have to carefully phrase them I think um it's it's a complimentary thing to the content of course but it's very useful to apis and their proceedings and procedures so uh yes uh why it's not a high priority right now uh in the end I absolutely agree with dick whatever we do here can only benefit from uh corresponding media types yeah and I was just raising that uh Hank because of your concern or someone's concerns that cozy was mentioned here in reality there's no there's no reason why we couldn't support cozy or pgp or S mime or any other uh you know proper packaging uh you know format uh as part of this deal because the the payload is okay so it's just a matter of getting you know giving the receiver the information they need to process that payload thanks exactly so so if it's about the payload you can do whatever you want as an additional signature for your scheme in the in the ecosystem like and Nuggets npm uh whatever uh I think that's all correct but on the authenticity level of skit you can't diverge that that that's the rule I think uh that is real interoperability rule here um if we diverge there you require"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:36:01",
    "text": "everything even the smallest iot device to have a second stack that doesn't work and so um I think uh you're absolutely correct Zig uh on the payload level uh we could even have further documents later on we'll say well this payload that we say here in the arc just says okay basically composes these very three very prominent things and we can elaborate on that that's not a problem that's becoming that we can even make them a non-opaic statement I don't want to say transparent statement because that's kind of violating terminology with transparency service I'm avoiding that by saying non-opaque at the moment but um but yeah I think there are a lot of non-opaque statements we want to Define here and sketch and one of them could be for the internal signature schemes everyone support and then absolutely addict sorry and that's awesome yeah yeah and Hank I would hope that every transparency service would be allowed to choose the technologies that they were going to use for their own implementation and they would preserve the standards by following the interface specifications that ultimately skit will will describe so the rest yeah but yeah it is you will Nest one I want to say uh domain specific signature in the skit signature the signature will not change globally as a unifying Factor but if you want to Nest a domain specific signature you do not have to scrape that you do not have to remove that you can put that into the payload absolutely and you can even have transparent statements of telling you how to process that I think sorry non-opaque statements that can tell you how to process that I think that's very"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:38:02",
    "text": "very uh okay but on the on the on the skid level I think if you if you try to merge now multiple signing schemes then you are reproducing the same problem that you're trying to solve so you're just saying that we we must reach a consensus on the skid level on the specific signature technology yes it will be used yes unfortunately I think so yes that is that is that is a global problem that is an interoperable problem on on on Fast immediate resolution of authenticity yes but again you're as soon as you issued your own statement on the on the skill level the statement itself could contain whatever you need as further authentication authenticity it is not mutually exclusive but I think on a global level for easy fast and consistent authenticity ad hoc you cannot go into a tree of options that is the problem yeah well this this sounds like something We're Not Gonna um bottom out and put them out now so let's um so it's a great thing we need to spend more time yeah I don't think that's happening here but thank you thank you um so I I wanted to agree with Hank on um simplifying the client implementation and kind of using standards to to make people's lives easier um and I actually wonder if um I I'm not quite sure what you're saying about the um append only definition I it would seem in my mind at least beneficial that"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:40:01",
    "text": "there was a single way to architect that or a set of approved ways to architect that at least from the standpoint of making the auditor's tasks easier you know these these claims are that of transparency services in fact transparent independently and so on is only as good as the auditing that's done on that I I guess it could just be the case that if somebody comes up with a bizarre scheme that they claim is append only and they can't find an auditor for it that people will move somewhere else but I to what extent is do we think the goal should be to have only a certain set of approved data structures and and approaches to the append only and transparency aspects I think that's an excellent extension I think you have to go through some vetting here we can't just say this is the way I I would like I would love to say this the way but I think that that's not possible so one step towards what you are highlighting here is is to go through the process of uh uh first of all accumulating always put them into a register again and then the skit the skit uh agree on while this looks like the best way forward actually let's do this as as the default and you can also have other letters doing other things but please be always aware of repercussions here like that transitional problems and and then the mapping problems and then how to relate the trustworthiness relationships you know so so I think um why well yes that one way forward would be the best way uh resolution uh we can't do it uh at this point just just just prescribing that that will"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:42:00",
    "text": "fail in the ITF did it fail security waiting and therefore unfortunately we have to follow the process on that regard does that make sense yeah I mean I I guess I it also I it should be obvious I guess but just to curse me that this is an issue for the verifier of receipts also and and you know so I appreciate the complications of of how to do all that but um I and and I I don't want to take time away from what we're trying to get done today which it makes sense but I I do uh think we should try to be clear on uh how far we're going to try to push that simplification because I think it's very important thank you thank you that's all I appreciate it and let's talk on this on issues hi um just one comment that I don't think I have looked at the document and I don't think there is anything blocking as such um today for it for submission architecture document is can be submitted regarding the append only discussion I suppose that um yes if we make it up and only that's the inherent characteristics we are making into the architecture which is fine but um tying it too much to the Merkel tree kind of concept crits gridlocks the architecture to a specific type of implementation I suppose because tomorrow if any any append only other type of um data structure can be envy searched or can be thought about then we should not restrict we should not say okay we can't support that because that up and lonely nature is not Merkel tree so so that's why append only is the characteristic we want to support how you implement it down the line through what type of Merkel tree it would be best for implemented implementers to make a decision call on that"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:44:01",
    "text": "that's my take on that yes definitely there's a there's a an issue of consistency there that we need to we need to address for sure yeah Steve yeah just to yogishi's point the doc does refer to append only in several places and there was a more detailed section that referred to you must not delete or it must not delete so I think the append only and the couple of clarifications of a definition of the behavior of the implementation is probably much more critical than whether it says log or Ledger or Foo rather we Define the behavior but um just as a thought yeah I think it's going to be a big round a big round of things um yeah we still have time Ray um go ahead yeah I like that idea of defining the behavior and um and allowing um I think what uh Hank was While others were saying is it'd be good to allow other you know various Technologies there to make as we move forward we're not going to be able to predict everything and how this will turn out but just saying what it is um now it so there isn't any serious open issues then um is that the story at this point Steve I just wanted to check on since you don't have a lot of time left if there was anything that specific we should discuss for today I there there was a couple number of clarifications I had hoped to get done by uh tag just 116 if you John if you want to click on the milestones in the top right you can or just click anything that says 160."
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:46:00",
    "text": "yeah it's click on milestones and then you can click on 116. um but I think at this point there's enough look the dock is in pretty good shape it's it there's an opportunity for it to be more clarified we continue to make great progress um in my opinion I think it would not world would not end if we consult continued with what we have today if there's an opportunity actually honest or John what is the next steps between now and uh 116. I thought there was a refresh possible or should we not shoot for that uh um what do you mean Steve uh this is honest I'm sorry for being today um so between now and the actual IDF meeting what what is going to happen in what sense um like so we're submitting today yeah the whatever the current state of it is that's great um it's in good enough shape I think to go to 116. I seem to remember at 1 15 that we were able to make an update or was that the presentation that we made an update to before between effectively today at the actual session yeah that was the presentation uh okay there's a kind of a blackout period um but uh I think correct some of me correct me but I think it's Sunday of the IDF meeting sort of the gates open again and we can submit something but nobody is going to read it at that time anyway um so I think that's in the time between uh later today and the IDF meeting is the time when we are supposed to read the documents not just the these documents but but also other documents of other groups related documents so I think yeah that's the idea what Hannah's is trying to say in theory everything we do from Tuesday on is reading and not writing and now"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:48:01",
    "text": "the the process allows you to push something in two weeks Mondays which is the first day of the meeting or there'll be Saturday I am not entirely sure when the day is but but the expectation is that you don't have to read something on Monday on the meeting but because you already read it in the two weeks now so if you there's a possibility formally to still update a draft in the meeting week but it is somehow like if you do a big overhaul and not only editorials it's also perceived as well you just squeeze that in I couldn't prepare for that one right and so um so it's it's a little bit discouraged is that impossible if it's a vital thing that that it provides Clarity and resolves like all the question marks that would have been a presentation into exclamation marks that say aha okay then it's fine but if you're just adding more options to the confusion no maybe not you know that that's basically the idea of my case line so is there anything in that list that John's sharing right now that we feel we have to solve by today I think we're good but I just I want to give the floor a chance we have a couple minutes left uh hearing I'm hearing with my process hat on um I want to not um yeah it's either a no-go or we don't tackle this the issue that we've been discussing for the last few minutes um because there's just so much Nuance to it in particular we clearly have to have more than one signature scheme because otherwise we don't have crypto agility and we know that's a bad idea um but whether it's mime type references or cozy references or tree algorithm"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:50:02",
    "text": "types in the Cozy envelope I think we we don't have the time or the collection to actually make that choice so yeah I agree with that John I think uh I think that the uh I mean I guess my question is do we have obviously there's another opportunity to revise this thing but just not before the meeting exactly yeah yeah so it's not a big deal I don't think we should probably go with what we have uh but I want to back to what you said about the crypto that's my that was sort of my point earlier I think we have to allow more than one architecture and so I would recommend we Define later uh the meaning that we want the behavior that we want and not specify a particular algorithm or uh or method that a dedicated request to the agenda that will be formalized on the email list as a request to the agenda for the script meeting what Charlie just said let's make this another item yeah for Yokohama right not for not for next month exactly perfect I know I know it's Japan and uh some especially European uh folks might be uh of ours but the Japan time scale but okay um I think but Charlie just said is really putting it through the the thumb on the pain Point uh one of the most severe pain points and I think we have to have discussion time in your karma for that yeah yep that would be great thanks good okay thanks everybody so I think that was game constructive I think we're all informed so um I don't think we need to actually vote technically but um Hannah do you want to just talk us through um what what does need to happen what will happen um by 23 59. um no we don't need to vote"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:52:01",
    "text": "um uh anything but uh I think as Steve mentioned like uh a lot of the feedback that we had over the last uh I don't know how many weeks um well months has been incorporated into the architecture document uh obviously we had the use case document uh and the um the email discussion following afterwards for the call for adoption which was successful uh so that document will be submitted as well as a working group item so we have two working group items uh um later today and yeah and and of course that um like this is just uh um the submission but uh discussions will continue and I think we also have a meeting uh still next week um I need to double check just to make sure that actually we have scattered one give me a second I believe that's correct um and so yeah it I think it would be great um if people couldn't in fact if they haven't had a chance to do this yet to actually read through the documents to do um updated documents and then also uh some of the other documents which are not yet working group items just to see um whether they make sense or whether there are any comments and so we could uh discuss them next at the next Monday meeting actually and uh we have it on the on the calendar so next um for next Monday we still have a meeting this is the 20th of March and then uh afterwards there's the IDF meeting so and then we need to schedule uh new meetings and and I suspect uh what at least uh I hope that you guys found this uh weekly Monday meetings useful and that we should continue those um but of course uh that's something up for discussion as well thank you"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:54:04",
    "text": "Well yoga should start studying yeah I just wanted to ask is this the right meeting Forum to discuss the presentation aspects of the IDF session are we allocating to our session for presentations like we did for last ITF sessions and what needs to be presented and how uh presenters present uh orchestrate their presentations in their group of uh editors and authors this is an open meeting I think it's not the right place okay ideally you want to focus on like obviously the open issues uh um and and like just looking at the the issue tracker like there are plenty of open issues like pick the ones where you actually think we could make some progress on yeah having said that that doesn't mean that we can't ask shares about it yeah yeah correct um Jesus and I forgot what I actually want to say for the actual item when I raise my head for I'm sorry so I'm lowering my hands it was something fun I think but I forgot it well I guess you'll have to bring it to the mailing list then because uh we're almost out of time and we've run out of Q uh so you can give everybody a laugh when when when you remember what it is um so it seems like it seems like we're all set so harness um you'll deal with the uh actual submission then I'm sure many of these comments will come back from the other people who read the document uh and we'll have a fun time in a couple of"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:56:00",
    "text": "weeks prioritizing the next issues I think um and thank you very much um to the the guys who've done so much work over the last couple of weeks coming in um hey guys yeah I just wanted to um mention earlier today on the mailing list I sent out a suggestion that we might want to add a link to the U.S cyber Street National cyber security strategy in the use case document uh I know some um I think some others suggested that may not be such a great idea we may have to do all of them but at least like to you know make that suggestion and see if there's any support for it here to see if we can add that before the next meeting I'd have to be use case neutral uh for adoption uh so I would recommend not doing it as well but uh I'm not married to that yeah I'm I I'm like for me it would be fine like it's an example uh if it if it adds some value um do it like it depends on like how valuable you think it is for motivating the use cases so how is one of the one of the items in there that I think is really going to be directly in line with the work skit does is this concept of rebalancing cyber security risk uh where you know software suppliers and consumers will you know take action to to do a better job at mitigating risks amongst themselves to try and share the responsibility for those you know for for protecting entities from cyber risk so I definitely see it being aligned with the items we have in the use case document thanks"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:58:03",
    "text": "uh just okay because uh that is not a perfect match for skit and uh we don't want to uh kind of flavor the uh you know skit was not written to address that issue and uh the skit attestations are going to be much more stringent than the requirements in that uh in that document I would say it is orthogonal somewhat to skit but maybe is a use case for down the road thank you Charlie I see it a little differently when I look at what what our name is it's supply chain Integrity transparency and Trust and the concept in the National cyber security is all about transparency into the trustworthiness of software supply chain artifacts so I I see it I see it differently I I definitely see the synergies there between what a skit registry can provide in terms of that transparency into trustworthiness um so I I guess I see a little difference it's a great use case but I don't think we want to you know the as soon as you start saying okay this is the U.S solution uh the the EU is going to go well we have a different solution right I think that would it would narrow it and flavor it too much right now maybe later on we can have a have an extended use case where we can address that uh that you know that the cyber security uh strategy but for right now I think it's premature just just my two cents and anybody else is welcome to jump in thank you I think there's an opportunity for credibility here you know linking to something that is really going to happen so that there's some benefit to that if"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:00:00",
    "text": "we can tie our wagon to something that is is definitely on the you know the radar to be implemented that that would give us a lot of credibility that's just my opinion my two cents thanks yes I I see your logic uh we should definitely think about it and also like if there are other uh sort of upcoming regulations or other other projects that sort of fit uh into that scope like if it helps uh the reader to get the bigger picture it's obviously useful um but let's think about it I haven't read through it so thank you and thanks everyone for sharing your insights thank you uh you were in the queue but I couldn't hear you did you do about what was the issue uh uh I think you can hear me now right yep works works now okay I just wanted to say that while adding only the U.S specific strategy is no good there are similar legislations all over the world maybe you should have a separate document pointing out how skit fits in to various legislation but pointing out a single legislation in a worldwide document uh wouldn't be a good thing thank you yeah that makes sense I think it's obviously we don't want to make a jurisdiction specific um so if we have other examples I think that would make it stronger um and I'm not suggesting that this just had one the one reference I I think is the more we can put in there is references where this is actually an applicable solution I think the better traction we'll get thank you yeah yeah I I definitely understood it that way uh we definitely have to sort of like I guess none of us is uh"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:02:02",
    "text": "sort of global situation uh and so we need probably input from different people good um yeah thanks John for running the meeting today uh thank you all for participating and thanks Karen for uh helping take the notes who are doing most of the notes uh that's obviously very helpful um we are now running overtime already so I think we should stop here and uh um I wish you all a Happy draft submission day good luck with all submissions yeah thank you thanks for all the hard work really appreciate it yeah bye thanks bye thank you very much bye-bye foreign"
  }
]
