[
  {
    "startTime": "00:01:09",
    "text": "[Music] the stupid [Music] hi this is TS pwg we are going to start the meeting in just a moment see ya with submission ok I\u0027m very feminist the months sitting here is debit like you\u0027ll be witness just a moment why sandy is Renault from Java wear your TS v WG coaches and this is the ITF not well the IETF not well is worth reading it\u0027s not that exciting but it\u0027s important to realize the IP are procedures for the documents that we bring to the working groups are the comments you bring at the mic and please do please do this especially with any technology of which you are aware because it will be important as we go through the standards process as you\u0027re discovered tomorrow please volunteer if you wish to be enough tacky today we have 1 knots will be taken either part by Theresa we need a JavaScript for this session and we have one so the wrote comments revolved questions will be relayed from Java if you intend submitting a new draft please consider inserting the TSV "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:04:11",
    "text": "WG tag after your name in the draft name so that we see the draft and we know that it is relevant to this particular group if you\u0027re planning to submit new work to the group please be aware that this is a quite a large meeting we cover large other topics so please submit drafts early it\u0027s always possible to update a draft submission but please bring drafts early to the working group not the week before the ITF all the documents that are in TS bwg that are mentioned today are welcome to for a review either by submitting comments or by submitting a longer review as an email please do this please contribute this is the way we make progress so now to what we\u0027ve done recently what\u0027s always good to report we\u0027ve done real work the LEP HB draft has now become RFC Saar FC 862 to the new code point and is defined in that and is now in the eye on a registry this is a nice result because this particular document is actually being talked about by other people other people are referring to it already so that\u0027s good we have 4 internet drafts in RFC early to q2 on the effect subject the fact framework extension and the FEC\u0027s sliding-window RLC which we\u0027ve been through this working group for some time I did a third one which talks about the pseudo-random number generator where upon which their base so these three form a group together in the rst air to cure a new contribution the old contribution is the diffserv and WebRTC QRS which is still residing on a mystery I think cluster two three eight and we are now being promised her to threaten that the cluster two three eight floodgates will open next month which should result in this in this draft I\u0027m being publishers in RFC and that\u0027s going to be exciting [Music] there\u0027s no ideas at the iesg which means our area director has not got enough work so we\u0027ll try and keep him busy during this idea by sending things to him if you wish there\u0027s two IDs with working group chairs and authors after working great let\u0027s call okay so it took two tries to get these drafts through working the blast call may it call prefer for for not doing good job in the first one the drafts are now through last call they\u0027re mostly revised except the second draft which is the RFC 6040 update shim there was some brand new text written on fragmentation after working group last call completed that text needs review there was just a "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:07:12",
    "text": "comment this morning that the text problem at text may be problematic I\u0027ve sent out a comment suggesting that is a concern we need to figure out what to do about that text when its final form is once that\u0027s done I can do the Shepherd right up and and gif Magnus with these two graphs does anybody have any further comments or concerns regarding these two drafts on the working group compostela one of the office I just wanted to say that it was written after last call because the comment in law school oh right it\u0027s just that it has done usual amount of content to it for post working group class call text and therefore we we need we need to take a little extra view time to try better right there actually is the same problem to same conflicting bullet routes they have the base with the same mechanism okay so please discuss on the list and we will see how to proceed from this we have no ideas in working group last fall apart from the discussion of those two that we just mentioned but we have two ideas like to go to working group us call soon okay the transport header confidentiality impacts draft will be presented at this meeting and we mentioned previous meeting that this would be the time to working group must call it so that will be discussed at the current meeting the DPL PM tud draft has been ongoing for some time it is nearing working group us call it is not ready yet but it might be ready before the next meeting okay l4 s drafts we\u0027re going to figure out what to do about those as the first order of business first sort of business during during the mean tomorrow so there\u0027s no comment here on upon process steps word okay okay beyond that six additional working group drafts going to talk about today the SCTP of this draft there are the three out fresh grass a UDP options and tunnel tunnel tunnel Jessen feedback I think combination of feedback is not on the agenda this time it\u0027s not on the agenda for discussion this time around the the quorum mechanism in that draft is is stable of and it will progress as other drafts that are taking advantage of it progress on the SCT peanuts is also to Cheston "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:10:13",
    "text": "quakes like a young yeah we somehow drop drop their CTV not NAT into a crack at you the children on that slide we\u0027ll fix that okay so there are a number of transport related traps and I think it is very useful to call these out please transport issues in other working groups and please bring them back here if you need to be discussed one of these is the path MTU discovery hop-by-hop option which was proposed as a working group item in six months idea obviously this is a mechanism to it with path MTU discovery so it is relevant to transport discuss that in six month lease there\u0027s an ipv6 reservation protocol you don\u0027t say anything about this this was presented several i\u0027ts roie tf\u0027s ago the authors are continuing to work on this it will will reappear at some point it\u0027s not on this this I guess agendas it\u0027s not it\u0027s it\u0027s not none somebody for an update moving on to the next one we have an elf forest and diffserv draft this might be part of the discussion tomorrow morning depending on which of five dozen directions that discussion actually actually goes in and there was a non working group forming both on loops which hopefully sea has transported pipes as well as network into internet probably implications there so look at the loose slides to see what happened in the loops but okay more transfer laid rash ecn and nsh this is draft over in SF see that it that is going to make use of the congestion congestion feedback draft we have a couple of drafts on low-latency DOCSIS this is just FYI baba believe the Bob and Greg I believe these are likely headed to the independent submission editor for publication roughly as is describe what this what this running code actually does according to the chairs here and the IDS yes but we haven\u0027t spoke to the IC editor that\u0027s in Twiggy notes time okay these documents are presented to the IETF so you have comments or questions about them please read them if they go on the independent submissions dream they are not for change but the clarification and understanding a feedback will be very much appreciated yeah just to clarify that they\u0027re documenting what\u0027s done in DOCSIS so there\u0027s no need for the idea there was previous work presented on lower a number of IETF and this evolved and this workers being now made historic "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:13:16",
    "text": "by a new internet draft which is on nqb which will be discussed so that comes back as an QB and ed Carriere documents and there\u0027s a tunnel MTU considerations document and empty use are so important for tunnels so please read and contribute to that there\u0027s a fragmentation fragility document which is proceeded through interior explaining where fragmentation becomes fragile under Sox protocol version 6 which is being presented at many eye tests in the int area and we\u0027re going to mention that again here because that could be something that has many transport aspects so we\u0027ll talk about that later in the meeting to SCTP drafts that are that are being are being worked on as you do submissions right now one is multipath draft and the other is there\u0027s a draft on the retransmission as draft on the retransmission time out of interest and SCTP these are out these well perhaps please take a look comments to the list ok so now we get to the agenda we\u0027re going to run with agenda up in a little bit the bashatt document complication a testosterone review is coming up next and then a bunch of drafts UTP options are is expected to be uh well one of the more interesting items on the agenda tomorrow is more drafts including l4 s and l4 s NSC ok milestones would be go through very quickly first two drafts we\u0027ve just talked about the objects there with the chairs after working group last call we need to deal with the fragmentation text before they can be submitted to our aging is G as for publication request okay next three drafts are the l4 s grass no point talk about milestones here until we have the what we\u0027re doing about the discussion tomorrow okay we have three slot three drafts that the intent is to try to get get done between now and the Singapore ITF the setp knack is probably not gonna not gonna make that Joanne milestone weeks I think that one it\u0027s not quite ready for your glass call we\u0027ll have a discussion about that a little bit the other two drafts are believed to be closer if working group glass call July August September dates may be aggressive all three of those are likely to t be working group last call before the next IETF meaning and the remaining grass the SCTP this draft is currently estimated for end of this year that may move out and the other two gates on the other two days phone just and feedback and transfer officer for UDP are reasonable "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:16:17",
    "text": "guesses at this point we\u0027ll figure out what reality looks like in Singapore okay so here\u0027s here\u0027s here\u0027s the agenda to go to go bash it we\u0027ve mostly run through item one on doggie size charter and updates there\u0027s a Sox update that will be coming up right right after this then we\u0027re going to do transport encryption drafts both the transport Heather encryption impacts draft which is one of the two this close for you last call and a new draft on law suiting for encrypted protocols SCT programs there\u0027s three of them they\u0027re true working group last one and money is a new draft on retransmission Datagram pmq discovery and then and then a UDP options draft we\u0027re hoping you are going you got to draft is there\u0027s been a lot of discussion on the list we\u0027re hoping to have it have a bit of design discussion and see if we can chart the path forward on a number of a number of the design issues that come up cut the list in the AirTrain fashion new work work from the writing area working group on QoS management is a couple couple of drafts that we talked about briefly qcr and gift sir were actually probably not kind of a technical conversations draft because there\u0027s been some updates in 3gpp IETF leadership discussions that is likely to be a very short status announcement about what stay that draft is and what\u0027s going to happen with it and then the non-coding flows draft mention earlier Friday oh we have fun this is this slide is going to be interesting they\u0027ll oh let the l4s crafts including are we gonna take are we ready to go to work group last call on them what do we need to do and there\u0027s any discussion around transports for elf forts and cell force is supposed to enable different transport behavior we need to discuss what what what is the value of transports use l4s then we have some cash experienced though the three drives listed there discussions gonna focus on the first two the TCP M draft is here mostly for completeness in that if SCE moves forward they\u0027re going to that they\u0027re going to need to do some TCP level signaling bets they grab proposing how to do it I\u0027m not Tufte will be discussed in TCP em today okay rest the agenda DC CP of multipath free drafts okay any other items anybody want to bash the agenda yet that one off has been benched "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:19:18",
    "text": "no sauce it just would take socks let\u0027s so we\u0027ll take the the stockists option tops v6 as the next item this okay I can give more history this one\u0027s being presented as the heads up in this working group it was presented in inter area this time and when I put the draft name up I we will ask after a short review of what it is whether anybody has read this document the possibility could be that this item is more suited to transport area than to interior so I will be looking for people to read this and comment on this within this hey peach dementing past firefox I know I know the magic we\u0027re okay okay this is the draft we\u0027re talking about um it\u0027s a draft that was presented in Terry this meeting has been presented for use in Ontario there\u0027s a one-page summary here which describes how the softs protocol provides a update to the way stocks is handled it talks about theorizes DTLS support extensions fire option and how the TLS handshake is handled and basically talks about transport issues relating to building a source proxy could I ask if anybody has read this "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:22:24",
    "text": "document in this working group could you please indicate if you\u0027ve read it but a previous version thank you pretty close [Music] okay but and you get the hint we would be interested in receiving feedback on this draft in this working group please read please comment on the list please consider this as a potential TS vwg work item and please provide feedback does anybody have comments on whether this is a suitable item for work within this working group okay I see no adverse comment so please PLEASE review would anyone like to volunteer to this it\u0027s not that hard well we will try and put pressure and we\u0027ve got another working group meeting to call that one so the next item is transport encryption : between each other person whole working group we can work right so has to be so choose yourself hi I\u0027m Colin Perkins I\u0027m ahsoka sinks the chairs I\u0027m pleased I\u0027m not the only one who can\u0027t work the Chromebook the hardest part of being a working group chair is finding the slides good hi I\u0027m Colin Perkins this is a draft that Gary and I have been running for a while on the subject of the impact of Transport header confidentiality on network operation and evolution of the Internet so this is the the - 0-7 version there was an individual version which got up to about ten before I think this this has been "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:25:24",
    "text": "discussed a bunch of times here and also in some of the operations groups so we think this is pretty close to done the changes since the last time are fairly small we got a bunch of feedback on the mailing list Thomas Fossati gave us a bunch of suggestions on how to clarify the text primarily here talking about improving the various introductory sections and also gave some suggestions for how to address the the issues which we raised in the draft in particular he had a bunch of I think really good ideas about potentially using machine learning to solve some of the problems and they\u0027d be able to identify the traffic we tend to think that well this is potentially a good idea it\u0027s it would be expanding the draft too much to add that sort of material to it so so it\u0027s what we think is the right thing to do here is to keep this draft focused and identifying the problem and leave other drafts to recommend solutions for the problem so we just don\u0027t keep this focused on this is what the the concern is we also got some comments from ridiger of intrapreneurs I run wrong keep suggesting a bunch of additional references on how operators use the information you use passively collected transfer of information to help manage that networks we also got a bunch of feedback from Tom Herbert couple of a couple of issues here one was on the the utility of adding extension headers such as connects headers to to carry measurement information and his feedback was that he believes that the draft underestimates that the value and over States their disadvantages I mean yeah we certainly agree with him that these types of mechanisms can be used to carry these sort of measurements information I don\u0027t think we\u0027ve seen so much deployment so it\u0027s hard to evaluate that but it in the end it\u0027s a judgement call we should if the word if the text isn\u0027t if the text is too far in one direction or the other we should try and align things but hopefully we\u0027ve addressed that maybe nones 1.1 so a later version of the draft update the text to be a little more positive towards extension headers I think we did maybe we didn\u0027t if we\u0027ve done that already but if we haven\u0027t and it\u0027s still not positive it looked a little negative also the statement that something like current data suggests that extension headers don\u0027t pass it\u0027s the Internet presumably that\u0027s referencing the the RFC that was done I think in 2016 but a little "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:28:24",
    "text": "not fresh data so I know we won\u0027t we need to get better data so please read the latest version and check whether we fixed it because I would be quite happy to change that sentence to a survey in 2016 then found this so and not its history rather than its current relevance it\u0027s fine either way it\u0027s good to reference it I mean it is a known issue on the other hand it\u0027s a known issue that we\u0027re trying to resolve there there are a lot of efforts to get extension headers going in is no good at least suggest that they give use for point to the wording will for this will be interesting I\u0027m not sure I\u0027ve ever heard of the term intentional ossification could be interesting I don\u0027t know what to think of that I mean the idea here is the working group or whoever it is designing a protocol may make an explicit statement that we are going to declare these features of the protocol stable for all time and you know if you\u0027re building devices which look at the protocol you you can assume that these things will not change and we reserve the rest of its to change and I guess the quicken variants would be the the topical example of that ultimately when we baked something into an RFC and then move it from proposed standard to standard you know like we\u0027re kind of doing that I mean that is literally what we\u0027re aiming for is for things did not change too much I mean yeah but I think there\u0027s a difference between that and saying the working group has made an explicit commitment that we are never going to change the meaning of these bits rather than saying this is what it currently is handshake in TCP at this point I mean good luck but I mean just a product of its being standardized that means it\u0027s not going to change it\u0027s actually the fact that we\u0027ve been using it for 35 years yeah I think the word ossification might be causing the confusion here further down the boats the word stability is used and I think that\u0027s that\u0027s the point being made here yes yes the I think that the main point is that the hum here comes from devices on the path prohibiting in a way that prohibits us from changing the specifications in a way we want to change and you know if if everyone is happy that these bitch these bits are never going to change then it doesn\u0027t matter if devices if people build middleboxes that you use those bits and don\u0027t let us change them it\u0027s it\u0027s when "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:31:25",
    "text": "we believe that that we should be able to change the meaning of those bits and we can\u0027t that there is a problem so I think one interesting aspect of this that we want to stress is we now have two major transport protocols to evaluate and quic has done things differently I believe that one of the bits in the quick header was public some firewall vendor decided that this fit set the one all the time so I\u0027ll put in my firewall that it said one all the time classical ossification everyone to avoid I yes yes I\u0027m looking at quick and TCP I think they need equal consideration now because they are different we have much more than just the two of them because we I mean TP is is very widely deployed for example and is running into these ossification issues and Malthus there was a time when there were some people in a misguided effort to prevent steganography and our protocols wrote a lot of code a lot of documents and things said things like you have to enforce must be 0 in your middleboxes sure this was ugly as far as I\u0027m concerned it\u0027s deliberate ossification I think that tone has been reduced but there\u0027s always the opportunity for somebody to say it\u0027s always a 1 there it\u0027s always zero and if it\u0027s something different it\u0027s something suspicious and what has made it worse is there\u0027s occasion of an attack vectors where those were the signatures yes so it was that a comment on the draft or presentation on the presentation we\u0027re getting a little off topic but the greasing stuff is is also something that hits into this space right so in terms of the draft we\u0027ve done two revisions since the product meeting zero six revised the introductory remarks added some discussion of the OEM related metadata in Section six and updated the conclusions made them a little more focused the dasher seven again revised the introductory remarks we removed a bunch of duplication put some of that text into the conclusions actually made the conclusions I think we\u0027d a lot better and actually conclude something new something that improved it and that there are a bunch of other details or around the rest of the drift so hopefully we\u0027ve now addressed all the comments I believe there are a couple of minor editorial mix we have outstanding which we will get to in pretty short order other than that we think the draft is essentially ready for working group last call so our plan was to do a revision shortly after the meeting to address the details and then we believe this should be less calls thanks calling I was wondering if you could talk about the review that this draft has gotten "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:34:25",
    "text": "from the security area or it\u0027s pretty area of people yes okay so we discussed that last meeting because it was before the last ITF we got a real security review we worked through a it was quite a long one which was really good we went through the comments and responded to each of them in turn and then we updated the document we put in text to address nearly all the comments but there are a couple of comments were we wrote the response on the mailing list why we didn\u0027t think the extra text was going to be helpful in the document so that\u0027s the current state with that review the reviewer has got back a couple of times to say that he\u0027s read our comments and he\u0027s and talked to him but I don\u0027t know whether he\u0027s posted an update on whether he thinks the comments were fully addressed on the mailing list we we also had a very long discussion so I think that was Chris that\u0027s Chris Chris would I think this time now we had a very long discussion with Steven Farrell on an earlier version she months back okay that\u0027s very good to know thank you so this document is not entirely unrelated to a prior document that was published this the draft mm WG encrypt and I think it\u0027s there\u0027s like a chance that some of the language in this document hits the ears of people from security and applications areas a little bit differently than maybe people in this room or people who work in operations and I guess we have we have presented it\u0027s in the ops ops area of sexual I think a couple of times here okay to the extent that some of the same concerns could be dealt with all the document is still in the working group I think that would that would perhaps make for a smoother process than what we went through with the other documents so that might just mean you know advertising widely when you\u0027re doing more than trip last call or we can certainly socialize this in the IHG if that would help but I think it would be you know good to get the feedback earlier if there\u0027s gonna be feedback of similar nature at the very least of brigham Glasgow will be crossed announced to sag in the security area and we welcome feedback the idea is to build consensus on what we have previously been using these fields for what the implications without going through solutions thank you do you want to call that what the procedure is then do trance the Chicot I\u0027m the only one who transports focuses attention so do we Annika 400 last call for this I think the plan here "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:37:25",
    "text": "is that we\u0027re going to is that they\u0027ll be revision in the near future and that provision will go to working group last call since that we\u0027re talking about August it bugs me longer than the usual two weeks and it will at the very least be crossing the cross cross nouns to sag sounds of also other other cross announced at some listen the ops area that we could will take advice maybe as the objects people OPSEC people at work were to post I\u0027m eagerly Baca and I would like to talk to you today about packet loss signaling in encrypted protocols so that\u0027s one of the issues that the previous Trask of the identified and so my job is to tell you more about the problem gets to show that there is a problem and propose a solution so I\u0027m a transport guy I like to think of my networks as a collection of very dumb pipes and then stop thinking about my network but for that to really work there should really be a plumber somewhere who is trying to find the leaks and page them and if you are such a plumber if you operate a network and somebody calls you and says I\u0027m experiencing packet loss what is the first thing you wanna do you want to see if you could observe the problem and then you want to figure out is a loss in my network or is it any of my peers whom do I call so what do I do if I\u0027m looking at the TCP flow life is not that bad there is a number of tools that can absorb sequence numbers F numbers can figure out where the there is loss is it upstream downstream but if I happen to be losing at quick slow I mean for a very long night because by design quit doesn\u0027t give you any information about not only where the loss is but whether there is any loss oh so what do I do one alternative is just look at TCP flows between similar endpoints use that but if that doesn\u0027t work what\u0027s next you could think of nuclear option which is basically let me just block quit entirely temporarily on that link and forced TCP failover and troubleshoot then well as crazy as it sounds it might not actually work either because network may treat TCP and UDP quick flows very differently so what\u0027s next now before I\u0027m going to go further there is one question that I\u0027m asked often so I\u0027m from Akamai and people ask you\u0027re not a typical network operator why do you care "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:40:25",
    "text": "I mean it\u0027s somebody else\u0027s problem so the way I look at it is that if you have content on the internet if you have a service you probably derive benefit and value from it actually being available in performant and if your CDN that\u0027s what you are paid for to solve all those network problems and as an Amazon customer if my package doesn\u0027t arrive at my desk at my at my doorstep and they get some excuse that well that\u0027s because some tracking company truck ran out of gas I\u0027m not gonna be super convinced with that I mean my business relationship is this Amazon I expect them to deliver the package so if that was convincing we have a proposal it\u0027s basically using two bits I\u0027m not gonna go into detail read the draft but there is a qubit which is stands for square signal and it\u0027s an altered it\u0027s a mark that\u0027s alternating every N packets zeros and ones and there is an L bit which is a lost signal that\u0027s counting the number of packets lost as determined by the but protocols such as quick so for example in this picture we have a number of packets from sender to receiver the red ones are lost so one RTT to one or two or later the protocol quickly goes out there lost and to two future packets are sent with l1 how can you use the signal well end-to-end loss is just a fraction of packets you observe with l equals 1 up stream loss is a fraction of the packets in each q blog that are missing packets downstream loss you can figure out from the other two so you can notice but we don\u0027t specifically talk about where to put those two bits it\u0027s being proposed everything from IP header to quick header and really anything in between the purpose of this draft is to point out the problem propose a solution framework using the two bits and once we have consensus on that I\u0027m sure we can work and draft in the appropriate group that will find the home for the bits so this is not a purely theoretical work Akamai that actually implemented this scheme in our production servers and we\u0027ve been serving traffic like that a quick traffic for a while to a number of orange customers in different countries we have data for this and tomorrow it mapper G will be talking a lot more about data from different countries what the data means for those who are curious we used the two most significant bits of "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:43:27",
    "text": "apt GL to help to carry those bits it worked now the encrypted protocols do what they do for a reason so one of the important reasons is and user privacy and the proposal we have is trying very hard to make sure that nothing more is compress disclosed to the network then what quick already discloses so separate counters for each flow sub flow separate count fresh portable separate counter for each connection a diem the other important things that encrypted protocols like quick worry about is particle ossification resistance and because loss signaling is not an integral part of the protocol it\u0027s very convenient to basically do what quit does already with a spin bit with a latency spin bit which is say that 20% of connections must use pseudo-random basically random looking garbage in those bits it\u0027s very easy for observer to tell a real signal from no signal and for middleboxes there\u0027s a incentive to not pacify on that so that\u0027s all I have for today please get in touch with us my my goal for the future is to make sure we have a robust discussion about it in the on the mailing list he already started and later on we\u0027ll see if we can get consensus and get it in adopted and then work on the actual draft that will find the home for those bits extremely quick so I just wanted to point out to Collin if he\u0027s here that I think it\u0027ll be a great interest to the quantum internet research group to see qubits and use in transport protocols ok two quick points one is I think this is great but I wonder what else there is like what other information people are gonna want like what if I want to spike in latency so I\u0027m worried if you get a mouse a piece of cheese and on the glass of milk and all that so I could see this becoming the avalanche part 2 of that is protocol agnostic mechanisms much better than protocol specific so it you know quick has a few bits but what about the next protocol and the next one after that and how do we get the unified mechanism saved your so I also not that this is one presentation in their space there are other people who could have presented this ITF on topics that are stream Li related so yeah thank you for the general comment that\u0027s good Martin Duke I actually want to make the "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:46:28",
    "text": "opposite point if it actually isn\u0027t a quick header then of course it\u0027s authenticated I\u0027m wondering if you thought through the threat bottles if we put it in the IP header where anyone can mess with those bits well that\u0027s yes I actually did think about it and well as you see in our current thing we do mess with IP header bit it\u0027s not it\u0027s not going to be any different from what people can do right now so but if it goes into a quick header it true it will be authenticated and it will not be subject to manipulation by by the pass so there are advantages and disadvantages to any of the proposals so I can that\u0027s why we don\u0027t directly dive into pics the header right now I want to make sure that people understand that there is a problem and that we need to solve it and this is a method to solve it and you can have a discussion about trade-offs between different headers that\u0027s a good discussion I would love to have it some suggested maybe I missed it in your response but it are the having thought about the threat model do you see any serious problems with putting it in an authenticated if the sender is playing fair and keeping separate counters for each sub flow each quick connection eg if it\u0027s quick I don\u0027t think through the threat model in that sense that\u0027s that\u0027s my thing that\u0027s my understanding only short consideration Muraki Celia from Telecom Italia I suggested to the reference to FAC 8321 your draft that is the receipt at the finest querer waiver to measure per clause and the user case that you put two different points okay yes okay two different Yusuke that you use two different measurement point to understand the packet loss inside the network so you can definitely do more and so this is using just one probe just kept looking at one direction of traffic once you identify look do that and you identify which direction the loss is you could move the probe or have another one already available that\u0027s just another way to use in the technique we do this for nearly twenty minutes behind schedule closing all right thirdly I\u0027ll just have you looked at the congestion exposure work the konnex work it seems to be quite a lot of similarity with the ideas going on yep thank you see Thanks so that\u0027s the classic example of "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:49:30",
    "text": "bringing a topic up that should be continued on the list please think about implications please think about which header bits could appear in please think about requirements please talk to the authors please discuss Michael hello my name is Michael Jackson I\u0027m talking about about RC 4960 biz that\u0027s the base back for SCTP we have an RC describing lungs large set of Hirata\u0027s and how do I switch to die okay just next slide and that\u0027s the status so the first revision zero zero of the draft was just to move from end off from the end of tool chain which was Houston when producing RC 460 to the xml stuff done in a way that it the text version looks as similar as possible now the first version was the identical version the second or one version was switching to xml with minor differences the version o two integrates all the Aurora\u0027s from the errata document so that\u0027s all that changes we sort of agreed on an RC eight five four zero there\u0027s some stuff which needed changes like updating references to RFC\u0027s which have been updated and some editorial stuff which is in the O 3 version what is in progress is the fourth version and this comes back to a comment from Gauri we used and 4960 a lot of may must should not in capital letter and the request was to remove this stuff to either capital letter mast or a different wordings so that when you read the text you are not arguing whether this cabot wherever this must is meant as a mandatory language or not this is right now in the github repo we need to go once again to the other changes to make sure everything\u0027s fine and then it will be submitted what\u0027s left is one issue brought up on the github tracker which is related to setting up SATP associations so if an endpoint knows multiple IP addresses of the peer the current API and 4960 only allows you "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:52:30",
    "text": "to provide one of these addresses to the associate primitive and then set up the Association the socket API allows you to provide this list of errors as to the end point and then it already uses multiple addresses to doing them as a session set up and this is a feature which is requested by operators and when they try to talk to vendors and vendors come up and say well this is not specified there so we don\u0027t have to do it and so we will update the text of the API section replacing the single IP address we are providing by a list of IP address we are providing making clear that it is informational only adding a link to the socket API stuff and add some text to the document saying if you know you set up a list of IP addresses make you go miss may use of make use of them the last thing is sort of layout improvements the XML code reads ugly just to just that the text version looks like 4960 and that will be cleared up at the last step to look okay in HTML and text but not yes but not identical to 4960 so the idea is that you can go through the data tracker compare the revisions and can double check what has changed and you know exactly from the versions one whether it\u0027s only editorial or is content changing [Music] couple of questions first question is and there was another drug and uploaded the talk about next-generation SCTP and yeah this was an individual draft it\u0027s been around for a while is there anything in there which needs to be put into this document have you listed so that document lists a couple of issues one of the point well a couple of points that one point is to integrate almost all extensions we have right now and the base back I don\u0027t think that\u0027s a good idea except for one document the i--but which was integrated in this the other stuff listed there is either additional work or changing concepts you\u0027ve read it I\u0027ve read it and I don\u0027t think anything applies here except the iPad which is done that\u0027s fine if the working group thinks that there are additions to this document these and either come to the Mike on let us know on the mailing list because this document is meant to be a stable document that reflects "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:55:31",
    "text": "implementations and our best understanding of this standard so please speak up at this stage if you think there\u0027s anything extra needs to be added to it does anybody wish to comment in the room about something that they think should be added into this revision of the spec then when will you be ready to continue to publish the next revision which should be one that is clean while you\u0027re the next version will include the must since its so we have the texture I think I will charge to make some tomorrow and then we can submit it okay shortly make making clear that we go read it to catch things but we can fix that later okay heads up man speak with me if you think those new additions needed be ready to review this please if your interest in SCTP so learning young should be the net document yeah you can go to the next slide yes so this document was sort of considered ready for working up a score by the authors then two people read it pretty detailed and Gloria was one of them and he made a number of editorial and clarification things and one remark in particular basically split making it clear for an endpoint developer or a middle box developer which sections apply to that role so we have common text explaining these things we have common text giving examples but where we describe what needs to be implemented it\u0027s made clear in the headers of the section or subsection whether this is a consideration for endpoint implementers or middle box implementers that\u0027s integrated so I think I addressed everything Gauri reported thank you for doing that I\u0027ve read it I used to do what you saying okay and Maxim also provided a detailed review he has 63 comments most so I talked to him in person most the comments with most impact we discussed and came to the conclusion that they will not be integrated some of them was like ideas doing it in a "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:58:31",
    "text": "different doing the stuff in a different way and we discussed why we doing it in that way the other Commons at least as indicated by Maxim are some clarifications editorial staff maybe missing a reference missing some birding that will be addressed at the next drive questions please complete this long going piece of work so we can publish it okay next up Watson okay hello my maxim portion and this is the state status update on not the CTP work that I presented basically in the previous idea so I will quickly go through situation and proposal and mainly focus on updates and approved so the the problem that we try to solve is well-known is that if Yuri transmit data chunk and you get acknowledgment back you cannot distinguish if it acknowledged its original recent data or it transmitted to one and there are basically two use cases when you have real loss or when you have spurious retransmission next slide so the idea is quite straightforward we want to use one bit in data or write data to indicate that this is retransmission and acknowledgement on retransmission should also include that bit and we thought about different ideas more bits may be new suck that will be more complicated but we came to conclusion that this is a simplest approach that addresses all our use cases we need so this users of this bit requires a negotiation and basically there are two main rules the first row for the under that it should set they are beat every time a tree transmits data data and the sender must immediately respond by socket orbit when it receives state or identity that bit set next slide so since last ITF I\u0027ve submitted a new draft version where I added the description of HTTP improvements from this mechanism this was main feedback that I received there and I will describe it in next slide I also added some clarifications "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:01:32",
    "text": "about the issue with multiple retransmission retransmission which is one of the challenges for this mechanism because when you have multiple transmissions and you get acknowledgments back you cannot distinguish one but still it brings improvement because you can distinguish a regional transmission and you can still detect spurious retransmissions so this still have some improvement and I also made some editorial updates we also implemented the negotiation you can easily know implementation previously it was some proprietary mechanism but it\u0027s not yet in the live network I think it will be the end of this year we started collection of data it was requested last time I think we focus on signal traffic profiles to show the improvement so I hope you\u0027ll present next time and yeah we continue to probability linux\u0027s TV so this is what can be improved if we use this retransmit bit so there are some mechanisms already in SCTP that will be improved up to your calculation powerful textual quick failover where you have issued this ambiguous acknowledgement the other big carry that can be improved this detection of spirit transmissions because when you get when you have sphericity transmission and you get sucked back without our bit you can already that time understand that there was a spirit retransmission you can react accordingly you can at least until fire application about that or you can adjust your settings because one of the common issue is some kind of miss configuration of mini-mario and shock delay parameters that leads to spurious retransmissions in network or you can even recover your congestion state because when you do spurious retransmissions you basically reduce congestion variables and when you detect that there was a spirit spirit a transmission you can recover it the other big area which where we use this mechanism is so-called population of moccasin mark delay it\u0027s also to prevent spurious retransmissions it\u0027s similar to how it\u0027s done in quick but I mean the idea is that you dynamically calculate calculate maximum delay and if but if you carry transmissions in the existent mechanism it\u0027s it brings some problems you should always be able to distinguish between what stock actually acknowledges like slide so implementation status is almost the same as it was before so we have it in Ericsson a CTP it enabled between Ericsson STP endpoints we have also local path for linux st petes without negotiation mainly used for in two previous tests so improvements are implemented in ours to be not in that patch next slide my plan is to close all "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:04:37",
    "text": "DVDs in the next version I think it\u0027s two or three of them we has already mentioned we plan to share some data of these improvements there are different use cases not only be spurious retransmissions but also some other use cases and we spent in into probability with linux SCTP and if i mean there is interest in this work we want to adopt it in the world okay so what\u0027s your intention for this traffic networking group work through these plans and then ask you working group adoption of the next revision yes ok we\u0027ll make a note of that and we\u0027ll probably see probably see this back on the agenda in Singapore right yeah sounds good anybody have any questions but please read the draft team we expected to be on the agenda in Singapore so if you\u0027re interested SCTP please ask questions this one is obviously interested in a CTP mikerickson one question do you need do you need a negotiation or can you just I mean you can set the out of it it\u0027s ignored by the receiver if he doesn\u0027t answer if he doesn\u0027t understand it so it\u0027s the negotiation yeah I mean if you set our bit in your center side you still want to know that the other side will send you suck with our bid because otherwise if you get sake doubt orbit you can mistakenly think that you\u0027re okay first original scent was okay you need oh I mean in our current implementation we just use the second bit to negotiate so to say I mean the sender the receiver always sets that bit to show that I support this but we don\u0027t want to use the second be just I mean to do not waste it as David said it looks like a good plan it looks like there might be benefit but the question is is it was the complexity so please come on tell us next okay yeah okay thank you hi Gouri first as an individual talking about DPL PM PUD wasn\u0027t sure whether you could have killed slides or not so this idea have got colorful um DPL PMT UD has changed significantly in that it\u0027s used the new markup language for RFC XML and therefore we have some SVG diagrams in and thanks Magnus fer inviting us to join this experiment and all the diagrams that are being rendered to SVG go look at the HTML version and you\u0027ll see the effect of using the new format we moved Appendix A because Appendix A had been introduced and was useful to us going through but really was a duplication that became less less and "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:07:39",
    "text": "less easy to justify because it was just a representation the same thing it\u0027s gone it\u0027s no longer there removed a section on DPL PM tud with UDP options and we put it in a separate draft we will we\u0027ve no taught to our ad and we probably will refresh this draft and keep this active so that we can capture what happens when you use UDP options with this and we don\u0027t intend to put that back into this particular document we\u0027ll keep it as a separate item and we shortened the description of phases we introduced the idea of phase did help people understand an overview of how the algorithm worked um we really want that to be a discussion of issues concerning the whole way in which this works are not going into the details of the state machine so we will probably shorten this yet further and I\u0027m not aware of oh I want you to draw a picture and this is what it looked like before and this is what it looks like now see if you think that looks better before after okay whatever before was better yeah you can get the test version are you playing to be a poster child for for SVG in the new RFC for Mac I mean yeah right and you could talk about the implication of that okay so no serious they want to keep this shot and we think the state machines stable and usable we presented that last IETF we haven\u0027t discovered anything to change our mind we are still gathering experience with paths and methods there will be research issues come out of this because we don\u0027t quite know how the internet works but we believe the method that\u0027s proposed here is finished as a framework we believe it is finished as a set of states we believe it\u0027s finished and we will be updating the draft so we\u0027re not asking for working group last call next this is we will be asking it for it before the next one as we finish the document we have some author comments to still resolve we\u0027re still willing to take feedback so if you have any questions or feedback please tell us if you have a new implementation please tell us we know four different implementations in different ways of this if you\u0027ve got an idea of implanting it please talk to us please tell us okay couple process notes as Cory said expect this to be last call of working with glass quadraphonic IETF and on the first slide the removal of the UDP options mature a separate draft was an executive decision by your working group chairs to move this draft along and hopefully get it published and stable without waiting for UDP options which as you\u0027re about to see is going to need some work in mate and and they and may take a while any other questions "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:10:40",
    "text": "does anybody the reason that the a recent version of this please read it for the next IETF where we\u0027re about to finish this so I can\u0027t say write it but I did have one question there\u0027s an implementation of this yeah this for there were four there\u0027s four attempts there\u0027s a freebsd work which is on the gate it\u0027s not being up streamed because it won\u0027t be until the specs finished there is UDP options which is our test implementation which were keeping up to date which is again on get there has been another implementation I do you want to talk about yours and we did it one in most quick the hackathon just to prove it could be done in Moss quick okay I think it\u0027s helpful to put implementation information in the draft if you haven\u0027t already good good good to have a reference go we I don\u0027t know what we\u0027ll do but we definitely win the Shepherd right up because we\u0027ll have to send that as the working group progresses it I\u0027m not sure we\u0027ll put it in the draft microphone regarding the implementations we have one demo application which runs over UDP where we do the message flows and the other honest we have sort of code for HTTP for a bit of an older version doing this an SDP SCTP he\u0027s been doing something like this for quite a while which is why we\u0027ve been basing this on fact rather than just fiction yes use it in our web RTC thank you I\u0027m trying to come to your touch I guess it\u0027s alright so jokes are able to make this particular meeting Joel\u0027s in LA I believe it\u0027s sunnier and warmer but I\u0027m going to try and summarize your slides and Jose and seeing rather a lot of comments on the list in the in the last period and particularly just prior to the IETF and he has a number of pending updates and [Music] these there\u0027s no wordsmithing and various things to be done right and there\u0027s updates particularly on the use of the OCS which is this checksum over the options area um it appears be a nice thing to be able to check the validity of the options but as we discussed in previous TSV meetings this is important for traversing middleboxes that do strange things with checksums and if you don\u0027t do this then you don\u0027t get through the middle box and even more frightening if you don\u0027t do this you don\u0027t get "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:13:41",
    "text": "through some of the host adapters which off Lord and then check into incompatible ways so please add the OCS was a request made to joe and jaws they made it mandatory I think the the primary issue is worked I mean a crucial but the crucial texture there bracelet and bond agreement on is the EB checksum is nonzero then you have to use then you have to use use OCS we have some corner cases in the tunnels area where the UDP checksum is 0-2 now now lock which will work which will will will work out in the list okay so I think this reflects discussion on the list and if you disagree with what\u0027s written in the site then please bring it up again on the list and Joe will produce a new revision for the OCS work and there\u0027s a request on the list that length of options should be increased so you can declare options that are longer than 254 bites um this seems like an odd thing to want to do but one of the uses of UDP options is to send fragments and possibly other data in the options space so this limit becomes a silly limit when you\u0027re doing using this for fragmentation for those of you who don\u0027t recollect the story we put the fragments into the option space and because we don\u0027t want them to be inadvertently delivered by a UDP receiver that doesn\u0027t know how options work so this protects them from being delivered by accident and it requires a longer option jaw recently announced that the length field of 255 would indicate that the length is followed by a 2-byte length field which gives us up to 64 kilobytes of options please don\u0027t use that much I\u0027m pretty sure that won\u0027t work but it\u0027s big enough and we don\u0027t support jumbo grams and but that\u0027s another story and I can\u0027t move no okay so there\u0027s a there\u0027s been a lot of looking at this draft and how it works and there was talk about the structure of the options field the options field is a kind of value in turn as in tcp tcp options kind and all these previous slides this is this is an outline on what\u0027s coming so ok so i just go forward ok this is no mostly from joe of stuff we\u0027ll need to get back to which is that with some of the similar suffering mucking with are going to have some impacts on options and option processing "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:16:42",
    "text": "to take care one of the things you\u0027re gonna hear on on use of can\u0027t use of kind is going an impact process just a heads up that we\u0027re gonna have to go look carefully at that processing text ok so this is Joel\u0027s position yeah all right you want me go go go try try try try the first one since this on which saying I\u0027ll first start and the original options filled Remick mimic tcp options rather than ipv6 options so all options were just options in ipv6 the the indicator allows you to have a flag which indicates that the option is critical and that impacts the processing of options and the question was can we have something a little bit similar to this and tom was a part of the discussion other people also on Joe\u0027s response is this David your queue so the this is about where it says word says must support flag so there\u0027s there\u0027s two things going on there that we need that we\u0027re going to need need to try try to contrite ooh get a spectrum the first one is Joe\u0027s been quite adamant that you can\u0027t have the crucial thing here is you get a critical option it\u0027s marked as must be understood and you don\u0027t understand it the first bullet says that not understand an option can\u0027t result in packet drop because a legacy receiver won\u0027t even know to look for the option isn\u0027t going to drop the packet any objection to that view in the room seeing no objection I think Tom should tell her but she had quit coming to this cuz he it was his point that started this discussion one clarification what is the what is the expected discussion here so we\u0027re trying to resolve the issues here or everything that you hear will go to the list I\u0027m looking for a sense of the room here so that we have some idea of where where we\u0027re going from here Jill summary slides up let me hear what others have to say yes sure let\u0027s fine yeah man I\u0027m worried because I haven\u0027t read enough of this stuff but it seems that this prescription requires rewriting packets in places where you might not want to redo do that is that true in will drop the headers without dropping the no no no this is this is this is your behaviors the receiver has received a valid UDP packet the payloads fine receiver so it\u0027s going at the options area and says hmm I understand this we are saying that what this one what nerd "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:19:42",
    "text": "is this whoops it\u0027s got a critical indication and I don\u0027t understand it the the first thing we just went through was that if this happens but most you can do is toss all the options here on the floor you can\u0027t drop a packet because you didn\u0027t understand some of the options area from Jasmer only Mike heard yes thank you oh well thank you yes I figured I knew that was my position - best illness individual I\u0027m also fine with I mean I think that\u0027s the right chase - yes dropped option on that was part one part part two is you\u0027ve just I\u0027ve already given the game away we\u0027ve had some discussion on the list about whether to put in a critical indication of some sort authorized a critical flag though I think I posed on the table is to take the range of possible option kinds and Mark some range as critical and the rest the range is critical it might be half-and-half might be quarter in three quarters we can even figure that out on on the list where the semantics of a critic of a of an understood critical option are at least to drop to two to cease option processing at that point so I think it\u0027s more than that this this bid is based on what ipv6 did for how khop options and destination options and so the two higher order bits in an ipv6 option type and disposition of an option that is undirected an option type that\u0027s unrecognized by the receiver one of the these there\u0027s two bits because there is also an ICMP disposition but we don\u0027t need that here so fundamentally ipv6 says you do one of two things if you see an option you don\u0027t recognize you either skip it and continue processing options or you drop the packet and the reason you drop the packet is because if you don\u0027t recognize that option and don\u0027t process it the processing of the rest of the packet may be fundamentally incorrect and that that\u0027s that that last part is significant because if you don\u0027t have this fit and you can ignore any option that means you can never have options that are interesting that like modify the data you can\u0027t modify the UDP payload area as in the normal UDP data according to the spec yes yes there\u0027s part two of this though there are two use cases here for UDP options so one is where you have a trailer in which case you have an actual UDP payload in that case I completely agree however the rule is simple if you\u0027re in that mode you can\u0027t send any of these sort of options so if we use this bit approach you should never see that bit set in any of "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:22:44",
    "text": "these travel options because it\u0027s invalid because those options consult always be ignored but in mode 2 where the UDP length is 8 a there\u0027s no such thing as an agency receiver the legacy receivers don\u0027t see any payload or anything as they essentially adopt the passion with the tie with a caveat but if it\u0027s a receiver that processes options then it can follow the rules process the option list if I see an option I don\u0027t understand and it\u0027s important drop it and don\u0027t forget in that case you there is no technical UDP payload there is payload yes that\u0027s in the surplus space we can do whatever we want with that because that\u0027s not UDP payload so we can change it and encrypt it or whatever are you advocating that if there\u0027s ever one of these options that says it\u0027s critical anywhere in the way then you should drop all the option processing you should drop a packet so we should do a two paths through the option space well yeah and what\u0027s different here is ipv6 to find that option behavior as part of defining ipv6 we\u0027re retrofitting here and not disturbing the behavior of existing UDP payload when the payload is present is definitely important I\u0027m not sure about the about the zero and zero links conventionally UDP okay so I am certainly dropping the packet when when there\u0027s really to be payload there because you have a bad option is is a problem so we already have one case where the problem is we can\u0027t deliver data that have not been properly processed we already see this in the fragment case we cannot deliver fragments to the application and pretend like they\u0027re there properly formed yes that\u0027s correct my proposal is of all the fragment data would be sitting in the options area not in the conventional EU to be payload area okay so we have to be really careful there\u0027s UDP payload area which is covered by UDP length when I say UDP application we very carefully be when I say UDP look I mean what is covered by UDP length the proposal for fragment is it when we\u0027re doing fragmentation all the fragment data which could cause problems for a conventional receiver if you sent to a conventional receiver is sitting in the UDP options area beyond UDP length yes and what I\u0027m saying is there are other cases where like fragment where we cannot deliver that data encrypted data will have the same property if we ever do compression so there\u0027s going to be other use cases we can\u0027t deliver it\u0027s gibberish if we deliver an agreement okay I\u0027m in agreement and I don\u0027t I don\u0027t see the point so maybe you could try to enlist again III agreed everything you said but I thought it already was was agreed so let me try to "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:25:50",
    "text": "capture where I think we can\u0027t land it landed out landed out of that which is that in particular if there\u0027s if there\u0027s UDP payload and there\u0027s a problem and options processing eg from an unrecognized critical option you can drop the options but you can\u0027t drop the what is described by UDP length correct okay I think there was a the term UDP payload versus might been an option my pad in fusing so points 1 and point 2 to me are extensibility hmm so I think as a design principle we want to make sure that we can have version 2 of this protocol if necessary and we can have this option case so that\u0027s why I advocate making extensibility of the first order issue ok this we should discussed it on the list channeling mic heard from jabber the problem is some of the options affect data handling and in that case the data and the options must share fate yes Thomas had all the things I wanted to say and we also see it in the encryption case as well again that\u0027s good let\u0027s try and make sure this level of agreement is actually on the lists by following that\u0027s up on the lists I\u0027m making sure that whether Joy\u0027s on the same page let\u0027s go to the next one ok and I think the the other thing is I believe that the the design direction going forward for how to put a critical indication in the option is the divide up the option space it might be the most significant bit of this 50/50 it might be the two most visits if it\u0027s 2575 will figure out on the list how divide up but that\u0027s that I believe the design direction going forward and I see nobody headed for the mic so that\u0027s our record that essentially the room so it\u0027s decided light on frag I needed to be sported and I saw the use case mentioned on the list of using frag to support DNS that might be a very useful use case to trying crystallize so we\u0027re going to follow that one up but do we need light that is a real question to the working group do we need the light functionality independent of frag the discussion that the chair saw on the list recently suggested that we might be able to remove the UDP light partial coverage function from the option trailer so it so we don\u0027t have an option that says this is UDP light equivalent and does anybody think that we need the UDP light option because if we remove that it will be simpler and jaws says there seems to be support for dropping it yeah the the "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:28:53",
    "text": "consequence that the discussion are about light and wear lighter we\u0027ve got connected into all of this was if you\u0027re trying to do DNS fragmentation chrisbeek because of DNS setting using UDP options because OCS has to be present in every single one of those UDP packets you\u0027ve got the individual checksum do you almost immediately assembly checksum and if you want an end and we assembly checksum that shove it in the application is so there\u0027s note this there\u0027s no reason to borrow it and if the application is doing its own reassembly checksum that does not remove the need for OCS because we still need back to check validity of validity of the options and make sure that the packet goes through the paths that need that OCS compensation to go through that would seem to be another similar to what still an IPA level fragmentation anyway look Tom Tom Herbert yeah if an application cares about integrity they\u0027re they\u0027re doing much more than a checksum they\u0027ll do some strong CRC or something even stronger so that\u0027s not I don\u0027t think that\u0027s very compelling to say the application to do a checksum mm-hmm so we could provide some weak way of doing this and we could provide a crc32 option but the basic function doesn\u0027t need it though is that what worries about think to confirm analysts in particular what I just said about a primary focus on does this do something useful for DNS with large DNS SEC payloads also will need be criminalist as a as a as a full way to focus the design do we want to create a pod an option okay sorry question channeling might heard no light option trailer does bad things to legacy receivers okay what does bad things to what one legacy receivers like is you one more voice for not eating like oh okay Paden has been proposed on the list as an option does anyone want to speak about why it\u0027s useful or why it\u0027s not useful Jules comment is easy to add so it is a grant it\u0027s a relatively minor point but the the difference here is we want to model stateful options or stateless options and I think if you\u0027re going with stateless option which you seem closer to I would prefer the ideas ipv6 method implementation wise if I have both of these it\u0027s a lot easier because I can use the same implementation for hop-by-hop destination options now segment routing options it\u0027s UDP option same exact code it would be just "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:31:53",
    "text": "conveniens quick cinchy it\u0027s cheap to add in fritters friendiy if input is finding useful sure channeling mic there\u0027s already the ACS option for reassembly checks up yeah right yes right answer to a previous question but yes I buy that okay I\u0027m right do you have next slide believe let\u0027s see we\u0027ve rest the slides yeah all right taking okay so this is design goals and Joel\u0027s passionate about this and it doesn\u0027t actually help sculpt the problem so I think it would be worth people checking on the list whether they think the list of design goals are still valid and whether some of them need to be updated it would help just thinking about checking the consistency if we check the design goals section of the draft and we\u0027re already questioning support for partial checks and coverage which was one of those design goals so please have a look at these because it would help your work through them next this is explaining there\u0027s basic rules in those design calls that se how you DP options work I think it\u0027s good to have a strong model of how you think they\u0027ll work so if you\u0027re interested in the UDP options debate or you\u0027ve talked on any of these topics on the list please check those and find out whether the design principles are still correct that\u0027s right I mean that this one is a summary of the debate we\u0027ve talked about so it\u0027s in the slide deck you can look at it with shorter time so we probably won\u0027t be talking about this No is there another slide or we done this this is the last slide did you check your tablet make sheep is any other question who want to quickly ask for now before we trace feasibly y\u0027all seem to be less than half an hour we\u0027ve got I have one question that we didn\u0027t ask there was some so on the list we talked about a CRC 16 as an integrity check where as I thought David that we had previously discussed that remind me otherwise that we should have been a crc32 see was used for integrity check as per SCTP and I scuzzy is that right my general sense I think in this discussion and from elsewhere is that if we don\u0027t use the typical internet 16-bit checksum what is a CRC the right series t to use is CRC 30 is CR see through to see don\u0027t waste time on CRC 16 and your crc32 see because it has incredibly good software support courtesy of I scuzzy and SCTP I\u0027m I think we could have most arrested stuff and what we really need to see is people check the design principles and Joe to revise the documents so that we have a consistent view of all the comments that be made on the list recently if you didn\u0027t look at it and "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:34:53",
    "text": "you\u0027re interested please look at the next revision from Joe because this is beginning to settle down which is good okay now I\u0027m gonna I\u0027m gonna unilaterally bash the agenda Jerome you here okay let\u0027s quickly deal with the announcement really different let\u0027s quickly deal with the qci and diffserv draft so Jerome and Tim who are the folks who brought us the very useful RFC on how to map between Wi-Fi QoS and DIF circ us went to work on qci for Chrome mobile networks you saw some comments from the 3G from some 3gpp folks on the list expressing let\u0027s see I would say profound reservations there was a meeting between 3gpp and IETF leadership on Monday which included this topic like Magnus Magnus go and I were all there along with I think some other folks in the room the upshot of that meeting is that we the there will not be a normative stainless area so this cannot be standards track they there appears to be an opportunity to write an informational draft for guidance to non experts eg those setting up private networks and there will be more details coming there is work going on to to precise to more more precisely record the outcome of that meeting in a couple of paragraphs when that\u0027s all written down and agreed to we will we will we will forward that to the list that everybody understands where we\u0027re going from here interjecting on the previous topic channeling Mike hurt the CRC 16 was agreed on the list some time ago they agreed this decision should be revisited okay thanks Germany thing that jumping back on to these topic good morning Germany one of the others so Thank You mr. chair I\u0027m looking forward to the feedback from the summary of what said and I think if as I hope the feedback is that they are not opposed to an informative texts one of the first tests will probably be to clarify the intent of that draft in order to express that we\u0027re not you know tending to impose a map-21 but you know build a sort of a language translation system so that if people have multipath traffic going through each of these two domains they have a way to understand what the expression of intent of one mapping in one system means into the other so once we have that if we have that feedback and if it\u0027s positive I would like to come back to this group you know first of all you know clarify the intent and get your feedback so that we can build together a system to see if we can translate those mappings into one one to the other especially a 3gpp has built "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:37:54",
    "text": "new definitions of new traffic which I think are not entirely clearly describing our domain primarily in the world value T thank you ah Martin probably ought to introduce yourself with the 3gpp affiliation please okay so Martin Dali 18 TM herbs and 18 t and the CT as well as sa three working groups okay so the table that\u0027s being referenced here on qci in essay 2 is an informative table and the reason why it\u0027s an informative table is that just like each of the characters and their backbones used if surco points differently the qci and arc which is the priority marking are also used differently or can be used differently between various different carriers in addition particularly as we\u0027re moving forward in further defining gee that table is ever-changing and so one it\u0027s a moving target and two it\u0027s informative so any kind of must language referring to an informative table is probably ill-advised as well as it the fact that it\u0027s a moving target in addition the guidance I believe will be most useful I think in five G for Private Network deployments but I don\u0027t think it would be necessarily useful at all for carriers who already know how to provision their networks thank let\u0027s know yeah yeah I think we\u0027re basically I think we\u0027re basically done here let\u0027s let\u0027s let\u0027s get the text when the text comes out we\u0027ll see a manatee we\u0027ve got across all the comments it is potentially useful for private for for for private networks that\u0027s at least a good starting point just a word fully agree thank you I think we\u0027re expecting here is which is clear because we we "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:41:03",
    "text": "hopefully we will try and take this check Greg\u0027s presentation quickly okay and because we we post it last night yet and it wasn\u0027t a doc it was a draft up for adoption and we will try and leave enough time to give you some time which is yeah okay we\u0027ll do it is truly right yeah I cannot take it to break can you try to get through the slides in well under 10 minutes okay all right pretty wide with Caleb\u0027s and for this version of the draft I was joined by a co-author or Thomas Masotti who\u0027s I believe joining us remotely so right so presented this draft at last ITF and just really reiterate what the goals are of this proposed and non Q building and QB PhD in code point the idea is to provide low latency and low loss for sparse traffic books and that the code point describes not the ones and needs of the application or some value judgment as to its importance relative to other traffic but instead is is conveying verifiable behavior of the application that it is sparse and and doesn\u0027t build queues in the network and thus there\u0027s no incentive to miss mark packets that flows that our queue building would get Jerry better performance that they don\u0027t mark themselves as non queue building and vice versa so applicability here and exit the driving instead of used cases that led to the proposal is in a dual q l4 s link where you\u0027ve got differentiation between effectively classic TCP in the in the classic Q versus next-generation TCP is with congestion controllers that can achieve ultra low queuing delay in a low latency queue identifying sparse traffic that can coexist with that l4s traffic in that little 8zq but in addition there are like the other link types that can make use of this code and provide similar support for sparse traffic in particular pointing up links that have the ability to optimize media access or channel parameters for sparse traffic the draft in the previous version focused mainly on the the DOCSIS link for cable broadband mentioned Wi-Fi a bit this version splits out threes to say the use cases doctors big one Wi-Fi again big one and then adds a section on LTE and will include 5g in the next Rev "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:44:07",
    "text": "so the main updates between the last draft and this draft as I mentioned these listed use-cases section but probably the bigger one really is merging in this Lola concept which was developed for LTE and was the main aspect that my co-author was involved in and so Lola the concept Lola was that an application could make its decision between whether it wants a little latency or whether it wants a little loss and that concept I guess morphed into essentially utilizing or proposing to utilize the same signaling as we proposed in the nqb draft originally and with further discussion we agreed that the definition of nqv is like identifying sparse traffic and providing both low latency and low loss was it was a better outcome in the end and so that work was merged into the MQB draft other changes additions in the comparison to existing approaches section mention the previous little approach also referencing an RD mechanism rate delay trade-off mechanism that was some earlier work as well that discuss and then there was a comment at the last IETF should discussed the implications on the RFC 83 25 mapping of diffserv to 802 11 and so we\u0027ve got a recommendation there as well okay the rest of these slides are essentially a essentially a review of the slides that I presented last ITF so I think the interest of time I\u0027ll skip through those quick note on this one the most important word in this sighs proposal please don\u0027t put this dscp into running code please don\u0027t do that yeah it\u0027s Burnett all right becomes that I\u0027ve seen them both on the mailing list and offline so talk when adding five G nomenclature in the mobile section so there\u0027s been some discussion on that and what\u0027s the appropriate language their comment about you know interesting mobile networks the the fact that mobile networks have highly varying channel capacity is a aspect that maybe the original use cases didn\u0027t have to "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:47:09",
    "text": "consider for for example for cable broadband and so some interest in running lab tests to understand the cue death and queue protection implications for someone that works and then offline there\u0027s a discussion in relates to the the immediately previous in a previous discussion around QC I and diffserv map mapping we have a line in the n cubed graph that says for LTE you must use a low latency bear with QC i7 and the suggestion was let\u0027s that\u0027s not the normative on that at least on the QC I piece of it and say must use a low latency bear EG with QC i7 and martin Dali thank you for your help with this and then a number of folks have chimed in on the mailing list expressing they\u0027re interested in this draft and utilized and functionality that it defines and I think with that she with us thanks for this job I have actually and also thanks birth you know softening that language must say but I actually read the draft and I see that for Wi-Fi sections you had recommendation should but or the LT section you had must so is there any Pacific reason for that because I would prefer I think that even this should be should not the mosque because as Martin said that in its evolving and not pacifically even giving the example because I think Wi-Fi section I like that section so if this section can be mastered the similar tone I think that would be better probably the reason for the difference we must ensure it actually comes from which of the two co-authors I thought that you know that yeah I don\u0027t think there would be any maybe concern on speaking have my co-author but yeah and should this go ahead this is obviously something that the working group would have to decide on yes likewise I observed the in the draft you have a should requirement for protection against miss marked flows my observation is that an implementation that doesn\u0027t implement that should is in a very sorry state indeed and if you assume that the implementation can automatically classify flows into non Q building and Q building close or why did we need a DSP to start with so the first part actually the suggestion that that be a Mazda support Q protection was mentioned on the last ITF as well the reason that I left that as a should is I think that there are some computers uplands that "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:50:09",
    "text": "would not need to implement your protection in particular an FQ system or there\u0027s isolation per flow maybe without much finance yeah so it\u0027s just maybe we need more text to give examples of what why it\u0027s regular wages yeah so with the second I think one additional points I read the security consideration I think it\u0027s a good thing but maybe that\u0027s a little bit elaboration would be good who is responsible for marking this you mention about that no integrity protections in on path attacker can change it adding some what the consequences would be if someone does that I think that would be a good thing not to add in that section as well okay fair enough so my next question to the working group is who has read this document so hard like a show of hands oh I need to count yeah maybe tot 15 so that\u0027s good of the people who\u0027ve read it or maybe in general no and generally the working group then I\u0027m can we have a hunt for people who think that this topic is a topic that might be worth further study without reflection on this particular draft I\u0027m just asking on the topic so please hum or if you think this is a topic that this working group could usefully do work on and then I\u0027m going to ask for a second home for people who think we shouldn\u0027t work on it so first please hum if you think this is a topic that this working group should explore and do welcome please home now thank you please hum if you think this is a topic that this working group should not do work upon please hunt now that was very helpful there was were the recording strong strong strong strong hum in favors no sent silence against unforgeable hum in favor thank you that\u0027s useful feedback and you\u0027ve asked for working group adoption and what do the chest think at this moment should we think please hum if you think this is an item that this working group should adopt please hum no please hum if you are in doubt that this is an item that this working group should adopt if you think there is some reason we should not please hum no please come to the mic if you have any comments on what we just discussed and our ad will follow the end "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:53:14",
    "text": "of the queue that\u0027s forming yeah yeah I mean that seems very clear that we can adopt this sheriff I have the shares need to write up and work item yes the chest will also I\u0027m asked on the list to confirm that anybody here and it\u0027s an agreement with the sense of the room we had see so we see a sense of the room I\u0027m supporting this thank you for the presentation we will confirm on the list and then we work with our ad to decide what to do yeah okay we would like to provide some time for a presentation weights being squeezed a little bit and it probably has a lot of slides so and please use the time after you see fit tell us a bit about who are some young models absolutely and why you\u0027re here first of all so if you but still tell us why you\u0027re here and who you are okay yeah absolutely so my name is Aston Chaudhary and we had been working on us yang models so to give you a little background on this particular this particular draft was part of the net one working group and there we realized that it took a little more analysis from the QA side also a little more understanding on the Yang\u0027s so this particular draft was moved into a rocking working group from networking group 0-7 version of the draft we had adoption call on this one and one of the comment which came out of that was why not we present the same TSP working group take additional comment from the community as well as for more the qsr work in this community so that was the idea to present it here and get some additional comment on that so I\u0027m going to cover this topic very quickly okay so next one so I already explained that fun maybe we can go to the next slide okay so to come up with a model which is common across vendors is very challenging task the reason being all the vendors are there so many qsr construct across industry that to fit one particular construct for Albany is very very difficult so but we realize that there are a lot of commonalities the lot of commonalities on the qsr parameter as well as the way vendor apply the qsr configuration on the devices and so what we realize that typically all vendors create a qsr policy and apply on interfaces in ingress and egress direction so by understanding that we "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:56:17",
    "text": "came up with this model where we converted the model into t3 set of layers one was the base layer which consists of classifier action policy and target so the classifier is nothing but a set of filters and policies list of classifier associated with the corresponding actions so now in the policy you know we can have a classifier which could be referred or it could be in line configuration of the Matis so we created this base model and then we created a derived model which consists of DIF sir model queuing policy and schedule and policy these derive models took the base element stitch it together to create this policy and this you know despite all this it is possible that a vendor has its own set of requirements for its own set of features so which can be done by vendor specific augmentation to the model so ie as I already explained there is a class per module which is referred by the name contains the list of filters there is a policy module which contains set of classifier with the corresponding actions the classifier could be referred by reference or it could be a filter parameter which is here in line this is a typical Yankee diagram where you can see that classifier list of filters similarly this is a Yankee diagram which contains a list of classifier for the corresponding actions you can see that the classifier can be defined in line or reference now this is action module where which contain metering mark including scheduling actions the burn rate to color one at three color and to rate three color is taken from previously define RFC two six nine seven two six nine eight some of the queuing and scheduling parameter have been taken from RFC three two eight nine next I think I already explained all these except that the gives a model content of circulatory parameters which is five tuple as well as the DHCP value in addition to that we can define kulick queuing and scheduling parameter in line to the policy one very small knit or you can\u0027t use ranges with DSC pays usual list DSC PS are not paying a set of uniform things so you can\u0027t use a you must use a list of gscp okay so if you watch one was arranged expand the range list vscp okay okay now that is how difficult it is finally configuring "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:59:18",
    "text": "to the devices okay so doing policy will contain including related parameters and we can always have four three two eight nine for those parameters scheduling policy will contain a queuing policy as well as min rate next state at that time you have means olive and I have their own set of features which can be easy augmenting augmented to the model and they can enhance the model the way they want so in summary you know we have defined a base set of modules and then we have based on those face set of modules we have three actually derived set of modules it is pretty more adaptable to any vendor requirements it could be augmented to any specific vendor specific parameters and you know it can it is pretty very extensible next thing yeah please go through the draft when you get time and please provide some comments thank you can I ask people to come to the mic if they have comments and also to think because I\u0027m just about to ask whether anyone in this room can help in this initiative because this room has expertise in running networks with QoS and has the expertise and if so is there anybody here who is willing to help well please use the list to ask as well because I\u0027m I think that with a little bit of an encouragement we should be able to find some people to help read this yes so if you have a couple of minutes I can cover the others later thank you is this up for adoption Ricky yeah absolutely means this is candidate for adoption and this is we already went through one adoption call we got comments be incorporated those so it is pretty much on that line okay that\u0027s good that\u0027s like my impression was I think I think it\u0027s been enough bye-bye by RT gwg okay yeah so one thing I would like to explain here as part of this presentation is that we created a separate operational model the reason being config model was too detailed an operation model requires own set of analysis on the counters part and so we went through all the different discussions we thought is very it\u0027s better idea to have a separate model for operation and where we can detail about the statistics for qsr one other thing is that you know nowadays this lot of talk about network visibility so the way we present the counters to the providers is very very important and so for network visibility how we present has to be thoroughly discussed which has been done in this particular draft "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "02:02:19",
    "text": "so essentially you know these are the basic element for any Q s policy which can be applied to interface we have class per classifier statistics we have policy statistics B metering and queuing statistics in addition to that we have named statistics which is very similar to classical statistics except that it has a common name across the classifier when it does happen that means we aggregate those counters this is very very beneficial for low-end devices where the resources for hardware is very scarce so other than that yeah it\u0027s a usual stuff we have meeting statistics for all the different kind of poly cell and we have stats for confirmed by its confirm rate and violate exceed actions similarly we have queueing stats which is regarding the queue what is the length of the queue how many packets per drop through it how many packets are there in the queue and pretty much there so if you get time please go through the come on the draft and please for documents thank you forever so much for making that so short and if you have questions please speak to the gentlemen action and please use the list to discuss I think we need to conclude that this meetings over for today please come back tomorrow where we\u0027ll have the other items on our schedule thank you have a good lunch for anyone who hasn\u0027t signed the blue sheets or up here [Music] "
  }
]