[
  {
    "startTime": "00:00:57",
    "text": "hi everyone uh welcome to the second session of pc working group and the last session of the day the note well still applies uh julian explained uh all the processes at the start of the meeting yesterday it continues to apply please take care of ipr and all our policies especially with respect to code of conduct as well uh if you are in person currently in the room please make sure to use the meet echo lite client there are qr codes as well we will be using meet echo to maintain our cues uh please help your remote chairs to do that quite well and make sure to wear mask that is something that you agreed at the time of registering to the meeting so please adhere to that to all the remote participant please make sure not to send audio unless it's your turn to speak"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:02:00",
    "text": "and use headsets to make sure that the audio is clear again a reminder uh that maintain uh the code of conduct of itf as per bcp 54. uh just a continuation we have hari taking the minutes so thank you for that please help hurry out i've put the link uh to the meeting in the chat as well uh when you are speaking please state your name uh we have not too much of a tight agenda so there is a discussion time we will use it but in case we overrun of course please use the mailing list and the chat for further discussion so we covered segment routing which was in part one of our agenda today we have then starting with stateful pce some uh new proposals on tetnet and uh nrp id in psep so these are the next set of presentations that we have uh today okay so is mike uh yes mike is here good so let me pull up your presentation and let's start with our first presentation of the day uh mike i'll be giving you just one second mike i'll be giving you slight control so you should have it now you should be able to move slides yourself uh okay yeah thanks uh hi everybody this is mike from cisco systems i'm presenting the psep operational clarifications draft so i just to give a brief summary of the draft there's about six points that we cover in the draft so some of these points are basically informational and"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:04:00",
    "text": "some of these are like normative uh so i'll go through these six points so first and kind of very important we introduce this optimization to the psep protocol where we make the pc request and pc reply messages optional and this basically reduces the amount of messages that you need to send when bringing up the tunnel instead of sending three messages you basically just have to send one message so before you have to send a pc request then wait for pc reply and then p sent the report and now we basically simplified by allowing you to send the report so we're not sure like basically why it was done that way originally but it seems that a lot of vendors are are doing it so so this will be an update to the rfc8231 next point is we uh we introduced kind of this terminology for what is a p sub tunnel versus a psep lsp and the tunnel is is the entity that's identified by the pspid symbolic name versus the lsp is is an instance of the tunnel that's used for make before break and the lsp is identified by the lsp identifiers tlv so just even introducing these two names is i think useful uh in other drafts as well um third we clarified the that the psep association contains lsps and not tunnels i'm not sure if it was very clear before but we just kind of stated"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:06:03",
    "text": "explicitly and it's still possible that a tunnel can be in the association when all the cell speeds are in the association and it's possible that some of the lsps may be in one association and some may be in the other such as when you're changing from when the tunnel is changing from one association to the other in a make before break fashion uh fourth point fourthly we give some examples of of various lsp operations that can happen where we saw basically different vendors have like interop issues uh so we just explicitly walk through uh many examples uh fifth point is we we clarify um that how do you how how some objects do not have an explicit removal flag and we saw some basically interrupt issues where uh where an implementation would expect a constraint to be not removed if it's sent if it didn't send the object so say like it sent the lspa object for example in one message and then in the next message it didn't send it but it kind of expected that the constraint was still applicable so we explicitly say that if the if the object does not have an explicit removal flag then the absence of the object means a removal of the constraint that the object represents and sixth sixth and final point is we discourage the use of the rro"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:08:01",
    "text": "uh so the ro was is is an rcpte concept where like the resv message will go back or the pathogen as we actually both go and collect hub by help information into this record route object and [Music] for sr there's no such thing there's no record route for sr so basically we're not sure really why it was these srro objects were defined and some vendors kind of mistake a mistake the rro to be like uh a current well i don't want to say mistake but they they treat the ro to be like a current path and the ero to be like a desired path or something like that and so yeah it led to again some confusion so we just want to settle that by discouraging the use of sr rro because our always rcpt concept so here's some just brief history so this draft was first introduced in itf 110 in july 2019 so like uh three years ago and since then there was not much uh there were some additions but there were no fundamental kind of changes so we got some recently some good comments from adrian on the mailing list which i addressed in the latest version so basically yeah i wanted to make this presentation kind of quick uh to give room for questions so and comments so basically"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:10:02",
    "text": "uh the the thing with this draft is it has both uh informational and normative content and i think that's fine i saw quite a bit of other drafts or at least a couple other drafts that have the same uh the same structure so what did what i saw down is that they spell out which sections are informative and which are normative uh and yeah so we kind of have kind of three options either we separate the different sections and and say which which two are standard track versus informational uh or we break the draft into basically two drafts so yeah so basically i i would like to request work group adoption on this of this draft uh that's all for the presentation um thanks thank you mike uh first any questions on the mic uh we have time so people wanna talk about the issues we can do that otherwise this question which is right on your screen can also be answered i see johnny in the cube um since you uh since you bring up the question on this slide um i guess i would have a mild preference for uh keep it option one keep it in a single draft and clearly separate the two kinds of content yeah yeah that's uh same with me yeah i think sometimes it's it's kind of hard to say what exactly is uh informational versus standard there's not like a very clear line so having it in one draft makes it a little bit easier than to have you know that content"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:12:00",
    "text": "balance between two two different drafts so i agree with you andrew yeah pretty basically going to echo the same thing i uh meant to reply to the list but drew kind of raised those you know what what is the way to kind of document this whether we want to split it up or have one draft and i really kind of see the operational draft as almost like a checkpoint on the you know the implementations of pc with a lot of implementations now have kind of converged on what's being described in this document and so since there is some updates and clarifications and it is kind of that you know checkpoint kind of you know from my view i do like option one and keeping in the same draft and just describe which is doing specific updates versus which is just doing clarifications um and with that of course you know since as an implementer to get to this convergence with a lot of vendors it's it's a really good thing so i do believe we should adopt this thank you yeah uh any more comments from anyone uh so uh from my point of view my mild preference would be two separate drafts but of course like working group uh preference would take over that's just me as an individual and mainly because when i currently read the draft i find like you know the separation is as you yourself said that this separation is hard to do and that's why in a single document i kind of found it to be little hard because we we say and update and immediately we jump into an example and then we start going into an example which actually doesn't change anything from rfc8231 but it's just explaining it in a much better way i thought that if we do it in a single document we should clearly uh find a good way to separate things uh talk about like you know maybe start with an update as in like what are the normative changes upfront and then go into"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:14:01",
    "text": "examples and say that once this normative changes have been applied now these are the set of examples which will clearly explain how things are currently functioning so i will try to work with you guys and see if we can like you know make this very very clear clear what is an update and what is just uh like you know just explaining things in a much better way like when you bring in terms like a piece of tunnel i think it is useful but it's we should be clear that we are not changing anything because basically for external person for an implementer this is easy but for an external person i feel review would become harder if he reads rfc8231 and then suddenly he comes here and say oh what is this term how do i relate this term the rest of the text in rfc8231 so we have to be just a little bit more careful with this sure yeah i mean what i saw in other drafts is like they they say in the beginning of the document they say like sections xyz are informational and sections uh you know whatever else abc are uh normative and that way it's all kind of in one document but i'm open to anything like if you know whatever the word group consensus is we can we can work with that uh i see julian uh once you have a button go ahead julian yeah i just wanted to say that it seems that no one is interested in option three but we we should probably take to the list uh the discussion between option one and option two i also have personal preference for option one uh clear separate uh for uh option two sorry sorry uh clear separation with two different documents is probably a clear way to proceed but uh i think that the working group need to discuss this more on the list and we'll follow the consensus between one and two so sure i think we should move this discussion to the to the list but clearly there are interesting material"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:16:00",
    "text": "there uh the working group should work on that so this discussion is rather an editorial uh split of the work rather than delaying anything on the procedure and the adoption okay thanks thank you mike the next one is giuseppe right yes so let me bring a new presentation hello can you hear me yes yes oh you are remote i was for a minute not sure i'll give you slight control you should have it now okay i can i can see this live yeah [Music] hello everybody uh this is a an update about the psep extension to enable uh ifit so the the draft has been recently adopted as you can see this is a zero zero version of draft atf and i'm presenting on behalf of the quotas so next slide bro so you can move the slides yourself uh okay it's in the bottom of the screen as well as arrow okay yeah just few words about the background and motivation so to remind um the the scope of this graph so if it is stands for institute for information telemetry and just a name to reverse together two in c2im that is defined in rfc 91 and p7 and alternate marking that is currently defined in these two experimental rfc but there is also work to elevate"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:18:00",
    "text": "these two rfc a 321 lease and 889 these two proposal standards so the psap extension they find this document allowed to signal these effect capabilities and the ifit attributes can be generalized as tld to be carried in inside the lsapa object so we choose this option in order to be able to be applied for raw path types as long as they support the relevant telemetry methodology so we firstly define the a-fit capability tlv as an optional tlb in the open object for the capability advertised so we define in the flags five flags for now so four for uh ion and one for alternate marking and in addition to the capability advertisement tld we define the ifita butyl vin that provides the let's say the configurable knobs of the feature so and this can be included as a tlb in the in the spa object there are um also in this case five different subjects defined i didn't put here the detail of the subtlety since they were presented several times but you can look at the draft so in the end there are four also in this case for institution and the one for alternate machine the efit attribute lbs are carried as a side in the lspa object and can be applicable to all part types of course they are optional and can be considered during path computation and path setup in stateful pce model just few words to summarize the working group adoption discussion so we still need to address old comments"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:20:01",
    "text": "since the suggestion from the chair was to publish the zero zero version as is the last version of our draft and then we plan to publish a new version in coming weeks to address all the comments that we receive during the adoption call in this slide i just want to summarize the main comment the main comments and main suggestions that we will address so first of all a clarification on the head and support of the heat capability so it is supposed that there are at least two nodes of course that at least starting and then the node with sha which are which support the feed capability um it was also suggest to mention the example for ipv6 since for fpv6 bottle iom and alternate marking can be implemented through an extension header so by leveraging the pset extension correcting materialp for example then it was asked to include more details about the relationship between the drafting idr on sr policy effect so it is important to realize that both both pcep and bgp can be used to for example to instantiate the sub policy so it is reasonable to have the same ifit mechanisms for pizza and bgps a1 even though as i said the for precept the let's say the application and the f8 attributes can be applicable to old path types not only towards our points then of course the use of the ifit terminology and the related framework will be clarified in the end we had also several editorial comments from adrian and we will address also these these comments to improve the readability of the document itself okay okay just few words about the next"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:22:01",
    "text": "step so as i said we plan to address all the comments in the zero one version and we always welcome additional inputs and suggests so thank you everybody in the queue uh charges up here this is adrian farrell thank you for staying up so late uh um i i don't know if you i'm sure you are aware that there was a draft in the ops area working group a framework for ifit uh that kind of ran into a roadblock and was sent to at least be discussed in uh ippm uh but nothing seems that happened with it and and your draft here isn't um making reference to that framework at all i i wondered if you if you see any relationship or whether it's safe to go ahead without a framework document guiding us yeah we didn't add them a clear reference to the to the effed framework because mainly because it was not adopted and because yeah we also believe that with a fit we can simply they know the two methodology in c2im and alternate marking and since we didn't mention the framework in this graph we cannot omit the reference but if there is consensus i can also add the reference because we also receive a comment that suggests that you add the reference to the framework even if this is only a building block of"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:24:01",
    "text": "the world framework so maybe the framework need to reference this document so because this is only a building block of the word trainer so we can add the reference but it's not so so in my opinion it can be done but it's not crucial but can be discussed yeah uh how do you survey i think this the term i fit either by reference or by description in the document needs to be clarified because otherwise even when we call our tlbs ifit tles it should be better if it's very clear what ifit really means yeah so i think uh by some mechanism we need to solve this there was one more comment uh in the in when i was browsing through the adoption call was about mpls so has there any been discussion on that like any change with scope whether this document has sr mpls in scope or not yeah you are right you are right and i will clarify that for now because we didn't mention srm pls as an example so maybe it's not there is only a section so yeah we can omit srm pls for now and the reference to the in particular i think that greg was referring to the draft on mpls that has not been adopted yet so maybe we can just omit that reference and yeah yeah thank you for reminding me it's it's another thing that i have to fix yeah my thing is like just track it because right now we have just adopted it so even if uh the work is ongoing in mpls working group it's fine uh let's just track it"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:26:00",
    "text": "i think like you know this scope of having mpls in scope is important we should keep it either we can decide later whether like you know if that that work is taking too long whether we need to divide this into multiple documents that we can handle later but within the scope of this document just keep track of the mpls stuff as well yeah of course i hope that they will find a solution soon because for now there there are different solutions on the table and yeah we have to follow also the discussion in mtls and hopefully they will finish before the the publication of this involvement of course thank you and just a small reminder uh like since you have documents in idr as well as this just from the start take care of coordination take care of like no the documents remain in sync thank you yeah okay okay so let's move on to the next presentation thank you thank you so next we have two presentations on technet uh these are very early solution document the work in that net is still ongoing uh this is mainly for information purpose for pc working so let's start and let me give you guys thank you and i'm tran uh from zte my presentation today is the psap extension for that let abandoned latency and so let's first discuss the requirement for the uh deathlet and the psap in the flat it is required to consider uh the abandoned latency or for past selection to achieve the deadline cues"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:28:00",
    "text": "such as minimum and their maximum end-to-end latency and the bandit jitter um as for as per itf data controller plane framework and the path should be calculated and established in control play to guarantee the deterministic transmission so the uh end-to-end bandit latency uh constraints should be taken into consideration um and the idf that's not bound in the latency the uh end-to-end delaying bombs can be presented as their sum of low uh queueing delay bound and the queuing delay bound along the path so the q two mechanisms and the parameters should be determined during the uh past compute computation so this document describes the extensions for gsaf to carry bonded latency constraints and distribute the deterministic paths for end-to-end popul computation in deadlock service and [Music] and for the psap extension first we proposed two um metrics uh carried in metric object first one is the the end-to-end banded and then latency metric uh their second one is the end to end bandit jitter there are two metrics will be uh carried to uh request a deterministic path to meet the end-to-end banded latency we also request a d bit in asp extended flag tre so another preset extensions is we propose the uh to uh extend their q information to distribute the past uh"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:30:00",
    "text": "computation uh how to carry their queuing information is not determined so far we propose to extend the queue information structure to be carried in ero siero or sre 6ero but new sub uh sub objects also may make sense we will consider that another version so uh last step uh we we want we would like to thank the comments from doof in the mailing list we will consider to propose new queuing as sub objects for psap and paranoid with their rsvpt similarly in nasa version and the last version we will list out the requirements for uh psap and get confirmed uh confirmation from deathlet and we will align with the terminologies of a requirements uh draft so uh comments and the suggestions are very welcome thank you thank you uh janus hi everyone janusz with ericsson as dhruv mentioned in the beginning we are in a very early stage of like extending the death network to address newer requirements and and these are individual contributions uh what uh we see here for my personal perspective very much ahead of where we are in in that net we are trying to come to consensus with the requirements and then we have a lot of solution proposals on the table we need to build up consensus on which way to go and after figuring out the solution from my perspective it comes the encoding of uh what fields are needed and so on to to to meet the solution as for the information between pc and the devices"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:32:01",
    "text": "the flow information rfc could be have full as well because that already uh defines the end-to-end delay budget and and that kind of parameters required for for that net flows so that's already an input and as for the queuing part i think it might be good to wait a bit until the work is becoming more mature in that thank you thank you andrew thank you um janis might have actually answered my question from reading the document i wasn't quite sure how pc learns the processing delay of the routers on the path is there another document somewhere where that information is kind of averaged out or published otherwise i'm not sure how pc takes that into consideration yes the itp uh advertisement folder load delay will be uh advertisement uh before the past computation okay it might be helpful just to reference that and that way we know where that value kind of comes from thank you oh thank you thank you thank you sorry a little slow on the unmute um to add to what janice said i just want to point out that in the debt networking group we have a controller plane framework document that's still open and accepting contributions it's a working group document but it's not done yet and if this work helps inform that or anyone inside this working group has uh material they'd like to either add or see covered for example the last question the response answer the last question uh it'd be great to bring that into that uh that document just send to the list any contribution you have thank you thank you thank you luke"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:34:02",
    "text": "any more comments yeah uh thank you my suggestion which i mentioned in the mailing list as well i think to all the solution documents like have clear reference to that network uh preferably if there are requirements which are clearly listed for the protocols it will be easier for us to match those requirements into the extensions that we are developing in psep and i see that you are have documents in spring and idr as well so that will help you also to make sure that things are aligned so from the start uh follow that process that would be quite helpful and also the terminology be very clear with the terminology refer terms which are defined in that net documents so that there are no confusion especially for folks uh like who are new to debt debt and who who want to make sure that like you know we can still review the debt network for psap uh easily so do help us to do this uh nicely thank you thank you dr okay let me bring in the next presentation let me give you slight control you should have slight control now uh yes yes uh hello arrowhead uh hello everyone this is strongly from huawei we did a pcp attention for enhancer that night uh vietnamese deterministic"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:36:00",
    "text": "network architecture is described in rfc 865 file the data enterprises are capability to carry specified data follows with the extremely low data loss risk and the bounded under to under languages with a network domain rfc file 440 describes the puzzle communication element pressure for communications between path combination client analysis of path compilation element or two option to pass the communication elements pcp defines the interaction under the data format of full path computation requests under password communication replies between pcc and the pce traffic vestige that's not enhanced data so that's not a data plan by introducing bonded lantern information which facilitates detonator transmit translate notes to guarantee the boundaries of language transmission in data plot based on that draft supreme sr enhancer data defines how to reorder segmented routine and segment routine or activate 6 to employment boundaries and latency so this document describes the pcp is potential for boundary lane tennessee parts computation it introduces how to transit transmit the boundary lanterns information between the pcc and the pce to guarantee the boundary language transmission in control plan this is the overview of the related drafts we have"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:38:01",
    "text": "to enhance that night draft folder data plan and four drafts for the kingship plan this is the summary of the attentions for the open open open object which the bounded lantern capability tra is utility to negotiate the capability of bonding lenten say the br type of trva is extended to the rp object to specify the type and the format of the vri setup pcc desires we define the traffic model object to describe the features of the data data flow for which the path is to be capable calculated and the bri object is newly defined to indicate the boundary lanes information of the condition parts we define the two kinds of full b right theory one is the brlister tr we use in the case when all of them knows in the erodes sell different bi values and another is the share the bitr rate your server all of the node the eo decides the same bri value the last way you turned the sr policy to carry brl is a tre and share the vr trv with the convicted person uh we defined the abundant language capability tre to advertise the support of bounded language features in open object it contains the top flag and format flag to inter"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:40:00",
    "text": "indicate which kinds of vr type and format the speakers suppose another br type of krv is defined for the rp object overall when the pcc needed to request the abundant history com computation it must include the br type query in the rp object in pc requests a message to specify the type and the format of the bi that pcc desires under the traffic model objective is of h operationally pc requests a message on the user to specify the traffic model for bonded lantern pass communication this traffic model object consists contains a set of fields used to specify the traffic features with basically this traffic features the pce can calculate the bonded lenders for the traffic and then the result will be a constraint further pce is a path computation so so how to carry the boundary lantern surveys are conducted parts we defined the vr object to indicate the requirement and the resource allocation for the bonding lenders they passed in the pc reply message the pita pri object body has a very very balanced and many undermay container trs for different kinds of bri where all of the nodes in the er requests are different bi to guarantee bonded lanterns say or br alice is"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:42:00",
    "text": "defined and each under the officer knows in our request requests uh the symbol bri to guarantee boundary let's say the of vr tra is defined a shared bra br can be used for all of the nodes when the conducted path is delivered by sr policy the azure policy also needed to carry the uh saturated bonded lantern information uh so all uh all of the notes in the uh is this places the path indicated by the segment list requests a different api to guarantee bonding lines a uh a brl is a tre is needed to be carried by sr policy and then when all of them knows knowledge in the explicit past indicated by the segment list requests of the same bi to guarantee boundary length say or share the pritra is needed to be carried out with as our policy so the next step we are welcome to discuss our main list another content of the structural way of capitalized progress in that night okay thanks for listening thank you are there any comments uh all the comments which were given for the previous presentation i think apply to this one uh as well uh and one example of like why requirements would be very helpful uh would be like when you were presenting in the uh"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:44:02",
    "text": "networking group i saw that they was mentioning that they could be multiple blis uh that would be needed for each hop but in the current uh tlv that we have is like we have one bli for one hop so i don't see a case for like you know multiple bli types to be included uh so i think like start with the requirements so that requirements are clear and then we can map them clearly to what is how to encode them in pc okay secure security thank you so i think let's move to the last presentation i don't see any other person queuing in let me give you slight control you should have it okay okay thank you dude this is about the gsap extension for an rpid and first uh let's first do quick recant the pct constraint draft has been proposed and presented during last two years it proposed a set of constraints for presets with the lateral information such as faid color source protocol id multi topology id application id slice id and now it it has been replaced or merged into four drafts so the current printing presenting a draft has replaced the t constraints uh and proposed this nice related concentrate with the terminology changing from the slice id tlv to nrp idtle so uh this draft uh"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:46:01",
    "text": "is mainly about the nrpid as per their itfts and as ipm pls rp identifier indicates an identifier that is globally unique with within an rp domain and that can be used in the control and management complaint to identify the resources associate associated with nrp so this document proposes a set of extensions for precept to support the identifier of network resource party partition as the constraint of network slicing during past computation so for the uh psap extension we propose the lrp trwe it can be used to identify the slice and the network resource and reviewed as constraints network slicing when pc is uh deployed the pc may maintain network resources per path under nrp state within the resource pro identified by an rpid so the rpi the tree should be carried in psalm messages such as uh the pc report message pc leisure message and the pc update message so the rpi dtre is optional and defined to carry the slice specific constraint and the definition is the same with the rpid as the itft and ns ipnps so last step uh we also thanked the uh suggestions from durf in the mailing list the mrp capability would be added in open message in next version and we will make clarification for the past computation with rpid constraint and as add reference to itp"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:48:03",
    "text": "extensions for nrp as per the lcr spring rp draft so comments and discussions are very welcome thank you uh i see uh jmq go ahead hello yeah go ahead we can hear you okay i i just uh like to mention that uh there is a similar draft uh called the psap within extensions which covers both capability part and the rspa extensions and currently there are several set of the control plane graphs on the network slicing related extensions this is just one of them including the ijp and the b2p bjprs this all the thrust may need to be coordinated in the future and since we have uh some consensus in the tears working on the terminology what's in the coordination seems uh possible and we're open to that uh thank you for your comments uh first uh under as i mentioned just now we uh proposed the the draft very early and uh i think uh second the difference between a vpn plus and nrp which is up to their teeth working group uh we're also very glad to discuss with you to progress this work maybe we could discuss uh offline on main list or separate celebrate with you collab maybe we can uh collab uh collaborate uh"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:50:03",
    "text": "with you uh to progress this piece of work thank you sounds good thank you thank you and that would be my comment as well uh i think uh having a single document for the working group to look at would always be much easier to process and most of the features are exactly the same uh open and like you know the id inside an sp object so i urge the authors to work together thank you are there any other comments on this document or anything else otherwise we'll give you back 10 minutes i don't see anybody coming to the queue julian would you like to close the meeting yeah sure but thank you everyone for attending thank you for everyone all around the world who may be there at various times i don't know drive what time it is on your side but yeah so thank you for for being there and thank you everyone for contributing let's uh talk on the mailing list and hopefully see you face to face in london yes hope to see you yeah thanks siri for the minutes thank you thanks everyone take care um"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:52:19",
    "text": "seven hours is you"
  }
]
