[
  {
    "startTime": "00:00:36",
    "text": "morning everyone good morning so it\u0027s it\u0027s 9:30 so it\u0027s time for the session to get started if this is the eighth session if you\u0027re not here if you\u0027re ace please take your conversations outside if you are here for Ace stop your conversation so yes we\u0027re here in London IETF 101 I\u0027m Ben and Jim my co-chair here so let\u0027s get started by handing out the blue sheets since this is the first session of the week everyone should take care to note well the note well this is actually a slightly new text for this meeting but the basic content is the same if you are already familiar with ITF no well alright so we\u0027ve got the agenda up and there\u0027s some time for agenda bashing if anyone has topics they would like to add or topics they would like to remove you should come to the mic now on this as soon as I just wanted to note that there\u0027s a site meeting during lunch about the topic that is related to the work here on sort of application layer TLS on ascend to this Atlas mailing list I can forward the logistic information to there for the ACE mailing list if someone is interested yeah I would say go ahead and forward the information anyway just in case okay so I think we can move on to the status update Jimmy I\u0027ll take care of so this first bullet point might look a little bit familiar to those of you who were in Singapore but it turns out that I\u0027m going to be starting as security ad in a few days so I will not be able to beach here anymore but thank you to Roman who is offered to step in and take over for me I\u0027m sure he\u0027ll do a great job and the next item is also pretty "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:03:40",
    "text": "exciting so the core your web token document has been approved by the is G and it\u0027s I guess technically it\u0027s not quite in RFC editors cube because Mike is gonna be submitting a minor update but it\u0027s basically done and we\u0027re gonna ship it and the other updates since Singapore are that we adopted a couple more drafts so I\u0027ll be happy to see more work on those and get them to mature so next up are our presentations so I believe Mike is up first good morning I\u0027m Mike Jones from Microsoft I\u0027m here to talk about the proof of possession key representation for the Seaboard web token next oh there we go better so since we last met our heroes in Singapore we\u0027ve published one new draft which addressed a few comments on really formatting not content that came in in the meantime during that draft we also look back at Jim\u0027s comments from zero zero and tried to address the rest of them that we understood how to do in a straightforward way Jim looking at the email I think you still owe suggested text on a couple of them if you want to pursue those and there was one way you asked to like restructure the text in a major way and maybe we can talk about that but what we had done intentionally was have the sections and the definitions follow the proof of possession draft which is RFC 7800 and one of Jim\u0027s comments asked to sort of change the structure of it which we didn\u0027t do other than that we believe that this is essentially done ITF 99 we\u0027d agreed to try to do this fast because it\u0027s a simple draft that just is effectively a syntax transformation from an RFC that already exists from Jason to see more as the chairs just noted the Seaboard web token is now in the RFC editor queue they\u0027re right that I will publish one "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:06:41",
    "text": "draft which just adds the same phrase in a few places saying as defined in section such-and-such so no actual changes at least that editor is believed that this is ready for working group last call there\u0027s been no semantic changes to it during the lifetime of the draft there have been improvements in exposition and I expect that in working group last call we will continue to get suggestions for improvements in the exposition the reason I believe that it\u0027s also timely to get this out is that a bunch of the other ace work which uses proof of possession counts on this draft just like they count on the Seaboard web token and that\u0027s obviously a decision for the chairs and a DS but we feel like it\u0027s essentially done that\u0027s all I have so next up looks like Peter you wish this is the eesti of a coal best draft which has recently been adopted as a broken cooktops thank you very much appreciate that what it does it\u0027s tells about enrollment of over secure transport but instead of using the standard TLS it uses the Detailers and that is dumb for constrained devices there are two application areas which are clear at this moment for this graph dump is for the Brisky for all the bootstrapping which is coming from the anima and also be transported to Six stage and the other use case is that one likes to do the enrollment for a client to in a server of all the folder keying and certificates so to separate the usage there has been a major progress yeah the man the most major progress is that the draft has been separated in parts where before it was very much focused on the Brisky extensions they have all been removed and it is now purely est of corpus Thank You Hamish for making this possible as well and so what this graph does is just eesti of copass and all the other extensions like motifs the voucher stated etc are used for Brisky is done to another graph "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:09:42",
    "text": "which is currently being presented to anima further reduce living in luxury this is fantastic oh yeah and so Michael actually giving all these vouchers and all these different ways of handling the bootstrapping he has made a nice diagram which I will try to show you otherwise there are the URL is your is mentioned to you I\u0027d like to thank Benjamin Gaiman how much for the or the comments I already got on ITF zero they really help to go to the next version so what are the current issues which the ITF serum the proxying has to be clarified I mean we have sink some complications with water is actually the terminology to use in the case of est and not use thinking about this is ATP co-op so but I think that this going Bell further wrong we have to look for the forward compatibility same games for the detail as 1.3 versus the detail as 1.2 thumb of the points is that in est there is disposal oriented you wait for an HTTP - OH - because you asked for some information and it may take long a few hours before the information actually comes back and that we have tried to have in the core pending documents which is currently being proposed in core but via it\u0027s needed then there was the suggestion that the circuit generation may only use cozen and we are not determined about how to do that yet then there was the suggestion that we have these long names and the short names for the functions and the operations and that we will use in May and a must as is suggested Peter could you explain a little bit sir back heat generation because there\u0027s also that functionality in in ESD itself but I think in today\u0027s standards that\u0027s not really a good security practice and you want to generate public-private keeper on the server side and then send it to the client ah okay as far as I know for mum of my co-authors that they wanted to use the surfer key generation for one of the applications and so for that cave for that reason they thought it was important and but they were concerned actually about how to actually protect then the transport of this new generated key and they saw that it could be handled by having the the keys already pre distributed them well that\u0027s just what else know who is that quarter panels at Cisco Cisco that was a Cisco game sorry this is next pretty good "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:12:43",
    "text": "the server-side key generation was brought in for the RPG I work because they were doing the distribution sorry is that better okay the server side key generation was brought in for the RPG I worked because they were doing distribution of the keys and the method they were using to Brian the method they were using to distribute the public key information I\u0027ve had a 24 hour lag or something like that so the way they wanted to do that was to bring up a replacement router and they wanted to be able to distribute the key the private key is for that mashed what it already been distributed via other PTI mechanisms so you think we should explain this use case a little bit more in detail quite possibly or I can check with them about whether that is still good circuit any other remarks no then there are some things we want to do putting in some operational parameter values which are still open here also how to do the server key generation how to insert to implement that and explain the again for the HTTP coop or if you like the eesti are a how to do how the trust relations will exist so that has to be explained in more detail we think that you can do all that before ITF Hamilton - this is not a promise button I think it\u0027s possible I\u0027m I\u0027m always a little bit reluctant to believe that these fans timelines that I was wondering whether you could for example this co-op response code so if unless there is an absolute need to create a normative dependency it\u0027s probably worthwhile to keep that separate in some sense yes we do for the moment we want I\u0027d like to keep this separate yes I said not to trust in a separate document but also not having a normative reference because I thought I already did that edition forest reserve that\u0027s good because even though it\u0027s a very simplistic document because it just registers a value but doesn\u0027t mean that it doesn\u0027t think yes yeah the other things um because there\u0027s an interest to use some of that basic functionality in deployments today and so it\u0027s better to get something rolling out and into the deployments rather than waiting for inclusion of sort of some more esoteric features I said maybe could cover it in a separate document once people figure out what it actually is ok we\u0027ll we\u0027ll monitor the progress quite tightly and see what they can do it our central suggestion for people who want to look at it this is the diagram produced by Michael which tells you the different environments in which Biscay is used and what\u0027s kind of voucher she may use dun "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:15:44",
    "text": "dun is Jason or in seaboard if you want at cetera so I really enjoy encourage you to look at it it is very interesting and that\u0027s all questions girls coming up and just as a reminder if you do come to the mic in the middle of the room please remember to say your name before you start talking okay hello everyone I\u0027m your own cylinder from Erickson and I\u0027m going to talk about an update of a draft of another name so weary written a draft called the ei LS the enrollment using application layer security and the content of this new draft is essentially described by the title we\u0027re protecting ESD payloads using OS core he is the OS core so in the virtual interim meeting second virtual entry meeting last fall we discussed the different enrollment drafts the work group was supportive of the EA LS draft but proposed it should be better aligned with est in general on est co-op s in particular and that\u0027s that\u0027s the content of this draft so it\u0027s it\u0027s very similar is the coop s that Peter talked about is doing ESD payloads transported with coop protected with DTLS and this is doing the same thing but protected with OS core and that means the most part of the est corpus apply directly to est OS core like the message types message bindings fragmentation using block wise the coop response codes new content formats shorter your iPad etc but there are some differences and the main difference is that OS core you see OS core allows different ways to establish keys so whereas est corpus relies on a DTLS handshake is the OS core allows I\u0027d appreciated keys the Oh score profile of Ace or a key exchange to be defined at the point with actually separating the key exchange protocol from the communication security is that for certain enrollments and arias you don\u0027t strictly need perfect forward secrecy for for the enrollment request and the handshake the B TLS "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:18:47",
    "text": "handshake or any key exchange will have a large overhead and therefore it\u0027s if it\u0027s not necessary in certain constrained environments you may want to use some other mechanism another difference is the discovery so while the discovery is the same actually how indicate support for all score is it slightly different so there is an attribute defined in the OS core draft and also a proxying I mean you could say it\u0027s both similar and different you could do proxying in the same way that you do hop-by-hop from the SD client to a a cooperate HTTP proxy and from the proxy to the CA or you could do it end to end from from HTTP from SD server to SD client that\u0027s essentially it so was this the change you requested in the second interim of ACE and are you happy with the changes any other comments are you still supportive of this draft so can we get a show of hands in the room of who has actually read the updated draft about six or eight people it would of course be good to get more eyes on the draft people could try and read it okay so I think Ludwig Europe so I\u0027m going to swat three flies with one stroke I\u0027m going to talk about three different drafts in one presentation the first one is the OAuth Alf draft which I\u0027m going to call the framework in order to not get a knot in my time the second one is the detail s authorized which I called the de Calais profile of the framework and the third one is the score profile of the framework thank you so updates last ITF you saw version 0h we did two updates and in the next few days I\u0027m going to upload a third one thanks to Jim who found a few errors that escaped me and my co-authors really vigilance what we did was we went through the Ayane section which was a mess and unmess tit hopefully then "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:21:50",
    "text": "someone I think also Jim noticed that the scope claim was defined as a string and you might want to have that as a byte array as well if you have contact encoding so we changed that to allow that then someone I think Eric or Samuel introduced default names for the inter speck and token endpoints and we remove the client token design after discussion on the mailing list which you probably are aware of or most of you are so we are thinking whether that should go into a separate draft or not if there is interest in the working group in that work I won\u0027t do it just for sure I mean if someone is interested I am happy to do it but I\u0027m not going to do it just let it die and finally Hannes did some work on clarifying the possible use of HTTP instead of coop it was allowed since many versions back but it wasn\u0027t 100% clear and there were a few inconsistencies in the texts from an older version where we just talked about coop so Hans did a few updates and now it should be perfectly clear that if your use case is more suited for HTTP you can use a space with HTTP as a transport protocol okay that\u0027s the framework if you\u0027re okay with that I would like to go on and then we can collect questions on the whole thing because the framework is really not that meaningful without the profiles otherwise if you have questions immediately on what I said now is the time I want to rushing to the microphone great so the details profile got updated from version zero to two versions three mostly Olaf\u0027s work I tried to help a bit we did clarify how the client detects whether this profile is using the pre shared key or the raw public key mode it wasn\u0027t hundred percent clear we got a review comment all have added some text that clarifies how this is supposed to happen then there was some parts of how the PSK identity is used in the PSK case and we did clean that part up so basically what the resource server suspected to do is if it gets a PSK identity in the TLS handshake it is to tribe that is a key identifier first of a key it already knows and if that fails then it should check if the Pisgah identity is actually an access token containing a key so that wasn\u0027t hundred "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:24:50",
    "text": "percent clear in the previous versions and we clarified that then much to my distress I might add Olaf added the requirement of supporting the add curves in raw public key mode and I currently don\u0027t have a library that supports that so I\u0027m a bit distressed by that but it will be solved eventually currently my code it\u0027s not and I won\u0027t go ahead and sorry on that one honest yeah I\u0027m not while I like all this work on curve to 509 I think it\u0027s a little bit a rush to mandate it right away because all the other documents still say that we mandatory to support this debate miss be 2:56 r1 curve and maybe maybe have that as a option would be appropriate but not the demanded iteration because that would also be an issue for us you\u0027re going to get an answer I get yes behind you in the queue all of Kirkland I basically edit that because I proposed it back at IETF 99 and drag and no one objected so I took that as consent to add that honest I\u0027m honest my memory is not serving me well right me neither do you remember what their mandatory to implement for TLS is deal that\u0027s 1.3 in so in 1.3 it talks about same as 1.2 it\u0027s of talks about those are sort of the recommendations for the web space and asked for and maybe other application profiles and that\u0027s what we did with 1.2 in this DTLS TLS IOT profile thomas i don\u0027t know if it\u0027s here and I submitted the document first version in for the for such a profile for 1.3 where we essentially mirror what we said for 1.2 there he talks about the number of algorithms which I haven\u0027t yet seen widely implemented in in in various embedded devices so it did I takes up a little bit longer because also the hardware functionality needs to catch up so I\u0027m like we are a little bit in a rush they\u0027re like takes the chip manufacturers to take time to put the hardware functionality India Ben Carrick just checked the TLS 1-3 military looks like it\u0027s still P 256 and xD 509 is surely you\u0027re not saying that was what I was going to say but I think if we don\u0027t mandate Kerr 2 5 5 1 9 now when when are we going to do it and we should have a jumper that think that\u0027s a pink "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:27:53",
    "text": "we should try to use both for a transition phase and yeah understand here the ambition but it would be sad if then none of the implementations actually support even comply to the specification so maybe having some transition phase like he you just read for the TLS one that sweet face that would probably be a good idea there\u0027s also when we talk about AES versus the cha-cha goalie and that falls into the same category we don\u0027t have I don\u0027t think we have a church of holy implementation you know I mean Thomas the positive thing about mandating it would be we force people to actually implement that well that\u0027s an experience I will talk about that suit what about how well that works are custom woven we have a number of major implement specifications in the coop specification and the crowd for education was completed in 2013 so after about five years it\u0027s maybe time to revisit that and I would expect that we want to do a combined effort between all the working groups that that actually have a tribulus game on doing the next set of crypto rivers that we recommend and of course behind the horizon there\u0027s also the whole idea of going to catch act based mechanisms for the symmetric part so that might be another disturbance there that we might experience in in that space so maybe the whole concept of mandatory to implement is a bit less useful in in this environment than it is in other environments and so we probably want to modulate this little bit based on this observation but again not more importantly we should start a concerted approach to revisit the algorithms that we use as mandatory to implement in all those documents including seven through five - and we probably want to do a kernel like process for doing in us olaf Bergman a completely second but Carson just said and it\u0027s there are open source implementations of the 55:19 curve so "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:30:54",
    "text": "you have code to look at and I\u0027ve been told that it\u0027s even easier to implement correctly then the 256 curve is so from from my point of view pretty much makes sense to start moving to that curve now I mean we need to get it into the DTLS implementations that\u0027s I think the bigger step and since those are our libraries that have a process for adding new features this might take a while and I completely agree I\u0027m working on a TLS stack and it takes some time to integrate these features so personally I\u0027m a big fan of this curve and true it\u0027s easier to implement correctly than other curves but while these needs to be newly implemented other curves have been already implemented in many many Tila stacks and being tested both in practice and the test systems for years so which one would be best and which one is more accessible that is a good question and what is our goal with mandating this curve providing security yeah then it\u0027s achieved and it\u0027s good but it can be a barrier to adapting the standard because IOT devices usually armed the long tail and and it takes much more time for them to that new algorithm sends new profiles like this thank you okay you know I\u0027ll probably want to continue the discussion about the algorithms occurs on the list yes it would be good if we could make a decision on that from the lists rather shoot so that we can adopt our implementations adapt I mean our implementations accordingly so let\u0027s not forget about that next point we made some clarifications in appendix now related to Appendix C of the framework Appendix C of the framework basically summarizes all the requirements that the framework makes on profiles and it turned out some of these requirements were not clearly represented in the detail as profiles so we made some updates to clarify which parts fulfill which requirements yes Carsten you just say the sentence that I think needs to be interpreted let\u0027s make a decision on that on the mailing list yeah that was I meant yeah I don\u0027t know what that is but that he\u0027ll whether to have this as a mandatory to "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:33:56",
    "text": "implement or optional and what to do what I was trying to say my previous resolution was that this needs to be coordinated yeah it\u0027s not the age group that will look inside what the next set of is no it probably would be a good thing to actually coordinate start coordinating this now jamaat\u0027s on plus one so who should we coordinate with then this TLS is a good start but two more young maxim I think it needs to coordinate among the IOT groups I think the younger profile for TLS might be quite different what i UT does I think it\u0027s ace core okay yes next one is a placeholder that remained a placeholder were planning to do some plug testing but I arrived late and we had other things that we needed to do so we plan during the week to plug together a few implementations and see what happens there are I think three implementations present in the room and there is a fourth one which will come to us at ITF 102 I\u0027m going to talk about those in a moment next steps well we need to gather more implementation experience obviously we have a number of implementations that interoperate well with themselves and we need to check how they interoperate with other implementations that\u0027s what we\u0027re planning to do we want to add examples of how the different parts of this profile are planned to look like and we need more reviews we\u0027ve had a review with all correctly was it from you Jim yes so more reviews please and if volunteers well there were a lot of people volunteering to review the last few meetings I don\u0027t know if it was specifically on this profile but on on the ACE framework there were a lot we can recall who those people were and remind them that would be a good start next profile is the Oh score profile so basically while the detail s profile described how you use detail s to connect to a resource server and optionally also to the authorization server this one describes how you use of score to connect to the resource server "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:36:56",
    "text": "and optionally the authorization server and here I discovered that we hadn\u0027t mandated that the token was to be encrypted and in the since score is a pre shared key profile you\u0027re going to be sending a pre shared key in the token to the resource server and you better not want that to be visible so I added a sentence that if you send a CCW T you need to have it encrypted so that listener on the line doesn\u0027t capture the secret key next thing he turns out even here it wasn\u0027t completely clear how the proof of possession was supposed to happen basically it\u0027s implicit because you generate an or score context from the confirmation key and then if you can decrypt the message then you obviously have the right secret key so you can prove that you have that by just being able to read those core messages we added some security considerations it\u0027s a first version so this one probably needs to go through a number of reviews and revisions and I added a long section with Ayana considerations and given my track record on messing those up we would also need reviews on this document so people who feel even more motivated go ahead read that it\u0027s not a long draught actually it shouldn\u0027t take you too long and provide us comments and that leads me to one more open item this is an old item raised by Mike Jones who asked us in his very very thorough review how this related to the token binding work at a Walt and I kind of tried to throw the question back at him because I didn\u0027t know token binding and E is at least involved it\u0027s not a co-author right so I would also like to know how that is related any volunteers from a wealth to help us work that out I can talk to you if you want dear Mike but anyone else is welcome as in generating hands yes I can bring you a microphone No okay for the record Mike Jones of Microsoft just volunteered John Bradley of yubico and one of the token binding "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:39:56",
    "text": "working group chairs to also look at this issue with us great thank you John there was another point that I was thinking about and I missed the meeting so that\u0027s big bad of me to ask that question but we had a meeting with ocf who also have an access control mechanism in their standards draft and I was wondering what what conclusion we came we want to have or do we have any relationship with ocf anyone yes question do we have or do we want to have any relationship to the OCF work any opinions on that it would probably influence all of these drafts so it feels like a good tailor oh yes number not speaking for the house yet there\u0027s a meeting that we have on friday which i think is what person\u0027s gonna get them say to and this would be a great question for us to ask at that meeting and some of us are going to be at that meeting so in frog we\u0027re flying down there on friday and there\u0027s a joint thing to thing research group ocf w3c meeting that\u0027s joint on friday afternoon and the purpose is to coordinate what can be used across stos and so we can put that on put this on that particular list and so those of us that are in the room that can be there has a there\u0027s at least three of us probably more in this room that will be there and so we can put this on our list great great thank you very much that was what I was trying to Hearst in this day up was there also a virtual meeting last in January yes we\u0027re talking about this didn\u0027t anything interesting happened that you wanna tell us about well yes so we asked so we are doing these coordination meetings with ocf approximately on a half year Karen\u0027s right now and at the last meeting we decided there were some issues that actually would motivate having interim phone conferences and the first one we identified was the relationship between the a security work and the ocf the security work so we started looking at that in in that phone conference but I wouldn\u0027t say that that we came to a conclusion you so we have a continue this kind of work it\u0027s just really hard to schedule between the different organizations with the different fixed points and so on so I\u0027m sure I\u0027ll find we will discuss how this work thank you great so next steps "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:43:02",
    "text": "we\u0027ve been through a number of iterations at least with the framework and I think it\u0027s rather mature so I wanted to ask is that a good time or a working group last call or should we do something else before we do the working group last call I think I think I personally think it would be a good idea to start with a working group last call not only because of the implementations that you had listed up there and the intro testing this week is a little bit too ambitious in my opinion just coming from two days of packet on and and full IETF week schedule but you don\u0027t know what me and Jim are capable of on your board let\u0027s see yes ambitions are big and that\u0027s good um but at the workshop our security workshop last week I also mentioned that we have now released a product implementation of of a sauce which we call secure device access and you can find the slides and some material and pointers to the documentation in in in that deck and so that would be I think we need more more products in that space implementations that good prototype implementations a good research implementation starts and open source code that would be nice if other companies also step forward and invest some time in product implementations and make those available integrate them if they arrest of their products and arm implementation based on embed hummus that would be really cool you probably haven\u0027t listened to me but I just said that we released a product great that sign kind of escaped my attention sorry for anyway we\u0027re doing going to do some interrupt testing which is basically we\u0027re going to plug together two or three implementations and see how they break this week sometime between the meetings and so there\u0027s going to be hopefully a bigger event at ITF 102 I know of four implementations that are going to be present at ITF 102 and since Hannes told us this the fifth one that we can add them oops add them to the list here there\u0027s one from us right six that\u0027s me there is one from Olaf you Ramon he said I University of Bremen is a tie Jim chard has some code on that and then there is the sei lab at Carnegie Mellon University who have a constrained implementation which is great because I don\u0027t know if yeah olaf\u0027s is probably also a constrained one but mine is definitely not constrained and Jim\u0027s I "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:46:03",
    "text": "don\u0027t know anyway this is going to happen yeah one more question just came to mind I should have taken that earlier when I was talking about the progress of the framework we removed the client token and Hannes you promised us a paper where you had analyzed the security of that approach I have still not seen that paper yeah this is funny because you\u0027re not carefully watching the our security workshop it\u0027s actually published here along with many other papers which I think would be worthwhile to read and yeah in fact I\u0027ve actually encouraged this community here to participate the workshop for me it\u0027s always useful to get in touch with those guys researchers who are doing formal analysis and you need to publish proper proceedings for US researchers to be able to come to your great I can send a link to the mailing list but we do not appreciate ya it describes I did used to our tools I also briefly talked about it at the workshop abhi spines kayfa and yes stuff is in there in the document rate I guess so so on the client token topic yeah I think it\u0027s also a good chance to pause and ask if there\u0027s anyone in the room who does want to see their client token work continue on in some form because that\u0027s I believe that\u0027s still an open question true room looks very quiet so yeah maybe it\u0027s just you moved your answer London so I think there is a value which the client token functionality the client token had which we are missing and it basically relates to things that has to do with client authorization what you want to call it but it basically is the information going to the client about what it is supposed to do and keys for for doing that so I think that function basically it\u0027s part of this this greater work scheme of things which is covered in the actor\u0027s draft but only a specific case of that how do you actually so concrete example is if you look at the group communication when you authorize keys for group communication then you give typically rights for one device to access another device in the group but you also would like to have instructions for the requesting device which other devices a mine entitled to to contact which resources and other devices were impacted to contact and that is not covered in the framework today and it "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:49:04",
    "text": "was one aspect of that was covered in the client talk so I think that even if you don\u0027t carry on with the client talk and I think the functionality we should consider it yet that functionality represented somehow thanks okay I\u0027m done unless there are more questions I we are going to discuss the working group last call on the license or start with the cherish discussing yes go ahead thank you thanks Francesca hi I\u0027m Francesca I am gonna present two drugs so the first one is this new draft panini a ski group calm which is keep reasoning for group communication using ace the motivation for this draft is from last meeting so during last three meetings we presented two different drafts me and Marco so one the one about co-op pub/sub is profile for group king of pub/sub scenario and the oscar up joining joining is a group called using no score so we got some feedback from the working group that about the military similarities of those two drugs and and so we try to create one document that describes the similarities and this is this document so what is in scope of this document is the message format to authorize a node to join this group communication and distribute the key material and this makes use of the a framework and profiles in outer scope of this document is how revocation of group members done and renewal key and what is the exact protocol that is used for group communication so this is an overview of the participants in in this new draft so we have a client who is the node that is trying to join the group communication das is the same as in the ACE framework and we have a key distribution center that has the role to just distribute the group key material the dispatcher is the note that dispatches to the messages to the group members and for example the co-op pub/sub it can be the broker or it could "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:52:05",
    "text": "implicit so it could be for example a multicast IP address in the first phase the client so the client uses ace one particular profile of ace to communicate to the AES to get authorization to talk to the key distribution center so in this in this use of ace the key distribution center is actually the resource server then we define a new set of messages to actually request key distribution to the key distribution center so while this first phase is defined and it\u0027s very specific to what profile you use then this one is currently not existing in ace so this we try to use the same semantics but this is new messages finally the third phase which is not in scope of this document is the message exchange between the client and the group members through the dispatcher using the group key material that was retrieved from the key distribution center so these are the details about what are the what messages what is the format of the messages so for the authorization request response this is taken from the ACE again the request must contain this grantee parameter and may contain a set of other parameters and we specified in this document what each parameter contains so for example the scope is supposed to contain the group ID or the topic or something identifying the group communication and the role of the client role meaning for example pub/sub communication can be as publisher also cragger so we got feedback from Ludwig about use of scope in this way the audience is the KDC because that\u0027s who the token is supposed to go to and yeah I just want to underline that we do a new parameter that is this github piece this is the client sends this parameter if it wants to receive public keys of other members of the group and then in the response we define what what needs to be sent so the access token and what does the access token contain and other other information to establish secure communication with the key distribution center and then these are the new existing key distribution requests and response so we we define them as being similar to ace authorization requests a response even though these are not authorization "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:55:05",
    "text": "requests the response but we still need some parameters that are similar so we use the scope parameter we use the github keys then we have new parameters defined client credential public keys red paw and group policies management key material etc so we define exactly what these messages look like and then group communication have to specify which of these parameters are actually used so that\u0027s that\u0027s the work we\u0027ve done and yeah I think I can go on to the next one besides one question if you could go back to the diagram which one where you could talk to the key distribution center you were saying this this message between client key distribution center doesn\u0027t exist in ace I disagree the key distribution center is just a resource server and what you\u0027re doing is using your access token to access the resource of the key distribution server which happens to be the group key and related information so I\u0027m probably just nitpicking here but I think this is very much existing in ace yeah of course this part exists but what I\u0027m saying is this second phase with key distribution requests and response this is not defined in ace yeah it\u0027s a resource access accepted exactly but we use the same semantics that we use with the authorization request a response even though it\u0027s not the key distribution center is not in a yes but yeah so because this is a nested set of protocol so what is in RS in one step this is the kid see in the next set so I\u0027m intrigued by this kid puppies I missed that so far what exactly is the the KDC claiming here there are some public keys okay what does it mean yes so the KDC can be also key management node so it can store and then distribute the public keys of all the joining nodes so this is each document using these drafts should or must specify if the KDC is also managing the public keys and this parameter is there to allow for the joining node to actually request the public keys if the KDC is storing public use of all the members of the group yeah but again what is what is the claim about these "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:58:05",
    "text": "public keys so apparently this is about a group so this group must exist as a concept somewhere and those public keys could be used for for data original fabrication and they could be used for targeted encryption different security properties you want to have here these could be published subscriber keys okay yeah this draft does not go into that much detail that would be like the drafts that use these wraps that have to specify how they\u0027re used okay yeah I think we have to do that yeah I can move on to the coop pub/sub profile maybe we can ask the questions later so just to remind this is now version zero to at least was percent in ATF 98 the first time so I added some slides from there just to remind you what is the coop pub/sub architecture and what are the roles of T of T endpoints there are or the nodes and the participants in in destruct so the update to destruct is that it is now coherent with this new draft so just a reminder is we have two authorization server one a s1 and s2 a swan defines what endpoints are allowed to publish to topic a on broker B so it\u0027s access to the broker and a steward what endpoints are allowed to access topic a so there are pre-existing security association between publishers and subscribers to both a s1 and s2 and the goal is to set up security association between publishing broker and the second one is between publishing subscribers so this is the overview and it\u0027s compared to the other graph that you see so before so we have two different AAS here we have a s1 which corresponds to a s in the other draft and then a s2 is actually one node that has both functions of AES and key distribution center from the other draft so this is how this profile define defines these nodes then we have a client that can be either a publisher or want to be publisher or subscriber dispatcher is the broker than the group members so let\u0027s start with the publisher first phase is to establish a secure channel with the broker so it\u0027s just a simple use of ace "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:01:05",
    "text": "profile between publisher so client AAS and dispatcher and the second phase is to retrieve the group key material to the TAS - so in this case the same no they spot a s and key distribution center which means that there is no need to do the token post and we can combine authorization request and key distribution requests so we take the parts of these messages that we need and for subscriber there so as defined right now there is no need to to profile with the broker but just get the key distribution from the as2 and finally the third phase which is defining in in this profile is - how the communication is protected yes question I guess it\u0027s just a comment this is Eve mailer I think where people were sort of I was one of them shouting that\u0027s an RS not an ass before this is maybe a clarifying concept that may help people including me understand your diagram mm-hmm because I think what you\u0027ve got is you\u0027ve defined a standardized interface for the KDC which is a function of an ass but you\u0027ve protected it so what you\u0027ve got is you\u0027ve got a standardized interface for a function of your AAS that you\u0027ve both protected and thus that KDC there is it is actually an RS yes and no because it\u0027s not actually an authorization server so it\u0027s it\u0027s a key distribution center it does not do authorization right it\u0027s you\u0027ve got an interior function of your a.s that is an RS that you\u0027ve standardized the interface for yes that is all protected am i right yeah okay splitting the these two functions the AES and DK distribution for good communication yeah yes I\u0027ve written a spec that has a very similar pattern design pattern to that one okay so okay just want to be sure yes so yes this defines how they\u0027re coming finally the third face that is defining this document is how the coefficients protected so there is secure channel between client and broker and then there is also messages protected with application layer security between publisher and old members so su progress and publishers so the last two slides are about how these messages match to the key operation in group con draft so so we have only two messages so these are the authorization "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:04:06",
    "text": "request plus key distribution request and authorization response kreski solution response that are sent from client to a s2 and these are the details and yes I\u0027m not going to go through all the details because you can read the draft and come back with comments for that but that of course depends if node is a publisher or a subscriber if it\u0027s gonna request public keys of the other members or not and yeah this is the same content that was in the previous just adapted to this format and yeah that\u0027s it so we got I just want to say we got quite some support for the this profile and also for the profile that is coming after me and and yeah we answered the request to make this more general format content by splitting or creating this graph that has the common material let\u0027s say but I wanted to ask if working group is still supporting this work and if it like if it thinks that this is a good way to approach this thank you as always it\u0027s good to get more people reading the documents might have pause if you have blue sheets next to you could you just hold them up in the air for a little bit I think there are a couple people who came in late and still need to sign the blue sheets do you have a blue sheet sitting next to you anyone I\u0027ll be exciting it again all right take it away my girl hello my six this is another update to the draft describing how to join groups where communication is protected with a score again using the ACE framework in its profiles and its update especially followed direct actions we agreed to take four especially out of discussions with Jim thanks for that as you can guess mostly related to the draft that Francesca presented before so we needed to define the exact content of messages exchanged between the participants in the protocol of course along with the general head of a guideline we already provided in the main core document describing core group communication and of course we need to address the similarities with the pub/sub profile because they had a partial overlapping and we didn\u0027t like to come to redefine or implement the same form as multiple times so as a result we produced that join document a ski group calm and in this document essentially now we have redefined all the protocol steps specifying how the general message template from a ski group calm can be instance it is specifically for for this scenario and "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:07:07",
    "text": "with reference especially to the workflow we saw before here the group manager in charge of the oscar group acts as a KABC in the generic model and it is a resource server here and instead we don\u0027t have an actual participant node acting as dispatcher so especially messages addressed the whole group are just sent to a multicast IP address so essentially we went through all the protocol steps and the fine parameter per per starting from the generic model how each parameter is field according to possibly structure and especially the scope parameter in the authorization request is used by the joining node acting as client specify mostly the identifier of the group it intends to join and the role or set of roles that you would like to have in the group the audience parameter instead points at the group manager essentially its address and get pop keys here it is used and we define how again in relation with the main core document the group manager can optionally be configured also to act as repository of public keys of group members then use the centroid to produce digital signatures of messages sent to the group so in that case the joining node can express the signal that it wants to have the public keys of the members of the group at joining time so that\u0027s the way this parameter is used in this case and as we said that\u0027s the new parameter defined also in a ski group on well of course the protocol continues with the authorization the response essentially as described already in a ski group calm the S parameter must be present and scope is present again only if there\u0027s a downgrade of roles especially that are granted to the join not to have in the group and profile parameter of courses present to signal how communication is secured between the joining of the client and the group manager as KDC and in a resource server in this case then the protocol continues of course with a token post on the group manager the establishment of a secure channel if one is not already available and then again the use of get get a key parameter in case of retrieving a public key nodes of group members from the jury know that joining time here we have a number of corner case that are of course better document in the graft in the draft and already in the first place in the main core document in case the group manager access repository of public key the joining node has a new hidden to provide for sure in some public key to the group manager either directly or through it as a certificate and in this latter case it can additionally provide the group managers with a pointer to an external set of certification authorities this is the most important part in the end it\u0027s how the journey node is actually "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:10:08",
    "text": "provided with a key material that it requires to participate the secure communication in the group so most of it is part of the structure key parameter where most of parameters come already from the cosy RFC and others we are reusing from the oscar profile vase essentially we are introducing a new parameter CSL where the group measure essentially specifies the country signature algorithm used within the group to produce country signature of messages most of these parameters are optional but in Indian it\u0027s about providing the score master secret in K the endpoint idea sent to the joining node in the client ID parameter and and the group ID in the server ID parameter then the message continues with if requested the public keys of group members and a list of group policies possibly applied in the group and relevant ones better documented of course in the core document are the first synchronized sequence numbers of multicast URLs in the group or the specific working protocol used to revoke and redistribute keys in the group and related to that particular policy the specific management key material needed to run and participate in the group breaking protocol and that specific contact and format of course is related to the specific protocol used to rekey the group so to conclude this is now aligned with a new document describing the general format of key provisioning messages to support and enable group communication it\u0027s also of course along with the intent and general guideline we already have in the main core document describing oscar group comm and speaking about also synchronization between multiple venues right now this approaches the recommended one to join a group the main core document in the case this is a recommended one out of a more generic description so I wonder if we should consider this as something more than recommended one as the way or instead keep room for possible alternative approaches so keeping also generic description at a high level as well but we can take that letter I just that this discipline question other than that this document got support already in the past and it was labeled as high priority at the a sintering meeting and the last year that the big thing missing was especially having this alignment with generic message format description so we wonder if it\u0027s readable to be considered I always in a good shape for adoption in London so what we have seen is an "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:13:08",
    "text": "interest to work on or to produce standards around group communication or four simple IOT devices and in that context the this draft was pointed out as one way of of solving that so I think there are people here from fair hair Alliance who could add more more material to that but they have definitely shown an interest in this draft and then I suppose that would also imply something I\u0027m depending draft as well peter fonda stock I\u0027d like to express my support for this document I think the intention is good that like accurate it gives enroll and possibility to do cop communication so which is very nice and people really forward to that I read an earlier version of the Daath I have not read the line version I\u0027m very happy that you do an alignment less standards which the same purpose is very good so yes I\u0027m a favor of this map but I\u0027d like to reread it once more yes okay thanks thanks Marco Thanks so the chairs written really haven\u0027t didn\u0027t have a good imagination for speakers here\u0027s the second out of three presentations I\u0027m gonna deliver today so this is about key exchange for all score and Oscar as you know is is becoming more and more used is adopted by various working groups and in the IDF and SDOs and and industry consortium now what score depends on the establishment of a strong master secret so it\u0027s a pre-shared key pressure key setting and two alternatives are defines you could either do the pre shared key in in some constrained settings that still a valid deployment or you could use the ascore profile base which we\u0027ve been speaking about today but what is missing for the scenarios where we need forward security is a key exchange protocol and basically to two alternatives have been raised for how to address key exchange for raw score and the alternative a here is that we reuse the transport layer security handshake so we do some sort of profile of TLS or DTLS application layer and there there is no such profile at the "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:16:08",
    "text": "moment that there are building blocks so you could either one early example of this is the cody TLS draft which is doing DTLS over coop another example is the TLS or scorer draft which is specifically addressing the parameters needed for a score so there are certain in addition to the master secret there are two identifiers that needs to be provisioned and the third option is to look at the things they\u0027re doing in the Atlas working group that hummus announced previously today so that\u0027s a TLS path for for key exchange and the other path is to look at a compact key exchange protocol that we have been developing here in ace so it\u0027s built on C bore and cozy and simple or high-level comparison between the two drafts between the two proposals so TLS obviously you know is a built on a well-known theoretical cryptographic protocol called Sigma I which is implemented in terms of TLS and data structures Erik is also using the same theoretical protocol but it\u0027s implemented instead instead in in terms of Seaborg cozy and and co-op which is reducing the Earth\u0027s core primitives so ad hoc is much more limited functionality protocol so you could say it\u0027s a simple protocol he produces smaller messages as is shown in the next slide but the main difference between TLS and Erik of course is the amount of thorough the amount of security analysis that has been behind so that\u0027s there is some still some some some things that are being analyzed in the setting of TLS but mainly this is a very analyzed protocol whereas for faradic we still we have just started the formal verification and yeah so looking at message sizes there is a here\u0027s a simple comparison between looking at a dsk authenticated diffie-hellman which is the brown or orange in the case of TLS and ad hoc and the symmetric key authenticated diffie-hellman in the case of TLS an ad hoc so there\u0027s three messages and mapping to to the three messages of the Sigma protocol assumption so these figures are are and so this is a fair comparison between between the two protocols except that there are some parts missing in terms of Oscar session identifiers which is not "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:19:08",
    "text": "defined in the TLS regional included in the TLS numbers so you see that there is actually a significant difference in overhead between the two protocols and the simple solution is that TLS was not designed to be a very compact protocol that was not considered to be very nice very necessary or where it\u0027s at work in the opposite direction is actually precisely looking at the compact the compact implementation and this turns out that this one reason why this is important is if you look at constrained constrained deployments which needs a number of round trips to to actually carry out a key exchange protocol and that\u0027s the second sub column in each in each of the columns is illustrating one example so this we\u0027ve taken these are numbers from 60 so it\u0027s an example of how many bytes you could carry in one frame so these are making certain assumptions on the the the actual [Music] overhead used on the link layer in terms of 15.4 6lowpan and the security on link layer so with 75 bytes as an example here you see how the number of messages which are needed to - the number of frames needed to carry each message round and we were planning to have a a comparison looking at now if you think about a a sixties network being deployed and you start up by turning on the devices and the first thing they do is to launch a handshake and these had these handshake messages are not are then fragmented and those fragments are then colliding with each other and creating interference and and you have to sort of see how long time does it take to get this is up and running unfortunately we don\u0027t have the simulation and they\u0027d already we will probably have it in not too long while but basically this there is there is a difference in terms of of deployments and what scenarios you actually can deploy with with the key exchange protocol so and that was basically the background the motivation and what I like to hear is people\u0027s views on how do we progress the key exchange protocol for a parole score so we\u0027ve seen that you can make a more lightweight protocol than TLS definitely and you can also use one great on with lower footprint because you could build it on the same primitive sauce core an important thing is the "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:22:09",
    "text": "security analysis and the issue we\u0027ve had previously is that people come to us and say yes we\u0027d like to make a security analysis of a Red Hook but they also would like to know how does the IETF position itself with respect to this new protocol and if we say that well you first have to make the security analysis for us and then we tell you if you\u0027re interested or not then they are not as interested in making the analysis so it would be good if if people think this is a good initiative that you actually show interest here so that we can try to get out of this catch-22 we already have one University looking at formal verification but it will be going to have more doing the work and we think that the approval of this protocol can be conditioned on on a formal analysis and founding the issues that are resolved so you don\u0027t need to beforehand to prove it just because you accept the ITF is going to work on this protocol and the final question from my side is what if we don\u0027t want to have a lightweight key exchange protocol what are the consequences of that well people deploy things without key exchange instead or with what what would be the options okay Michael Michael Richardson I have a couple points but I\u0027ll just your last one first the result of not having a lightweight keep exchange protocol will be pin zero zero zero that we all use for our headsets for a great number of consumer products maybe there are some other places where that won\u0027t happen but I\u0027m skeptical but then I wanted like to say that I\u0027m pretty sure we deployed SSL two and three without a security analysis and IP 1 and V 2 that is security analysis they all came afterwards to your point and finally as I understand and from reading your documents even implemented sigma-i which is essentially IP 2 so the security analysis are the cryptographic community word for what IP 2 implements is Sigma I and that word actually came after we did the design documents maybe before we actually published them is RFC\u0027s but it happened afterwards and I understand that you that your primitives are Sigma I and so to say that there\u0027s no security analysis of the protocol I think is is wrong because it\u0027s it\u0027s it\u0027s simply reinterpreting IP 2 in terms of Seaborg good-ass comment on that so I mean there has been a number of security reviews of the documents but there are no published papers for example yes so if you compare with us there\u0027s loads of published papers absolutely it\u0027s not level that\u0027s absolutely and and we should also maybe we\u0027ve worried the number of secured papers that the more the more analysis things get the more bugs we find and it\u0027s it\u0027s no it\u0027s no it\u0027s no surprise that we have to revise "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:25:09",
    "text": "protocols because we found bugs so to expect that a protocol that goes out there has no bugs is to say that well I guess we\u0027re all running SSL 3 not even TLS one right and that\u0027s not true we\u0027re moving really hard to fix those bugs and that\u0027s because we got security reviews and to say that you have to put the egg before the horse before the cart is silly but I don\u0027t want it I want a rat hold on this I know it\u0027s your issue I would like to know um thank you for posting the the slide with PSK bite sizes and I had difficulty reading it from most my vision but so I wonder did you did you do an analysis with I\u0027m particularly interested in a situation where one end one side has a certificate and the other one has a raw public key and yeah these numbers are real public keys both of them so I thought it said PSK that\u0027s that\u0027s the the blue one so the grey blue grey oh okay I understand so those are raw public key sizes and and what what with what was the overhead I\u0027m guess I\u0027m confused how the raw public key can be smaller than PSK then so I you should compare the blue the blue gray column with the blue gray column that would be the TLS and the unhook okay so those are raw public keys okay thank you in the and what was the key size it was a 256 bit EDD a it was easy two through five one one nine so so they went to P 256 you added about 30 bytes to messages one and two of the TLS ones so so the the that means that the size of the signature was approximately 32 bytes is that I get that right I think so yeah 56 divided by 8 is 32 bytes the signature sizes for eb 2 5 5 192 5 6 or the same yeah okay so justjust that\u0027s the common overhead that you can\u0027t get rid of if you use that primitive thank you militia units there are two points that I would like to make first to the Michael\u0027s point about the consequence of this word being spelled for so long ad hoc I think it\u0027s in version oh nine right now and it\u0027s been around for quite a while there were a couple of drafts that are published regarding ad-hoc and then we insisted we used ad hoc for TF change during the bootstrapping phase and with this work being styled we has felt we had to decide to remove completely the cave change part and to rely on a share keys from the minimal security draft in "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:28:12",
    "text": "succession so with that I support what Michael said on the consequences of taking out the key exchange pretty much because the TLS of our proxies is not ready yet and just it doesn\u0027t fit our timeline and then the second point is basically why do we care about the number of fragments that this key exchange protocol translates to we are using this during the network formation based on bootstrapping where essentially this is this results in slaughter the loss axes and all the nodes content before the access to the channel and the probability of collision just raises exponentially with the number of nodes and you pretty much get 1/3 of bandwidth in the ideal case a third of you get a throughput that is a third of bandwidth indiadee located in the ideal case with a large number of modes and to put a figure on this in six distances around 30 to 40 bytes per second hi this is honest girl you have been essentially asking us to re-implement TLS on using as cozy\u0027s SIBO encoding pretty much no and that\u0027s how I see it from a from the exchange and as you as you know like the reason why the LS looks like as it does is because as you go through the standards process they\u0027re different features that are being requested starts with Ivor\u0027s negotiation it session resumption you have all sorts of different functionality and that functionality then has to be maintained for for example company like us we have to then implement this in in on the embedded it for embedded it implementation you have to make this integrate that into our with interfacing the hardware security and it already for TLS it that takes us a lot of times a bigger group and now we essentially have to do that again because you you want to shape off some bytes that you think unnecessary I I would feel differently if the guys who advocate this would actually develop those implementations for the embedded market himself rather than asking others to do it and then be impatient about why it\u0027s not done yet so go ahead and implement the stuff and make it available so I mean the people that are working in this you had malicious statement here he is an example of a person who is actually implementing this and and using this I mean you have a first step so maybe I "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:31:15",
    "text": "can comment I mean all of this we are implementing all of this in open source project that are available that are used by the industry that are using that were used in four or five artists organized so far and to your point about the time that it takes to bring this to market I think this is an important differentiator among companies if for some companies it takes several years for other if it takes a couple of months then I mean you should I appreciate your research implementations but it if you want to get something rolled out and I think you are downplaying the investment that you asking people to do and in understand that it doesn\u0027t take you along to a long time to write the code in six days but it takes us a long time to write solid security implementations and what we\u0027ve been advocating is to reuse those because because of all the investment we\u0027ve made and you you want to shave off a few bites and then claimed it\u0027s a big big drama if you if you add a few bytes more um we have not seen that if many of our our customers because they even for example we had all these optimizations for raw public keys and ppreciate secret and so on and then many companies still go ahead and use certificates even fairly large certificates because they they are conservative they want to use some existing infrastructure they have a CIA infrastructure they want to reuse of course it would be more efficient to strip off all sorts of things but there are lots of strings attached also operationally that you need to suddenly change and then people are not doing those going that step and so it sounds like oh we really need to do something otherwise we go back to Mike Ritz pincers here our example but I don\u0027t think that that\u0027s the reality though so my answer is that the companies that we are working on are completely into the approach we are pushing and I cannot name because I\u0027m I can I do not represent these companies but I guess this is just another side of the mind metal just moment I completely agree that we have to have implementations of this and that we have to look for for production quality implementation so counting the number of open-source implementations this is interesting but it\u0027s not the only indicator we need there\u0027s one thing that I would like to point out here TLS doesn\u0027t currently do what we need to do we need an adapter to TLS to make it to what we need and I would expect doing this adapter is about the same amount of work amount of engineering as doing an hog in the first place the adapter is "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:34:19",
    "text": "called key extractor has been around for a long time and if like try to implement it then you see yourself on how how much work that is and it has been used key extractor has been used for example DTLS SRTP because there has the same model has been followed but I\u0027m still waiting to see for people to blow deploy or score first and then see how that how that plays up Kaplan Moriarty area director so thank you very much for your work on this and proving out the message size differences because that was one of the things that you were asked in previous conversations I don\u0027t like how much the work had been held up by this prerequisite that\u0027s not normally applied to other work being done however you did this work so thank you I do think that there is enough room in the billions of devices in IOT for another solution that fits different architectural constraints and device constraints so I would personally like to see this work go forward in terms of security proofing I agree with what Michael said I do think there is room and if you know certain vendors don\u0027t need this because their devices adequately can handle TLS and existing solutions that\u0027s great but I think there may be spaces where this is very important for other architectural decisions so I would like to see this continue if the working group is willing to work on it and there\u0027s there\u0027s plenty of time to figure out what are the architectural architectural constraints for decisions and any other considerations and there\u0027s plenty of time to figure out security proofing as well thanks thanks we should move on to the next presentation okay all right okay so this is a very short presentation it\u0027s basically trying to scope what we have done related to the ACE framework and asking the question how are we going to progress that work so today we\u0027ve already spoken about the ACE framework the DTLS or score profile and the keying the last three drafts and there are two more of a framework dependent protocols it\u0027s the ipsec profile and the mqtt profile and the authors are here if you\u0027re interested in those drafts the basic questions that I\u0027d like to hand over to the chairs to take over the discussion I just want to introduce the the things I think we could think about "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:37:20",
    "text": "in completing the work in the ACE framework and previously we said we should wait with progressing ace framework until we have developed profiles and tested it and that was the already discussion previously whether we are ready for moving on or whether we need to wait profiling drop testing there is also the aspect of security analysis there is a publication or a conference contribution looking specifically at ace I don\u0027t know if there is a paper yet but there is a link to the presentation maybe there are other security analyses that are made or need to be made in this area and and there is also not the other issue which I mentioned previously but I didn\u0027t hear any any response on that\u0027s the client authorization aspects which is not very detailed in in the ACE framework and finally what I should do this working group work with this set of documents are we going to scope for a particular set of targeted adopted drafts which we complete and then stop the work or are we remain are we open for introducing new profiles that\u0027s it yeah go ahead sites on the last point short-term memory last point I would very much be in favor of not limiting us to the two existing profiles we have adopted right now because that\u0027s not the idea we had when we designed this whole thing as a framework and then profiles because yeah you could do now you could use it a lesson no score and that covers some use cases but as Kathleen so eloquently said there are billions of devices with different use cases and especially when talking to industry contacts I have heard MQTT mentioned a lot in the IOT space so that is a profile I definitely think we should work on and publish/subscribe feels pretty relevant in that context as well and there is publish/subscribe working core which is basically the group we\u0027re catering for so I guess there is a number of things I would really like to see moving forward and I think they\u0027re relevant for the industry because the industry does use mqtt for example and there are use cases with publish/subscribe that i\u0027ve seen in real deployments so I think we shouldn\u0027t limit us to what we\u0027ve adopted adopted now unless there is a formal reason why we want to close this working group down Thank You Kirsten how soon is pub start going to be done and or in court because "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:40:23",
    "text": "I think the doesn\u0027t give me a normative dependency I\u0027m sure and so there is maybe a bit of confusion here about Tom\u0027s in in the coming we have draft called pops up which shows one way how multiple nodes can cooperate with a broker to actually get a publish/subscribe like scenario going now this way of doing things is not not a prerequisite to using what is called a pops up profile here because the pops up profile really is about getting the the authentication in place for a group and the group may actually be structured in a completely different way that the way the group is mapped to to respirators may be done in a different way and we have that we can use multicast for that so I wouldn\u0027t say the the pops up document is a prerequisite for for the work here to lead to a useful result now back to your question I think there are a lot of people who want to finish this work and the reason why might be maybe it has been slow for a while it started out as a direct reaction to and qtt so there are various broker based protocols in using the IOT including AMQP but lots of people think imputed here somehow important so we want to just to write down to show how to solve the same problem using existing coil primitives so that\u0027s how it started as a demonstration as a proof of concept and then it kind of well we had to made our point and the interest in actually if it was I\u0027m seeing some indications that this is now picking up again and I think we will have half a year so a lot of interest in pub/sub serious transfer and and events creams and and related issues so I would expect that will happen yes okay before you sit down the other drafts that is in court it would be of interest is the multi ask or draft we this is currently an individual draft I don\u0027t know where you feel adopted it it hasn\u0027t been submitted to or hazard it "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:43:25",
    "text": "has been submitted okay it it was it was adopted and it was stuck for a while because the the solution didn\u0027t happen but apparently it has happened oh is it okay good so yes it is a working document now okay so the intent here was to have a little bit of open mic time for people to express opinions and of course we still have some more time for that a little bit did have a couple of questions that it would be good to ask the working group relating to ed Hawk specifically but I will let Kirsten talk again first okay you just said this is the time to voice opinions when we started the work that finally led to the ACE working group we had an idea of the set of problems that needed to be solved and then in Hama I think we agreed to use OAuth as one part of solving this set of problems so I think we have progressed pretty well with that and I would be in favor of completing a first version of that work to get back to the rest of the problem that we have been trying to solve so I wouldn\u0027t say that the framework document should be the only outcome of days it should not be the ACE framework to be a source framework and we should do other work to complete the requirements on an authorization and authentication that we find in the internet of things now what shape that typically takes that that depends a lot on a point of use or we will have to discuss that and maybe the the input that went into the Yokohama discussion also is a little bit dated and we have to update it but I think we are not done as a working Honus I\u0027m wondering why a couple of people are talking about done in the working group closing the work group nobody nobody suggested that in previously at least not my understanding "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:46:25",
    "text": "because the framework is not finished the profiles are not finished other documents have work in progress so I don\u0027t know what you guys are talking about here it would however going back to what custom are raised on on the goals that were set out early at the beginning I think it\u0027s always good to do a reality check after a couple of years because many things have changed you know like this is not work work in a vacuum there are lots of in the other industry efforts and what we fought a few years ago on how sort of the whole deployment would look like obviously a little bit different at this time now for example I think back then we were hoping that in the smart home environment there would be a lot of interest in deploying standardized solutions and it would be very complicated architectures came from there it turns out however that there\u0027s neither interest in a lot of standardized solutions because there lots of big players are battling around there nor has the deployment gone up in to the extent that people had been hoping for on the other hand the industrial space was more our saw more interesting development and so I think with this reflection if you look through the use cases there is a use case which have been over the AC use cases which have been published like maybe that we could do our double check on which one of those are still realistic and which one were a little bit more sort of over the top and then we can find you in the work that is going on for example there who would have thought that indeed he would still be so popular after all that the co-op work that we\u0027ve been doing you know we thought they would be dead any day now but there\u0027s still a lot lots of good marketing has been done there you know those are interesting thoughts while we have quite time at the mic line I would like to go back to Ed Hawke because we did get some very interesting numbers from the the overheads but you know just sort of a as a general prerequisite before any hums like to get a sense how many people actually read the ad hoc document just a show hands there so the number may be 15 so that\u0027s pretty good and do a hum for if you are interested in adopting the ad hoc document and then another humph or if you are not interested in adopting ad hoc so if you are interested in adopting ad hoc as a workgroup document please "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:49:26",
    "text": "hum now and if you are not interested in adopting ad hoc as a working group document please him now okay there was some moderate strengthen of support and a lot less against so that is useful feedback I\u0027d also like to take this chance to ask about ad hoc I know we\u0027ve heard that there have some business objections about how taking on the ad hoc work would be a lot of work and you know there\u0027s been people asking for things that are not Katrina your say but I\u0027d very much like to hear if there are specific technical objections to ad hoc that have not been covered already today so if you do have a technical objection to EDD Huck please come to Mike now this is Sunnyside I would be interested to see the details are posted to the list specifically since the protocols offer different features so of course they have different message sizes and I also want to point out that message size is off while it\u0027s often evening t-shirts promoted as the only sort of real measurement on on performance but there\u0027s actually other aspects as well there\u0027s fresh size there\u0027s the underlying performance so I think we should take that into account as well at the to this wake you up I think at the next meeting we talked about emu we talked about there eap-tls and you add support for that do IOT devices that connect to Wi-Fi networks and then obviously there\u0027s no co-chairing possibilities or we double the size or at least increase it substantially and so on and so on these type of things have to be taken into account as well okay yeah we happy to see the discussion on that on the list as well as the numbers themselves [Music] do you not believe the chairs have further topics on the agenda so if there is anyone who has an open mic topic would you still have 40 minutes left in the session I I will post an article published at the networking magazine to the list which unfortunately points out some of the problems that we are running into this IOT space namely there\u0027s always a lot of as you\u0027ve seen during this meeting a lot of talk on on problems with with our work on on security everyone always complains too heavy doesn\u0027t work and so on and so on "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:52:27",
    "text": "very basic when you read some of the documents and unfortunately that\u0027s also the message that gets conveyed to people who do not actively participate in the IETF but actually just follow things along read some of the documents and so they come to the conclusion that IOT security at least from an IDF standpoint is far from being a deployable and ready which is a very unfortunate message because we have done a lot of work during the last couple of years and so they they suggest to vendors and wait a little bit and let the IDF figure this out first before you actually go and deploy something I would post you one of those articles it basically portrays a slightly different picture and Michael has been mentioning beforehand so with that thanks Kathleen Moriarty area directors so I don\u0027t think we\u0027ve heard enough serious technical objections and um I I just want to confirm your next step is to put this out on the list so that we don\u0027t delay further and we look for all of that I just wanted to set in the meeting thank you I figured it was your next step yeah thank you so I I don\u0027t know how you\u0027re gonna continue this discussion has been going on for a little while we had the race of hands a year ago on ad hoc and it was fifteen hands also shown showing interest time but I just want to point out that this is not about replacing TLS this is about addressing certain use cases where we need a key exchange protocol for all score that is efficient for that type of constraint deployment so whereas this could be painted as we are going to have double stacks everywhere or we going to replace well-proven protocols that\u0027s that\u0027s not intent here we\u0027re looking at the set of use cases where a profiled protocol which does not have at all the same features as TLS is doing the key exchange providing the forward secrecy for the keys that we need so that\u0027s that\u0027s essentially the proposal all right thank you everyone for your comments and feedback if no one is jumping up to the light you\u0027re leaving okay thanks everybody we will finish have not really if you have not signed the blue sheets please come up and find the blue sheets "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:56:16",
    "text": "[Music] [Music] their tariffs are working on your America [Music] "
  }
]