[
  {
    "startTime": "00:00:56",
    "text": "okay the big hand is on the and the little hand is on the so it\u0027s time to get started while David brings up oh he\u0027s already there and this is the SCTP session Michaels going to come to talk because he likes representing the SCTP people yea mycotoxin this is about what is it NetSupport okay so this is just as a short explanation this is a version of net for a city penis nets don\u0027t support SCTP in an efficient way in the sense that anomaly net box has changed IP addresses and port numbers and you can do this for ICT P the same way you do it for TCP or UDP that\u0027s not a problem but the problem comes up when you have multihoming you have multiple paths and you have net boxes on these paths which are not synchronized so they might change the port numbers independently and that doesn\u0027t work for SCTP if you change the port number you have to recompute checksums that\u0027s also something which is pretty heavy for a CDP so this document specifies a method of doing net without changing the port numbers it uses a specific protocol specific field the verification tag as a sort of connection identifier and this is how you handle collisions that when you have an incoming packet you need to figure out which node of the private network you send the packet to if you want to see the details you can read the document there are it specified what you do what the net box does what the end point has to do they are sort of cooperating for this and there\u0027s a whole section with examples and message rows and how they net table gets filled in so that\u0027s there so what\u0027s the status of this document this is pretty old 12th release we have finally addressed our comes from Karen we got some time ago I went through the document clarified a lot of things looked at consistency figure out that we were using not the IP addresses we should use for examples and drafts I changed that there was one comment raised some time ago that this document should be split in let\u0027s say about two parts one part to be read by "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:03:58",
    "text": "implementers for net boxes one thought to be read by implementers of endpoints and I didn\u0027t do it because I realized that some of the sections are really applied to both so the packet format has to be understood by both the introduction is better at by both also the examples so I didn\u0027t do that and the the the authors consider this document finish except for gory reddit I think two days ago and provided some editorial comments I would say so he made a pretty good suggestion for increasing readability increasing consistency with documents from behave and he also suggested to not really split the documents into two parts but split specific sections into two subsections so that you have subsections which are concentrate on the end points and the other subjects subjects and dust the counterpart for the middle box this will be integrated in the next revision which will be submitted pretty soon and um basically oops that\u0027s the wrong life no mr. Chester use the tool palette next slide is there a next level reason well that\u0027s why we okay so exactly so the point is with the next revision uh-huh we add up questions yeah max impression Eriksen are you aware of any implementations of not that support the CTV hi yes they are not implementation in FreeBSD supports an earlier version of this it might not support it with a with samurai correct chunk IDs or something like this okay so as I know Linux doesn\u0027t support it or correct yeah so the reason of my question is I think it would be really good if we if you described in the document what will be working if that doesn\u0027t support HTTP and what will not be working because if you have as you said so it\u0027s pretty hard for me to describe what a network starts which does not follow the spec because if it doesn\u0027t support it completely it only I mean replaces IP addresses just to straight I peanut is that what you\u0027re saying yes okay but this is protocol I have seen different things so some just some notes just allow something like an exposed host so "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:06:59",
    "text": "where you configure all packets you don\u0027t understand send to this box that\u0027s working also for HTTP you in my testing yeah I saw some which do this but it\u0027s very hard to say something about devices which are not following us back I have no idea what they do I think the documents purpose is to describe here not implementers here\u0027s how to support their CTP and here SCTP folks here\u0027s some considerations for you as well it\u0027s not to say oh and by the way if you don\u0027t if you don\u0027t have this net support all these other things would happen that sounds more something that would come out of behave or or some other document but it would be another document I would think family this is behave - this one the document is - ascetically developers and - not developers right correct if I assert if a developer implement this document it doesn\u0027t really mean that everything will be working right and they want to understand what will not be working if not doesn\u0027t support the CTP if I if I implement this in the CTP only if you\u0027re capable of implementing SCDP and you cannot fathom the consequences of an app not doing it site I I would question the person who\u0027s able to in Kingdom SCTP between I\u0027m not sure what the question is it let me try the question and see if I understand is the question is if you implement the SCTP extensions described in the draft for not traversal and then find a nut that does if cemented the nut part yes ah okay that\u0027s a good question Michael what happens if you just implement the end host Association changes etc and then find a not old-fashioned nut it looks like a perfect thing for me so if we\u0027re not detect any I mean that the question is what happened so the net always had I even don\u0027t need to implement this stuff I can run normal setp through that and it will break the same way or not it depends on what it means that this Nats supports SCTP hoping I can help and that if the packets get through the mat then something interesting is going on because how does the NAT know which host to send the packets to the inside yeah and I think there may be Nats I mean there are mic there are nuts that there are nuts that will just map the IP address might understand the protocol but it has to it\u0027s as off I see this product because you saw one of your inside hosts initiate something on this protocol that you know nothing about maybe I should send all the packets that come from outside with that protocol begins yeah and there might be Nats that do that or there might be not things where you could configure that if pagi show up with this protocol please send "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:10:00",
    "text": "them to this lovely stuff something\u0027s here so yeah but it almost I mean this I could I\u0027m sympathetic that this almost doesn\u0027t make sense but maybe that\u0027s what you had in mind so the point is what the end point basically high level what the end point does if he supports the snap thing he avoids putting IP addresses in the SVP in the IP payload and that\u0027s a good thing also for nuts not supporting this so it is it can work to the amount of what this net implementation has done if it is that\u0027s a CDP packet through that\u0027s fine if it how it behaves in case of two notes and the private network talk to the same server I have no idea it can\u0027t make it as English normally they would use the port number for that but I have no idea if that works or not what they do I guess you could write some text in the introduction to kind of explain this if it\u0027s not already that I can arrange this only place undefined right yeah I can\u0027t define means we have a spec later here in this document that tells you what to do yep I mean I can write some kind of warnings but I can\u0027t say what will happen seems fair enough right and why are we having such a complicated conversation the answer is because we need people who understand nuts to review this document so have we got any people lined up as reviewers for this would anyone like to review it would anyone be kind of quest into reviewing it if we bribe you in some way I mean the docking will be clearer might seem like sense yes thank you - okay so we Hank it some reviewers and we will try and resurrect parts of the behave expertise from the IETF to go with that and what submit the next one and we will then give it a working group chair review and if that looks right we will intend to go to working group last call and solicit reviews perfect I suspect that\u0027s a tricky job but we will start it great okay this is about the document which has left the working group it\u0027s about RFC 4960 aurora\u0027s which means it talks about issues which have been found since RC 4960 has been published the seventh Worthen the seventh version on addresses all technical and editorial issues which were brought up by the iesg last call so the sixth version was addressed everything from the working group last call and then was the is G last call was "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:13:01",
    "text": "requested the changes include next making only giving references to the Aurora\u0027s filed in the ietf Rada system so I went through all the e Radha\u0027s which were submitted and considered which mail which one were correct they have corresponding text in this document but not the other way around so not every issue we have here is an errata being submitted to the to this errata system the references are there there are some there are some Radha\u0027s on the website which are not covered by this these are the e Radha\u0027s which are wrong or have been rejected or whatever titles were fixed some text verifications came up someone figure out that we missed something in the ICMP text and so things have been cleaned up the status of the isg evaluation is one yes that\u0027s normally the isg member who is responsible for this three times no objection no records - and abstain ate once has a disgust that is a guy who that\u0027s Eric Ries Cola who has had initially also an abstain but changed it to a disgust because of the high number of abstain so he wants I guess to discuss with Spencer this one of the Commons which were brought up was that the document is hard to read especially because the structure is you have sections each section describe an issue and says which text in the ROC gets replaced by a different text and this is sorted by the time we found the issues so whenever a new issue came up a new section was added to the end and the issue was resolved so one of the Commons was what happens is there is text which is touched multiple times so the suggestion was to add for each for each section sentence saying the text changes here are final they are not changed in sections following this one or this text is changed again in this section that\u0027s not in it right now so that will be added for a next revision and then the document is with Spencer ever so much please don\u0027t use the word final just just just just just because the final version the best document will be decided by working group consensus so "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:16:01",
    "text": "another what you are saying is yeah this this this is not further modified within that doggy not not yet clear and that would be great that would I think really help a lot of people yeah and I\u0027d be happy to what would that and then we will hand it back to Spencer and I think Spencer knows the right thing to do okay okay and that concludes that however there is the notion of a bits document are you planning to open this document after this meeting now you have this more or less resolved after these changes yep so the plan was until this morning to submit our a 0-0 version of the base document being identical to the RFC version so that we have all the changes in the tracker we figure out that the RFC was processed in an Roth so we submitted XML the ROC editor changed to an Roth and that\u0027s the reason why some of the tables went wrong so we will see if we can really do this or if we separate so the plan is something like use the end of stuff to submit the old one with all the mistakes then do a one changing the tool chain and then applying all the changes in one revision so that we have an oh twos I guess which is good stuff the pan you suggest is fine with the chairs please submit a working group zero zero version if you need help constructing that zero zero version I suggest you go to the RFC editor and see if they can help you with a few tools and goodies to to resurrect so women submit a 0-0 version as working group document indeed that\u0027s what you\u0027re being asked to do thank you but tell us us chest just before you do it so we can set the approve flood okay thank you Joe I wonder if you are there remotely so we\u0027ve been trying to synchronize with joy I don\u0027t think we\u0027ve done many remote presentations at TS vwg but and if Joe\u0027s online is John Jabba no okay I\u0027m happy to try and impersonate job but I think I think he said he would be here so let\u0027s just pump the presentation later I\u0027m try polling Joe again and so we\u0027ll skip this one and we\u0027ll come back to it before the end of the meeting so next one Bob go for us yeah and twenty minutes I think "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:19:02",
    "text": "we\u0027re up to Ford Ranch now that\u0027s five minutes draught right next or have I got a yeah it probably works a recap this is the general architecture this picture and the motivation for l4s is extremely low queuing delay for all internet traffic eventually and certainly all applications already one to two orders better than state of the art about average 500 microcell versus 5 to 15 milliseconds at best with state-of-the-art active queue management or you know hundreds of milliseconds they\u0027ve buffer boat and the architecture is essentially a new congestion control based on that they density CP at the host and being able to separate out in the network low latency from other traffic in such a way that the bandwidth is shared as if it were just one queue but the latency is isolated so essentially that\u0027s it\u0027s all about making sure that TCP classic TCP is separated out and hopefully will fade away over decades hopefully would fade away more quickly but it won\u0027t ok I I won\u0027t go into any more detail on that and to say there\u0027s a network part a host part protocol in between based on the ecn field for the two to know what which packets are which right so drafts I\u0027m going to talk about or this is an outline of the whole talk drafts I\u0027m going to talk about today not going to talk about the architecture which is stable and hasn\u0027t changed there\u0027s two other working group drafts one on the identifiers the easier not I don\u0027t find the easy Enfield\u0027s ECT one code point I\u0027m going to talk about one particular addition to that which is a condition for when you can use that code point and it\u0027s related to rack which is probably surprising to many people and we will come on to that in in the chill Q draft again there\u0027s a number of changes in each of these draft I\u0027m sort of picking out one in each that\u0027s the major technical change and and in that one it\u0027s we\u0027re getting towards the corner cases in that one and this is handling unexpected them packets in the queue which I sure will talk about briefly and then there\u0027s a draft that\u0027s not a "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:22:03",
    "text": "working group draft currently you had it on the chairs introduction as new but it\u0027s actually it was new last time I presented that last time some are you protecting presenting updates this time but I will try and give an outline of it as well for those that missed it last time and then longer give a couple of slides on just a general status of the l4s a sort of state of the nation on on LS and end up with next steps so identifying the modified EC and semantics using the ECT one code point this the main change is within this draft we have what a court would have some parochially called the tcp prog requirements I don\u0027t think we yeah we do mention that term in that there but it\u0027s not just for TCP s for all transports and they\u0027re essentially requirements that the congestion control must satisfy in order to have the right to use this code point to send into the network essentially what it means is that this code point then says this congestion control of this transport is acting in a scalable way and it won\u0027t cause a queue and so on so it\u0027s entitled to go into that very low latency queue and we\u0027ve added a fifth requirement which seems like it\u0027s nothing to do with any of the others so I\u0027ve got to explain that and that\u0027s what the next few slides do I won\u0027t go into the other four requirements not enough time but the fifth requirement paraphrasing this isn\u0027t the wording in the in the text it says a scalable congestion control must detect loss by counting in units of time not in units of packets now this is like the way TCP rack works and it\u0027s not like the way TTP\u0027s old 3do Packer all worked seems like TTP Iraqis take being picked up very fast if you don\u0027t know what teach me RAC is it\u0027s about detecting loss in units of time not packets and I\u0027ll come on to that on the next slide but the reason why this is important for l4s is that it then means that link technologies that support help for us can know that all senders sending packets into this queue into their queue in the network they can look at this ECT one Co point and they know that means you support detecting loss by time and it means you can relax your resequencing and reordering your requirements in the network and that means you can remove head-of-line blocking if you\u0027re doing things like link binary transmissions so I\u0027m going to explain all this but that\u0027s "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:25:04",
    "text": "that\u0027s the overview so quick background on RAC loss normally is only at the transport at the intern layer you can\u0027t actually know there was a loss in the network you can only deem that you think there might have been a loss because packets are arriving and there\u0027s been a hole because the packet might arrive later now classic TCP uses a three new Peck or all TTP rack uses a fraction of the round-trip time term the reordering window so arms a timer when the next packet arrives after the gap and then if after that time back in hasn\u0027t appeared it it deems it lost I\u0027ve called that epsilon although it\u0027s not called that in there they\u0027re draft because you can\u0027t write that in S key but it\u0027s certainly what mathematicians think of as a small fraction now there\u0027s a trade-off over the value of that that fraction if you have a larger fraction Epsilon you get less spurious retransmissions that\u0027s before the acts of those packets arrive you\u0027ve done a retransmission and then you discover you shouldn\u0027t have done however of course it will take longer to repair genuine losses where longer is one plus epsilon times the round-trip time because it always takes a round-trip time at least to repair a loss because you\u0027ve got to discover it and then you\u0027ve gotta wait this extra Epsilon so you don\u0027t want to pile on to be too long otherwise your losses take too long to repair but you don\u0027t want to be too short otherwise you do too many read transmissions and waste bandwidth so RAC adapts that reordering window it starts small so that short flows get losses repaired quickly but then it goes to longer later okay so all the details are in the right draft but that\u0027s Rach in a nutshell so what are the benefits of rack two links and that\u0027s why we\u0027re saying this month is a must for l4s because they turn out their benefits for the applications and the end systems right so as well as the benefits at layer 4 which are already articulated in the right draft it gives you performance improvements at the link layer and I\u0027m going to try and explain it like this if you imagine that I\u0027m showing two flows here one going slowly one going fast so there\u0027s 12 packets per round-trip time is that one with the long packets so there\u0027s 12 packets in that round trip length and then it\u0027s either on some faster link or at some future date things are getting faster you\u0027re sending more packets 96 packets in this round-trip time just as an example so 8 "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:28:04",
    "text": "times faster now if you have to keep packets in order on that link within three you know you mustn\u0027t reorder in greater than three packets because otherwise TCP will fire consider there\u0027s being a loss in the fire a retransmission when the packets are going slowly you\u0027ve got 6 milliseconds you know that you\u0027ve got 3:12 of that round-trip time when the Packers are going fast you know eight times faster yeah one-eighth of the time and as things get fast and faster you\u0027ve got to keep ordering within microseconds and then nanoseconds as things get faster in this case 750 microseconds now you might think well why does that matter because if they come in in order they\u0027ll go out in order and the faster they go they\u0027ll still be in order but it\u0027s because most links in order to get faster parallelized they they use multiple channels I mean particularly over radio links and then put it back together again afterwards and so the the tighter you make that timing of the the of the re resequencing after parallelization that the tighter the clocks have to be everything is much more difficult to make fast so it would be really useful if this thing scaled in such a way that as everything gets faster you\u0027ve still got the same amount of time rather than the time getting squeezed and squeezed as things get faster now so that\u0027s the first reason Cory do you want to jump in here yeah yeah it\u0027s about RAC is it I\u0027ll finish the right bit and then yeah so then there\u0027s a second benefit of RAC to links and that is if you\u0027ve got a lossy link like a radio link with the three duplicate acryl you quite often have a link layer retransmission going on to heal the the radio losses and then you have a resequencing buffer at the receiver end of the link so if there\u0027s a retransmit link layer retransmission going on so you\u0027ve got a hole in you\u0027ve set some link layer sequence numbers you\u0027ve got a hole in that sequence you hold the packets behind that hole until you do the repair and then the you let the whole buffer go out once you\u0027ve repaired it notice that delays everything and in particular it delays all the packets you\u0027re holding which may not even be for the same flow because this is a link level or it may not be for the same stream you know if it\u0027s quick or something like that and it\u0027s very difficult to know whether they are or not so you\u0027re you\u0027ve got your head of line "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:31:04",
    "text": "blocking and so with making this rule that you have a certain amount of time in which reordering is allowed it means that that resetting buffer can actually just be removed completely you just forward stuff as you get it if there\u0027s any holes you do the retransmission you know afterwards lazily that comes that retransmission comes out and once it you\u0027ve eventually got the packet through you you send it off out of order but you\u0027ve got plenty of time to do it I mean not plenty of time you don\u0027t you don\u0027t you know now we\u0027re talking of sub-millisecond maybe or millisecond or so but it\u0027s um at least it\u0027s not getting smaller over time it scales in other it weight it scales all to one right and finally Gori um one more on this so why are we making this a must in in to use ECT one a scalable congestion oh must not to take loss in units of packets while we disallowing this completely and it\u0027s because unless you disallow it completely you can\u0027t get the benefit of it because you\u0027ve still got to support all the flows that might not be doing it and so when you\u0027ve got a mix of rack and three do pack tcp in the classic queue you won\u0027t be able to get any benefits in the link layer for maybe twenty thirty years until everything has has sort of gone out of the system all the old 3do pack stuff has gone over the system but if we start afresh with this alpha rescue and say no only do time based then we can make get those benefits immediately you\u0027ve got about five minutes okay so Cory fire has just two comments first one is I don\u0027t believe the 30 years thing because you can do and some queueing differences in that other classic queue if you wanted to mmm how do you know which one\u0027s Iraq and which ones aren\u0027t I said I don\u0027t believe the 30 years right and the second thing just as a working group chair Comet and when you said why the other must have a must not the working group as a whole has to buy in to this as being the way for because it has implications it means RTP based protocols as currently written will not work maybe not well we have to figure out what might work what might not and as a working group we need to listen to Bob and decide to embrace this yeah I\u0027m not as the case may be yes if we don\u0027t embrace it I think that the phantosaur I should have said that\u0027s why I\u0027m I\u0027m talking about this because it\u0027s a cross layer issue you know it\u0027s it\u0027s it\u0027s important the question doesn\u0027t the RAC also react to the first three they\u0027re reordering before it yes it does I try to be careful as a rack like but "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:34:04",
    "text": "I\u0027m so so so rack hat starts off means that reordering means you can still react to it it says it must not detect loss in units of packets means that you\u0027ve got to use time right from the start whereas rack uses the 3G back rule from the start but I had a session with you Chung before he went went back and he\u0027s now understood that he\u0027s got to try and put that end units of time it I mean it\u0027s not so important for TCP that as it is for this case but if he doesn\u0027t over TCP then it will be 30 years you know it will be 40 years or 50 years because we still haven\u0027t got rid of that problem there because it\u0027s actually the fastest way to detect it if you don\u0027t have no step I thought he had that rule there because it was very hard to detect the loss quickly enough otherwise so yeah once you start to detect me ordering it it changes its because you haven\u0027t got many packets in the first round trip time and so it\u0027s very difficult to know what time to set so it\u0027s gonna be difficult please we\u0027re going to try and work it out let\u0027s leave it at that for now yeah so yeah stop you\u0027ve got a problem because Joe\u0027s waiting remotely all right he needs to take his time slot so you don\u0027t have enough time for the slides you\u0027ve got okay do you want to use your last five minutes okay I will skip the dual cue stuff and say could could we have comments on the new text there\u0027s a whole new section in there about these unexpected cases so could we have comments on the list about that I\u0027ll get straight to I\u0027ll skip this and say simply that we\u0027ve updated the diffserv draft and the main purpose of this draft was to introduce the idea of using expedited forwarding in the dual queue as well as the ecn for for um what you might call non queue building traffic that is not responsive things like DNS or sort of game sync packet stuff like that so that\u0027s the main reason for this draft and I\u0027m thinking from feedback I\u0027ve heard from David that maybe all the other stuff in this draft could be could be either die or be separated out or something cuz it seems I wasn\u0027t particularly interested in all the other stuff I thought it was what David one means right and that very said he\u0027s not interested in it so good so there\u0027s a couple of status updates on l4s and I just want to pick out one thing on this and that is the implementation at the bottom there in NS 3 is complete but still evolving will be "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:37:04",
    "text": "released August 18 that slip from the last time I said it and it\u0027s it\u0027s validated by comparing with the original l4s experiments which are on the left and essentially very similar results the ones on the Left were for a DSL link ones on the right are on an Ethernet link but essentially it shows that the Alfre the offerors implementation in both must have been that all the experiments must be invalid because they both give the same result which is good and there\u0027s a number of draft updates we\u0027ve heard about most of these we\u0027ve heard about quick ecn we\u0027ve heard about everything I wanted to get please just the last slide which is next steps so how how many people from the working group involve comments on the drafts that\u0027s what I want to get to the next steps yeah can you do the last slide Yeah right so it\u0027s I can\u0027t say unfortunately there\u0027s a group of people working on it and so when I do all the updates to the draft I\u0027m acting as editor on their behalf so it looks like I\u0027m the only one doing it but that situation is going to change I believe very soon and very soon means within weeks the so that\u0027s what I\u0027m saying we should now be able to leave the holding pattern and indeed want to leave the holding pattern and so I would I\u0027m going to tidy up piecemeal changes but now I like to start getting reviews of the whole thing and I should I shall be getting them the people who have been working on it to give reviews and I\u0027m encouraging them to put it on the on the on the list I have realized that I will now try and try and get them to give the comments they\u0027re giving to me directly to the list right which is please do that visibility on why and how would be hugely useful to the working group to understand what\u0027s going on it\u0027s the first document stabilizes yeah and you need to come to are you going to come to Bangkok yes excellent please figure out what you need to present though and talk to as well ahead of time yep the guys would be happy to figure that out with you yeah and I\u0027ll have a word with David about the diffserv one unclear service review as here Europe for that one okay yeah okay Joe right there I see his name "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:40:06",
    "text": "up there but he has to come into this the speaker\u0027s cue or something Joe you Joe you need to request to speak well he is in presenter mode press the red button nope nothing yeah he\u0027s he\u0027s here up in maybe Joe you can enter this queue anyway and we can get you that way in the room or whoever is in Java can write me take oh okay alright should we go to the last presentation and then come back this when I first saw us taking this chart of it okay can somewhere in the Java room tell Joe to put me Tekel on the in the Java and see if they can even help okay all right oh wait we\u0027re ready hello no not thanks all right let\u0027s do I\u0027d be curious and come back this and see you see if it gets fixed so I want to say a little bit about why up about why this draft is here I ain\u0027t Jeff has an interesting experience in trying to do resource reservation protocol RSVP has wound up being used only as a traffic engineering protocol NSS has failed beta failure and anybody trying again with either those protocol designs is going to run into all kinds of interesting and not particularly nice path diversity issues this is an idea "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:43:06",
    "text": "for how to build a reservation protocol that starting surrounding different plates and with that introduce a young Jennifer explain thanks for the introduction hello everyone my name is MJ so this is a resource reservation protocol in ipv6 the original draft was written in six-man and presented in ITF 100 so what this is a rewritten of the orange no one thanks to the ETS vwg chairs we address a lot of comments we have received and they strapped we focus more on the resource reservation part so what we are trying to do we want to have a new reservation protocol in ipv6 through in-band signaling using ipv6 extension header the design principles we have we wanted to be backward compatible which means you know it can co-exist with regular traffic the service we are providing here is meant to be used by applications who have the bandwidth hype and this low latency requirement it\u0027s now to be it\u0027s not meant to be used by our packet of flows and right now we are targeting for only when service domain so how it works we\u0027re using ipv6 extension headers if you look at your network it doesn\u0027t need to you don\u0027t need to config this header or the header doesn\u0027t need to be professed a purse S pay every single router along the path you only need to have it the resource reservation on the router where the congestion might happen your network choking points so what we do when we get the extension headers we make the duration the queuing reservation is processed by the NP you now tu casa mi signaling we wanted to be distributed Li processed and that\u0027s how we achieve better stability we have different granulite granularities for flows the fine finest we can do is really flow level that\u0027s like the five different tuples you can use to figure out what the flow is and when we also have transfer level pretty much different protocols the kernel kind of level that\u0027s based on the South destination address and we also have the "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:46:07",
    "text": "different serve level that\u0027s like packet the flow are defined by different DHCP values so on stability and performance issues and this so far I think that\u0027s their comments we got the most and this is a classic question in all these kind of proposals so even for in-band signaling to to on cue s to resolve the u.s. issue is not it was it has been proposed before and it failed because of most cases because I was developing issue on the way we are doing it now we use distributed processing because of modern hardware we have the MPO that has the capability to do this kind of processing so that makes it different from before whatever what we couldn\u0027t do before may be possible now so we want to try this again so um just we have an example here see so we have an example here this is a really large number stability let\u0027s say if we\u0027re the largest part right now it\u0027s like 400 and that has one and Hugh and we let\u0027s assume like maybe half of the bandhas to have a racist reservation so that\u0027s pretty much that\u0027s 200 gig and let\u0027s assume proof low we have proof low level reservation then prefer one flow inside a hundred Mac then we will need 2000 cues for this my interface and currently the the modern hardware can do this it can provide more than 2000 kills and if we look at reality with Yura hell for real applications like network based AR we are the bandwidth requirement is larger than a hundred Mac and we have less number of flows so that means in reality the stability issue is not eyes were sets the example I have here so um as I see you soon the SCP as an example so they said it shows how the classic these diffserv works you will have multi usually we have this you know this is an example so we have this term is reserved for a certain and the SCP value then the queuing is sort of you know you have the same configuration or even differently it\u0027s still prevent config and every router so no matter what your flow is like here you have this this two flows for this the SCP value and later on this outer you have more flows but you still "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:49:08",
    "text": "have the same queuing capacity but with the new proposal the queuing and scheduling a dynamically change based on the number of flows you have in this DHCP class um the use cases for this one because we are really providing the burn waste a high bandwidth guaranteed low latency service so we have used cases internet I\u0027m not going to go to to talk about a lot of details about this one so basically we can use this to interconnect PSN network and though we have different ways to make actions but that\u0027s more like a shouting question instead of resource reservation question we can also use it in the question technology has trying to work out so just to make sure you you have guaranteed resources so in summary we are just proposing a new resource reservation protocol in ipv6 through in band signaling we are Chan because of modern hardware we see this as a new opportunity and we this draft we have it as an information-based so we want to see whether we can open a new door you have couple questions of the last slide please and the XE no the last slide the XE what item says it will publish this back in August is that still the spot I sorry the XE work item appears to say you\u0027re going to publish the spec in August is that still the plan from from XE yes okay and is that open to change control by the idea or is that just an a document that\u0027s going to be published by acts independently I suppose you said I\u0027d see independently okay and it\u0027s not doctor made available to the IETF to account it\u0027s public information you can hello I see it we can get a copy of that okay and what happens in the XE group when this finishes is that C progressing further stands in the ng P group or is this at the end of this particular specification there I think we\u0027ll see the comments we collect from ATF so this tool are related and also sort of independent of each other so it doesn\u0027t necessarily mean the how to be identical sure and it\u0027s just just to clear the ground so we know exactly and what happens if an ITF document emerges from this now we can take some questions from the floor hi Kyle LaRose I admit I haven\u0027t read the draft so I might have missed something here you mentioned that there\u0027s a big assumption that the number of flows involved it\u0027s fairly small relatively speaking because you\u0027re assuming it\u0027s "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:52:08",
    "text": "you know very high bandwidth flows what happens if a misconfigured device just spews out a bunch of small flows with a request for guaranteed resources is there any are there any protections discussed to prevent that from happening yes we do have some basic mechanism to to authentication so um you have to pass that to in order to make a recess reservation and the amp you can do this thanks I could be authentic but numerous okay I mean RSVP had a block blocking capability so under load it could push back yeah I think you need back not just authentication anyway I\u0027m sorry Bob Brisco that wasn\u0027t my point right I would like to see in this draft I read the first version I haven\u0027t read the second I\u0027d like to see much more time spent on understanding why this didn\u0027t happen before rather than just assuming its scalability because I don\u0027t think it was and even if it was there were other reasons so we have a very rich heritage in the IETF st2 onwards with RSVP in its various forms and Ensis and goodness knows what else where we try to do things and technology has changed as you as you explained and that is an important thing for us to consider but we can\u0027t forget all the stuff yeah like I said in by signaling itself is not new even just in bicycling fork us has been proposed before so yeah but the question the problem is this kind of signaling has to be processed at almost line speed and that has to be you don\u0027t want it to end on time can you listen please you need to look at all the reasons not just scalability let me give you one all right the the I I was heavily involved in the PCM work to make RSVP scalable for instance right and we deployed in the company I was working for at the time British Telecom and we deployed a reservation system for cars for use by ISPs not for end-users for their large you know content providers all the rest of it it was used quite heavily for about ten years and then it was taken out because it had never once said no well I was extremely expensive and it never said no if you know all the pitfalls for this kind of solution we were very happy to learn it no no no it wasn\u0027t a pitfall it just wasn\u0027t necessary "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:55:08",
    "text": "because had grown to the point where all the use cases for it could be catered for and so what we think of as a large amount of bandwidth now by the time you get this through standards and implemented you will have so much bandwidth for the things you think a large at the moment they will be tiny and that\u0027s the problem talk about no Bob so it\u0027s just something that you probably have to talk about offline yes but there are other reasons as well and the the RSVP RFC that says applicability you know what went wrong with it is only some of them and it really pays to look you know do a survey people like many people who have history in this there are lots of us we\u0027ve all been burned by it and just try and find all the reasons because it\u0027s not just scalability so this one is not only about the history so reservation so it also has queuing and scheduling yeah well so did RSVP yes to try to reduce latency yes I guess there are so many different queuing mcadams people are trying to use and we are doing the same ICP insists it they all had a service for low latency guaranteed delivery under under a certain level yeah okay and okay and let\u0027s take Fred\u0027s comment and then we move over to job so I\u0027m basically thinking about directly responding to Bob\u0027s question which was what what was the issues with the previous time this was proposed it was proposed by Larry Roberts who you may remember was the program manager that originally funded the ARPANET and he was starting a new company and the algorithm was specific to his company and that was kind of a big deal people didn\u0027t like that idea he was proposed in the internet draft in August of 2005 to my knowledge it never made it to discussion in a working group I seem to remember giving you some agenda time which Jeffro being shocked sometime but that\u0027s as far as he got yeah so I it was using the hop-by-hop header which at the time almost invariably meant bypassed two main CPU and basically a system design thing it just wasn\u0027t going to happen there were many people with not only no but kinds of comets and and to my knowledge it was never discussed okay so there are people here who might be good to talk to to try and explain and really what can be done "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:58:12",
    "text": "with new technology yes because things do advance or rather the opportunities that you think exist existed previously but somehow didn\u0027t mature and I think you have to do that homework and figure it out yeah exactly that\u0027s do that I want to our homework do our research and we just want to see whether we can get some open a new door to build a new technology thank you thank you and two things that might help in the ight contacts are if you get multiple equipment vendors to actually talk to you and agree on something that would be huge I mean even if it\u0027s just kind of the whole idea because individual companies coming to do this I\u0027m not so well received here in general because we\u0027re talking about interoperability yeah sure we\u0027ll look for collaborators and we\u0027ll also do some research see other vendors hardware whether they can do the same kind of thing one question would this be a better topic for congestion control research I don\u0027t know because because I don\u0027t quite know what this is yet because if it\u0027s a new signaling protocol yes right now this looks like a reservation protocol there was some related congestion control ideas that would have gone to ICC RJ I think they ran out of time I think they ran out of time in London I at least had viewed this as a reservation protocol as opposed and not not a congestion control management protocol I\u0027m sorry if you\u0027re not trying to manage congestion why are you doing the reservation because you\u0027re trying to manage a service that has resources that are debt that are dedicated to it in a fashion the service uses it and the service you use use thereof enables it to avoid enables it to avoid - to avoid congestion we have a suggestion control chart on this topic I was presenting last IETF so but let\u0027s see if we get Joe up here what a nice try can you hear me hear me about whoa hello Joe we we are so glad to hear you okay am i coming through dokgo I won\u0027t speak okay this is summary of the state of UDP options next slide please okay so a bunch of items were updated I really appreciate everybody\u0027s input into this document and it was a way to find "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:01:13",
    "text": "all these bugs I\u0027ll try my best in the last pass to catch most of them the ACS calculation was buggy and it should be fixed at this point it\u0027s it\u0027s on the payload only and it zero has no special meaning the frag options been clarified as well in terms of that the UDP checksum is based on the Datagram and the pseudo header upon fragmentation and reassembly and all that the lights been clarified as well in the case when the right area is less than 4 bytes everything just slides forward and we correct the description of UDP light we augmented the list of required options reordered them I apologize if that affects people implementing things but at some point anybody wants to be interoperable \u0027ti to just use the latest version and pick the right numbers in there start work there\u0027s a reason we\u0027re trying to say that ok everything that\u0027s below a certain number is required white means is either and that\u0027s because if you don\u0027t put light there then light + flag doesn\u0027t work anymore MSS uses is used for PLP MTU D that\u0027s Cory\u0027s draft frag is very important for DNS sex so all those are included right now we don\u0027t include time and the reason for that is the time itself may not be available as much as it\u0027s you know encouraged for even TCP there\u0027s no requirement that nodes actually know what time it is when they do anything time a day perhaps so we\u0027re not sure how to include that or whether to include that as a required next slide and please don\u0027t take that list as as gospel the draft that\u0027s the best way to get everything okay there were some other puzzles that were discussed on the mailing list it many times and so Tom Jones here just on the the hosts not having time available and while they might not have a view of real time they\u0027ve been quite a few changes for TTP x times recently in Linux and FreeBSD to disconnect them from a notion of real time and randomize the start point and so if hosts have a notion of and an increasing clock sure that they can use the time option well look into that we can the one of the one of the other reasons is that we don\u0027t want to put a requirement inside UDP that will put a mandate for something in some sense outside UDP and it\u0027s unlikely somebody would implement a clock just inside UDP so if the system itself doesn\u0027t have a monotonically non-decreasing value somewhere to expect that it\u0027s part of "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:04:13",
    "text": "the protocol might might or may not make sense and so that\u0027s our and I just clarify so the the requirement for the option is that the host can parse the option and not let the host can send the option and so a host being able to to echo the the ECR value doesn\u0027t require that they have to carry on TS file themselves to require to support the options have to be possible in the broad sense that there\u0027s a generic format for any option that\u0027s the kind in length except with the with a small number of exceptions that are already fixed at the time of the definition of this spec and so uh new options are always possible in the broad sense of knowing whether to skip over them or not whether or not to participate in the option that\u0027s a question so we have to go through that to make sure if that\u0027s possible like I said I I don\u0027t if we think that\u0027s something we want to add but I want to be careful about making or it a hard requirement because even in TCP as far as I can tell it\u0027s not a hard requirement that you have that count it\u0027s it\u0027s it\u0027s recommended but it\u0027s if you don\u0027t support it you don\u0027t support it so I want it to be able to be the case that you have a system that is in an Internet of Things device it doesn\u0027t have to have a counter somewhere just trying to keep TCP as lightweight as possible okay so on the next slide other proposals having to do with the TLV time type length value for all options versus using a fixed header plus until the extensions thing is that the deal the the the fixed header will not avoid the need to parse things the only way we can avoid the parsing things is to get rid of light or very light in the pics header otherwise you have to parse the header to find out of lights there because light will reorder things and if light reorders things that changes where your check sums are and everything else so I don\u0027t see a way around having endpoints have to what the header which is pretty much what has to happen in TCP for TC for extensions as well and keep in mind this option area for TCP or UDP is supposed to be like the TCP options in that sense one of the questions have to do with whether making OCS mandatory and first at most it seems like a byte and it would be more work to move frag plus light because now that\u0027s four bytes and all of a sudden it would be six and I\u0027m just not sure that\u0027s a win and if you make it mandatory then we also have to handle the case where it\u0027s zero because just you know maybe people don\u0027t want to use the option that you used to checksum right now it\u0027s optional so I have not seen a convincing case for putting that in as mandatory the EO l versus option length field the length "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:07:14",
    "text": "field doesn\u0027t avoid parsing again because again the light could require reordering before computation on things and the length cost two bytes more whereas the EOL in most cases packets will not have any oil at all the EO l is only there if for some reason we find a way or find a need to have space beyond the option that is not covered by the options okay and it\u0027s there largely frankly to be corollary to the way TCP works more than anything else I didn\u0027t have a specific reason for putting it in there the osseous size with the checksum of the head this option field itself the question is whether it should be 8 bits or 16 bits I understand that if it\u0027s you know if it\u0027s 16 bits there\u0027s less false positives less false negatives of things it\u0027s exactly the same algorithm either way except for about two codes at the end - folding over and deal with the carry but otherwise it\u0027s the same algorithms it\u0027s IP checksum via checksum and then you either stay there or you fold it over and stick it in there if you fold it over there\u0027s a possibility that you won\u0027t find an error when an error did exist or we might not have this fault have this detection that would happen if other people happen to be using this area for something that isn\u0027t the option area but over over time a given stream of UDP packets it\u0027s gonna trip up either way so I don\u0027t think that that size issue is a big deal I think it\u0027s more useful to just make whatever field we pick aligned with whatever light length we want it to be and pick one so I\u0027d like to hear from other people on the list I\u0027ve heard from a few people on the list about most of these things I\u0027d like to hear from new people on the list about all these other proposal issues right now in the last slide the to-do items I know that I have to put in more detail from RFC 73 23 because the way UDP uses time and the way TCP uses time are not exactly the same and we want to have it be clear what it is the question is is requests defined as reply equals 0 so if I send the fee and if I send that that option and there\u0027s a request and a reply in the same option and reply is zero does that mean a request or do we need to send do we need to have two different options for this I\u0027m hoping we can do this with one option and sort of flip things around like that should we sacrifice a bit in the header in this time that\u0027s you know in the the high order bit and have that mean please reply so that both sides can be nonzero or can we set our TS value to zero to say don\u0027t respond I don\u0027t know the details of this I want to work that out "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:10:15",
    "text": "I think Corey\u0027s more involved in this than anybody else so we want to get the details to this right hi Joe sorry Tom again from the floor and to Joe Cory made a very severe face of me when you said that and I think you\u0027re you\u0027re you\u0027re misrepresenting this ideas something of his no no let me back up this isn\u0027t his idea he wants to use it I thought so you know that he\u0027s working on and if I got that wrong I\u0027ll correct it but I thought this was something you were using it story at the mic we need a way of sending a segment through the network as a probe for the PLP MT UD draft it\u0027s got a D at the front so so this is this draft needs a way of getting a response I don\u0027t know that we want to time stuck there doing this we want a a request response way of doing this and and that\u0027s kind of what we\u0027re using quick so this is kind of what we\u0027re wanting from from no we don\u0027t want to use it to myself as an identifier and particularly we would like to use another identifier as that identifier like we\u0027re going to using quick so wait we have an identifier we want to send but it\u0027s not necessarily a time stop it\u0027s reflected on the other end isn\u0027t that equivalent to the identify an innate and identifier for the for the frame no it\u0027s not the same thing and we wanted something that was kind of like more I\u0027m known by the sender and not known by people off path whereas time stamps I think I known by people off paths okay Joe so the the the problem with with time stamps is that they can be coalesced by the host and so you can reduce the time stamp space time to your most recent time stamp and that\u0027s where you get echoed with the probe mechanism we\u0027ve suggested you\u0027re always getting response that is tied to a request and then we can we can use a more dynamic token there\u0027s something that has to monotonically increase for this space we want a mechanism for sending heartbeats and for sending probes so we can see of our traffic is working on the network and a separate mechanism for doing our TTS the mission that we get with the time step these are these are very importantly two different things okay we\u0027ll talk about what needs to happen but what I\u0027d like to do is to hopefully find a way to have one field even if "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:13:20",
    "text": "it\u0027s one one option for time stamp and one option for these probe values I\u0027d like to avoid a request option and a response option is really what it boils down to so what\u0027s the intention of avoiding a requesting a response option Joe and because we can\u0027t spare two options if you\u0027re using it on a regular basis it wastes a lot of space waste so much space it\u0027s okay because path MTU discovery doesn\u0027t isn\u0027t used on the regular basis so this is cool for us I mean we\u0027re talking about one problem every 10 Artie T\u0027s when we\u0027re busy yeah and it\u0027s always valuable so it\u0027s always kind of the most important thing that we need to just gonna promote the path to drive the algorithm okay thank you and again the question of the OCS checksum sighs whether it should be one byte or two really what we\u0027re checking for is not really in transit errors frankly we\u0027re really checking for whether somebody is using this space for something else and yeah that\u0027s why I don\u0027t personally think it matters that much whether it\u0027s one bite or two I don\u0027t think we need something very very very robust it really for all intents and purposes is you know make sure if you write that rationale clearly in the draft because at least Mike my reflux and never other people\u0027s reflux is is looking for looking for strength strength against in-flight bit flips no that\u0027s not what we\u0027re after here that needs to be that needs to be clear it\u0027s going here I\u0027m going to put my aha moment and suggest that we talk offline maybe we can go through some of these issues with us and anyone else who\u0027s interested and it\u0027s a little after the end of the session close there\u0027s not that many people here in the working group at the moment so if you if you want to make some final comments that will be fine if anybody else has anything burning that they want to Joel that would be okay but the audio is not working brilliantly either at long yeah no other comment from here brilliant is anybody else in the room got any comments apologies for the various hiccups have happened with getting things working this meeting and "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:16:20",
    "text": "but we at the front have enjoyed it and hope you also have had a profitable IETF here thank you Joe for your remote presentation thank you everybody here please use the list we have lots of things to talk about see people in Bangkok "
  }
]