[
  {
    "startTime": "00:00:54",
    "text": "Oh [Music] areas yeah I think I\u0027ll do all the talking this one floods yeah does anybody want to be the jabber scribe thank you yo anybody want to take minutes it\u0027s really easy really really really easy I\u0027ll give you a cough drop I\u0027ll give you to cough drops seriously we can\u0027t proceed DJ all right Melinda thank you anyone who goes to certificate transparency now as to volunteer to take minutes that\u0027s you know there are the stickers this time do they need to lose you yes I mean it one hour what take all my cough drops it like to be kinda easy if you just download the PDF or something and add annotations to it because we are going to we\u0027re going to try to go really quickly so that everyone can get to the github off which I think it really doesn\u0027t alright the blue sheets are going around there on that side of the room that\u0027s them over by now you have all seen the note well at least three times oh my now yeah okay there we go now i\u0027m using the mic i am rich this is daniel 60 so you\u0027ve all seen to know well basically it says if you\u0027ve got any IP r you must have disclosed that you\u0027ve got the IPR otherwise please leave the link okay all right Daniel did this bang-up job of coming up with a slide template to discuss all of the drafts so without further ado most of this meeting is probably going to be asking for people to commit to reading the drafts there in a couple cases help Shepherd a document through their short they\u0027re very "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:03:55",
    "text": "straightforward they\u0027re easily separable there\u0027s not a lot of relationships among all of them it\u0027s not like you have to send in understand all of HTTP before you can understand h2 so okay so um this drop I think this dress is one of our priority we have discussions about assigning your IDs so we took a decision which is requesting the ini ark and putting this whole idea to under this arc there has been some discussions about pre hash this is non pre ash signature I think the consensus is that we should use we are only defining the draft for non pre hash version variant so I guess want to comment that I think that that also should be said for all the drive if we should say that clearly it\u0027s it\u0027s a basically a design choice and yeah there is a awesome identifier for the pre hash variant so well if we are only focused on the non pre hash then probably we should remove this next like I think there are two slides on this dress okay so the next step alrighty values update diversion and we need some reviewers so that this week or next week we can send that to the iesg so I never launched here no you care about Sam ok we\u0027ll take me to the list I don\u0027t want to do it without at least one up from first have you read it I guess what so it\u0027s it\u0027s really good shape ok Tammy yeah all right girl CMS yes do you want to go to this one or yeah this is any discussion no no no no you\u0027re changing the oids to the I a narc on republish I "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:06:58",
    "text": "think we will maybe remove everything about the pre hash variant other there are the Oh IDs the algorithm identifier in the beginning and should we have some comment about the CR else also to some of the discussions we had that Sam the three think I see God now you have you a question have we decided that we\u0027re replacing the IEDs that are in the current draft with other royalties they so that we\u0027ll have to go into the eyepiece like a need for after about Ed BSA because it references this one okay yeah yeah what\u0027s on the story summer here with you okay so the reason we asked for is that CMS was needed needed to register so mo IDs and we couldn\u0027t get the contact information from the current ID used by curdle so we did not receive answers we move to an INR we had a short arc donated by symantec in the contact person Oh otherwise I can find okay so all right um should we post a draft probably pretty quickly and then we are ok and then we\u0027ll forward it out though yo yo yo just sync up with the ipsec box okay okay so um edss signatures so nothing really much to say we one person is we only had one reviewer so it\u0027s pretty shaped but a well if possible we would like to have another reviewer so anyone volunteering how could somebody devil for this is open yeah I\u0027ll get someone okay so next slide um this one is well has more reviews I don\u0027t think we need really another reviewer any questions regarding this draft next draft yeah they\u0027re all in Lascaux so all those um so this draft yeah it\u0027s about to use of share too um yeah I think we "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:09:59",
    "text": "it\u0027s it\u0027s almost the same we well we would need more reviews especially I think it\u0027s more the way to graph is written but it\u0027s pretty good it\u0027s pretty well shaped and almost ready it\u0027s a very short drat i think less than 10 pages so people coming later are going to be a sinus reviewers wow yeah so again if you can\u0027t could provide some feedback Saunders I mean review choose one or two drafts review them and then we can look forward why don\u0027t you get no cookies at the next idea oh come on yeah yeah this drafty well is also pretty much ready some changes have been submitted to the least he has been considering various implementations so I don\u0027t think it\u0027s very clear but it would be better to have some other feedbacks other reviews it\u0027s mostly to see if the text is clear rather than a contact I mean so that\u0027s pretty easy to go yeah it is already widely deployed discussion bullet says and it points up um yeah this one\u0027s so okay yeah I get very confused with the name of the draft so this one is adding a new gfield new key exchange algorithms based on the new other kernels the curves yeah it\u0027s only adding a one point or two so please say you agree with a draft and so we can move that forward next slide and if you have any questions on each of these dress or issues you want to give you read it right and this is you want to bring up step up to the mic and we will back up no problem just trying to set a speed record here we\u0027ll look the curb don\u0027t just one question about SSH in general what happens if you put with the existing applications or app that are out there if you have nests SH key for an algorithm that isn\u0027t understood did the widely used versions of ssh do something sensible or do they fall over "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:13:00",
    "text": "and die has anybody looked into it I use a key or a host key usually as so I think like the widely used in Satan plantations we\u0027ll look at a whole bunch of files in your daughter\u0027s age directory to try and find something that they can they can use no they\u0027re just carry on for the next thing yeah until it hits the air account it says too many failures but yes it does a reasonable thing okay well this one is also adding two point codes so smart on this one too no 20 okay it\u0027s a good les hommes this one named adding named eh groups specific ones I\u0027m curious I\u0027m curious what TLS folks think about it since we sort of have kind of dropped those I mean sorry this is microphone hi and we\u0027re kind of like moving towards the different set of groups in this some little surprised you\u0027re not adding the ones that we spent the trouble standardizing but you know not for us to tell you what to do rather than you should do what we did so I think this is more about capturing what\u0027s in the deployed base then moving forward I think that\u0027s a valid concern though and should probably be reflected in security considerations section this is dkg sorry I actually haven\u0027t read this at all but I\u0027m assuming these are finite field routes that here that\u0027s fine I actually don\u0027t think that you should say use the same groups that we specified for 40 of us although I do think we should have specific specified groups so i\u0027m not sure why ecker recommended that you use the exact same groups that we did it\u0027s fine to have two different protocols use different sets of groups as long as they\u0027re strong primes usual usual constraints out of 90 google so if this is just documenting existing reality than that that\u0027s great and should be done oh why wouldn\u0027t you just want to use the same groups just less text just to to provide mean the rules for generating groups that are strong are not complicated like we understand those and so you might want to not use them across domains if there\u0027s some weird something gets cross domain that we don\u0027t understand there\u0027s a bunch of situation with cross domain attacks because you\u0027re using a similar protocol and things hook together "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:16:00",
    "text": "it turns out that something TLS looks like something an association can be reused I don\u0027t see that here but I don\u0027t know and if you avoid using the same groups you can avoid that problem if Greta these are the same groups as I them then now you die you\u0027re just the question is I vs SSH so I\u0027m totally fine with using one set of groups for one protocol to avoid any possible cross protocol condemning a condition that I don\u0027t understand I\u0027m not going to have a specific answer oh I don\u0027t know I I didn\u0027t find that hugely convincing but the my organ was purely like it\u0027s less typing and that\u0027s not great either sir all right we\u0027ll try to encourage discussion on the list and maybe pollute I can TLS also I don\u0027t think I those groups has any equities here like you know we may have some overall ITF question what we should do but it\u0027s not like jealous cares what I mean other than as a general matter of principle cares what I safe does um anything that me adam says these are just this is just you know this is just endorsing stuff however pure to do that great if we\u0027re on acceptable at least if I if if we\u0027re picking new groups that we nobody use it we want them to use weepers I ask why but second I would say like there are these other group structure we that we were happy about there are q9 sunseeker and these are the groups that are usually naik and IP second they have been there for all time over and they are venerated in same way that the one certainty Eleazar created except they are using pi and the Taylor\u0027s using me yata care but ever they\u0027re getting ready I have the same base so actually either one is fine it\u0027s just you know which you think is both of them are used already all the donors that we know best right already so it\u0027s just picky one so the second half of the phrases and running code so that would argue for the ike okay I it might be a little premature for last call who solicit some discussion on the list it might be a bike shed anybody else anybody else have any other issues drafts potential work they want to discuss well we we have um well when the CMS draft and the peak eggs draft will be sent will we have a receipt of requests to for a GSS update and so that\u0027s going to be the next coming draft before we close yeah that\u0027s "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:19:03",
    "text": "right so that was off mic there before we close Russ so I\u0027m sorry I was late did we talk about draft p kicks and did we settle on absent null or both um if not I\u0027d like the darker added since we\u0027re all here so nope rehash all that I understood that was better than that yeah no let\u0027s explain the issue we did not talk about it we did not talk well it\u0027s Jim here yeah yeah so the asn.1 structure allowed the when you\u0027re the parameters field in 1997 when they converted from the 1988 syntax to the newer asn.1 syntax some editor dropped the word optional in algorithm identifier and as a result a bunch of people were forced to specify null as a parameter when none was needed and then they had it optional back in the next release and so there is some some code that doesn\u0027t remember that or does not yet know hear that optional is there and they insist on some parameter and so I prefer to not do that but get people update their code and the bottom line is that we have one place in that document where there\u0027s a discussion on the list about whether it\u0027s optional order null and the big point that i have dated benjamin made and I agree with him was pick one don\u0027t make it you know accept either one because then you end up that\u0027s where the interoperability promos come am i right Jim mirrors did I okay thanks but I\u0027m that would be easier if other people can support that view yes underneath that\u0027s why i love stark warrior I don\u0027t 90 google I strongly support that for you I don\u0027t give a hoot what which one it is if this group doesn\u0027t pick one then we will pick one and we will break everyone else who picks every anything else and and therefore i will pick it so i suggest you pick it so on the one hand you\u0027d be like well the existing deployed base expect something on the other hand the existing deployed base is going to need changes to support these curves anyway so let\u0027s just do the clean right thing Jim the document right now has picked one which is dark yes it matters because Java the standard Java provider can\u0027t deal with it a pamphlet and okay "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:22:06",
    "text": "right I think they\u0027re so document okay I think you\u0027re also a lot of other algorithms that are actually using saying that you must not have you know you first let\u0027s have now they\u0027re so if they don\u0027t support that they don\u0027t to portos sequence all girls either so I think the chiverses need to fix it their stuff fun I\u0027m not sure how to phrase the question without annoying people but um then yeah well okay so yeah absent break some Java in both so how many want to support those hum absence or brick city okay all right so it\u0027s absent simplest cleanest break some java none no no i hated this one s when sequel had the problem too right no you carry an explicit I\u0027m not here and then both so how many people are in favor of supporting both how many people are in favor having no there\u0027s an explicit I\u0027m not here how many people are in favor of having no indicator when there is no option that\u0027s a pretty clear consensus will confirm it on the list yeah right yes I got to know not and Jim do you have to make any doc changes to do that I yeah that\u0027s called a straight line yeah all right great okay I think yes right surprise okay anybody else anybody else have any other business they want to bring up yes okay all right there is a last question about the use of PSS and/or PKS s 11.5 so for I think it\u0027s a RSA it is sh yeah so I can find the draft name some crew the colonel Arthur you get shot good one yeah yeah so one question is do we have a we would like storing to move to PSS "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:25:07",
    "text": "given that well PK CSS is kind of we can\u0027t avoid that one so do we want to add a PSS or is it a bad idea to have these two variants personal preference shoot 1.5 in the head just like what like TLS 13 did jump um try you have mirror hitter Goodman on the list said that there\u0027s actually no weakness that we know of with PK SI s 1 point 5 so it might as well stay with that it\u0027s true that it\u0027s that it\u0027s easier to make proofs about PSS but there\u0027s no weakness why I add some new stuff when we already have because he s 1 point 5 not my arguments pretty good yeah there are given I think they were soon attack but if you have a very short you know expert if you enjoy whispering tree or something like that there was some type of 1.5 that was more vulnerable to something than PSS yeah but I mean I mean if you are saying that there\u0027s nothing for 1.5 there dearies yeah yeah but I mean I mean yeah then I\u0027d basically also actually just moved a basic was using 1.5 old also and now in the bin which defied the Liberator to sleep in search we actually only departed you know to say that the PSS system under the soup to speak on which of course causes you know issues because people actually have to implement it when take them into signature algorithm they can\u0027t just make a very simple you know oh we have the same or sequences up tickle giggle sickness algorithms and we just change the format they actually have to implement VSS also but I think it actually would be better to move the PSS Adam Langley Google PSS would be nice but isn\u0027t the world moving away from RSA as a whole and so is it really worth the time to worry about this steaming pile and sorry make up the context wrong but we\u0027re talking about this for Shi yeah you have anybody implementing in the room but then we shouldn\u0027t decide um you know I\u0027ve near jenin opposing you then because of TLS 1.2 me epigraphic librarian the world is going to implement PSS now so might as well use it wherever we have where we have a need for signature algorithms does anybody have any strong feelings one way or the other yeah okay well we\u0027ll take it to the list and the inclinations to say let\u0027s not add something that may not be widely used right as okay thank any questions all right yeah thanks for "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:28:13",
    "text": "coming um we\u0027ll probably wrap up at the next IETF everything will just be in the last call next class next idea for probably that\u0027s certainly the last face to face unless somebody comes up with a whole bunch of new drafts and mechanisms thank you all for your participation see you later alligator all right so with two follow-ups on the list well free p p pcs versus already a PSS what do we do exactly because it\u0027s already on the list yeah some people if you haven\u0027t signed the blue shade yeah well we\u0027ll just call consensus again obviously yeah no no no they just a chorus decided that you can gas injection okay all right i\u0027ll say what is the book about you hey so they they will do physics i guess was a dds a sign optigan second one is probably not a tasty tape hair pills I need to give an ash politics in DNS big or JP eventual did you use to the man that\u0027s chair right that\u0027s what\u0027s male takes us yeah I don\u0027t think it right that\u0027s fine happen okay sorry it\u0027s right on hey sir maybe you can ask our breasts yeah what about exercise yeah as long as little yeah it rasta yeah oh sorry so do you want to send email sure the actual parameters and signature oh yeah so do we send an email alert unless you subsequent sort of in there with ya sayin you know from the consistency so you read it yeah I think Jim should be so anti guard because otherwise we will have to the "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:31:15",
    "text": "various people will the visual of it around the problem was I needed three more right and they were silent so I am "
  }
]