[
  {
    "startTime": "00:00:06",
    "text": "hello Marco can you hear me hi Addie can you hear me yes we can okay great so I think we go wait a couple of minutes before it start in case that some more people will join one question can you see my I have opened the notes can you see clicking the button in MCO Noe taking tool can you see it hi samita hiess yes I can now and I can hear you thank you for"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:02:27",
    "text": "samita you may have some audio issues because we cannot hear you oh I I I haven't can you hear me now ah yeah okay so you were unmuted but we couldn't hear anything yeah I was muted before thanks hello everyone yes so it's turned out to be a bit last minute scheding because the upcoming summer vacations impact the people's availability so we might have a bit smaller crowd than usual yeah okay we proceed to start welcome to the iot director ITF pre meeting report pre meeting um so the draft agenda um we are going to have a reminder of the iot director reviews then overview of the ITF RTF iot groups and then mention new plan activities in case that exist and if someone can provide the update in other"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:04:02",
    "text": "sdos that will be great comments on the agenda okay please add your name in the attendance list uh so a reminder about the iot directory reviews that we mentioned as well last time um we have sometimes comments from reviewers that they are not expert on the topic but we just kind to request anyway to do the review with your best uh of your knowledge and I think that if you are within us into the iot directorate we think that you can provide um very good comments so please uh take the review in case that um you are assigned then uh about the overview of ITF and RTF groups six LW Carles hello everyone six L will meet in Vancouver uh we currently have five working documents in different stages um in the RFC edq there's the IPv6 NE Discovery multical multicast address listen a registration then um the other the next document is pathware semantic addressing follow power and ly networks for this document we received an early review from the general area the authors prod used the latest version of the draft after that then um we also have the transmission of she compress package over 15.4 networks shik is the main product of the lp1 working group now called shik working group and the plan for this draft is to produce uh a new version before the cutof date which should align with the latest additions in the shik architecture draft and by the way these updates have been discussed couple of times in the shic working group interims then there's also"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:06:00",
    "text": "the IPv6 and the prefix registration for which we received early reviews from interior and the general area and finally we have a recently adopted working group document which is entitled transmission of IPv6 package over short range Optical Wireless Communications and uh there's also a plan to update this draft uh before the cutof date to add optional support of shik Heather compression great thank you very much carless comments or questions okay we proceed to the following working group a nadan team someone could provide some comments on this okay for anima Shen Turles are not present so someone can provide some comments on these okay SDF Michael and yes H know yeah so for for ASDF I guess Michael Nicholas are here I mean the big thing for ASDF was that it was rechartered uh just uh just recently and now they are on on new whole bunch of new um agenda items and my Milestones uh both for extending SDF the main specification for for further details and New Uses but then also this uh nipy work uh non IP Gateway work that we be looking at how that in works with the SDF so that's the main main new things for ASDF great thank you very much Ari c bar Christian yes"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:08:01",
    "text": "yeah I didn't see that this was empty there's a a number of of documents in various stages of the pipeline including one that completed a second ITF last call yesterday and and should be published as an RC very soon um so there's actually 12 slide deck uh in in the previous uh uh to last interim meeting that describes all these documents so I'm not going to try to summarize all of these uh but uh we we do have a a pretty busy schedule and we also are looking at uh some applications for instance uh at concise way to uh send DNS data uh that that is more compact than than what RFC 2035 uh provides um so yeah that this is an interesting working group right thank you very much Caron do you want to proceed with I leave that to Marco my pleasure uh hi everyone this is Marco uh in the past months we've published the information RFC 9423 essentially defining a very much wished and needed uh Ayana registry for coordinating the use of Target attributes that we were missing and we have two documents with the RFC editor one of which in all 48 for which the authors provided uh their Consolidated reply yesterday and thanks to the authors and C them for coordinating uh that phase um the other document with the RFC editor is still in the first uh edit step um also a proposed standard uh among the other working group documents uh there's a few one that have passed at"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:10:00",
    "text": "least one working group us call uh two are waiting for shepher right up uh two completed uh first working group plus call and are waiting for a resolution from uh some reviewers uh and or uh the shepherd uh for the followup uh sheer right up to come and you are expected to have um a second working gr plus call meaning one of the documents from the cor comp cluster and the document uh href on constr resource identifiers and the last last month's work has been mostly on what remains of the corc um documents uh the HF document I already mentioned and also on the I think we missed Marco or I got disconnected I think my audio got disconnected but you haven't Miss missed much I hope um so I was the recent activities include work on the corcon documents uh still to complete the HF document on constru resource identifiers and DNS over Co-op that is uh marching toward uh working group plus call I think and has generated u a set of smaller ancillary um documents to to have the uh butter included package delivered uh but there's also work on on topics related to the security protocol oscore for updating the material and related identifiers and its use as proxies and we have accelerated also on on progressing what is um still an individual submission document for providing Corrections and clarifications on the original Coop specification and this is really Hands-On and driven um by issues and PRS to to fix those on the GitHub and we have recently had also presentations and discussions on on possible new topic on Co-op over the bandle protocol in in space thanks caros for that"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:12:00",
    "text": "uh we keep this tradition of having regular inter meetings alternating with design te meetings mostly on hre and coral we'll meet in Vancouver for a 2our session and after the extended vacation season end of August we plan also to resume uh with the same pattern again uh that's all from my side thank you thank you very much Marco some comments or question for cour or CBO okay thank you co I think we don't have ialo Matthew or Michael so someone wants to provide some feedback on this okay detnet Janos hi everyone uh I have provided update to the Viki so practically speaking I will be reading it out it's easier if you take a look to see the RFC numbers and so on uh we have been uh progressing our work uh I think I quite good progress a number of rfcs published this year uh and these are the list since since March ITF uh we have two the first two rfcs uh about the data plan extensions uh so we have the base datet data plan IP and NLS and U the first RFC RFC 9566 is adds or explains uh it's an informational r and it explains how to use the existing rfc's in order to have the service protection the packet replication and elimination and ordering functions over the IP uh data plane as well practically speaking it it uses just an additional encapsulation the mpls over UDP IP encapsulation and it this describes the details how to do that and the next one is RFC uh 9551 uh one is is the packet ordering"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:14:01",
    "text": "function so we in in in our original set of uh data plan rfcs we've been talking about ordering function and we actually got comments during that uh sort of package that it would be good to go provide some specifics and this RSC fills in the Gap uh uh to that extent and um as for OEM operations administrations maintenance we have three documents uh the OEM framework was published earlier this year before March and uh this one RFC 9546 is uh uh the extensions or the details for the MLS data plane and uh uh you can see in the next group the IP version like the ipom is with the RFC editor we are waiting for it its publication and there is one more with the RFC uh the death net Yang it's been uh taking quite quite a while I I consider this as a part of our first first package of rscs to complete the the management uh part uh and we also have a publication requested uh uh for the road Technologies so that document was developed in the roow working group before it was folded into the that networking group and it's now just waiting for we had the shepherd right up uh uh and uh we are just waiting for uh moving moving it on so it's ready to uh go to the final ITF review and the publication hopefully and um there are two more documents I I called heading to working group last call which are major documents the first one is the controler plane framework this was still part of our first package in the sense that giving"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:16:00",
    "text": "some uh hints about the control airplane and it's it's been sitting a while it's done actually and uh from chair's perspective we will be proposing uh actually we asked the aors to make updates uh fix some needs and uh and we will be proposing to go to working group last call and the other one in this list is the uh oh it's sorry it's row Technologies again it should be the row architecture it's a wrong link uh the row architecture uh was mainly done in the in the row working grp but we still uh working on it uh adding some uh improving consistency let's put it this way from my perspective and uh there was a a bit of an update for the previous ITF uh we are working on uh um some corresponding updates for this coming ITF and my personal suggestion is to go to another we had one working group last call to have a sort of a serious review by the working group both working groups it was for both but given given the quite some updates uh the plan is to have another working group last hopefully soon so this is the the the progress of uh the work we have been doing so far and there is one new document adopted by the working group uh it is called the the data plane taxonomy and uh this is in relation to the number of datet queing proposals and we have been uh uh trying to evaluate them against the scaling requirements which is also a working R document it was adopted last year and uh trying to figure out uh which ones uh to select for for the working group and this taxonomy draft has been developed uh to facilitate uh that work it's a"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:18:00",
    "text": "recent adoption I expect discussions in the coming ITF on it actually the what is going on now is uh we discussed at the last ITF that a couple of example topologies would be nice to have for the evaluation and that's discussion is going on on the list now so I I expect this uh aspects to be discussed at the coming it that's it in a nsh from my side great very complete thank you very much Jos comments or questions okay thank you uh iot Ops we don't have Alex or Hank so someone can provide some input okay for Lake we don't have malissa or stepen someone can provide some input okay rats we don't have Nancy oret someone will provide some input okay so for r h we will not meet on the next ITF but still we are going to have an inter meeted we plan for September we have out R and out projection been in the isg what admitted ATD in working with last call and we will close soon H we will need to close the open issues in jeub and update the write up then enrollment priority is next for working group last call and we have working progress moex n extensions and R capabilities comments or questions okay chi I think car mention something yes so as a quick update uh shik has been carrying out by weekly in"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:20:02",
    "text": "meetings and I think the main the main contribution has been the the updating the Chic architecture draft which is currently at 02 and as a result of that uh it will impact on other documents like the existing six low draft on using Chic over 15.4 then uh there have been other topics discussed like uh a draft currently focused on Zero Energy devices which is a term that uh comes from a background of 3gpp specifications but uh now there's a discussion about whether perhaps the the draft can also have a bigger scope like uh focusing more uh not only on low energy devices but also on scenarios where there are disruptions and also uh it has been uh there has been some discussion about shik for I pv6 and also about using or developing some forward error correction mechanism basically for the fragmentation part of shik excellent thank you very much Carl comments or questions okay scheme we don't have Aron or Nancy someone can provide some input the same for skit we don't have Hanes John someone could provide some input okay sweet David we don't have David someone could provide some input okay for tip we don't have TI or nany someone will provide some input okay for the RTF we have got a feedback from coin from Mari Jose"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:22:00",
    "text": "um but well the use case the draft have been moved to the RFC editor and there has not been a lot of activities in the list and there is an update for gos and Milestones and they're not going to meet in Vancouver things to see Rich group ADI so there been a fair amount of activity on things in RG recently um first of all we had a face Toof face meeting um first time for quite some time uh it was in Paris on May 21st and was collocated with this hackathon on light with iot security um the interim itself was focused on iot security implementation operation system aspects we had a pretty good participation something around 30 participants most of them on site and some some online uh we actually had such a pack agenda that we had a very soon another follow-up interim um with with the Overflow items from the first meeting and there we had more closer focus on on information data and interaction modeling uh in particular on core corn and using the young and c44 we will have a next intering meeting uh very soon uh that we will but will not be planning to meet in Vancouver face to face but we will definitely meet in in duin and probably will have some intering meetings also before dling after the summer vacations excellent thank you very much ADI comment or questions okay uh about the new plan ITF and F activities do you have an update okay and about the other sdos input do you have some other updates okay uh so I think we can close the meeting um we will post this into"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:24:02",
    "text": "the GitHub and um let you know when the video recording is uh ready thank you very much and have a nice ITF in Vancouver thank you bye bye thank you bye you bye bye bye bye thank you byebye"
  }
]
