[
  {
    "startTime": "00:00:15",
    "text": "And then I completely forgot about it. I was on vacation. I was offline. Until I got a reminder from Martin that I had questionnaire. And I was like, oh, I forgot. I was even on the list. Yeah. I it was just it was just it was just it was just it was just it was just it was just it was just it was just it was just it was just it was just it was just it was just it was just it was just it was just it was just it was just it was just it was just it was just it was just errors. Not the right time for me to make any And I, basically, after being told I couldn't do it for years. I just Can't tell me I can't give you not the smartest thing I've been missing. Yeah. Of takes a speech of working parallel to I don't think anybody can make anything on this. To be honest, first. Okay. Alright."
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:02:01",
    "text": "Alright. It's time to get started. Oh, that's the wrong window. So many windows. Okay. So welcome to the NTP Working Group. We have a pretty Short and concise agenda today. Let's see who's online. There we go. So This is the note well that you signed when you that you agree to when you register for the meeting. Everybody should be familiar with if you have any questions about what it contains, please feel free to ask HRI or our area director, Eric, A few other just sort of general administrative notes. There is a, online notes tool. It's it's, linked from one of the dots on the agenda page. So please help contribute to the minutes. We've found the fastest way for us to get minutes actually published. Is to use that tool and then So of Add things in if you think things are missed. Also, we do have a fair number of remote participants, So if you could please use the Q tool, that would be good. If you have not scanned the QR code, That's how you register your attendance at the meeting. If you're in person, obviously, if you're online, you've already logged in. So you're there. And so, The hand is the Q tool if you have missed that, but, I'm pretty sure by now, most of you have gotten into that part of it. And then finally, please be clear, concise, and respectful, and act according to the, IETF code of conduct. So with that, Our agenda for the day"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:04:02",
    "text": "We have some administrative and agenda bashing which is what we're currently doing. And then we have the list of updates including, a heck, the update from the hackathon that we did the over the weekend. And, Most of these, are pretty straightforward based on updated drafts. So With that, just to go through, document status and things that are not currently on the agenda for today. For 1st of all, the, Kronos document, is now, has been approved and is in the RFC editor queue. So, when it gets announced NRC, obviously, the the working group will be notified. But, congratulations to Neda and all of the co authors she had for all of the excellent work. And, responsiveness in getting that document through. The enterprise profile, it was updated for part of the, some of the issues that we had discussed but both Doug and I missed Eric's comments, and so we have one more round of updates to do to get that moving. So with that, that takes us back to the NTP registries draft. So we do have a a very useful. And since you sent it in, I'm going to show it so we have CTP registries draft. That, Rich has been working on. And, when you're ready, I will go Okay. So, yeah, presented last time, got some feedback, and Next stage. I forgot to do it. So So Honestly, the best policy. Any questions? So, I think this is pretty close to to being done,"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:06:02",
    "text": "It's very close to being done. There's some minor points like dash or x or, you know, on the privacy thing. And at this point, it's in a while. I don't care. So I'm just recommendations and we'll put out a new draft. A week or so after this meeting, okay, Eric, thank you. I think that there's one thing I'm tracking that I need to do for this, and that is to find, some people to act as designated experts. Right. Right. So If, people have ideas about whether or not they'd like to be designated as per or Yeah. Please contact the chairs or contact me Okay. Or Okay. Rich, whatever. So I don't know, Yeah. Guidance to the experts in there. So sure. I've been, you know, just if where I am, one of the designated experts for TLS. And if anyone wants to know what the job is, it's really simple. Like, Ayanna sends you an email saying, do you approve this and you look at it? Say yes or no? As long as there's an inter at least an imminent draft for it which usually has a guidance to experts. Yeah. It's in the top. Yeah. So so That's fine. Okay. Alright. And it's not out of shame, but a conflict on right now. No. That's what you've already, you know. So one one quick question is that you forgot Do you have a rough timescale for updating within a week both this in this week ending? Okay. Yeah. Within within 2, you know, within 2 weeks from now. Okay. Thank you. That's great. I think it's I might have picked the wrong ones. Let's see if I did. And I did. Sorry about that. So it's the other"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:08:00",
    "text": "set of slides. Here we go. Thanks. Yeah. So apologies for the opening slide and not having the working grid pile in there. I forgot on suddenly. Anyways, the hackathon, we did quite a bit of work on SPV 5 during, this hackathon Unfortunately, not that much, next slide, please. Unfortunate. That's our goal was basically, the goal that I at least went with my colleague, Thomas, I went into the week with weakened with was to get a draft sport fully integrated into, at least one NTP client's, main branch. Since we developed one that was an obvious target who target our own. We manage to do that. We also got it working with MTS. So NTS and NTP for now, at least we could we're at a point where we can demonstrate that the works. There's no real surprises there as far as we can tell. Interoperability, unfortunately, is still an open question. We're the first to implement this. So If anybody wants to implement an NTS client supporting, also NTP V5 or an NCS server also supporting NTP V5. Please do so, and please let me know. There was also some further exploration of the Rotzwein Draft by Krister Unfortunately, not much game actors that so in terms of results, what did we get well, next slide, please. So we've got, NTP device support in the NTP DRS main line, main branch, It should be in the next, release that we'd do. It'll probably stay behind the feature flag for quite a while. Because we don't want to put this on people who don't"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:10:00",
    "text": "like, to run experimental stuff. And we set up a public test server at the IP address mentioned here, it also supports NTS. If you ask it if you start a TLS session with it, it'll give you a certificate their privately signed certificates. You'll need to do a bit of trickery to get it to work, but it shouldn't be too hard. You have any questions on either of those, please let me know. The server I'm planning to keep up for their least a reminder of this week after that, we might need to look at it a little bit because it does cost us some money, and we don't have that much budget for this. There's a few minor things that we learned during the hackathon, next slide, please. So there's still some discussion to be heard about the upgrade protocol. We're, me and Marislava have been talking about on the mailing list. If you have any opinions on that, please let us know there. And for NTS, I needed some minor drafted dates there's a blue request open for that. And I also sent an email about that on the mailing list. So if any of you are interested in that, take a look at that. So that was basically about it. From me, are there is there any questions Let me know. Okay. Christopher, did you wanna talk at all about rough time, or are you No is an acceptable answer. Mushrooms, Okay. Okay. There'll be a different portion of it because be used I guess I should've Okay. Alright. Thank you."
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:12:22",
    "text": "Okay. So the next item on the agenda is the NTP V requirements. Specification, James is online. I don't know James if you wanna say anything about it. We do have an updated Drafted, I don't know how many people here read that draft. 1. No. Guess the real question let me see if James is I'm here. Oh, excellent. I I was I I away, moved away from the window and, and couldn't, moved couldn't quite see the deer. Why can't I see the queue? So Did you have anything you wanted to say, James? So, yeah, I published a new version, nearly 2 months ago. With all of the changes based off of feedback from, Mirislav and from, other contributors Sorry. I've slipped on names today. And I haven't received any feedback yet. And is this, is this the time now where I, Nad you again for working group last call. Yes. This is the time that you do that. I I see Doug has entered the queue, so we'll see if he has something to say first. Go ahead, Doug."
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:14:02",
    "text": "Are you speaking, Doug? Oh, there we go. Sorry. I was muted. You hear me now? Okay. I I did have a a few comments on it, actually. Just looked at it this morning. So I'm sorry I didn't get to that sooner. In section 45 it says, supporting mirroring algorithms must be defined or referenced. Are are there, like, standards for smearing? I I thought that was sort of all done ad hoc by a particular organization. I'm not sure if that's a requirement that can be met So, I the the the problem that we have with smearing algorithms or smearing fire scales is the now. There are some common ones of the mid, midday to midday approach. It's not the only one out that we've we've had various emails on the list about this in the past, and and the obvious one is a Bloomberg which has a completely different scale I think the requirement is is that if we're going to specify the support for smearing there should be a way the clients know what that smearing is and over time period and scale and and whatever. How we define that. That could be the part of the spec separate or or Yeah. Open to interpretation, but I think we would be foolish not have that information defined somewhere. Okay. Well, then, this This would be one of the places where the requirements and the current draft are not in agreement Yep. Another comment I had Let's see."
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:16:03",
    "text": "This is a minor one. There's a section 50 non requirements at would recommend changing the name to out of scope topics because things like may and should are technically not requirements, but they're not what you're talking about. Oh, okay. This was a little bike city. Yeah. Because it non requirements means things that are could mean things that are allowed, but that's no you're really saying, these are the things that are not going to be in the document. So they're not discussed literally. Anyways, that's just my opinion on that. Alright. Okay. Thank you. In general, I I think the the requirements is going in the right direction, and it keeps improving with each increment. So I would support it Sun. Thank you. Are there any more, Comments on the requirements document? Are there is there any discussion on whether or not this document is ready to go for a working group last call. We we got a shrug from the front row. Okay. Go ahead. Come on in. It's cozy. I I just have a a quick question about, section 5.3. It says, Mode 6 should not be supported in the core of the protocol. All caps should not"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:18:03",
    "text": "Was there, I haven't been tracking everything. Was there a discussion about whether this should be could be a must not. As opposed to I should not. Given given, you know, historically the difficulties that this is caused? Amplification text, 3 I know that this topic has caused a lot of conversation. I don't remember a discussion of whether it should be should not or must not. Do folks have any opinions? In particular, I don't know, Mary Slab, if you have an opinion on that. We we also defined a Yang management stuff, separately, So could take that as our out. Okay. That's true. Doug Yeah. I I think it would be good if there was a decision by this group on the LEAP marrying thing to decide do we want to as is suggesting this document had some kind of enumerated list of smearing algorithms, or do we wanna leave it as it is in the current draft where you can get the offset to other time scales, but it's not saying exactly how this mirroring is taking place. Take Go ahead. David here again. After the smearing stuff, I would be open to doing a draft for a spec. Defines just a few of the most common options for this. I think we have an overview of the options, that we discussed in the mailing list. We could could make a we could make as a I think we should do it as a separate document, but make a document that specify is basically the most common ways of doing this, and gives them formal identifiers for in the timescale field."
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:20:01",
    "text": "Yeah. As long as there was an Yo. Other, not not otherwise specified on this list, because we're gonna need that Then if we had a numerated list and there was a field that would that would work. The the field we already have, the enumerated list would gonna just be let's specify a few options for that field. That the big question on is which other parties would be interested in in that spec, but Well, I I think it would be useful, actually. To do to do it just the way you suggested it. In that case, I might take some time this week to make a draft Thanks David. James. But I would be happy to help with with such a draft. Remember, the draft doesn't have to be, comprehensive if there's, ion a registry for such for such things, then you just need to specify a couple to start with and let interested parties in the future who will have different time scales chip up later. Okay. So going back is there anybody, who is not ready to go to working group last call. Oh, do we do show a hands? Okay. So sorry to bring this up for those of us, for whom this will bring up some bat summaries, but Do we have enough consensus on the mode question? I think the working group last call is a good upper"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:22:00",
    "text": "to solve that. I mean, I feel like there's been a lot of discussion with Most everybody in agreement. Perhaps we haven't documented it well enough yet. We feel comfortable doing that through the last call on I don't see any problems other than that. So so James, let me let me ask you then, you feel we should do a, consensus call on the mode question first before we do the working group last call. Sorry. And you're talking about mode 6 remote monitoring. No. Because I thought for the other modes, we'd we'd already knocked that one on the head. last IETF Did we reach a consensus? I I didn't think I thought that was the one we noted that we didn't have consensus on, but and you could now I'm beginning to doubt to be honest. Alright. But I'm I meant basically all the not non all the non client server modes. So, so 1, 2, 5, 6, and 7. I'll double check with the minutes. I I know that we've discussed it I I think Like I said, I think the working group last call might be a good opportunity to identify whether or not that's we need to flesh out a little bit more. Yeah. My understanding of it was that based off of what we concluded last IETF was that They those modes were to be part of the specification but there's nothing prohibiting them from being included later by whoever really, really wants them And, and that was also feedback that was given to me by"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:24:00",
    "text": "by somebody else post IETF, I forget exactly. I think it was Doug or, how Right. I mean, it's it's basically the same thing we did with NTS. We decided to to scope that, you know, the first version of NTS down to server client only, and we never said the other mow the other traditional modes service couldn't be supported. We just said we needed contributions. To support them, and we never got those contributions. And so at this stage, I think for NTP V5, the core modes of service, your server client, and the, the other modes of service can be added, as additional options at a later but We need contributions. Yeah. Perhaps I'm, I'm stating it a little too strongly. Looking at Eric. He's got I guess I guess the thing that went through my head was, when somebody would developing an NTS b5 thing of their own or testing their own thing. Sort of like test what other people are doing and see if it works. If it works, then they'll sort of assume that that's the way it's supposed to work. Sort of irrespective of that's that's of, of text unless we're pretty pretty clear about what it is exactly we want. Is my suspicion. I mean, I I could see that you could You could do that with NTE S being I got a new sort of code base, but sort of evolving a V4 and a V5 code base, you might just try to change a few things and see if it works and and find out that somebody has left on all the other defaults as well. And so other modes just sort of app. Just practicalities of people like like, doing development by by trial and error, rather than, kinda reading with care reading carefully what the specification says. Right. I wonder if this is a more of a NTP V5 specification issue as opposed to requirements issue. That could be, yes, sir. Yeah. That's a good idea."
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:26:00",
    "text": "Alright. So, with that, we will, Somebody suggested a show a a show of hands. Do we want to do a show of hands or The problem is with our remote tools now, you need to do, I I think we, given the size of our group, I think Is there anybody opposed? No. To a last call. Sorry. Is there anybody opposed to a working group last call for the NTP V requirement document Alright. Excellent. So the next document, is the NTPV 5 protocol specification itself. Maerslov, did you have anything you wanna say about the update Yes. This new update, try to bring it closer to the requirements document Nice, Martex. Repseconds and timescales, the lip smearing stuff There is still only one. Value for It's my time scale, so please no distinction made between the different algorithms I think one of issue here is that some algorithms are configurable then This means there is an infinite number of leaps mirroring algorithms that can be implemented and I know There are different requirements"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:28:01",
    "text": "I think trying to minimize the frequency error and So depending on our requirements, you could use theedip smearing algorithm at is it takes more than one day or it could be faster I mean, a few dollars. So I don't theme, a small number of values will work for everyone. Another change was his suggestions for clients to barely clear refresh IP addresses, I think that was mentioned in the requirement document. And Yeah. And a few other and a few remaining issues like that was discussed on the mailing list with the key scouts I'm not convinced yet. I need a and we can discuss that on the mailing list. And there was another change improved handling of delay corrections from transparent clocks this was based on the work on the NTP over PTP documents. Basically, required clients to verify the corrections before applying them. So many in the middle attacks can be limited Yeah. There is this question, how should paid protocol negotiated between draft implementations that"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:30:02",
    "text": "I think that needs to be discussed as well. Okay. So there's several more contributions that are needed to flushed this document out. Do we have, I I know Could you could I ask a small favor at Mirasoft? Could you just send, like, a short email to the mailing list saying, here are the thing here are the whole you currently see. If we could pull it out of what you just said, but it it would be easier if it was in your words. Yes. Makes sense. Yeah. So I if you could send in a mail to the mailing list saying here's here's the whole remaining holes, you know, and, you know, contributions and reviews. Welcome. Looking at the but Folks in attendance, This is a good time to start reviewing this document. Has anybody you know, besides the core developers, reviewed this document yet? Yeah. I put you in the core developer case. Alright. I I did see a few newcomers come into the room. This is the kind of thing that's really to get fresh eyes on a on a document. So even if it, you know, places where you think it is missing text or doesn't have all of the specification needed. You don't need to be an expert to, review the document and say where additional contributions are needed. So with that, is there anything else on the, ntpv5protocol as Oh, Doug is in the queue. Great. Thanks, Doug. Yeah. A couple of binder things."
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:32:04",
    "text": "I think that it would be good to define root delay and root dispersion. You know, we all know what it is, but every year, there's some new IT people that could come along that are learning about it for the first time, and they would expect us to define that you know, it's it's a It's an NTP defined thing. So it should be in the latest version of NTP or a reference to some other place. So I don't know if Merislav wants to comment on that. Now I have one more Oh, I took I took it was described in the document or Do you mean the Current description is insufficient to Understand it. Well enough. For an implementation well, maybe I'll look at it and in in propose something online to you. If So it's a little incomplete. The the other thing is there is a section on NTP V5 negotiation with NTP version 4. So it was basically a discussion of backward compatibility, but there's really no discussion of versions before NTP version 4, which I think is okay, but I think it would be good to just state that that's out of school or something like Yep. Makes sense. In addition to the read this read this person. I think maybe a little more discussion on correction fields and security, you know,"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:34:00",
    "text": "things that could be done because it is a requirement that this is a secure protocol, and so maybe discussing options of having a separate security mechanism for correction fields, you know, with key management and everything, that's that's that's that's stated in the requirements or heuristic rules or something Any anyways, I think there could be a little more discussion there. May maybe I'll pick that up on the mailing list as well. Okay. Yeah. I think and there is no need to security fields because the impact is the same as put Hey. My name in the middle attacker can already doing by dealing the A message is so I think it's comparable. In the impacts hub, and I also don't see how a switch, a network switch could do this transparently while resigning message. So I don't think that's practical for a hardware implementation. And that's that's a good point, and I think that would be worth stating from firm. People that, are sort of thinking about this for the first time and maybe suggesting that some heuristic rules at the client, is this a reasonable delay? Is it seem to be continuously increasing in some kind of ramp or something that look suspicious. Control control Yeah. The latest version of the draft has some check specific for the correction. Various that they cannot be larger than The"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:36:01",
    "text": "peer delay, basically, the peer delay measured by decline. I'm not using the corrections. So if those corrections appear to be larger, then they should be ignored. Yeah. Okay. So I'll I'll I'll take a look at it again and discuss it on the telling us. Okay. Thanks. And And, again, as with the requirements, I I think this This document is going in the right direction. I think that the general structure of it that Parislava has created is the right one. Okay. So for this document, the next steps are to, address some of the issues that Marislav is going to post to the mailing list. Contributions are always welcome. And for, as many people as possible to review and and comment. And we're a little bit aways from, We're definitely a little bit away from doing a working group last call on this at this stage. I also wanna thank, both Marislav for his test implementation, and, David and and Tommy for their work on, an implementation there's anybody else that's interested in working on an implementation, that's the fastest way for us to make progress on these documents. So, This is an excellent excellent time to, get involved in that way. So anything else with the, V5 specification? Nope. Yeah. Alright. Next on the agenda is rough time. I could try to send something a bit more coherent about rough time. So rough time is well well well well It's supposed to be rough time, a way to bootstrap a clock. So if you don't have any sends the time at all. You should be able to do 7 o'clock so you can do"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:38:02",
    "text": "sorta very validated TLS certificate so that you can run DNSic. And I I sort of believe that we need some kind of way to build structured protocol. It might be possible to get this working with MTS in a secure way but rough time is a different way of doing it where you basically hard code the list of public case that you trust. So it's a different way of doing things, and I I kind of like the rough time idea. I also work a lot with come from the embedded systems part. So I like the idea of being able to have a small, like, device like this and get it a small device that might not have the resources to run TLS which is made by NTS. I'd like the idea of having a lightweight time protocol, secure time protocol for device like these. So I I see 2 really sort of useful places for something like rough time. Unfortunately, rough time right now is kind of stalled. A lot of the people who have been working time, they have other things to do, and they haven't had time for this, for some, Marcus Danzaur is doing his PhD and his he's he wants to finish that one. And but I work for Netnod Netnod as a company are very interested in time. We want to do something with this. I'm personally from the better side I'm very interested in Rafland. So We will, actually, from that note, try to spend money, actual money on getting people together in the few in the sort of next 2 months and actually start working on rough time. So if you are interested in rough time or a tropical like it. It it might be better to say, well, maybe doing it to be extension instead of or try to get it into N2B version 5 instead of a new protocol, but some I believe someone like Grafstein is needed. So if you wanna talk about this, well, you're very welcome to contact me. So I'm testifying. Just and you can find my if you Google for my last name, you can find me, or contact me through Netload."
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:40:01",
    "text": "So that's sort of cold action. Please contact me if you're interested because we want to work on this. And I also think rough time could learn a lot from the Kronos project because a lot of IDS in Kronos are applicable to rough time, and I think rough time could help Kronos. I wanted to Yeah. That's about it. Thanks. The other thing I wanted to mention is there is an updated just just just just just as very minor corrections to keep the draft alive, but there is a rough time dash 08. Draft available in the in the data tracker repository, and that is is also an excellent time for reviewing and commenting. So if you please comment on that, it would appreciate it Next, any so anything else on rough time? Alright. So next, we have the, NTP over PTP work. Maerslov, did you I don't think there were It's minimal changes, but did you wanna talk about that document and the status? Yes. There was a new version submitted, It has improved the introduction, hopefully better explaining the key differences between NTP and PTP. The big change was added support for PTP 1 step and doing transparent cocks. Is allows NTP clients to reach the same accuracy as PTP The transparent clocks modify the correction field in the PTP delay request messages containing NTP messages. And, NTP clients can use this correction to correct, measured of sudden delay. Is it re eliminating the impact of the network switches"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:42:09",
    "text": "And a new NTP extension field is required to to Return The correction of the request So the client has both the correction of the request and response, and it can Check. Takes their value before applying to the measured offset and delay limit the impact of Man, in the middle attics, I tested this 2 switches, network very well. So I think this is a nice improvement Let's see. Alright. Are there any questions or our comments on the NTP over PTP draft? Mary Slava, what do you think the, majority of this draft is. Do you have any additional changes or you know, there's still, the thing with the type of the PTP Tell me If there is an organization ID, we can use Or, how this works when we request a value for the TLME I'm not sure how this works with I triple it."
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:44:01",
    "text": "Perfect. Doug. Yeah. The there are It's possible for What is we refer to as profile specific TLVs that don't require the IEEE to be involved, and that's a think is that triply moves that The speed of tectonic plates, So it's not strictly a pro profile, but there there is already a a an organization number for the IETF that was use. I think it's it's in I I Diana has 1 and you can reference that and then you can create your own Tlv number based on that. Great. Thank you. So so you don't need the I the triple 8. So Just to, make sure I've got this correct. We get the Organizational ID for the IETF from Ayanna. Yeah. And then we add to that our own Tlv number that that is paired with the number we got from Ayanna. Yes. Okay. And and so 15 88 and I Tripoli in general are not involved at all. Yep. That's correct. And, you know, all all the like the ITU and other groups, I IEC, they evolved on this kind of thing. Okay. So, Mary Slab, do you need any more information to do that or Do you need any help? Beyond Doug has provided hook it up and ask if I'm stuck Okay. Yeah. If you if you've looked in the,"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:46:01",
    "text": "the latest version of 1588 if you should you know, just search under under TLVs and that some forget exactly where it is explains how to create a Tlv that organizations specific and I can review it, you know, if there's any question Okay. Thank you. So beyond that issue, Marisolov, how close do you think this document is to a working group last call. Yeah. With the result, I think it's ready for the last call. Okay. So For all of the working group members, this is an excellent time to review that document and send any the mailing list, please. I feel like I'm a broken record with this today. Some comment. So the last agenda item that we have, or last update we have on our work is the NTS, for PTP work, Martin, were you gonna give us an update on the status Yes. Hi, guys. Well, I have no prepared any slides for today because, it's not much news regarding NTS for PDP the current draft has no changes in content compared to the previous version. Just some polishing but acute could use this. I'm currently working on the NPS for PTP implementation. And I think I will be able to do the 1st test and it but maybe 3 months. So if all goes well, then the specification should be become an official working group draft document. So possibly at the beginning of 2024. So, currently, it's it's not much, but we are working on it. So this is to come and stay out of the yard. Okay."
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:48:03",
    "text": "So this work has been stalled a little bit that this is also an excellent time for people to review it. You were expecting a fairly a fairly substantive update at some point in the future. Right, Martin? Yes. Okay. Do you have not nailing you down, but do you have a rough time frame for when you're gonna get to that? I know you've been So finishing some other work hopefully, in the next few months, I also wanted to finish it. Of course, this was the last months, the problem was, my PhD. So it takes a lot of time So currently, I focus on this one, and and hopefully maybe in the 3 up to 6 months So this is a click common plan. SSENSE, That sounds great. Thank you. So with that, we actually have we're at the end of our agenda. Our next face to face meeting, is, in Brisbane and Australia. We are planning Hopefully, I I know that we We had some issues this time, and we didn't plan any virtual interims. Between the last meeting and this one. We do plan to have, 1 or 2 virtual interims. Between, now and March. And of Other than that, if we we haven't, DHL and I have not scheduled those yet. If you have any thoughts on specific times that we should avoid, please speak up. Other than that, I don't have anything else for today. Thank you to everybody who updated drafts and everybody else. Please please read the drafts. And with that, there's anything else, any other business from the floor? Nobody in the queue?"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:50:02",
    "text": "Alright. Everybody have a lovely day and enjoy the extra time. I have one super pedantic, forward looking westward version 5. Version of little fiber bits. What you gotta do? A couple of versions down the road."
  }
]
