[
  {
    "startTime": "00:01:42",
    "text": "[Music] [Music] okay I think we\u0027re gonna get started this is the IP second me session at IETF 100 welcome so so this session we\u0027re actually we\u0027re sharing the room with lamps so so this session will run from from now until 11:00 and then lamps will run from 11:00 to I believe noon so we\u0027ll have to end promptly we\u0027d ask you not to stay in the room and have conversations if you want to talk you know please do so out in the hall or and stay and enjoy lamps next slide please so this is the nail well you\u0027ve agreed to this as part of your registration this is just a reminder that but any anything that you say at the mic or I\u0027m any participation in the IETF does the contribution to the idea next slide please logistics I\u0027m I\u0027ve got the blue sheets around so they should be on their way we have Tommy\u0027s agreed to be a note-taker can I get a second volunteer we\u0027re taking notes and etherpad so we were just be useful to have one other person watching and helping out there any volunteers I think we can make do with the the one I\u0027ll I\u0027ll hop out where I can and then rich has offered to be our jabber scribe so thank you rich so we have a pretty full agenda today we we\u0027re gonna do some quick draft status review we have about 30 minutes for four authors to you know update us on some of the the current drafts that are that are in progress and we\u0027re gonna spend the bulk of our time today talking about our recharter next slide please any agenda bashing before we do that okay so we\u0027ve had actually a fairly productive period between now and the last IETF we\u0027ve actually had three drafts published as "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:04:43",
    "text": "RFC sr2 crypto algorithm related drafts and tcp and caps so thank you to to the authors and reviewers for all of your hard work on those drafts it\u0027s good to have those done the EDD essay draft is I believe pretty much ready to to progress we\u0027ve recently had a update publish so I think at this time we\u0027re just waiting for the ad go ahead in order to progress that that draft forward and we\u0027ve just concluded a working grab working group last call on split DNS and implicit Ivy we\u0027ve gotten some feedback on those drafts I believe that the authors are working on on resolving those comments and we may have some discussion on some outstanding issues today and then the QR work is is I think doing fairly well where we\u0027re getting pretty close on on that I think there were some recent changes in the in the the latest update so it would be great to you know to focus the group around some more review on that draft so we can get that wrapped up - I\u0027m here anything else bad ok next slide please so so next we wanted to have some discussion on our current outstanding work items so Nazi Paul oh hi Paul do you have a do you have any status on on split DNS you\u0027re welcome to come up and use this money yeah this is okay - so this Balcombe speaking and so I just submitted 0-3 yesterday that was all the comments in regards to Valerie\u0027s comments and as far as I know there\u0027s nothing else pending so it would be nice to get a few more reviews but I think we\u0027ve gone over this especially last idea if you had a big discussion about how to move forward with the format so I think it\u0027s in pretty good shape and we can move on okay there\u0027s anyone in the room have any concerns with with this draft so I think we\u0027ll do a quick you know confirmation of that on the list and if there are no concerns we\u0027ll we\u0027ll send it forward Daniel implicit IV so we received a few comments we addressed those and the current status is that using the implicit IV can Holloway is not "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:07:43",
    "text": "compatible with all the Ike extensions so what we are well the current tax is saying that we should not use it with Ike v2 so other another way to do would be to say don\u0027t use it with these extensions I assume you mean usually encrypt I person to traffic yeah so if someone would like something that is more flexible please raise this issue on the mailing list yes please okay so how about so so I would it would be nice because the this draft is all about cutting out a few bytes left and right for the IOT people it would be nice if you can actually make it work with IP - and just saying like all we found it difficulty night v - let\u0027s is not user directly - seems a shame like it seems like a defeating half of the purpose and even though the draft says like oh well it\u0027s only I guess only a few packets as many more you speed packets I think the use cases here are things like sensors and other things that actually only set up a tunnel to send one packet of data and then shut down everything again so I actually don\u0027t think that the use case is so small compared to use P so I think I would like to see it extended to also somehow cover Ike in in some super clever way through community talking after you know no chair so so I was actually think about we have a couple of other items coming with ESP and we have also have an compressed I question to stuff and I was thinking about it might be a better option to do the compressed I question to then to start saving the implicit iv9 person to do stuff because I could let\u0027s do it do have it you know the message IDs and so on and it\u0027s a little bit kicking it actually gets quite complicated so I was actually hoping we could actually get this one out and they\u0027re actually separate you know we did there is no need to play them to be in the same document even if you start working on this after after it weakens put this implicit IV for ESP first out and then we start working on like parts and that\u0027s something that we could discuss on the Reese artery and that was just a chair so for this plus I wanted that current document current draft doesn\u0027t document how to use it like we talked because the way IV is derived is it right for sequence number and extended sequence number it is not mentioned how for I quit to transform the implicitly should be derived from what we assumed at Smith\u0027s ready it is not documented so it is not appropriate encouraged form if confirmed it\u0027s not a problem - it was equity okay so so Daniel do you have a "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:10:46",
    "text": "plan on on when when you\u0027ll have comments addressed I\u0027m probably going to discuss with some people this week and published a version with the consensus I believe this week okay and then we can go for further discussions sounds good anyone here on cue our draft yes yes [Music] okay fellas Plus unlike Bruce and draft we even have slides so it\u0027s a very short presentation draft a quantum assistant like we do it\u0027s got flavor gateman cool - companies from Cisco Systems like myself from last night please and just a moment a previous draft name was draft floor while I could - I know it is draft ATF I\u0027d be second year - next please so in case you forgot what it is draft about some background so currently I protected traffic can be stored and later when quantum fully function quantum computers is available can be decrypted and as the draft proposes a short-term solution for this problem - this problem by introducing what quantum a Schottky as a tree steered into the calculation of keys and when used it protects communication from later decryption using quantum computers so next please and just quick update what has changed "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:13:46",
    "text": "from previous version well the previous version of the draft had a problem that if respond supports post quantum Bichette keys but doesn\u0027t configure isn\u0027t configured with the PPK ideas in it in the initiator is proportion so in this case the responder has no ability to continue exchange and only has to abort exchange even if using PPK is not mandatory for both so because our load is calculated it\u0027s already calculated using typically so we propose a solution to this problem that in case as initiator using be careful the initiator is not mandatory in it the initiator may provide an optional optional the load identification the load as it contains authentication data computer to without using the P key so that the responder can continue is able to continue to complete you could say if it is optional for for the responded to so pull the question yes I\u0027m not the no PPK off is certain the I can add message button is the no PBK earth notification and I can enter I cause message it\u0027s it\u0027s contain like well it contains the same information as would contain all the load but computed without using Pippa key alright sorry thanks so you you can see it as the initiator authenticate it twice once using PP key simultaneously and once without using P became the responder can select which authentication which can continue with so it is fully optional and it just allows ikc to complete in cases when some miss configuration in transition period when in complex configuration it is difficult to simultaneously update all the hosts so that all of them are using a little property became not only we became a proper configure it be picky so next please so what are another changes are the changes since the draft so we explained security considerations I produce reduce we explain security consideration sections who is three considerations one "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:16:53",
    "text": "consideration is that current draft mandates that if PPK using PPK is mandatory and four for initiator and responder doesn\u0027t support it as initiator outputs I guess a negotiation so it leaves and half-open assyrians responded that might be considered by the respondus general of service attack so for that reason we recommend that initiate a case negative result and at least doesn\u0027t try to too often to continue to to to raise stability so you can say because otherwise the respondent may think that it is under current take some measures like looking at the address end so then it is possible with another attack is a downgrade attacks it is possible if attack is complete is equipped with fully functional quantum computer and is possible to break digital signature in time it can just in this case and can eliminate the case opponent unification is an Forge digital signature so the reason the solution the our recommendation is to make epic a using mandatory in this case the attack will be detected and it\u0027s just like I said won\u0027t be established or use shared key authentication the scales attack will be detected too well and the third attack is if a token is able to each drop and injects packingtown to the network it can respond it can mimic they respond the response for either and for example well if using PPK is mandatory for initiator and the turkey is able to inject packet without PPK supports the machete will abroad the exchange before the genuine response from the response even if respondent sports prickly so we recommends that insert should wait for more responses if it receives negative responses it should wait for more responses in case take a is able to inject fortune make it before the aji name responding so unless please doesn\u0027t look so we expanded security consideration consideration section describing how typically are distributed described in using grown epic a is keys and the key on those indications of became on the syndication his situation is the case when PPK is used with now "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:19:54",
    "text": "our syndication method so it eliminates a second set of credential for initiating responder so draft in its current front requires requires that person shooter and responder have two sets of security credential and be the case and conventional credentials like certificates so we can get rid of certificates because with quantum computers useless and use PK only authentication and by using knowledge syndication method with BBK so I grew up appliques on the describe but it is not recommended and just all tweaks are disadvantages are explained so we also tweak duplicate if our mod shifting all really is by one making value zero as a reserved as it\u0027s common practice for equity registries an ex-policeman well so we think that decrement is quite immature and I think that it is almost ready for our group ask own rank or watch more reviews to catch a possible needs and knows it besides this confrontation and there is a liberal implementation pol can tell about it more and one question one Romanian question so it started for the document because we think the zeta document must be stand-up strick currently in our second year working group related written it is marked as informational so the sense that it must be discussed and probably took one should be stand up straight so well so yes I agree to be standards track the leaves and implementation implements the flavor drafts are not the least the latest revision yet but maybe we can brush it up this week and make it work so if anyone wants to do some intro testing and we have a server online to do some interrupt testing this I\u0027ll Center details of the configuration to the list so people can China and and interoperate I had one question of what one concern and and even though I\u0027m not a cryptographer and Scott is I just I would like some more feedback from cryptographers about doing to encryptions with the same information that only differs by a pea piqué and how much that could possibly open us up to an attack so if an attacker can see both the encryption with the PPK and the encryption of the auth payload without the PPK does that open any kind of attack and I\u0027m a little nervous by that because usually we try to avoid doing those things but this this might be some kind of Oracle and I\u0027m not sure if there would be an Oracle in the classical sense an Oracle and in the quantum computer a kind of sense and maybe that\u0027s something we should take up "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:22:54",
    "text": "to see frg or something to get a better idea of this is safe well I can only rely to Oh Scott opinion because he\u0027s careful not mark McFadden um I have a question in in the operational consideration first of all let me say that I\u0027m in support of this is being a standard four track document but in the operational considerations section you talk about PPK distribution and you talk about a possible way to actually do the distribution right and what I was thinking about and this actually goes to the discussion of charter later is that it seems like that operational consideration the idea that you do have a mechanism for static distribution of PPK is a is is something that ought to be also in a separate document and was your intention to say a future document would would handle how distribution was done after this was taken care of is that your intention well I didn\u0027t know really a separation consideration was written just to help to help operators think of how we can switch to using PP case so I\u0027m not sure it should be in a different document because the solution well first of all it\u0027s a short-term solution so of documents we are waiting for a fully functional post quantum key exchange method from cryptography so it\u0027s certain solution for it is Luke it\u0027s understood understood I guess I\u0027d say to the chairs that when we come to the point are we actually talking about chartering again I may bring this up again because I think that in I think the operational consideration sections is excellent but I think that particular example the distribution issue ought to be something that might be a focus of another document thank you I think it\u0027s important that note that that that is something that we\u0027ve talked about before and we intentionally left that that discussion out of this draft to get it done sooner than later anything else okay I believe Paul bring up the question about whether or not sending both the the the I caught with the PPK without bpk would be a buffle oracle the answer is no if you have "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:25:55",
    "text": "someone compute or was able to break everything well he can basically anything as in the the the the non PB chaos already entirely therefore that if he\u0027ll fucking be on because this is god I think we\u0027re gonna need you to repeat the last thing that you said they\u0027re breaking up okay I\u0027ll try attack we assume an attacker has a point of computer you can break they can recover diffie-hellman they know everything that\u0027s all everything else which goes standard are and so you can basically reconstruct that entirely so he doesn\u0027t actually need that absent within packet and therefore it is that is of no help for recovering to be which is actually and the other the the standard the one with us with the PB kentley did that come out clear I Scott this ball um yes it came out clear I\u0027ll just maybe repeat it because this microphone seems or better Scott is saying if you have a quantum computer you can you can basically attacked it if you Helmand get all the components of the I cough classic payload and the fact that only the PPK is different doesn\u0027t help you determining the PPK after if you got both calculations so we were just silent because we were like we don\u0027t understand this we are not cryptographers so I I think it might be useful to do a quick hum on the informational verses standards track issue before we do so are there any concerns with with making this document standards track one of the things that the by its information on is that when you put a new draft there it\u0027s always an information until we changed it to standard track usually yeah I think actually the document default is an informational so that\u0027s why people always put an informational first but I yes I think it should be a standard track because this is something that is modifying it you know I can actually would next question do we actually want it to be updating Semin 296 is basic "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:28:56",
    "text": "version to government that\u0027s the next question but let\u0027s start with the information I understand our track okay so Paul speaking so since this is a band-aid that we need to why as soon as possible doing it informational seems to like counterproductive and it should really be status tracking okay so uh so the question for the hum is should we should we promote this document to be a standards track yes or no so for yes please hum and now okay I think that\u0027s pretty clear consensus around standards track and what was the question so the next question is that do we actually because this is actually something that is vague in most of the IETF principles we have sometimes update the base document and sometimes we don\u0027t depending on what we do in some cases there are actually had been confusions with this update or not and I think it currently already had one document that updates sub-base I conversion - that\u0027s a signature authentication product I think this belongs in the same category that it should be updating even if this is optional but it\u0027s something that they you know modifies the basic understanding how do i basic stuff that i person to work so even if you don\u0027t implement it it might be useful for you to read this and check out that okay I know I might be getting these payloads and know how to ignore them so that\u0027s why I was thinking about it might be something that updates a big part so as well think that it should update the base document but my reasoning is more of that even though this is in a separate document it does update a core document because we really want people to use this this is not like some optional feature that gives you another nice shiny flag this is something we think is the core security of the IKE protocol so in that sense I think it really well it\u0027s not mandatory but like we strongly recommend that you do this Tommy Polly Apple so I\u0027m fine with it updating I think it\u0027s very important to make sure that people are aware that when they\u0027re looking at like free to spec they see this in the link at the top the one question I have just around process is because we think this is a band-aid for now and then at some point that will get replaced is so presume we would have a document that replaces this RFC with like here\u0027s the right way to do quantum resistant long term would that also be able to update the update to have it point to that and then remove the update to this yeah that\u0027s it yeah I add at least a fine idea if more about that if he said something that updates something it\u0027s something that may actually consider too putting into the base document the next time in some cases so it\u0027s something that actually modifies for except the signature on the middle craft is something that or RFC was something that we put have put in in the base right we\u0027re into document but it wasn\u0027t ready at that point so that\u0027s why we left it out that\u0027s a shame is "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:31:56",
    "text": "there are say you know raw RSA keys and something like that you have a couple of these cases very accelerate or so so we we are think about okay but also if it\u0027s a if it doesn\u0027t say update that means that okay people doesn\u0027t need to read this when implementing a business to and I think this actually goes to that category you don\u0027t need to read this to be implementing base I person to if you don\u0027t care about for the rest of if it\u0027s something that modifies something in I would say that okay if you implement i person to and this one says you must not do that in the base i personally and it\u0027s query updating it\u0027s something that modifies the base i person to and you must read this document to be able to do proper you know like we had this verification of the diffie-hellman parameters we had a hundred RFC to say okay you have to do this and that was updating the previous one because that was note saying okay you must do this so they were actually modifying something in the base level so but yeah but if we get to the point where we are actually revving we do abyss of the main actually to documents if by that point we have a better quantum resistant solution would we not include PPK and just include that and say don\u0027t do PP k anymore my hope we\u0027ve got the new stuff would be something that these sufficient so no accident i was thinking about that one that we do now is something that you can use as a building block to build the next one that\u0027s sunni we expect to still have the PPK [Laughter] the preset keys even if you added okay yeah so I I\u0027m fine with it that\u0027s just my one concern is like how forward-looking is it Marco Tchaikovsky NTSC although it\u0027s going to be a few years before until NIST yeah comes out with some recommendations for quantum resistant algorithms we do have yeah that there are other proposals in track for introducing asymmetric a quantum resistant algorithms into into Ike v2 so with the the the drafters talking about the previous meeting that described a protocol that you could use but into which she could slot any asymmetric algorithm so I guess what I\u0027d like to say is that I\u0027d like to see at least the same status given to asymmetric algorithms as opposed to the symmetric solution with ppk/s and yeah given that ppk/s are seen as an interim solution then just to you know question whether it\u0027s appropriate that should be an update to it to the mid to the main IP to draft or whether you know good way for the asymmetric alright so so we actually have a charter items that there are proposed that they actually start "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:34:57",
    "text": "working on that you know more from out from the asymmetry or or different matters of fact to real imagine for the point of resistant versions of the authentication substitution PPK but actually one of the things I think it up people have been saying that they are off with a bit early so that that it might be actually possible that those are actually an experiment off track in the beginning depending on how far they are advanced when they actually published they might be standard tracked if you think that they are ready but I mean I mean that\u0027s something that we don\u0027t have to discuss me to come to discuss that after we get you know the Charter disgustin got you thought very soon but anyway so so Mike as I said this is something that we can iterate and I think we actually probably also want to talk with a lady about this way if it\u0027s going to be updated on or something but it\u0027s something that I want to people to think about and and we could actually take a ham now but I have now so so two up since is take disasters make this so that it actually updates the big face like person to document and the adoption is that we just leave it as a standard track document but not updating the current so everybody who thinks that to me so there you know make it is an update hum now and those who think that we should just to leave this as a separate document a standard track document but not update hum now so I think the people are more in favor of saying that yes keep this as a separate extension because this is something that can be implemented separately from base SS also okay but but we will of course will still know talk to you about this in the list and so on so so next we\u0027re Tara is going to lead us through the reach are during discussion so we we need to reach Artur because our our current Charter is marked to expire in in December of this year we\u0027ve been we\u0027ve been having a number of discussions on the list about potential new work items here seems to be interested in continuing some work in this in this space so Tara is going to lead us through a conversation about the the work items that we\u0027ve received to date we\u0027re also open to some discussion of of additional work items if the group would like to bring any forward now so "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:38:12",
    "text": "so as I said you already said that we are going to be you know running out of the time anyway because we have this deadline in our throat are saying that we have to reach charter by the end of 2017 last time we were about halfway you\u0027re right our charter date you need to reach our trip before this and we were hot for you then after that you know this oh we hope should have restarted last time so we started doing it the next item so now we are trying to actually do this on time okay connects fine okay so we have a items in the Charter that\u0027s already done the DDoS protection operating and monitoring implement algorithms adding new algorithms and then we have this TCP encapsulation ECDSA marked as here I said almost done because it\u0027s rtq so much next time and then we have a couple of items that are still in there you know - inverter work of process like want to resistance in that question to split DNS and implicit IV next one so this is the Bay boy loop right the first two paragraph of tower charter and I actually put it here because I want people to actually read it and see if there\u0027s something that we did you modify here because this is something that has been staying for some time already and I think we might actually useful to every now and then a check if this is to no valid so ever two people to think about and saying if you have any comments about that story if it\u0027s fine and if it\u0027s fine okay it\u0027s got good thumbs ups there so people I think people are happy with this we don\u0027t need to modify this so we should still mention accurate one here that\u0027s actually it\u0027s one of the things I was actually think about I was I mean we should appear yeah we have made a decision earlier a couple of five years show called back on that we are not going to be do any work based on a question one but we still left it in the Charter because if there is something work it could be done on like version one I want it to be happening here not in some other place so that\u0027s why I have you actually think about it might be a good idea to keep it here it says here whether made mostly for I question talk to so that\u0027s what we are concentrating but I don\u0027t want to leave it on the Charter seems suggest it\u0027s still somehow that\u0027s to our you know ITF scope to maintain keep meeting I can run right I don\u0027t think most whether really I don\u0027t want to keep missing learns clearly I you suggest that we just put it in the Charter and say that one of our mouths and just to deprecate it and if it\u0027s deprecated then no new work can be done on it by definition or declared historic historic is better than deprecated Tommy yeah I\u0027m inferior that\u0027s a good idea and then we just closed the book on it I guess the one thing this is really trivial but it says that you know we\u0027re going to do mainly Ike v2 which is fair I think you know there\u0027s also definitely some work that has continued to be going "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:41:12",
    "text": "on in ESP so if anything you would specify essentially we\u0027re doing IP to and ESP and that part of the IPSec security architecture is the relevant part going forward and so we say like these are our highlights and then you can just mention yeah and we also will have to maintain everything else all right so so what I have think people aren\u0027t saying that ok we should probably actually in the first paragraph which we say talk version one it\u0027s still actually is part of the IPSec protocols we could actually put you know currently already obsolete it because that it\u0027s actually so credited already the right person won by first two so we could actually add it in there baby please start off see we could say that okay populated by a question to which would actually make it clear that it\u0027s ocellated and then having here in mostly - I question - having a most go to a ESP and I person - for example would that be suitable could party so one question I guess formally speaking and there should really be a an IPSec ops and IPSec extensions crew like technically we should split it into now this is a small room we have doubled in size over the last year which you know yay I think it\u0027s a little silly to split it I think we we don\u0027t have enough work to actually have like an option and an extension Rupert but I just wanted to look at the 80s because formally that\u0027s how you would like solve some of these issues we have no no no charter I think this is small enough group that we can access day one and there was an ad comments yeah every scroll is 80 um I\u0027m happy to leave it in one group um maybe the office person floating around but it um that they can speak up at some point but it seems small and anyway as I was saying all of these that work we are changing here are something that we actually going to talk about in the list anyway and we have to from all of these changes in the list first and then 10 it will do the IRC and or ad first and then I G and so and so that\u0027s why I\u0027ve been doing live and it\u0027s here isn\u0027t doesn\u0027t really help because we have to still call did I do the make a list go to the next part okay so then we start going to the old items this is the old item we have for the quantum resistant so it was saying that okay we have this stuff a night person one because it\u0027s actually using the preset key to do encryption it\u0027s crystal somewhat resistant to quantum computers and even like worse until we remove this because it\u0027s had some bright purple properties when it was made in our course money so and this is something that we are talking now and at the current work item we have is just to do this and I think we are always "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:44:12",
    "text": "ready another eye that\u0027s actually not really covering there you know the later stuff so that\u0027s why this is just to pay first you know PPK paste the stuff anybody has any comment on this okay next one split the a nurse this is old and I think it is something that this very well it\u0027s already done so I don\u0027t think we have to do a lot okay next implicit IV this is also all old stuff and and and we actually only say ESP format arguing that is before when this used to show that this actually only covers ESP as it is now alright then we\u0027ve not go to the new stuff so this is a group Joey this is stuff that has been calling around a long time and this is here mostly because the this m/sec working group was closed down so it doesn\u0027t have a home now and because it\u0027s still too late to drive person to and it\u0027s related IPSec so that\u0027s why I like looking on your home to actually get it published at some point Brian how old is this you can actually tell a little bit about this are your etiquette comments Brian why see what was the question how old is it yeah yeah we\u0027ve had implications for in the drafts or sometime there\u0027s now at least two partial plantations and where other implications I\u0027m aware of I should just say while I\u0027m here in the in the spirit of making like people and historic we really do need a group key management protocol it\u0027s basically like me to to replace so we have to do anything more of GOI right so and this is this is a new item so now I\u0027m going to first get information how many people actually think that this is this what is said here what it is is clear and in enough for the described as a charter item so is there anything that we need to change here at you actually actually know do not know the words if you actually think this is a work item that you\u0027re going to be doing is clear enough that we can actually say if we want to eat this as a charter I think not yeah you\u0027re gonna do some I want to do this again yes yeah I want to make sure that people actually understand what you are humming before we actually happen it the current tax it looks like as a use case is just for multicast or some news a unicast so because I know there\u0027s and also new Idol in regarding en and also there\u0027s also discussing the list how St VPN could use us some potential key distribution group group wiki vision pays method so wonder is does that include that those things are just like multicast only or I made sure we make a differentiation hi you are near so this "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:47:20",
    "text": "draft is supposed to replace the G Dorian Dido is used for both multicast and unicast and we don\u0027t see any reason why why the new thing should use also for both multicast and units for unicast with group key but still a unicast and so that\u0027s response to the question and as far as why we should do this well m/sec is closed so where else was will this thing go the other option is to individual craft pro day ID sponsored so Brian why I think that the real point here is that if you\u0027re gonna have a multicast communications you really do have to have a single key that\u0027s passed to both the senders and the receivers and you really stuck with the group key so that\u0027s really the point of this job all right okay so let\u0027s go to the humps or so first do people understand what we are trying to do here in the in the sense that you can actually decide if you come to include this in a working group item or not so if you think you understand enough to be able to not actually wear it but you know what we are actually doing hum now if you think that we need more information before we can decide hum now okay so I think people actually understand what we are doing next question is do we want to actually do this in my paycheck Amy or do we want to do it somewhere else that\u0027s why we do it all already sponsored trust or something else so the options are we do it here or even it is being group this as a charter item or we do somewhere else so who so so those who think that we should do it here hum now okay and those who think that we should do it somewhere else and not to take it as a charge another one hum now okay so I think this is clear we take that shit and start to write and we have to think about the words and so on and mailing lists and so on any comments anybody all right yes um since you\u0027re a super this is terrorem can you get a sense if he\u0027s gonna work on it oh yeah that\u0027s actually one of the questions yeah so so the next question is who is actually going to be willing to do that actually the draft authors are already there I think actually they are still willing to continue but who is actually willing to review this document and and and pass work on it so so I actually want to see a show of hands now so who who\u0027s willing to review this document so okay there is about the four usual suspects so it\u0027s it\u0027s not big group but it\u0027s actually currently good that was better than normally because that wasn\u0027t there\u0027s no I don\u0027t think there is any authors in that list usually we have those outsource our order since they aim for people who are reviewing everything alright so okay go to the next slide next item so this is the Valerie\u0027s stuff responder mobile and TC has a little bit more questions because there have been "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:50:20",
    "text": "already some discussion about is how can we do this another way so I\u0027d like to doing the responder redirect or something like that and that\u0027s something that is a little bit more unclear so actually I was thinking about we should probably skip this now and do that in the end because I think this is going to be having more discussion in in whatever that we are actually going to be doing so if you go to the next part and we skip come back to the here later so post quantum my question too though so this is now doing first quantum in in a sense using the new algorithm it\u0027s not doing you know the PPK but using newer grimaces also includes the stuff like the how to transfer to pick stuff in between the like out or before dragged out because this is you know how to transport those keys because there are bigger than time you can fit in the pace and so message so is there anything here that people accepting that we said you know is this clear enough now we have been discussing this already in the pending let\u0027s do it Queen dang goodness this is going to be really good work however at this moment we think at least we will receive like 37 or more submissions so I don\u0027t know we want to test them all or would be better to wait for like in a year or so when we cut down these submissions to a reasonable good list of candidates and then we can we can do to walk over here to test those out because why now we have too many actually this is this is something that we have to do first also that meaning there\u0027s this how does how do actually transport those Peaks because we see that all of these algorithms are going to be requiring bigger payloads that we can actually charge but now - but so so this is actually something that we can ask and in normal case I don\u0027t know I don\u0027t think we actually we tried here not to fix any specific algorithm is and this couple are probably going to take couple of years anyway so after that we can do when we get to the actual algorithmic choices that\u0027s something that working group is going to be selecting them so it is that the case that by looking at the different algorithms and we see the sizes and then we can test them out or but but in order to do that we need to to look at them yes but it\u0027s something something that is so you\u0027re not really expert on you know those algorithms so I think actually we\u0027re hoping that you know cfrt or something else actually you know we\u0027ll check out and do the some of these algorithms work for us or check out we\u0027re talking about only performance here right that\u0027s all we\u0027re talking about right now we\u0027re talking about only performance here right no no the sizes the side means performance right okay even that then different "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:53:22",
    "text": "classes of algorithms or different algorithms they have different numbers on them and in order for us to do really good job here we need list of the candidates to be a little reasonable now right now we think will receive a laugh so so so so in order to do this good I think we need to define which ones are we going to test out but but in order to do that at least I think we would pay attention to the NIST submit at once and and by down a row we know you know at least like 10 or 15 or something right now we have too many and but what we have there the first item is the working group which analyzed the possible problems which is something that we need to actually analyze them we need to project out different protocols check out what are what are the problems if you try to use them like okay this one you\u0027d requires to make two megabyte messages so we have to do something for that this one requires you know something like so so this is something like this is like very generic trying to get okay do we actually want to work on this wait but so yeah there is love in this place so I think this work item can be seen as a two-step process first we should make I quit to be payload ready it doesn\u0027t really concern this particular post quantum key exchange method but we do know that all these keys change method requires logic sizes at least now then conventional so and the second step is to choose one or few real key exchange pondan case change method when they are ready and when they are available and put them into I creature says so the first step in just to make I quit you able to transport large key exchange payloads and without problem with fragmentation so on I know I didn\u0027t require large keys because you can just do hash based signatures so it\u0027s the size of a hash I think this is really premature for this group to start to do anything at the last IETF Kenny Patterson co-chair the CSR G said look let\u0027s all just wait for nest and it\u0027s gonna be multiple years and so I really push this out to the next free trucker I Air Patrol uh hat off I mean so III think what Richard said is fairly persuasive you know if you I think that we\u0027re cutting here that seems like it might be relevant now we used to get some sense of the impact on Ike if you had to move to larger keys much much larger keys right like I don\u0027t "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:56:23",
    "text": "know and I don\u0027t know how much work that issue actually is I don\u0027t know how the impact on the performance or behavior is Mike would be if you had to like have multi megabyte keys it may be the case we don\u0027t need that so like si D H has keys that are comparable size that if you come in first it\u0027s um now I had on on I on I would not expect the this working group to be so picking algorithms I respect CFR G to be selecting our rooms and us to be university\u0027 them across ITF hi this is Debbie Cooley from NSA anyway um so I just want to point out that this is key exchange not signature yeah so hash key signatures doesn\u0027t apply so I personally not personally but I do think this does need to be worked on right because that key exchange will change because of the size and it\u0027s best to start working creatively on how you\u0027re gonna do that with larger key sizes now then wait yeah yeah I mean it\u0027s algorithm independent right so you\u0027ve got to be able to handle the larger key size you mayn\u0027t have creativity in terms of you negotiate a key every so often and maybe you update that key rather than do the key exchange over and over and over again yeah so so I think the reason we apply we\u0027re discussing here is because there are some people who are actually doing some work on this area and they want to see some solutions here and they want you know get something better than PPK something later than six preset keys fit for quantum registers and this is something that is and I expect this to happen to take you know some time it\u0027s not going to be finished you know next year it was probably going to be it might be two dozen you know 19 or something like that so and it but there is so of course one of the things that we can\u0027t completely separate a big you know payload transport from this because we need to know when to do it because there is an option or we could have we could do the transporter keys before we start even I cross I say in it using HTTP and get the keys transport and then then we just have a reference to them in like a I say in it and I like out or we can do it with it so so there\u0027s both options so that\u0027s why I don\u0027t think we actually got separated completely as oh we do the pic T transport first and then we start working on this so I think we need to but we need to check out first what what is required for each of these okay this one requires these pics algorithm course this information this one because the how many you know message sees and so and so we can actually start doing the modifications right protocol so we can actually plug in the algorithms later Markovski and CSE I support this as a chart item I think it\u0027s important that we should be working on it maybe some of the concerns that have been raised here today could be address if that if it was slightly reworded to make it explicit that that it that it is going to be algorithm agnostic it is only like you\u0027re developing a protocol that can they can "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:59:23",
    "text": "cope with the longer key sizes and it\u0027s it\u0027s nothing to do about selecting algorithms okay so so now we have had discussing about this charter item itself so how many people actually have some kind of understanding what we are trying to do here in this chart or either so we can actually should we actually know can we actually decide whether we take this as charger item a note so if you think that we can decide now so hum now okay if you think that we need more more information and can\u0027t decide now hum now okay so I think that is clear that people think that they can understand this is issue clear now so okay so next question do we take this item as this work item as a charter item in the IPSec AMI and start working on it so the other option is that we leave it for later or some other working group so so the first option do we work do we add this as a charter item to my question to this game a if you think so hum now if you think that this would be should not be added hum now okay I think there is clear concepts that people want to do work on this and we have to and we are probably going to get you know we have to be very careful about what we write here because I think the ad said so or I could be concerned about that we don\u0027t we are not going to be defining and here okay next one are we actually at here okay how many people actually are willing to work on this review draft write draft do the analysis on algorithms and so on oh okay how many people are willing to review tryouts okay we have more than normally how many are willing to help editing or writing troughs okay we have a little bit less but I think that\u0027s good so the next time piety SP this is you know there has been discussed discussing about this that we should be let me see if the compression is like listen to compression is also here so this is not only died at the ESPYs also you know diet I Persian to so how to compress ESP and I can in a suitable way to do some IOT like of things there are some cases which has been you know discussed and and there\u0027s a couple of proposed troughs that we can start working on so is there anything any questions about this rectum people actually want to ask before we actually ask if you understand what disease okay so how many people are so let\u0027s do a hum against directly so so if you think that you understand that the vortices and we can decide whether we take a stratum hum now okay if you think you have any "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:02:26",
    "text": "deeper more information before you can decide hum now okay so I think we still have more people understanding what what we are actually doing here so the next question is do we actually want to take this as an working group item or work item sorry work item for our charter so if you think that we should take this as a work item hum now if you don\u0027t think that it should be done somewhere else our not at all hum now okay but okay but I think we still think something we have more people okay how many people are willing to work on this meaning the review drops out let\u0027s start with the review troughs alright so we have a usual five or six abstract suspect and how many of you are willing to try it right the drafts and/or edit them oh we have about same to group of people don\u0027t so one thing I would like to see is more people from the IOT space actually come here so that they can explain better to us what is important because we can do all these things about compression and we can save on bite and double the CPU usage and they might come back to us and say yeah that\u0027s not only one actually usually what they say that if you save one bite that\u0027s about 200 instructions from the CPU or sorry one beat transmitting one bit over the internet for about 100 instructions in this CPU so that\u0027s why yes they they can do lots of compression to just save one bit okay let\u0027s go to the next one okay so this is something that is signature algorithm negotiation so we added big enough signatures we add negotiate the hash algorithms there but we don\u0027t negotiate the actual keith we are going to be using because in most of the cases when I was writing that specification I was thinking about yes you have you have a configuration which says that when I\u0027m talking to Paul I\u0027m using this key when I\u0027m talking to Valerie I\u0027m using this key it\u0027s the same thing with the preset key same thing with you know certificates and RSA keys I configure the key that I\u0027m good using i authentication from I\u0027m not so say okay here is list of keys use whatever key that I have to talk to whatever people you have the out there that\u0027s what\u0027s my understanding that\u0027s all I\u0027m saying okay we don\u0027t need this because yes we need to have a hash algorithm because we can use the hash for each of the keys but I have only one key and that key specifies what algorithm I\u0027m going to be using you are not supposed to use RSA PSS we and RSA pkcs1 with the same key you\u0027re always supposed to have two different for one of one for another I know people are doing this using the same key for same things or different algorithms but you are not supposed to do that so that\u0027s why I have a original idea why I deviant this is or we actually have a lot discussed on rotation to get a signature or FC reversed you know "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:05:28",
    "text": "working on so but he says has been issued with some people perhaps me saying that this is operationally so for Tim so that\u0027s why it\u0027s back here again so so for say the key is the same so if you have D say in our cities for example the different keys but honestly the key is the same but the signature for multi different and I suspect and we suspect that the situation may repeat who is the future signature schemes when one key can be used in was different format and so we have one certificate we can come on certificates is that key from the certificate can be used with one way on different way we don\u0027t know which way to use if the other side doesn\u0027t support both that\u0027s more generic questions and only our say say because yes and iris is a ESS so we\u0027re going to a more generic solution apparently it\u0027s 22:6 for the Patriots box so I do think that we need a little bit more freedom here to negotiate or indicate the support of everything\u0027s because while you are clearly thinking of the pre-configuration predetermined you know a server client case there\u0027s many opportunistic in other cases where we don\u0027t know who we\u0027re talking to him we don\u0027t know their capabilities in advance we haven\u0027t pre-negotiated them and so I think that there\u0027s a problem here as for the RSA case in theory you you\u0027re right that it\u0027s easily salt because the what is that rc8 3 3 1 now says you must support the SSO everybody to just support the assassin and this case closed unfortunately the most widely available crypto libraries and like implementations don\u0027t support PSS yet so they\u0027re all violating this shiny new RFC yeah um arrow scroll head off yeah I mean I guess I\u0027m not super pessimistic that we\u0027re gonna have situations where the same key will be used multiple rhythms again we said hopefully you\u0027ve learned a lesson there is you Paul scoffing um but you know maybe but it does seem like it\u0027s the case that I mean like certainly in all time that someone has two certificates one for like RSA one for you know ECDSA and you wanna tell which one it is so that seems like yeah I mean my impression is sometimes it happens an IKE and it happens it like substantially that\u0027s a problem for solving even if you don\u0027t have to solve this hash key asynchrony I mean so certainly I guess one thing I\u0027ll say you know that Rupa I used to have is it\u0027s the same thing but over in TLS we sort of come down on like you know signature algorithms and hash algorithms are all just one giant bundle we\u0027re not gonna let you in i you know on you know this century are when this hash algorithm we just say like this key is you know like you know ECDSA with PG 56 we\u0027re about to be sex so of course this group can do different things but that\u0027s what we can done all "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:08:30",
    "text": "right so okay I mean don\u0027t do the normal hums so so who thinks that we actually understand what this issue is and think that we should you know we can actually decide now whether to take the starter ons so if you think so um now okay who thinks that we actually need more information before we can decide hum now okay so I think we understand what the issues are or think we had we dig sorry we understand enough about the issues that you can actually make a decision now that\u0027s it okay so the next question do we want to add this as a working group oh sorry it work item for the Charter so if you think so hum now okay if you think that we shouldn\u0027t add this as a work item hum now if it\u0027s the first time have a little bit more resistance but but I still ver still still have made clear my rarity on saying that we should add this s item alright so next item okay now we go back to the Valerie\u0027s cope this one because we skip this one because I was expecting that it might take some time because we have you know 20 minutes now and we can actually tell so this is assume that we already had discussion in the mailing list there never say you know people asking why wait why can\u0027t use this why can\u0027t you use that and that\u0027s one of the very cool when I was to looking at this I had the same dream you know idea that I was you know you can use you can use you know Rick reaches you know redirect as an information exchange after they say it\u0027s up so you can actually move to other people otherwise so why can\u0027t you use that and I have no idea why you can\u0027t but Valerie clearly has some idea why it you can\u0027t you so perhaps you can actually explain a little bit more about this use case what other issues why you can\u0027t use the redirect mechanism because this is something that we have to you know know if you can use redirect it\u0027s but still a good idea to have a draft or RFC saying that you couldn\u0027t use it this way just if we don\u0027t actually add such new protocol we just described how what you can use with the current protocol by combining them together but so redirect is clearly a possible solution but it has a marginal drawbacks that each requires the fullness depletion of focusing so it\u0027s big penalty big penalty because it\u0027s not an Olympic penalty if we talk about resource it\u0027s only its some cases it may be inappropriate because for for the client it is a certain well if if client needs to enter some directive information like be know like if "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:11:30",
    "text": "password to authenticate it will sudden for him when server cluster decides to switch it to another node so you are working and just your apartment just as indicating to européenne again because there we are going to switch you to another constant or not so regenerate has two drawbacks and it\u0027s consuming much resources by resolution I could say and it versus human being that might be using client so the better solution is possible with my bike if if you manage to tweak my bike so that server the original responder can can can instruct client to move to another address another address or the low chair in question just think about it I don\u0027t actually remember if more Walker cell limits it so that you always has to be in a theater I think it\u0027s it actually allows you to do that anyway but anyway so this is sort of the exactor all other proposals is to use the redirect and resumption so you get rid of the other but anyway I think you actually now probably understand a little bit more about this question and it seems to be that there is lots of different ways we can actually solve this issue and I mean you\u0027re not trying to solve this issue no we are trying to think about if you actually take this and I think there is an you can clearly see that there is solutions out there so this is not something that we don\u0027t know if you actually thought it can\u0027t be solved with Gerstel you see how easy and what kind of product race and ID says for writer but for parties so we\u0027ve actually also recently been doing work on my bike specifically with linux and so we also ran into a few things for instance that there\u0027s a there\u0027s various ways to do my bike like you can send a probe first and only when you address has changed you actually do the actual mobike update and i found that basically everybody in a wild skips this this step and just sends an update even if it\u0027s not updated because you know it saves you some latency in a roundtrip so I was wondering maybe to actually expand this charter item and say let\u0027s just do an update on mah bike let\u0027s look at all the mob Ike stuff that\u0027s that\u0027s out there and actually do a sort of clarification updates document that also takes this issue into account but also maybe look look at other things and one other note I wanted to make Spencer the Debian and Ubuntu kernels disable the access from migrate which is used by mobile to actually migrate yes a to another end point because of security reasons so maybe we should somehow also have another document that tells those people that you know no this is safe and you can actually you can actually enable this so so I think in general it would be good to get a sort of new mobile document out there that sort of puts all the updates and clarification into one new document all right so Daniel me go I "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:14:35",
    "text": "think issue to solve is a rather important be able to switch from one context to inform one machine to the other that we use mobile or redirect is I would say me call I don\u0027t know don\u0027t really care but um that we define the context and that we able to transfer that contract from one house to the other is something important I guess and I\u0027d like to see that in each other all right okay so so we had some now hopefully actually get clarification but little bit more clarification commit Dave\u0027s cause the exact word second Paul\u0027s point all right so to extend this to be more mobile clarification document and just only you know this this kind of this once more work item this is actually said yeah this is something that we can actually think about and this is something of course we need to this text isn\u0027t suitable for that Commission\u0027s we need to we have yeah but we need to be cut discuss about this a meaningless but anyway so so let\u0027s see let\u0027s make our home so so if you think that we have enough information that we can decide whether what kind of we have enough information whether we want to do some kind of mobike related work item in the the charter not necessarily you know this but it might be also the other one I was thinking about having you know you know some so if you think of the beat you understand problem well enough that we can decide whether we take a mobile bike related working out or not so if you think that you understand hum now if you think that we need to get more information in the mailing list or something like that before we can decide hum now okay people we have really smart people here they all know everything okay so the next question is then do we want to take some kind of mobile related you know I thought this is what verbal but I\u0027m going to go ask the specific question also to be able to take this exactly or do we actually want to have just generic mobile but I want to I want to see if there is any conscious that they actually want to update my bike in in some way or not before we actually go in what maybe we are going to be changing you know this is road we hams after humph after this this just you know they do we actually want to take something that operates more like a new working group so if you think that we are going to submit should we take some item that updates my bike in the work item if you think so hum now if you think that we should not should not take a take anything work on mobile hum now okay I think that\u0027s that was about 50/50 I think so so I think actually it is "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:17:36",
    "text": "something that yeah let\u0027s me see we have ten minutes so I think this is something that we need to go back to the list and start working on mailing list because we will no no no lamps start here in 11 so so so that\u0027s why I was a to think about I think this is something that we can\u0027t decide now so we actually go through code back to the mailing list and we probably need to have a poll right she\u0027s you know proposal what is called to be you know this charter text for mobile update and perhaps you know very writing will bit more about what what the problem statement of what about what he\u0027s really you know explaining accorded the discussion we had all right there I think that we are a little a little bit more than needed concentrated on my bike as a real question is how to make a lot share in cluster with a basic and it can be well my bike is just one a solution for I mean my draft is just one attempt it just causes problem but the problem can be solved in different ways and it\u0027s not the only way to use my bike but this is the problems that I think most by Tristan\u0027s is grow because I think it\u0027s really important when we address problem which haven\u0027t built a cluster with RFE 64mm but West is not addressed we we have done some work on load balancing and high availability earlier and most of those have been going quite badly I think because we have we haven\u0027t we have had issues there because those calls so deeply into the implementation in most of the cases that it\u0027s people have a different solution so quite often it\u0027s actually is more implementation detail stand you know actual protocol issues but anyway so so we come back to this on the list so I think there was a couple of more with that Bush didn\u0027t have a charter text ready so there is this ipv6 ipv4 address failure issues this is the new draft that was sent the mailing list couple of well because it came to me as an eye and eye expert and they said okay we publish this document two weeks ago and we want to get on a number for it and this was the first time I ever saw that trough so then I said no we want to you want to bring it first today you know IPSec Amy and if IPSec Amy says no they need to have core of course code the IDs and AD bilko and and I\u0027m not sure if the traffic actually I\u0027m quite sure that draft isn\u0027t the draft isn\u0027t stable enough that there might be some changes to that in the last call so that\u0027s why I don\u0027t want to keep numbers before they are stable enough so I want to you know people accidentally there were some interview on that but it\u0027s actually something that should we take it to their work item or not it\u0027s the outer of the craft by the way here somewhere no okay so I was think about because yeah so so this is coming from the 3gpp "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:20:36",
    "text": "side they have it they have a menu do you know 3gpp authentication you have this do ipv6 hundreds ipv4 address and you may get an error for both of those or you get one or only you know other one or something like that and that error is something that they want you know propagated all sort of the IPSec it\u0027s only if you\u0027re you know if you didn\u0027t get IPPC ipv4 address at all from the public mobile network when you just want to be also sent that that IP second that okay I didn\u0027t get I\u0027ve been before it so that\u0027s that\u0027s I think it\u0027s the best idea but crafty skin Eric saying that okay we can do this in any case system where you have an address allocation you say that okay no you can\u0027t get typing before you get on ipv6 but you didn\u0027t request it so come on we got it again so so do people understand what this item is if you send people noting I don\u0027t think we can actually decide on on the Tartar item because we don\u0027t have any text here but I would like to get through you know something a little bit concerned or do you think that this is something that we should start working on to added charter items also we actually or do we just say okay go to individual life you know submission or or go to the ad sponsored our draft so so if you think that we should think about taking this as a item hum now okay if you think that we should leave them to do this somewhere else hum now okay we don\u0027t have any idea okay so so I think we have to go back to the list that I think about it and ask people who need to read this truck more and so yeah it\u0027s very hard because I know how many actually had read the trot okay so I think we need to get more really preview on that and then you can actually decide okay so let\u0027s come to that so it\u0027s not the night became a prophet and it\u0027s not the worker out there but I want the people to actually read and comment okay so what would a please ipsec that was Paul\u0027s late minute addition with no hats I was ready for straight hat actually yes this was redhead um I get just did answer me I did send text to the mailing list for the Charter but it\u0027s basically we have security context and we want to be able to negotiate them so we can sort of chain machines in with different security levels together we had this an IKE v1 I was badly hacked then it was slightly less badly hacked and I\u0027m hoping we can do a really nice solution fight with you you won\u0027t comment on this or something okay okay so so this is something that we owe you so you send the least many charger items at least have anybody has been able to read this starter item because I haven\u0027t read the proposed text but anybody other than the US Department of Defense want multi-level security mean it\u0027s kind of "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:23:37",
    "text": "sounds like 70 Security why do we still need it in 2017 so so but I I don\u0027t think we actually can make any decisions about this here but I think that the subject that talk we should take at least and and and think about and foremost read the Provos your proposal and it\u0027s actually something that we actually might want to have a design team think about you know what actually protocol it\u0027s good because there are so many different ways to doing this and and and and it\u0027s not it\u0027s also as you said we don\u0027t really use it so how do we know what what\u0027s problem you are trying to solve and if we if you don\u0027t know what problem you\u0027re solving if you know that our solution is good to be suitable so it might be useful to first get you know people who actually use these to actually tell us what they actually want before we actually start working on it all right so let\u0027s go to the others yep so Tommy Paulie Apple and I\u0027m speaking on behalf of what David Scotty also from Apple sent out earlier this morning as proposed order fixed at seven thirty nine so you had plenty of time to read it and so this is it\u0027s essentially trying to say should we be addressing some ability to mitigates privacy concerns around certain deployments so he\u0027d send out a proposal I think on the list a little bit ago that essentially says could we do something like like an HVAC extension in the in it to just say you know like I have some preacher key of knowledge that you were there such that if a server like let\u0027s say I run a responder for some very special use case that I don\u0027t want people to essentially scan me or be able to tell that I\u0027m actually running a night responder here or if I\u0027m being the IKE initiator because once I do the I can it there is really no authentication of who I\u0027m talking to so if the responder is doing a man-in-the-middle and I don\u0027t want to be able to give up my IDI payload for example because there\u0027s something private about what I want to use for my IDI that unless the responder has at least some little bit of token of H back that says yes I think that you\u0027re something vaguely I should be talking to that I don\u0027t give that up so essentially just saying for restricted deployments that are not necessarily your normal client-server use case that you\u0027re doing maybe peer-to-peer stuff that you want it to be more locked down we want to add the ability to make it a little bit more private actually this reminds me one of the things that we forgot from the latest is the pseudonyms we have we were having this discussion in in PPK context we were saying okay we don\u0027t want to actually do the ID protection now because we can actually do it so the names and I think children will probably solve that issues meeting me plural meaning that in the ID payload we actually trust random thing and when we actually get you know the authenticated thing then we actually update the sailed along so every time we have I have a list of ten of an external be using and and then you know when we run out we "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:26:39",
    "text": "actually get new okay give me ten new random you know IDs for me that I can use so I never tell you about Real ID at the end or you know only the one who actually gave gives me those not a list of children who will be able to map it or allow the ID so that would work very well for you so I think it\u0027s less a proposed solution and saying that they have a problem statement of we\u0027d like to be able to be yeah okay that that\u0027s actually something that yes because I think the children who issue something that would be actually interest for at least for me and I think there was a puppy other people also wanted to solve this issue so it might be actually told that me if the children is probably solving his problem also that might be actually done I didn\u0027t order all right three needs this is just following up on something I said before I think for the Charter one of the things that we should add are some operational documents so basically either be CPS or here\u0027s how you actually implement what it is we\u0027re proposing and I give them my exam I\u0027m gonna give two examples here that I think we should have documents for and one is the PPK distribution example right a short document but that describes the mechanics of actually doing the distribution the second one I think is the algorithm no negotiation is an example of here\u0027s how you do something and these could be short documents that are either BCPs or are targeted at standardization but perhaps not right because in the case of the pkk distribution one of the things I\u0027m thinking is that we think of that as as static now but it may change very drastically when we start thinking about or if we move to dynamic right and so on I think in the Charter there there ought to be something around these operational texts but I don\u0027t I didn\u0027t send it 6:00 in the morning but if you got offended by it because then during this week then everywhere start working on it but here\u0027s what I would say to the chairs I\u0027m willing to send to the list some sample text some proposed text for that kind of charter item that I think ought to be included in if we did a reach hard please do okay okay so so that was to last other items so so what we are next our plan for this is actually now it\u0027s going to be working that well but our plan was first shown so that we actually as a chairs we work on that you know charter text with people who are on Excel it said by the end of the week we would have something that would be something that we could actually discuss and say that this is the Charter but okay we have now a couple of items there of course which still require more work but if you try to get you know the base stuff that we already agreed on in a format that we can actually say that okay or if these are you know you know suitable for everybody okay if so then we can actually forward ladies which will then say there you know birds on that but but then then we have a couple of these things that we I would like to create very quickly these you know things done because the christmas is coming and you know by the end of the year we turn into the pump "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:29:39",
    "text": "[Laughter] that\u0027s question yeah Eddie oh you are done you are not responsible well I mean you know III go back to Richard Barnes\u0027s always be closing um I mean like well I want to see is like work happening that is valuable work that is like that people want to do so that\u0027s why I asked people want to work on things so so my perspective as long as people want to keep working on it and I guess I nice and future me I want to ask who\u0027s gonna implement - um but as long as those things are happening I\u0027m I\u0027m happy to have this continue when this is aren\u0027t happening I\u0027m going to ask you to collapse not see like okay how there\u0027s just a room I come over all right so yeah I think I think with this we have to end has anyone not signed the police sheets okay I think with that thank you "
  }
]