[
  {
    "startTime": "00:00:04",
    "text": "are you speaking into the right microphone you might be kind away from the mic or something uh recording okay yeah i'm speaking into the correct microphone okay um i cannot see in the slides unless do you have a headset or are you in loudspeaker there's a little gargling going on when michael speaks which could be your end feeding back can you hear me now i can't i don't hear any goggling but claims the sound to me seems the same to me can you hear me yes i can hear you in us your sound is clear not very loud but clear and michael's sound is not very clear very clear and a bit lower in terms of volume you want me louder how about now and now it's louder it's still not clear there's this little gargling effect but we can bear with it sorry okay okay charlie is that any better in terms of audio can you either type in the chat or speak to us hi alvaro hi alvaro hey guys good morning or good afternoon indeed good good morning to you uh charlie said that it's about the same a little better"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:02:02",
    "text": "okay i think yeah i think the overall volume is low i am maxed out at all the output volumes but i don't know if she can do anything about it i think uh well i think we can i can speak loud um should we start the meeting i think so okay do we have our pascals not there yet no and contract conrad said something yeah i have to let my abs laptop next to my chin and me to go all the way up uh huh i can't hear you very well dominican michael and alvaro yes same here except that the volume is all the way up which is not the way it should be hello charlie yes can you hear me yes oh yes loud and clear thank you i will mute again okay thank you okay conrad system okay pascal is not yet but i think we're gonna start with the introduction because i think charlie needs to leave soon okay let's get started okay great okay uh welcome everyone to this idea for interim meeting"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:04:01",
    "text": "and it's like uh this meeting can i i have control or yeah okay let me see i can flip the slides okay um okay this meeting is aligned with it not well um the next slide so we will not read it but be aware of these topics next slide okay the meeting materials please volunteer to for the menu stickers you can find the link on the top right corner next slide and okay this is our agenda we're going to have a working group status then charlie will present the advance in audeber ripple then the pascal will present our projection which is working with us called and then contract will present rnft how we can continue this work and then we have an open floor slide okay a state of the active internet draft uh nsa when is a is is in progress with this aed evaluation and they're working into the addressing the open issues then out of the ripple we are going to uh was back to the working group we are going to have a short discussions today uh dao projection we are going to have a discussion today and is currently well in the working group last call we have not got any input on that but we would like to know your opinion and then enrollment priority i think there are open issues and they say um"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:06:00",
    "text": "okay it will not be discussed today but uh well discussed today like in the term of their open issues in github and i think there are some items in the mailing list as well that need to be addresses to continue this work uh mopex and capabilities were expired but yes needs to we need to have it as a next working topic uh studying drug our knowledge uh we want to go for working group abduction on this team if you agree and then we we will discuss as well how to proceed with the fast border router class detection in ripple and this is the new work update by the work group then we have inactive interest drafts these modifications and the apr multicast that they are sleeping but they should as well we need to decide what to do with this next slide and then the milestones were updated um we have uh as initial submission of tau projection for may so we're a bit delay with this um enrollment priority for september mopeds capability mopeds for november capabilities should be fortune fast border router crash detections november uh this modification um and jump for fbl and multicast november as well and in november we should recharted or closed basically november is a horizon so whatever it's below the horizon this november"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:08:00",
    "text": "yeah uh i don't know maybe we should update as well with this uh version two of ripple as this but yeah we can discuss that later next slide please oh okay sorry for the resolution but we have open tickets in the german priority however ripple i think charlie it's working to close in those issues a new version 14 was supposed to address all these tickets next slide uh rebel observations says we have tickets to know what to work on and the bobex we have one ticket open on that and then additionally we will have in the itf one 114 a meeting for all day of one hour so far is thursday on what is it time 8 p.m and then we will have on friday a joint meeting with the monet bubble bubble and roll to discuss about multicast there is no specific agenda or problem statement yet but we would like to basically discuss how we handle the multicast in the different working groups and if we can maybe rise to work ethan's joint work events but yeah that is that to be defined afterwards yes yeah so um enos is going to be remote for this itf i'm going to be local if everything works well i was allowed to fly over there michael i understand you will be there as well is that correct i will be there okay very good uh among the key participants can we show raise of hands pascal and charlie"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:10:00",
    "text": "conrad who i will ask with her i'm sorry for this um i did not get funding for coming this time okay but you'll be remote right uh it's the middle of the night african orange thing at this meeting that will help because it's it's very late i looked at the agenda it's if we keep the current agenda it's going to be very late okay uh i'm on holidays the times sorry guys during during itf this year i had i i didn't have any other day that i could choose from so that particular week i think i'm on holidays okay fair enough at least we know thank you and charlie you feel me can you hear me we do we can okay good do you plan on attending itf 114 uh well i didn't make a plan yet um okay i noticed oh that you were just speaking about the uh role in babble and with men a and so of course there seem to be closely related is there a preferred course forward for those um i'm not sure i understood your question uh well i mean i can imagine that for instance babel and manet would join together or or babel and roll would join together or role in manet would join together or something like that this is a joint meeting and not a joint working group so far we're not talking about fusing the working groups together we're talking about having a"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:12:00",
    "text": "joint meeting to discuss the way multicast is handled okay as well you know i've had sort of a lot of involvement with man a and well babel was an interesting story from long ago i i might try to show her for the meeting just to see what happens but i don't have any plans for presentation other than if more revision is needed for aodv ripple okay thank you uh my it was just out of curiosity you know who i would meet in the corridors and if it was a good time to to do some side uh work hallway work on on the side of the actual sessions but no no pressure okay well no pressure thank you but since i'm not on anybody's uh payroll i'm not too much likely to buy a cross-country round-trip ticket and pay for the hotel myself okay fair enough i can totally understand thank you hey thank you very much yeah oh charlie you can continue sure thank you well uh first of all i'm charles perkins and um i have been making revisions to the aodv uh ripple uh proposed standard for uh for roll and um some of the uh over the last year or so there's been some delays in my participation and so now i think finally we're getting uh towards the end we had some really excellent reviews uh earlier this year by march or so and those uh caused a lot of um uh detailed thinking about how best to uh"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:14:01",
    "text": "to resolve the questions that were raised in the um in the comment sections and so um so this uh last draft draft 14 was submitted just a few days ago but after discussion on presentations of uh comment resolutions on the mailing list and so uh so this uh presentation is to uh explain uh the resolutions for the comments and also to request uh going back to last call um under the my belief that the comments have been resolved so a next slide please or do i have a way to call for the next slide or do i just ask you for it okay good slide control so i'll try that so by the way it seems to me that meat echo works pretty darn well okay so here is a a quick overview of aodb ripple i i won't spend a whole long time on this draft but i think it's useful for reference purposes and i made a few updates this slide came from well over a year ago during an ietf presentation but um i made just some very minor updates but basically what it shows is that it um the route request and route reply uh are now ripple options and when they are disseminated through the network uh they create two uh dodec's ones rooted at the origin originating node or rh node and the other one uh is rooted at the target node or target node"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:16:03",
    "text": "and aodv can create asymmetric and symmetric routes both and one fairly major change recently was that a renew multicast group has been requested all aodb ripple nodes it used to just use all ripple nodes but there was turns out that the ripple specification does something that i didn't expect and and it that required that we um get a new multicast group so the route request is sent out by orange node and then it uh eventually what what as every every intermediate node that receives the route request uh has a route to the originating node or org node so when it gets to the target node then targe node has a route to our originating node but the intermediate nodes don't necessarily have a route to targe node and so it sends out the route reply to advertise itself and that is passed along and when it gets back to original maybe by a different uh route then uh there's routes in both directions and uh the doe dags are set up so uh so that um i guess is a pretty short explanation of the protocol and there's one other feature that was adopted from aodb that was developed in man a and this is called gratuitous r rep and basically the idea there is that if a if a route request gets to an intermediate node let's just say that one and that"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:18:02",
    "text": "uh to the target node then it can advertise uh back already and their originating node will get the route reply faster so it can start transmitting data to targe node however as uh was in the point of discussion on the mailing list and and in comments uh submitted that does not necessarily mean uh that [Music] our rig node it does not mean that the originating node has the instance id of the dodec that's rooted at target node and so that required uh some careful explanation in in the draft uh which has been done all right so next slide unless there's any questions i guess anybody can just stop me but i wanted to put in this information about the ipv6 ripple option because this is really crucial for data so first of all uh local instance id the ripple instance ids that are used by aodv ripple are local ripple instance ids and when when our node has oh so first of all it's a little bit of a i was a little or originally confused because it turns out that the instance id uh does not uniquely um identify the instance and so the name is not not correct i mean if it's an instance id then it should identify the instance but it doesn't it's required for local instance ids to be combined with the ip address uh of the node at which the instance is rooted in the case of the uric um instance that's rooted at the orygnode"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:20:02",
    "text": "so so um i made some definitions uh for route request um uh instance id and route reply instance id which really is the instance id uh when in the ordered pair uh with the ip address at the other root node [Music] sorry we have uh pascal in the queue i guess is trying to ask questions yeah i just wanted to say when you have an identification an id it has a domain in which it is effectively identifying something and a local instance id is unique within the domain of the local source node or destination node in the backend so it's still an id it's just that uh you're assuming that any is global it's not i mean this one is local my name well i i i understand pascal uh but i'm just saying that uh somebody that didn't read every word they might assume that an instance id identifies the instance and for my purposes it did not but i do understand what you're saying um okay so uh so one thing about the instance ids is that the originating node needs to pair uh their its instance that's rooted at the rs node with the route reply instance that's rooted at the target node and when it does that when it pairs that then it doesn't have to continue with the route discovery because it's got the routes in both directions and one um one factor that has to be accounted for is that it is theoretically possible although i but hope it doesn't happen all the time but it's possible that uh you might need"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:22:01",
    "text": "two routes between uh originating node and targe node that have different objective functions so that means that we have to be very careful about the pairing between the route request and the route reply and since uh as pascal just noted that the um instance ids are have local scope it is possible that when targe node we'll go back just a second it's possible that when targnode receives the route request that it's already used uh that instance id for something else and so it needs to assign a new instance id uh for the um on the route reply instance and uh since it's no longer the same as the original instance i do we have a mechanism called the delta field and so that allows the original to a pair the incoming route reply in instance id with which route disc request that it had issued to discover the rail so that's uh and then when that happens when uh when tar node and our ignored uh both have uh the dodags available then they can send out packets with d equals zero and uh using the instance id their local instance id for data is sent that they want to send so on that um what can i say i didn't uh fully uh understand all of that until maybe a few months ago so i thought i'd try to explain it in this presentation [Music] okay um all right so then i made a relatively complete list of all the changes from the last draft until uh version 14 which"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:24:03",
    "text": "was i just sent out a few days ago and there was some discussion about uh uh the claim was made that odb ripple is a natural choice for a writing protocol in some circumstances so i put in language into the draft describing about the scenarios that what would lead one to choose aodb ripple and there was suggested to uh include some informative references which uh this suggestion was much appreciated that described the value uh that's provided by peer-to-peer routing and then we requested a new protocol i mean a new multicast group and i want to explain a little bit about this uh the original design of odb ripple we thought that it would be just fine just to have some different option numbers assigned to the to the route request and route reply option and the art option and then since the option numbers would not be recognized by the intermediate nodes that didn't implement aodb ripple as since they didn't recognize them they just wouldn't process them and drop them but turns out that ripple uh specifies that you don't drop them you just send them on and uh so from my understanding it's difficult for me to really imagine a reliable operation of aodv if an intermediate node that's unaware of the purpose of it would just forward it to the same multicast group so that basically would break the protocol and in order to maintain uh the correct operation of the protocol in the"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:26:00",
    "text": "face of this um specification from base ripple uh it's uh i think it's just it works it works if you make a new multicast group um so i have to admit though i was surprised about that part of the ripple specification um well it's a simple matter of citing the base specification as a resonation of the definition of dio but i wanted to include that in the terminology so people wouldn't have to be flipping back and forth to previous documents too much uh we use the terminology hot by hop route and that's not terminology from the base rfc 6550 so needed a definition to say that these hop by hop routes are the ones that are created and use um storing mode of ripple which is pretty intuitive uh the uh there was a discussion about so aodv ripple uh basically uh specifies that you when you um exit a dodge then you're just not routing on that dodge anymore but it turns out that that shouldn't be considered a permanent thing because you know eight months from now maybe they use the same uh instance id and it creates another dodec that has the same ripple instance id and so you you have to be able to rejoin a dodag that has the same instance id and so for that purpose i define the new configuration variable that after that has elapsed uh the node is allowed to rejoin uh dodag with the same instance id"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:28:00",
    "text": "so that was just um sort of an oversight on the original uh specification i mentioned before that i created um some terminology for write route request instance id and route reply instance id these are i'm sure quite non-controversial and so that they are they make the document more accurate to use that terminology oops wait a minute uh okay continued okay so um uh we uh it was noted that um uh i the terminology in the aodv uh ripple document said it had a complete source route well in a way that's not really true it just has uh the addresses in this address vector that are needed to go uh from top by hub uh back from to from the source to the destination so that's that's all we needed to say and we didn't need to say complete so i changed the definition of source routing for that and then there's a figure four uh shows the border router and that without any further description it is illustrative but it might give somebody the impression that aodb requires a border router which it does not so i explicitly put in language that the figure does not imply that odb requires a border router there was some discussion about how do you select a value for the l field and so i put that almost directly from the discussion on the mailing list and um so for storing mode it's pretty easy to imagine that people are the routers uh keep track of the"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:30:02",
    "text": "um next hop information and so on and the rank uh but uh for uh non-story mode uh so the route request instance is a is a data structure that's maintained by uh intermediate nodes so that they have information about routing back to the origin node and um uh so you that uh so then if we did not say that the intermediate nodes had to keep track of the address vector for for non-storing mode but if they don't keep track of the address vector then they don't necessarily have an easy way to make use of the symmetric route back to the uh to the r8 node uh oh yes and another uh important point for nodes that have multiple interfaces uh the address of the interface that the route request comes in on is possibly different than the address of the interface that the route reply comes in on and so both of those are needed for um for uh for for getting the address vector correct uh it was requested that we produce uh some interesting reading material for details about evaluating link of symmetry does uh many different ways that links can be asymmetric and and evaluating determining that is in some cases non-trivial it's not within the scope of the aodb specification to to specify how you uh evaluate the asymmetry but uh there is uh it's it's an implementation detail that"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:32:01",
    "text": "is important and then lastly i i used the route request instance id and route reply instance id and some additional language in the gratuitous route reply uh subsection to clarify the details and i think it's much clearer now so uh so that um the the last round of comments as i mentioned came in around last march and caused a lot of very detailed analysis on our part for the protocol and that the final analysis uh turned out to be very beneficial for clarifying parts of the specification and and so it's much appreciated uh and we're still looking for uh additional a review for draft revision number 14. but as of uh uh this moment i believe that all the issues have been resolved and i as on as mentioned i plan to go into github and uh and and make that and actually resolve the issues there so um so i believe the document's in really really good shape and uh ready for last call and i guess that's the end of my presentation thank you charlie very very informative presentation and it's good to see all the work that has been done on the document in the recent weeks i know there are a few people who said they would need some time to respond namely comrades that they would need some time to"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:34:01",
    "text": "check your responses and respond back if needed but giving given some time i think we can converge on this any comment from the audience i see no hands shown okay thank you well yep yes so i just wanted to mention that uh i'm not likely to stay on this call for very long because we're we're going to the airport today and it's a busy time so i think i will drop off the call but um i am very happy to receive any uh uh any questions or comments by email and i look forward to going to last call whenever we can thank you very much and thank you for taking the time to join this call very much appreciate it you're very welcome okay so how do i get control back okay let's share again um pascal are you ready yes yes so you're presenting right how do you want me to i can pass ctrl here you go"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:36:03",
    "text": "okay neat so um yeah so this is about the projected dow draft which is called root initiated routing state it really means that the root is in control of establishing uh i would say t e path inside the ripple domain now it might be that the root is doing that on behalf of a controller of any sort but we are using ripple uh and a very similar protocol to normal ripple operations so um it's it's something the the piece that is being controlled by this rfc and this draft is only the ripple piece and whatever happens between that controller and the ripple route is is not the subject so as a reminder the different objects that we are manipulating um there are two main objects one of them is uh what we call a truck and the truck is a non-storing dotted line multi-path so it's a it's a deal dag but expressed as as a non-strict source routing so it's dotted line and the um the hops between two dots in the dotted line uh are a segment the segment must be fully straight so basically you can see it as a skeleton that is built using non-storing and then the lines between the skeleton are installed as segments which are stored and this applies to the main geodag which is expected to be non-storing and we need that because we need more topology information at the root which is available in non-story mode but not a variable in story mode so we expect the main deal deck to be non-story and we can already make that main geodag quote-unquote dotted line so that in the source rotator you have just a loose"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:38:01",
    "text": "indication of the hops in which case you already need segments but for this main geode so that's one way of using the draft to basically enable to compress the source routing header in non-storing mode by installing very local storing mode segments which would basically complete the dots the other way to use it is to install i would call that overlays so so local geodags if you like so it's not a odb it's another way of installing them these are geodex that are within the main geodac just for a shortcut between a and b quote unquote and so again you can use it you can use non-storing mode to install the the track so the dotted line multipath and then uh complete the dotted line with source with storing mode segments so this is pretty much what we we showing here the signaling is very very similar to the normal repo a track which is not the main geodag is still a ripple instance it's just a local instance which is owned by the ingress but once you're inside this instance this overlay you can figure that it's the mostly the ripple operation as you know them which happen um so i listed their number of rules they already presented in interest of time we we won't go through all of them but basically non-stirring mode to build the track it's the loose diode and then storing mode to to install the segments between the dotted the dots so we had we had quite a bit of reviews um on this draft so the first very big review was uh the one by tourist and on draft 21 and that caused us you know to help a reader which is not really aware of what we've done we basically reorganized the document quite a bit and"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:40:01",
    "text": "that was the the biggest of tallest comments obviously there are technical comments etc but the big thing he told us is oh please made it more readable for somebody who is not really within the group all the time and so do things in certain order so people read serially from beginning to end can understand so we did that and we moved a lot of examples uh earlier in the document so you know what to expect when you go to the gory details then that was michael's review thank you so much michaelas here here uh then uh two drafts actually to under lee's review and finally we got ramos um harris review which is the one you know that was not yet presented at the royal beating so i have a little bit more details a lot of what he asked was clarification so we explained that the track is overlay we explain uh that what you find in the vr information option the vr information option is the equivalent of the transit but with multi-hop so but when you install this track of the segments you need to install multiple hubs so the messaging is still a dao it's a projected dao but instead of having just a non-storing [Music] tio to transit information option then you get a vr so it's you can see it as a multi-hop transit it's really a good way of saying it and finally uh ramos provided me the the dfs for for a number of typos so thank you so much ramos for that and as the chair said the the document is undergoing group let's go um if you've not done your markup last call yet your review please consider in particular if we're missing status codes you know your flows that you know you would think should be documented stuff like that flows that you should we should document things like that and yes i i really welcome more more reviews but i already acknowledged that"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:42:01",
    "text": "we had a good number of them and that's pretty much it purchased i'm very sorry not to be at the atf it cost me a lot and just not this not just role but as you know six low we have this we have to handle multicast document between round six low and i would have liked to be there for that discussion and many other stuff actually but yeah i won't be there thank you for scanning no worries make good use of the tools to work remotely um it's a long week and and you can't stay in middle of the night every day and work during the day so so it's i can't promise hey john you know i'm i'm not a late person personally i have a very hard time to stay awake late so i really get that promise yeah never mind when i said remotely it didn't mean synchronous it could can be asynchronous using emails or stuff don't worry any comments on this draft anybody that is willing to provide a review and didn't have time to do it so far but it's planning on doing one so we we need to know what's coming up camera go ahead oops yes yeah okay when would you expect this review to arrive because i could provide the review but probably somewhere late summer would it be okay or is it too late already what is late summer uh like second half of uh of september sorry"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:44:03",
    "text": "yeah just asking if it's too late then a review is always good conrad for the one thing even if if we are in the asg space i mean you can always give me a review to the mailing list but i don't believe that we can hold the document for three months it doesn't mean that we're not account for your review please review the latest which is published when we when we go through asg what i do usually is i publish every time i get reviews so the next reviewer will always review based on the previous reviewer reviewers work so i don't republish bank bank bank and so if you just if the day you want to review just pick the latest one and if you have questions please use the main mailing list and i will appreciate it anyway okay then if i find time then that that would be a late summer if nothing pops up and nothing else okay all right all right yeah i concur i think we want to submit to asg before that but again it's not done once we've submitted to asg so if you're still welcome thank you so much for volunteering okay okay conrad says our turn to present when the slides are and in the meantime the about the sixth law multicast document is going to be uh deal uh in the sixth law but it's going to be as well um last call share withdrawal so have to pass role uh a probation basically to be able to be published so just be uh having consideration this that we're going to do like joint working group class call for circle"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:46:00",
    "text": "multicast thank you okay okay so sorry for for my voice i'm hopefully recovering from some illness but sorry so i would like to present uh this draft about ironic deed which is about border router detection uh it has been recently adopted by recently like february um so basically uh the aim of my presentation is just to to sort of remind what what problem uh protocol solves and what the proposed solution is and try to inspire some a new discussion uh so first of all why why why consider rbr crashes they play central role in low power and lossy networks typically the hardware that is used and also the software is typically more involved than that of a constraint node and usually they require a tethered power supply which is hard to provision many deployments at least from my experience so how does uh handling a dodge route look like so we have a god here we have like preferred parents uh indicated by arrows and alternative let's say links which indicate neighbors uh which are the dashed lines the nodes are assigned trunks and so on so whenever a border router fails um what happens is that in practice all links to this border router from this border router are down as well so in ripple we don't have like an explicit node failure detection so in fact uh"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:48:00",
    "text": "nodes rely on neighbor discovery to detect failures of individual links so in order to handle this failure the nodes have to detect that all the links to the route have failed and in principle they have to adopt in finite ranks which means that they are unable to reach the border router what happens in practice so if you take a look at implementations open source ones also some of them have still major bugs and upon a failure of a dota code they enter some chaotic state with an explosion of control traffic some are better in a sense that they may not detect bugs but at least they the protocol doesn't get any worse than it was before the failure and some some are correct but uh and in fact ripo correctly handles the group assuming that it has like a working label discovery protocol but this procedure takes time and traffic and it happens because um this happens because all links to the depth border router have to be detected uh even if there is one link that is considered to be up then the neighbor will advertise across the border router and other nodes may not choose this neighbor as an ancestor with product which will still have some root advertised the another problem is that the detection of crashed links is typically reactive to safe traffic energy whatever so this means that it may take a while in principle you have to use that leak in order to detect that it has failed it has crashed and learning that actually all links"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:50:00",
    "text": "to the rules have are down is also slow because what happens is that the nodes will try to do local repair so they will try to switch parents and so on uh the process because they have inconsistent knowledge uh some loops can be formed so uh you will have many trickle timer assets and all this let's say this this imagined behaviors they contribute to the latency of detecting the crash uh so what what is rnfd it's root node failure detector it's an additional algorithm uh it works in parallel to repo its goal is to minimize time and traffic of the technical crash of rbr and some measurements that we made latency is reduced even by an order of magnitude and traffic including data traffic and control traffic can be a fewer time less so what are the main design principles so first of all the detection of the monitoring of links between between constraint modes and border router is coordinated probing all links is avoided which means that if sufficiently many links are observed to be down then a conclusion is made that it must be done without probing some other links this is to avoid some some long tail of detection uh then proactive checking of links can also be triggered the situation changes and the protocol the algorithm in general tries to maximize the independence of rupees this was the original both it may be questioned but but this was the original um so the basic idea is that there are two types of nodes some sentiments that"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:52:02",
    "text": "there are some of the roots neighbors can be all selected must basically monitor the status of their links to the root and acceptors or any other nodes in the algorithm so here you can see that these are the possible sentiments uh not all of them have to actually use anything else uh and the algorithm just from from from a very high level perspective works in a way that individual sentinels detect crashes of their links with the background and then they exchange this information in a new option it's rnd option through this link local repeat messages online dials possibly the iss and then based on the number of uh sentiments that believe and the links to the root to be down a consensus is made the route has crashed um so the main problem that uh rna dissolve is how to make uh essentially these consensus um so what's the status of the draft so it was adopted by the working group as i said at the end of the very beginning of march uh two notes that uh two things to note actually one the conclusion was that the topic was important both the router crashes but then the solution would not be the final one so so rnfd would not be the final solution or it has to be modified um that was the conclusion that we don't say preclude any changes to the product it may be changed so my question is now how it should be changed if at all or how to approach [Music] making the project mature michael made a suggestion uh that we could adopt the draft of this experimental draft and"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:54:01",
    "text": "perhaps work on this later and pascal earlier had some remarks about um about using the dota crude itself for in fact monitoring itself so we could talk about this more but well i could also use feedback from from other people so um so basically this code is also to somehow advertise the draft so that other people could join and the contributors are welcome so it's pretty open to that uh so that's it on my side on time michael i see you raised signs so probably you want to comment clarify my suggestion of the document is already adopted as the working group document but i'm saying we publish it as an rfc that we may get a little less friction if we go through as an experimental and i think that um well i i think that's a just a useful thing to say this is an interesting thing uh whether or not it's it proves to be um useful in the field is the point but i'm just saying that may be a little bit of a lower friction a way to publish um not that i i think the work is unfinished but i think it just might may be easier to go that way but um that's really up to your side and maybe thank you for the clarification uh pass skull do you want to comment on your remark well that we really would need a a white ball but [Music] it might be that the network is not"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:56:02",
    "text": "broadcast between different uh first half developers from from the root in which case um it might be that they might even the worst case it's a hub and spoke thing where none of the first hops see any other first half and so it's very hard for them to get to a byzantine general agreement if they don't see enough of the peers to make any decision but the decision is made not by the first hops it's made by the other nodes so if there is any any path between this first hop so for instance you have a star that is somehow connected at the very let's say edges uh then then you will still have consensus so only if you have like really disjoint paths disjoint subtrees essentially these joint networks that are that whose only connection is the dodak root uh then this algorithm won't work uh but then you have to rely on ripple itself which is probably not bad in this case because since there is only one path then it is very likely that the failure will be detected first yeah so what if most of the geodetic loses connection to the route but some of it still it retains and at some point ripple would fix that but is it possible that this work kills the geodag even if the route is still there yeah so if there is just one connection so this is just a probabilistic algorithm right so um if you have like say thousand nodes and say thousand one hot neighbors or 100 one hot neighbors and just one neighbor has a link to the dodak root then yeah this algorithm will actually kill the"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:58:01",
    "text": "dodge but i would agree i would argue that this case is quite desirable because if let's say 99 of let's say root's former children lost their links to the root then the dota should probably be reconstructed from scratch because it looks now completely differently so killing it and issuing a new dark version because in the protocol the dota crude would notice that it's alive and has some link to some other note so it will introduce some uh some new deluxe version and the version will be built hopefully according to the new links so uh i would say that this is a desirable situation like if if 90 let's say 50 of your links failed to go that route then should look completely differently at this point i mean yeah it makes sense i'm just i'm just trying to shake the design for uh race conditions yeah i appreciate that and like you know as if the the first top can talk to one another and see that the root is still there even if their children think it's not i mean if they if they can still talk through the root it means the root is still there so it's like uh it's it's like deciding that somebody is dead without asking him and if you ask the guy are you dead and he says no well that's probably true no but okay so um so even even so uh so so now now the situation is as follows that two guys can talk through the dodge route right but they don't that they are unable to to reach each other or what is the scenario yeah the scenario is some some notes down the diode cannot reach the root for some reason or they think they can't but maybe it has been restored up there or whatever but but the the first top notes they can talk to one another of the other route"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:00:00",
    "text": "and you can ping one another the other route and so they are kind of monitoring implicitly that the route is their life because they cannot ping one another and so if if below them their children tell them the route is dead well so the children can only tell them that the is that based on their own observational say their peers so this means that sufficiently many of these one hops don't actually don't actually see the root and in this case and in this case what happens is that if you can talk to the root then through the root then the route will also seat those guys that can probably see him and it will also receive information that many notes you know it's it's still the decision by some to kill something else so it's a dangerous decision so i'm really trying to shake it because that would be unpredictable the problem is they won't kill it so if the root notices that something let's say fishy happens then it can react like okay i will just reveal the product with a new version exactly yeah okay sorry i need to the work and so we are over time uh what i gather is that we have uh food for the thoughts for further technical discussions um and i'd love to be able to discuss live however i understand the idf 114 is not going to be the right opportunity for that so let's try to have this discussion on the mailing list as much as possible and then we have an interim meeting that will take place end of august or early september probably um so let's try to advance that technical discussion so that we"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:02:00",
    "text": "we converge on that in sne any other suggestion uh yeah i agree with that um i think i think it's an interesting topic to for the millionaires and even if the presenters cannot be into the idea we just can write the topic if some additional people can comment on this when we decide that attack is harsh even when they have connections with another sentinels so yeah it's good good topic and yes i think the the the entering could be in september after summer so people can take vacations and it will be probably in the time zone that fits most participants we had open the floor on the agenda within 10 seconds any pressing issue that needs to be mentioned going once going twice no pressing issues so the meeting is over thank you very much for joining thank you very much and hope to see you at philadelphia for those who can go or can attend remotely and otherwise on the mailing list thank you for the good work as to very good progress thank you thanks a lot thank you bye bye bye"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:04:06",
    "text": "you"
  }
]
