[
  {
    "startTime": "00:00:26",
    "text": "into things yes I think it\u0027s hello guys it\u0027s time to start so this is the best session in Bangkok thank you for being here so first of all of a not well so please read it if you are still not aware about it so we have started to send the blue sheet so please sign them and ensure we are getting back to 2\u0027s at the end of the meeting so we have now officially a new secretary for the best working group which is a monkey Manon so thank you for your help and now please welcome in and welcome and so one point that has been raised by a Martina our ad is that some of the drafts are still not choosing via new requirement language templates so please ensure that all of your draft now are using this new flavor of requirement from which template which is into the RFC\u0027s 8174 which cry-face via ambiguity between usage of lowercase and uppercase requirement keyword request must not and so on so please use this new template so this is our hangender it\u0027s not completely full but it\u0027s quite it\u0027s quite still quite busy so we will take a lot of time to review as working up statutes and documents and we will have some documents about evpn OAM some more redundant multi test source for EPN a new service type interface for a VPN secure VPN zone virtual lab and yeah yes all that we have they are together yeah I will not "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:03:28",
    "text": "read or okay ok milestones unfortunately we had no time to work on it so it\u0027s still completely out of date and we have to do some homework on it but for the next IGF I think we\u0027ll be able to to clean it up and set up appropriate milestones so stage some date we don\u0027t have any new RC since last IDF however we have several documents that are in the RFC editor q2 documents are still pending because of a mr. F so we can overlay still waiting for the tunnel encapsulation draft which i think is under shepard review now in idea is it one of you are here okay so please make it progressing fast and we have another one which is a prefix advertisement which is a really important work force which is still missing the intercept net forwarding draft so ali you have some homework to do because you still have to update the document based on we were last working or plastic or so on it\u0027s very urgent to update it by the end of a wiki the wiki and honestly it\u0027s really urgent to close this work so so increment and we have also the last me be\u0027 draft about m VPN and layer 2 layer 3 VPN which suggests that are also in the AFC editor cube we have also some documents and AG review so will it really seamless integration so Martin I think you have sent some current on it but you have not send it to the list and I don\u0027t think that you have received any reply speaking yeah so you just made me realize that wasn\u0027t surprised of not having any reply because I think you\u0027re the author Ali and the main author so I was just waiting on Ali to wake up so maybe three months for the client so "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:06:28",
    "text": "maybe in six so the affliction framework I think Jorge as updated the draft I\u0027m not sure if you are I plead with the update or if something is still missing yeah Martina again yeah Jorge and I spoke about that I\u0027m happy with the draft and I need to simply push the button and cuz I need to that call thank you and I\u0027ll be doing the last one optimized aya soon yeah according to Adrian\u0027s definition Thank You Martin and we have the explicit tracking and VPN draft which is under our I\u0027ll share with you a couple of comments have been made so I think there is a we need some update of the documents to accommodate yeah comments from Iasi so we don\u0027t have any documents that are ready now to go to a ESG however we still have some documents that asked you was at our post watching hopeless core so again we intercept net forwarding so I think this isn\u0027t working hopeless : this one and we still have some comments so now it\u0027s really urgent word who updated so please do it by the end of the month we did also working hopeless : his best service training draft we didn\u0027t have the full history on this one and it seems that there is an old command from him set has done been taken into account in the document so yeah if you work in a place called failed I don\u0027t know we if you want to to say something about it and it\u0027s critical for you or or not I think there were several comments which were rather critical and for me to progress because there is this work is I think very useful in a very simple service training I think does a number of good things but I think there is a lot of coaches when you implement this which should in my view be reflected in that draft which are not there I think the comments were mainly around those things hmm I think your comments are really also maybe it would be good to send an email while detailing or pointing to so he may love chives so to simplify the work of Yoda because yes I completely agree that it\u0027s "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:09:28",
    "text": "time to cross the service walk and various implementation we have also the GPS multihoming draft so I think there is an update which is required based on and Vivi pls control flags so the Shepherd review has been done so document has been updated but we are waiting for the right up so I don\u0027t know Mac you are in the room unfortunately not so he has to provide the writer but at least the review has been as been done and we have free documents that are ready for working up last call for so fast failover I\u0027m just wondering if it\u0027s requires a new revision before we do be working on PLAs Cole I think there was a comment raised by I think it was by Alice at last idea that need to be taken into account for the working on pleskot is done so when do you plan to do it so we have three new working documents so the flow direction of advancing for evpn and the vehicle segments for Vienna we have possibly three documents that are all ready for working up adoption the MVP and yang because we need to adapt it there was already a poor that failed but a new poll in it needs to be done we are wondering if the LSP ping draft and the ping proxy draft are ready for working hope adoption so if the authors are there could you just say us if you still think that it\u0027s ready or or not do we have the offer of LSP ping and proxy draft yeah so is your document ready for working up adoption or do you still have some update to do before I know it\u0027s ready it\u0027s ready to be ready for workgroup adoption I mean okay cool okay this is Sammy I\u0027m a coach around the draft G inverse EVP analyst beeping okay thank you and we have an ongoing adoption board for VP and aggregation level it friends until next Tuesday I think not this one that so week after we already have a pretty good level of "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:12:28",
    "text": "support on this draft but don\u0027t hesitate to raise any concern or or raise also your support on this draft so working group document status we have some issue to get some progress update only working group documents especially when we have some sessions like this one where there is only one working document they presented so what we would like is to better track these documents and make them progressing faster so what we are proposing is that each editor of a working group document send us just a couple of lines periodically about document status what we need to ensure what we need to to get islam what is the status of the document is where what is also pending actions and especially is very blocking point where you need some help to make the document progressing and we want also to get your timelines so we completely understand that everyone is busy with a day to day activity but please set timelines and and make all your possible to to get this time my stone achieved anything the end of Cisco Systems speaking as a working group chair if you really think you\u0027re gonna get the editors to do this on a bi-monthly basis is this just we would love to but I think we will need to chase the editors to do this for sure so we would love to get this every two months if possible so this means before each ATF meeting but also in-betweener so possibly in January March for ATF May July for ATF September or November okay it\u0027s not a lot of work just two or three lines tellings what\u0027s your plan and so on so it will help us 12 the statutes on what is going on and we are also able to help you if there is something that is blocking or possibly you don\u0027t have time to do something yeah so the question is do you think it\u0027s possible on your side or do you think it it\u0027s useless what what\u0027s your opinion Martin speaking I\u0027m not an author so that\u0027s easy "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:15:30",
    "text": "and this confirming that Papa\u0027s also it doesn\u0027t come from me I think that\u0027s a good goal to have and I would like to encourage authors to participate as much as they can to that initiative I think we can discuss the the frequency and so on and what you really expect but that falls in the discussion of the useless the usefulness or uselessness of milestones and how do we track alternatively working Gopal guys more like a project management type of doing things so I think it\u0027s worth to try and I\u0027d be delighted to see their output of that initiative lower Anderson we are doing something similar in MPLS though we request reports for each meeting not like this by monthly stuff our the conclusion or our understanding of it the process here is that if you have a document that we don\u0027t have any problem this is very easy we get reports like four or five days before the meeting and we can put them on in the slides the documents that we have problem with nothing happens no reports no nothing so I think you will get into the same problem here so if you have very small number of problematic documents then you can interact with one or two of the authors to get reports kind of implicit in remain male responses and you can kind of create the two liner at yourself hmm which should we are doing in MPLS sometimes so I don\u0027t think this is too much work for the author but it you actually creating a lot of work for yourself that\u0027s true I agree with ro I think that it will add a lot of additional work on your side but that might be part of being a chair and I think the the the first bullet point of the goals is the more important one so that you you have a better vision on the target to date and the readiness of a document so you can better track that I should be fair also in the MPLS is not "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:18:30",
    "text": "the working group shares really that actually take the burnt of this it\u0027s actually tarik the tools does all the work prior to the meetings to get all the reports in so you need a very active secretary if you want to do that okay so let\u0027s try and then we\u0027ll see an adjust if if there is something going going wrong so we you "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:36:30",
    "text": "Keeney connected to the receivers there\u0027s this term called the single flow core group it\u0027s basically a Marcus group address where all the traffic no matter where it is from from s1 s2 or even s 100 it\u0027s basically for the same flow same content also the s1 or s2 could be the same address or not the there are two modes of operation here we could have warm standby or hot standby and in case of the warm standby we have this primary upstream pe1 and that backup upstream p2 here so for the one standby solution basically the Pease connected to the redundant sources they would do a election to decide which of the P will be actually sending traffic into eBay PN and notice that it\u0027s possible that two redundant sources they actually may be sending traffic into the same PE in that case the chosen PE will actually decide on which of the attachment Circus it will accept traffic and fork so that\u0027s the one step - solution the hot pans hot standby solution is that some both keys coming through the sources will send traffic into Internet network but each downstream key were independent independently decide from which ingress feeds traffic will be accepted and forward it on to the end receiver so there here are some very high-level details on how warm standby works if you look at the picture we have upstream P\u0027s p1 p2 there they are configured to know that group 1 is a single for flow group notice that the sources could be connected or different PDS or not connected as a different piece so for the action piece to let each other ins know that they are connected to the redundant sources we\u0027re using this SPSA rod selector pins e8e routes and indicating deaths this is for a single flow group and they are important by all the peas and and the upstream he is they will receive each "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:39:31",
    "text": "the SPD route from each other and they were to a DF erection notice that the traditionary the DF reduction is using the ethernet signals and the purpose of the even a segment routes is to let each other know that these peas are on the same segment so that the amount of the election here whether you\u0027re not using Ethernet segment Moskva we\u0027re using the S Pen zeros to that all those upstream he know that son these are the peace among which you want to do the reduction so again the p1 p2 do it was choose one person except traffic and send into the net network in there 14 states they will add some RPF checking so that\u0027s on the children\u0027s folder if you have multiple as attachment circuits Calculon through those sources then only Wilder basis will be used to accept traffic and for HUD stand by if you look at the picture we have the red and blue flows post peas will receive the traffic and both will send into the into PB p.m. and the dancer in pea the workouts that they work at duplicate traffic but they will be able to tell which copy of the traffic they need to forward to their receivers here the ingress P doctoring piece will again will seek a signal to the downstream piece that certain groups are single flow groups and they also in they will use the S Pen sea routes for their purpose in that pians SP in the route they will identify the internal segments on which the sources are so that\u0027s how the downstream PE can use can can can use the SPI routes to make each one to make an independent selection on which even a segment to accept traffic for example if you look at the PU one it\u0027s connected to two Ethernet segment um p1 is connected to a once Ethernet segment we call it SES 1 and P 2 is connected through SES to actually they were now they both are connected to a multi Hameed Idina segments so in each s pins are out "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:42:35",
    "text": "they were leased post sick segments at identifiers and then bounced from ps3 was say that ok the g1 is a single flow group so i would decide that I want to accept traffic if it\u0027s coming from es 1 instead of es 2 and the data packets will carry the the ESI label that identifies incoming Idina segments notice that this is already existing procedure in the eBay PMO dijo means submitter spread horizon the data data packets or the carries their label and we are only adding additional foreign semantics so that some if the traffic is coming from the expected source segments we will accept the traffic otherwise we don\u0027t so that\u0027s the basic idea I\u0027m going to sleep so the details here so we want to seek your feedback comments and in particular how to encode she sews identifiers yes Jeffrey a couple of questions first on the activist and boy yeah basically the previous is fine one stand by once then yeah with the won\u0027t stand by basically what we are doing we are doing DF election for a source for a Eskimo ji for a specific group yeah yeah yeah TF reduction for a specific for a particular group among all the other entities so even given that we have the capability to do we\u0027ve extended the F election to do per flow basis I am wondering basically can be leveraged that per fellow DF election mechanism in here given that the DF election in here is for the ingress traffic so that is one comment if we can leverage the careful of the election the reason here we need to use this as pinzhi routes is to to let the piece know that this popular group is a single flow group because not every group is a single flow group there are other groups "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:45:36",
    "text": "that are not for the single photo group at all so we need to have some identification that saying that this is a single flow group so we choose to use SP NZ right what\u0027s the is but basically you need to identify the group and so for here is a group yes and for this one categorize this group as sfg yes then when you do that you can do the same thing that okay for these a specific group run the DF election I think the difference the reason I\u0027m saying that it needs to be extended the current EF election is because the current EF election is limited to a given Ethernet segment whereas this can it spans across multiple Ethernet sickness because it can sit on different BSS right today\u0027s TF election is as basic use even a second man browse to try to know the set of keys to the election from here were used as pin 0 out for that purpose otherwise is the same right and there was a certain point there was a notion of the hierarchical es that spans across multiple years so that maybe should be considered and on this front a still currently up to this point as PMC were used for the on the receiver side when the receiver indicated they have an interest they were using the s-pen cities and the as estimate route is on the esta from the flat receiver side but s pins are out are sent from the upstream piece and we are just using it for for the purpose of identifying and on the active active we will need to let time to be over comments as well because we may be out of time I can follow up offline and stick with us so just a solution work for SSM it wasn\u0027t quite clear to me here it does not matter where there is SSM on now basically we are just saying we\u0027re just saying that if you have a group and you\u0027re sending traffic into that group then we\u0027ve considered that it\u0027s for single flow so in fact for each source you can see consider consider this SSM but it\u0027s just that when we when we consider that these two out of actually the same we\u0027re using the starchy concept here okay yeah I would say this looks sort of reasonable to me my only concern is maybe that it requires of course certain deployment that it chooses your group addresses I mean not every dementia close use the "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:48:37",
    "text": "same group address so I was wondering if you have forth about some way instead of signaling that you know you have maybe two different desk emojis that form like a redundancy group or something like that we thought about that in in fact initially with s1 she would ever has s once you and an s2 gg1 a spin 0 we figured that you have those two roles with different route keys it makes it harder for for the software to to group them together so we said using the starship and then man Akana actually has a good point that you can just use source prefixes for example s1 s2 they are different but you use advertised as pins about using s slash prefix lens that way you still have the same route key but you can have you can use the same group for different floats okay yeah so I get it\u0027s know it\u0027s sort of like a between you know complexity in the signaling yep and whether you can we have some requirements for the yes Eskimo gene choices yep but I see all this makes it easier sure no unfortunately we are out there saying sorry next pick your ally oh okay so in this presentation we are defining new service interface type so before going to what exactly it does maybe it\u0027s good to talk about what exactly we need or what are we expecting so some of the deployments they need to have multiple subnets within single bitch domain when we say multiple subnets so they will be differentiated by VLANs and now if you see seven four three two defines three type of service interface and these three types are we land-based service interface and here we have one-to-one mapping with respect to bridge domain and VLAN we learn bundle service interface so here we have multiple VLANs within a domain but if you see traffic is expected to be coming tagged and that\u0027s how we are able to get the right port and in case of wheel and aware bundle services we we have multiple bridge tables but the actual requirement was to have single bridge table and "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:51:37",
    "text": "having still having multiple subnet but one more question comes here that why what is the motivation for anyone to do that so one of the motivation will be will be simplicity because if you want to have hundreds of subnets and if you end up having 100 I arm interface basically you have to have those many configurations and you have to manage IP addresses so many other things and just to understand the problem statement so if you see here P 1 and P 2 they are multihomed and they are multi whom are active and if you see I am showing different color of subnets here and in the same yes so if P one learns about Mac of h1 and today we just do when we send my crowd so p2 will receive the macro format 1 and P 3 will also receive the same macro now if let\u0027s think about the case if traffic is coming from the IRB interface so if you if you are getting traffic from the IRB interface you don\u0027t have any VLAN tag there how are you going to associate that which subnet basically Mac 1 belongs to because P 2 doesn\u0027t know about it today when we we send the macro we don\u0027t send Ethernet tag and a similar way it\u0027s for Mac 2 also now one of the question which comes why can\u0027t we just send the ether tag in the macro so if we do so what is going to happen if P 1 sends macro with ether tag P 3 thinks that the downstream P they are operating in weeland aware mode whereas it is not so it is going to create confusion there so the solution for this will be so if you see what what what exactly our requirement is we want to make sure that when T 1 is sending any mac route the multi hole Pierce should be able to know that which AC it belongs to which a see this makarov belongs to but P 3 doesn\u0027t care so this information is supposed to be used by only multi-home peer and to do so we are using a new extended community and this extended community is called so it will carry the attachment circuit ID and this attachment circuit ID extended community has to go for unicast sorry Mac IP route and route X 7 at eight which is multicast so just to go back why exactly we need it for multicast so if you if you see let us say host h1 sends IGMP join and I jump we join reach to p1 p1 will be able to create correct "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:54:39",
    "text": "multicast ape but when it sinks the Rao - ptoo ptoo only knows about Eskimo G but it doesn\u0027t know that which interface actually join had come from and that is a reason that even for multicast routes we need to send this extended community and attachment circuit which is since when you originate Mac route Mac route is not only for the multi home Pia where as it goes to remote piece as well so remote we must ignore attachment circuit extended community whereas only multi whom we are should be using it so with respect to control plane operation so let\u0027s think about what is going to happen for the loop route so when he learns local local route it must attach new extended community with Mac route and same thing with multicast routes which is route pipe seven and eight at the remote side so the more for the remote route you could you could be one of the two role either you are remotely are you or multihomed peer if your remote Pia you must ignore it in the Mac route you you must not ignore the Mac route whereas you must ignore the extended community information and remote remote P is not going to get multicast route so for multicast route there is nothing to do with respect to remote ease for multi home P for multicast routes you must set your s comma G R star comma G association with appropriate subnet and even the same thing for my crowd when you learn any Mac you have to create association with correct attachment circuit our subnet or VLAN for data plane operation for non multi-home peer so with respect to non multi-home PF there is no change whatever procedure has been defined in say one four three two it it will be still it remains same data plane operation at multi-home PF so now so there are two ways if traffic is coming from the see nothing changes whatever is a procedure has been defined in seven four three two it remains same and unknown unicast packet must follow the same procedure what has been defined in seven four three two and with new defined service interface type or known known unicast packet now when we do Matt lookup we are going to get old plus V 9 and 4 and with respect to multicast traffic known multicast traffic we are going to get the appropriate a see where this traffic has to go out so that said so any question Stephanie Lipsky from Hawaii speaking as working group member what is the value "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:57:39",
    "text": "compared to V very unaware of interface type you mean to say basically the gist of this is this solution is intended for the hardware or low cost hardware that have a limitation that they cannot have one bridge domain per subnet because up to this point we\u0027re talking about villain aware bundled service that we can ask we can allocate one bridge domain one bridge table per subnet there are hardware with that limitation and for those hardware we are saying okay you can use one bridge domain use it for a lot of subnet however there is a caveat and that didn\u0027t come across clearly the catch is if you do that then the MAC addresses needs to be a unique across all the subnets which poses the requirement basically that is very good for the managed series that the operators can manage their MAC addresses so for those pieces and this is the requirement that have come that have come to me that the operators saying that we can manage or see is we can make sure that the MAC addresses are unique can you solve our SQL problem and this solution is water thank you yeah I do have one question so is the same I have one question what about bomb traffic from remove be are you gonna send it to obedience bum bum traffic yeah so yeah it will follow seven four three two no no no so you have one bridge okay and you have one interface connected to the bridge right on that interface you have many villains yes so now we receive bomb traffic okay from Z remove so are you gonna send one copy for every villain on that P and on that interface so this solution is for the IRB for the where the for the unicast for the IRB basically when the packet comes through the IRB interface you just send it to the to the proper AC right and the AC is in here is defined Sevilla each VLAN is a nice so are you talking about the bomb traffic or mantra so for IRB is very single how would I figure out which event I have to send it said image is not sending me again so very good so this is for the IRB case that you terminated at the IRB interface you don\u0027t pass the art from one key to the "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:00:41",
    "text": "other in the IRB case the art gets terminated locally no no proxy this is with the IRB every PE terminate start because the bridging is done the inter subnet right is the inter sub nurse right you will have you would have you be a gateway or subnet unit yes any caste okay thank you secure VPN all right this draft is about how to secure connectivity among the end station for VPN starting with the problem statement that as we know e between has become very prevalent solution in the DC Espeon enterprise network and for DC and enterprise application especially when we talk about the DC interconnect and enter PI Enterprise connectivity over van consumer want secure connectivity with a VPN when you have that connectivity over Internet what are the requirements the requirements is to be able to do protection of the tenants layer 2 and layer 3 data and control traffic by IP say so both data and control traffic at both l2 and l3 protection of unique and tenants unicast and multicast data traffic using BGP to do point to multi-point signaling to set up point-to-point IPSec si and that is for the a scaling purposes because if we\u0027re going to use ID for a call Ike is a point-to-point then basically you\u0027re gonna need in terms of the message exchanges is ons square whereas when you use BGP point-to-multipoint signaling you reduce data skill too or be able to support a different level "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:03:41",
    "text": "of granola teas which I get to the next slide and also be able to support either a single IPSec policy with that defi Hellman group or multiple policies with multiple development groups now what the level of guarantees do we want to support we want to be able to support setting of an IPSec session say among the key Pease to for aggregating all tenants traffic so basically think of it as a single IPSec si between a pair of PE and that tunnel aggregates all the traffic from all the tenants dance mode and the highest level of guarantee then you go to the next level is be able to do it on a pair tenant basis to set up a IPSec tunnel pertinent and if the PE suffers 100 tenants that means you need to set up hundred such tunnels then you go down to the next level of generality for the a VPN we have this notion of the subnet and a tenant can have multiple subnet multiple VLANs so be able to do IP SEC tunnel on a per subnet basis and you can go down the list that okay in case for it a tenant has some workload and I just want to secure connectivity for them for a pair of workload I need to be able to do that and that is done for be able to do it on a pair I P address same thing if you use it if the workload is identified by a MAC address I need or I like to do it based on the MAC address and also last but not least be able to do it on a attachment circuit basis now solution overview this is basically we want to set up a secure control channel which means we want we like to set up a BGP session over IPSec tunnel between PE and RR and between so P n R R we want to have that secure control plane and once we have that then we can use that to do point to multi-point signaling and be able to use that channel between the PNR are to send the parameter the IPSec "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:06:44",
    "text": "parameters needed to set up a tunnel between a pair of PE s so between a pair of PE s we are not doing any pairwise signaling channel we are not using Ike but the security Association is set up between a pair of PE and that reduces the as we mentioned number of the message exchanges from ons square to n and when a PE first comes up and wants to set up an IPSec si between itself and each of the interested remotely it basically generates deafie Hellman pair for each of his intended IPSec security Association and then it distributes these information that the Hellman public value along with new neurons to the other remotely is via there are each receiving PE then uses this data Hellman public number and corresponding ones in creation of the IPSec as a pair just quick note in here before getting into a bit of details that this is there is a framework draft that goes with this draft and that framework giraffe is called controller Ike got presented in the last ITF and at the security working group and that is basically sense of the framework that of how to when you have a controller how you can leverage that controller to do point to multi-point signaling and one of the main area that is covered in that framework draft is the reaching if you need to do the routine what what is the procedure for a king to do it in a view at the point to multi-point signaling as opposed to point-to-point so these draft bills on that and basically in context of the evpn and other VPN solution it says that if I want it defines different level of granularity and it talks about what information you need to send with which of the routes to achieve the level of granularity that you need so in terms of the encapsulation it has it covers two type of encapsulation one IPSec end cap in transport mode without the other UDP header and then another one each other "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:09:46",
    "text": "UDP header the reason for these for the these two type of encapsulation is when you do IP second cap and you do it without the other UDP header then the question is how do you do if you want to do load balancing are you gonna do the load balancing on a peripheral basis because your entropy was used to mean the source port which is no longer visible and if you want to do the net how do you do it and that\u0027s why we have both of them and the second one okay so this is the end cap with the without the author UDP header and the next one is incomplete UDP both of these end caps are standards okay and we are using the standard the second one with the UDP has two UDP header and that can be up the optimization of this is for further study and this is the molasses line this table basically covers what are the different level of generality for what VPN solutions which of them both Roth we need to send for each level of granola tea and bit of which level of guarantee is applicable for what VPN solution some of them are not applicable like a pair Mac their IP is not applicable for VPLS okay this is Linda dumper pretty okay so I have many questions but this one the clarifying question so here you\u0027re talking about between keys right because we have a track about sd1 is really about the CPE and also the zero touch provisioning that required a CPU have private addresses private port so do you see this similar because we also use that BGP to advertise the IP sag okay properties plus the net properties as well so although I use the term PE in here but this is you can refer it as a customer PE okay si - PE I think Eric in his draft he refers to it as C - PE I didn\u0027t wanted to if such clarification is needed we can do it but as you can see these are the basically behaves in a as a PE even though it is in a customer admin domain and so you want to call it C - period that\u0027s why okay so let me sorry but we are out of time actually yeah one comment "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:12:47",
    "text": "speaking as a working group chair so you mentioned the draft from Han and Eric which provide a similar solution no no no actually the Eric\u0027s solution is completely apple and orange is he\u0027s talking about the only similarity is the term C - V everything else is different because because he is this and they\u0027re trying to solve different problem okay this is trying to say that I am gonna be using the BGP and how I am are you gonna be using the BGP which is point-to-multipoint signaling to set up a point-to-point Association that\u0027s the gist of this draft that is not address in our external okay but my point is we don\u0027t want to have two solutions - we need to find something to secure VPNs whatever the VPNs are and we\u0027re free and so on so maybe we did we should come up with a better name to clarify exactly you know what it is or at least the title of it but the two solutions are completely different very very quickly run KL arcus hub we there is a separate work going on on an old VPN at least for l3 VPN ipsec RFC which is already out there which needed to be refreshed as part of as part of tunneling kept strafes so we\u0027re working on it we should chat offline and see if we can make it generic you\u0027re making this on a tunnel and cap so one thing to actually clarify which your traffic person and we can take it offline is how do you prevent the security profile getting leaked out of interest truly - option ABC I\u0027ll take the answer offline okay there is an answer to it okay thank you all right so just a quick comment on a previous draft I\u0027m gonna request for comments on the previous draft on the mailing list because I think it is important to progress that one quickly and I like to take it to the working group so this is a draft hominid spoke in bgp evpn is interesting my draft is presented by someone else and i\u0027m presenting someone else\u0027s job oh yeah yeah so history it got the "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:15:48",
    "text": "presented in first it got presented in the ITF ninety four three years ago and we updated it last year with the bomb procedure jeffrey help with that section and it is in pretty good shape right now and the draft is basically in a nutshell is optimizes the learning in leaf nodes of a data center AKA a sports so currently for a data center a given leaf nodes needs to learn all the MAC and IP addresses of the of the tenant and/or end station in that data center what this solution does it limits it to that node only so this solution is intended to ask al the forwarding tables changes from the previous reve reve zero used we used a local bias method for the split arising filtering of the bomb traffic and in we basically in order to identify the sources port in local bias local bias applies to IP so if you bring it to MPLS the question is how do you identify the you know what mechanism do you use to identify the source PE and we use PE distinguisher label and in this roof in addition to that we added one more mechanism to do that and that is basically using a domain wide label or a global level in that domain which basically for all practical purposes looks like you know acts like a BNI so this Tramp has been around for a few years and I think it is ready for a working group comm any comment who has read the draft ok there Hugh who plans to with the draft okay a few more thank you alright thanks "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:18:50",
    "text": "hi my name is Lacan liberal day with Cisco and I\u0027m here to present the roughly said Bessie VPN at the gateway proto which is about introducing a new load balancing mode to EVP and multihoming so whatever the requirements to support l2 access protocols in European networks for example letting legacy data centers which are running this long list of STP directed derivatives like STP g80 32 mb l ftp MST AG and so on into an EVP n core network the evpn core peas are generally agnostic of what the what\u0027s happening in the access but one thing is certain in this in these use cases is that these european peas do know that the access is running an l2 protocol to break loops which leads us to the the actual requirement list to support these l2 access networks the solution must support must do optimal forwarding at l2 and l3 and support any caste IRB while providing fast convergence and scalability if we go through an overview of the existing two modes of load balancing first off all active all active per 7432 creates a nice EMP at if you look at the picture on the right creates a nice EMP at p3 which in in this topology of the switches a to a to 2d below would create a nice EMP towards the wrong p4 some of the traffic the second issue is it creates isolated switches for the l2 BOM traffic because of the blocking on for example p1 in this case from the DF election and 1/3 of all the TCN popular the propagation of TC NB PDUs is blocked by the sh g filter in the splitter isin filtering the second existing load balancing mode single active similarly creates isolated switches so it creates network segments based on the blocking in red here on p1 and also the TCM propagation in this in single active case is actually blocked by two things both by the the port state the blocking state and by the ESI federation label so the new mode which we\u0027ve coined a single flow active what this mode does is we reuse the same so we create a peering "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:21:51",
    "text": "between p1 and p2 using the same ESI so all the Ethernet segment procedures still applies such as sync and mass withdraw procedures to implement this we have an extension to the ESI label BGP extended community to single this new load balancing mode we we carved up the flags of ESI label into borrowing three bits currently bid zero is all active and bit one is single active so by defining a subfield we now have a single flow active mode and potentially other load balancing modes in the future with this mode the peering PE must now not perform the split horizon filtering - to allow the dl to access protocols to communicate VPD use in some of in some of the access protocol cases and so more importantly here actually is the parent bees have to enable Mac mobility procedures within the same ESI from a remote PE perspective for a remote PE such as p3 here and facing p1 p in the same ESI in single flow active mode p3 has to disable ecmp disable aliasing at both l2 and l3 and operate more in an active backup mode and potentially should pre-programmed the backup mode / Mac entry I\u0027ll say a few brief words on TCN the peering Pease v1p - when they receive a TCN from the l2 access network they both consume it so do a local Mac Mac flush based on this TCN but also propagated to the peering PE via dedicated pseudo wire for which we\u0027ve actually looked at EVP and PPOs which is quite well suited for this on the untagged interfaces or untagged AC sorry and then basically relay this TC and I was forwarded on the EVP MVP WS back into the access for for consumption by the other the other the other access network segment we\u0027ve also considered PE 3 what PE 3 should do with the the TC n that\u0027s received the consume that p1 p2 so p1 and p2 will map this TC n into an extended community which has increased in sequence IDs essentially a Mac flush sequence I extended community in the e VI e ad so that\u0027s the end of my presentation I think the next steps are essentially asking the working group for comments and and feedback on this thank you "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:25:09",
    "text": "good afternoon my name is Sammy Boutros I\u0027m presenting an update for the the best evpn for Geneva yeah the draft was originally presented in ITF 99 last year so in this draft we are adding a new tunneling cap a VPN already support multiple kneecap so we are adding Geneva as one of the tunneling capita VPN and Geneva has a tunnel in cap it\u0027s similar to be excellent but was as a capability of adding options option T alien carrying as well definitely our two protocols other than Ethernet so so what we are specifying in the draft is a way to communicate in control plane what kind of options are going to be included with the genève dominant cap so those different option can be carried with in data plane now was the genève tunnel has pair the control plane so as a control plane as well could allow the pease to negotiate what kind of option should be present based on the capability of HP accepting the reception of certain option but not accepting others for example so this is like was a quick background or history on the draft you know new tunnel type a VPN tunnel v has some capability related to options so this is how we can communicate those option in the evpn BGP control plane since the drafters original draft that was presented last year we added few extension here or couple of extension we updated more the section on the negotiation of those options that can be carried in data paths was a genève tunnel and as well we define a new option at V we called it Ethernet option T le so that is an option T and V allows the data packet to carry in the Geneva tunnel header as an indication that the traffic is Bond traffic and as well Alif indication as well and furthermore an option source ID 24-bit source IDs that canny code an ESI label for split horizon procedure as defined by RFC 7432 "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:28:13",
    "text": "so I think yeah this was the changes mainly to the draft and I think we believe that the draft is ready for our group adoption so so we\u0027re asking shares was not go ahead Thank You Caleb Patel arcus I I\u0027ve got through the draft one meta comment I have was the same one for ollie also that at an e BGP boundaries when the next hop changes haha you need a text in here that says that the tunnel encapsulation cannot be carried beyond that unless and until it\u0027s configurable because if you signal a wrong tunnel and kept beyond your domain boundary forwarding may not be able to actually work agreed agreed I say I think yeah definitely that draft is limited to one boundary and and handling you know different but because we can have different he kept as long as the different boundary MPLS and so on so so that will be addressed not advancing could address it was in the scope of the draft but we are seeking maybe another draft can address at school right but which is outside outside the boundary you know you are talking about multiple boundary for multiple domains sorry for EVP M oh don\u0027t you think that it is agnostic to the Turner type this ability to a lot of all I\u0027m saying is when the next hop changes the tunnel type is a function of a next hop between two peas when you change the next stop and when you announce it out the forwarding may not work if then Kappa I fully agree but my point was just is it something that must be addressed in the Turner or caps draft because this is something that is generic we we can only add Advisory notes in the tunnel and kept draft which I can but your draft has to be very explicit about what the boundary is or at least carry something that says that if it goes beyond an administrative domain it is upon operators to ensure that the attribute is dropped the next sub changes you are talking about a different tunnel right so it cannot be the same make sense yes it makes sense but I think if we see something that also needs to be mentioned in regional encapsulation draft I\u0027m more than happy to cover that Sam with 10 vo 3 working group chair hat on could you also solicit comments and then we were three working group and the second thing I think we discussed but we can take it offline sure here the integrated simple part sure yeah so you want me to send a draft then do see working group des Valerie you know just the soliciting comments I think is good because Jenny\u0027s being the approved ten cap for the DD showdown data plane so okay what standards everything thank "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:31:13",
    "text": "you okay who has right to B\u0027s document okay Patras I\u0027m Patrice reset Cisco I\u0027m here to present you the EBP and it\u0027s a home a productive load-balancing so we already talked about few of them today I think it\u0027s just one more so we have all active we have single active we are a single flow active and now it\u0027s protected so we keep adding alright so this is very simple basically what we want to do is with a VPN we call it also many people card EB tag we support multihoming we want to make sure that we can almost I cover all the legacy technologies so in that pass we\u0027re doing an MC lag with ICCP veins and by I was willingly all hours on this and we actually we made it we made ICCP required target LD position right to work so so the idea here you say oh that\u0027s not good because there\u0027s a lot of new encapsulation that we are using they will not use target all TP session so therefore we need something to replace this work so therefore we came out with the ICO standby concept for the what we call also for port load balancing so it\u0027s very simple so we are doing the same thing pretty much as before but we make it a bit more simpler with ICCP there was a lot of negotiation to make sure we can bring the bundle alive on one side and stand by on the other side so now what we are saying is let\u0027s configure it kind of manually on both sides make sure that all the the SI system ID port priority and so on they are the same so the bundle can come out and we just use a VPN to say which one is active which one is 10 by and with and we are doing this per ESI so a that can work for any lire to service or it can also work for layer 3 service or if you want to get it to a B or actually you can also do it for l2 and l3 if you want to run different some interface so the main advantage okay and I think I just mentioned it a bit earlier but so we can so we displace totally ICCT by CMC like we can run it over like VX nan or SR v6 work I guess LD Pia did not really exist "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:34:14",
    "text": "it\u0027s fully compliance also with the RCS and 4 3 2 we actually we\u0027re not changing anything that we came out from the past we are just making use of a VPN to do the same thing than NC like is doing that\u0027s it comments questions next one all right that\u0027s the my longest presentation at IDF look at that so if you can yang one side so we updated v-0 six I know this comments from you to be answer as we discuss at the beginning and from Sasha as well so we\u0027ll do this and we\u0027ll update it as fast as we can so we can go to that call comments question see 5 minutes now you\u0027re right on time on the schedule good of everyone my name is Cheng I represent this topic it\u0027s about yamete the motor for VPN service performance monitoring so this actually is a new chapter we was any way we are posted in s working group motivation we write this chapter is right now we have found children no performance Mercer protocol that had been proposed for Eastern and traffic RP traffic and NGOs traffic such as Peter figure we have 21 protocol and we also have a ponchos a performance metric has to be proposed for delay and packet loss and achiever and MPL traffic we have an chaos loss and delay element for Ethernet trafficker we have WebP I thought 17:31 but the right now all of these programs may mean actually we used actually an online network but how we can expose these performance measurement results to the own to the overlay to the operate or customer allow the operator to Rio Oh real optimism met worker that\u0027s something we really want to go for we think we haven\u0027t seen any worker to discuss these so typical use cases the way it is clear actually for example we want to set up a when we can service with three site so from customer perspective or from operator perspective they don\u0027t have our what is underlying "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:37:17",
    "text": "technology you are using but what was he care about is the freedom for when we delay between the site or packet loss within the site so we can actually settle the sauce in the online network we can actually export these kind of performance may resolve the to the overlay and when this is possible actually service provider can use these the performance and memory resulted to Riyadh optimize the networker for example you can do increase the pan wait for some of the tunnel or you can actually do some switch from the primary tunnel to the pocket Oh No so to address these actually what do we propose actually to leverage our two eyes define the topology model actually this Nano topology model can be used described as a multi-layer topology you have implied on top of that we have overlay we can actually build a medical overlay so the idea is you if you actually monitor the baby and so is actually you can build the surface topology on top of on top of these network topology also you can actually to use this network topology model to describe of the service topology information such as any habsburg relationship between the side and also you can actually link the problem the name and the result with network topology model so in this way actually we can establish the link or relationship between over a and Andre so here we can example about the ratio between ovary and Andre actually you can map the site information in over the into the underlying the network like the node in the network device in underlying network so so we idea we can actually you know define the source for the purple memory data actually this data actually can be mayor in under nine that okay and these can be export to overlay and also you can do some aggregation or just to to calculate this end-to-end upon some admin results using some magazine like a PCP or arab mappers solution and then you can fill this theater into some data sources like a management system or nano device and with this data results and then we can actually use nano young based a magazine like a young push notification you can subscribe such kind of theater you are interesting and and allow the network device or management system to to "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:40:18",
    "text": "publish it is work allows it to to the to the to to the overly allows operator to to basis based kind of results to reorganize the network in addition we can allow the custom actually can do some query using some RPC model to do that so so the example we gave here actually you can see I don\u0027t want to extend it hair if you are interested we can we can discuss this so there\u0027s a new job that we saw little comments from this working group yeah that\u0027s all thank you thank you oh it\u0027s great this document okay thank you okay so I think here we are done for today thank you just one last comment - Patrice if he still well okay about the pot active draft this is the second presentation do you consider to ask you working hope adoption for his draft or do you think it\u0027s not ready yet so either today or on the alias we were going to yeah I think it\u0027s on its - or - or - or three now right it\u0027s - well now - one this is the second presentation that\u0027s why I\u0027m wondering why you are not asking for working on production no so I think it\u0027s a - or one but it\u0027s it\u0027s a first present it actually went straight message already it was presented in London okay but the answer is yes okay thank you so thank you all and see you in private yeah before you leave if anybody has a blue sheet could they bring them the front please they dig place should have gone around "
  }
]