[
  {
    "startTime": "00:00:06",
    "text": "can your hair meet greetings all good afternoon hello hello michael said michael said he was coming along um i did see i did see him in person last week so uh this is uh that was a rare treat i'm here he is not a hologram hi michael hello how's life um no i just got back yesterday oh no we'll talk i'm just still i'm just still um you know jet lag that's all ah excellent uh that that that that most people recover from eventually uh me too talking about like thanksgiving"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:02:00",
    "text": "so um for me to try to come up with something useful to do with my time um why yes why didn't isn't the link there should be a hedge dog okay now there is there is there is now okay it didn't didn't connect i guess i had to log in first or something oh yeah yeah yeah yeah sorry it's weird that it worked that way um uh yeah my my favorite thing with the weirdness uh from last week was me going to europe and finding all the websites i use every day suddenly needed my consent to uh do things you gotta lo you gotta love private you gotta love privacy in america they only do that in europe ha ha ha ha i helped them and yet i flew the american websites can't be bothered to comply so they um um a lot of them just don't allow um access from europe oh perfect including the us government websites uh apparently they're yeah anyway apparently including the vaccination websites that you need to download your form so you can get back to the united states hi very handy indeed so so are you telling me you're you're jet lagged from flying home this past weekend or jet lagged from flying there two weeks ago i uh returned yesterday at 8 pm wow yeah cool basically i mean there's only so many direct flights um to montreal and i didn't want to take an indirect"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:04:00",
    "text": "flight because of um the uh concern about the rules being different in different places and um and if i while there was a direct flight on saturday um it would be a direct flight which would then arrive in in montreal and i'd be unable to get back to ottawa uh because there isn't a train on saturday that late so i just like well just not do that oh my name is twice in the hedgehog oh sorry i'm asleep so which heads it's been ugly i'm using our normal one i believe well okay so you're using our normal one as opposed to the one that's linked into the meat echo what is the normal one can you put it in chat uh yes i can um and i should be able to remember how to do chat uh because we were practicing just last week notes virtual okay i got it yeah uh now since we're having this conversation uh where does this one think yeah i put a link into it pointing to the other one are those not the same oh i'm sorry you put a link in where so in the one that's pointed to by if you click on the note taking tool right right click on the note taking tool uh"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:06:01",
    "text": "icon and you load it you get a different hedge dock than the one you're using so i just put a link to the one we're using in there oh and the other hedgehog ah excellent we'll we'll figure this stuff out by next year at the latest and i'm not missing anybody christian ah i think christian is a jabber user who has been logged in since we used uh our jabber room since uh for the uh meet echo or sorry for the uh media media over quick side meeting like in last summer of course they of course being a side meeting they didn't have any place to take notes so i did i stupidly did the right thing anyway um i've got about seven after uh do we have a quorum to get started they didn't mention they would not come so i don't know if they're coming or not so you does anybody think we need to be waiting or are we waiting for somebody critical david put in a item for the agenda i suppose he there's something he wants to talk about"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:08:00",
    "text": "don't know whether we should wait for that um why don't i reply to his email real quick and just say by the way um as he and he has not joined not yet okay i'm hitting i'm hitting i'm hitting send in the email i just i just didn't want to have him joined while i was typing okay so we may be doing uh [Music] here's two items can you hear me now yes we can a little bit garbled but not but not bad"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:10:02",
    "text": "and there's some equal and i'm putting i'm putting question marks uh at the front of these uh that he had asked for and we will know to skip past those if he has not joined um okay great cool so are we calling the meeting door i guess and we are in the right place and we have some attendees so that's good uh draft meeting draft meeting minutes are from actually from february because we had a very small group of people who were able to find the meeting last month um does anybody need to review those i believe they were posted to the mailing list i think it's okay cool uh we'll do this no objections excellent our work group um documents that yeah that should probably be document status here then uh our our document status uh has not changed um because i think several of the documents were waiting on things that we were going to talk about last month um"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:12:00",
    "text": "so that and then we're still waiting for uh ffv1-2 before we send anything to uh dispatch and we're still waiting for matraska to finish up before uh before we do anything with a ebml updates on draft um this is roughly the agenda that i had come up with very quickly before just before the uh just before the uh meeting uh so that's kind of where we are now um so one of our one of our topics which we've talked about uh from time to time on the mailing list um was whether flac should be uh standards track or informational and uh i would like for us to go ahead and uh nail that down i'm not sure that i i i'm not sure that we've had a chance to close on that on the mailing list or sorry on in a uh an interim meeting so um where i think we are on this is that we were trying to figure out whether we were going to change the uh whether flack was informational or standards track at the last at the last meeting and we talked we've talked about it a bit but where i think we are right now is that we have decided not to uh change it to informational unless we needed to does that sound about right with people i think that we need to merge the pull request from walton that fixed with to"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:14:00",
    "text": "be founders track the document right sell yeah so we just do need to push the push that pr yeah does anybody does anybody have the a body shares have a uh have a pr number handy it's 135 okay great uh so we can say um close close for now um and thank thank you all for the discussion about that that is actually something that sort of matters especially with a document like flac um see if we are skipping down to pushing uh matraska-09 and submitting it for a review to the higher powers which is the best uh agenda item i think i've ever typed in this working group did we have any discussion for that this was from an email basically suggesting this from me yeah uh basically yeah i finished all the merging everything i could resolving all the issues that were left about some not very important things there's only one issue left that's unrelated so i think it's okay to publish version nine i was actually going to do it like two weeks ago but the window to send"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:16:00",
    "text": "xml5 was close for some reason so i waited i did some other things and actually noticed some issues when generating the the code from the xml file we generate so our that was more fixes and now it's ready and it's compatible with everything that exists cool so we're ready to uh push that one yes so we can tag the version 9 and send the xml files on the whatever place we send the documents [Laughter] yes i've never done it they've did it before so if you if you have any problems give us a buzz um actually if you want to do that on the call so the submissions the submissions get closed the submission system gets closed for two weeks prior to an ietf meeting so we just which was last week so that's why it was closed for most of march but it opened again a week ago like the beginning of the meeting it opens again which is initially people were weird but it's because people want to be able to do revisions based upon the the meetings that happen um immediately um so yeah so just be aware you know we can let you know there's when the meetings are um but yeah um so you actually should be able to i think with the make file there i think you can do there's a make submit or make publish or you can upload you can just use a web interface to upload it to the data tracker yes yeah i first i need to tag on github and from there it actually generates the xml file which i just get it from there yeah"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:18:03",
    "text": "exactly i don't know if it's possible to create tags from the [Music] website uh the only the only instructions i've ever seen about that we're doing it uh in uh in github and github and uh unix or something the command line interface yeah well i'll just do it with my usual software yeah sure do we should we also type codec and chat tags as well well let me let me let me ask one more question on this one and then uh go down to kodak and tags um michael um this this document has not has not been through working group last call yet is that right you're talking about no all right no we have not done general working group last call on it no okay so the higher power is our working group let's call i will i will write that down uh that's the next step i think that yeah i think that we're we're there yeah um because um seller has a uh in matraska i have a uh fan club outside the ietf uh do we should we be announcing that uh anyplace besides the mailing list okay and that was that was a question are you want i don't know uh should we send something to the mailing list or no no i'm not you're you're you're fine right now i'm"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:20:00",
    "text": "just i'm just asking the next steps so this next step is we would say uh has anybody in the working group got anything that they need to say about this draft before we request publication and send it to the area directors so yeah so what i'm asking is is there a reachable community that we should send a note to about that and you could just forward uh our last call now uh our working group last call email to them and say this you know this is these are the dates and this is when it's happening and stuff like that well as they said in the chat we can send on the metro schedule mailing list although it's mostly dead uh the fm pack developer list which is the opposite of dead it's way too busy so it might be unnoticed and yeah i don't know where else hello i think uh sending to the fm ffmpeg list would be fine but yeah as you say it's way too hot perhaps people will notice yes"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:22:11",
    "text": "you did we lose people i think i think something happened with spencer i heard you steve but spencer number spencer i almost don't understand anything you guys are saying because i have horrible eco like half a second i get even what i say back and everything you say is twice most of us are on mute so that can only usually happen if someone's on not using a headset and is not not on mute so with with everyone muted you're getting echo then it's probably not it's probably i think it's more like a bug because it's very precise it's not like faded or anything it's really clear but it's twice and i have headphones reload i already changed to the ipad because"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:24:02",
    "text": "the audio on my laptop was not working and it just did that okay can try i'm back i have no echo but maybe you don't hear me now we don't know hear you okay so what else we can do here we lost spencer quincy if shifted like uh three oak tufts down oh that's even weirder mr came back muted of course i'm sorry maybe i can reload again no no uh is anybody else hearing uh echoes no no okay cool so and that that was uh just is it was that jerome what was it who was hearing the echoes i'm sorry steve was her steve okay thank you um cool um so where we where we were on that was uh me asking if um it was appropriate to do a working group last call for more than two weeks since we're asking for help outside the idf"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:26:05",
    "text": "michael does that sound right so you say that again please um we're doing working group last call which could be two weeks but we're asking for help outside the ietf yeah i think we should probably set it to four weeks just uh because of the the pace of things um and um we should probably send a reminder after two weeks um and we might want to link a little bit because we're going to post this message outside the itf we might want to um post to something that says what this actually means right right and uh so okay sounds good so okay um and so i think that takes us down to codec and tags and spencer your screen is now isn't shared you said the problem was it intentional uh no let me let me share something soon as i remember how yes um this and uh yes i guess i really want to share a screen and i wanted to share that screen yes okay cool okay so that takes us down to uh codec and tags um and there were a couple of there were a couple remarks about that uh further down in the thread about proper references to the renamed element and asv3 codec and tags have the new tw twdb2 tag"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:28:00",
    "text": "um does that do either one of those points mean anything about needing to apply updates before publishing codec and tags hello you're sorry yeah you uh oh no i'm sorry go ahead yeah just no i i i am not in position to to speak so maybe the issue is steve steve if you are still there yeah me neither uh he's showing offline how weird i managed to totally nuke things and i don't quite know how i did that but we'll talk have that conversation another time um okay so we need him to to go back for answering this question okay let me ask let me ask uh that question so the go ahead i'm sorry no he's back okay hi steve steve yes so so uh i was looking at the first line and the minutes under published codec and tags and i was asking if those items that were listed on that first bullet have a uh if those are anything about updates that need to be applied before we would put out 008"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:30:13",
    "text": "steve are you hearing me okay okay you missed the beginning i have no way so it's okay well it's perfect perfect very well so it's still there but it's better similar almost perfect so did you hear the question uh whether we need to apply any more updates before we publish dash 8 for codec and tags i think the main issues is that they might expire soon otherwise there's very little changes since last time yeah so we can't wait well uh there's no rush michael would you like would you like for them to be updated before they expire or do you think it matters um if it's just a matter of a couple days then just don't worry about it um if it's uh but i i mean i don't want to wait longer than that i mean so don't don't don't rush just for rushing's sake but um let's not wait more than a week or something it makes it really hard for people to review documents when they're not there also true um is is there any so if we're doing i i guess let me ask the other question if we're doing working group last call on matraska um will anybody want to refer to these documents during working group last call uh it would be better if they were all"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:32:01",
    "text": "available so people can see how things fit together even if they're not looking at them okay uh and we are so i it would be so i think the right thing to do is to uh submit an update before they expire or soon after they expire uh and i was just looking at the dates but they they were something like you know they're something like the 10th of the month you know of april or something like that and so you know the next week or so and we are not working group less calling these two yet right or we haven't talked about it no no it's very uh why not very early but okay okay uh yeah then definitely you could do that anytime uh so we'll just we'll just publish these uh dash eight so they'll be available for uh metroscore reviewers cool [Music] oh yeah i think it went through okay um can we go back to the mp4 registry"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:34:00",
    "text": "sure um we put the little question marks out there it's just just so we remember that they must leave but we i can talk about that also so we we have a registration in the mp4 side so there is an official registration so we would like to to add the codec id in the ffv-1 specification so it would be a narrator okay so how do we proceed about that and uh by the way i see that for avi we didn't say a codec id2 there is no official support so there is no official registration list for avi but we use ffv1 codec id since the beginning in avi and it is not in in the specification so maybe also to able to put that in the arata yeah so what is the procedure to in order to to have a the error there um you can either you can either send a note to uh the mailing list and ask me or michael to do it uh or go to the rc uh rc editor's website and uh and uh submit you know submit there um either either either one is fine with us and if you do it on the rc editor website for a working group document um i we should get notification from that yeah and if you send it what's all we're going to do is go to the editor's website and submit it so oh yeah high value so i i don't get it uh so we we upload a"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:36:02",
    "text": "new version or no we upload a difference or no we yeah so um let me share my screen there spencer i am not sharing my screen anymore cool uh yes um so what happens is you go to the rrc editor website and you click on errata and it asks you for which one for instance i know this one has errata and um and then you you see what happens and so effectively what you're doing is you're entering a bunch of things and it says section says blah blah blah it says this and it should say that and that's really yeah that's that's the only only uh part so if you this was on um which which rfc again this is on which one 87 94. oh yes 87.94 so you search for that now 87 94. this one's a 9043 isn't it ffv1 no it's yes f51 yeah four three four yeah sorry nine zero four four all right yeah put it in for the right put it in for the right doc too so okay so we we just go to the fc editor website and select errata and we suggest a narrator right yeah okay so you do 9043 there's nothing you click on report new errata"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:38:01",
    "text": "904. three report new errata okay uh report new errata and then you get a form to fill out basically okay okay um sometimes there's an error in one of the formats only so you'd pick that you'd say which one but it's probably just going to be text and so technical errata means that we've made something we said something wrong okay editorial means we've typed something wrong right so okay it is not wrong it is an addition but uh yeah it is technical that's technology okay a technical machine we forgot to say something then it's technical so yeah so in this case you'd say original text and i would just put the text around what it is that you're trying to say and then corrected text just add that add whatever text you need into that piece and that's it and then there's the stupidest cap okay uh so what we do first we will send a pull request on the ffv one web github repository so it is accepted by everyone and then i uh we sent the errata either day for me okay yeah exactly and same same thing on the other one yeah okay i need to leave now i have to go do some stuff for my kid before a store sto closes but um sorry about that i'm gonna be off now okay cool uh have a good one be safe all right bye all right okay and uh so can i say steve is going to uh will enter errata"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:40:01",
    "text": "and if that turns out to be the wrong thing to do please let us know and we'll we'll fix it i did submit three documents and i will send a review to the mailing list okay request for review okay excellent perfect uh i have a related ques question more or less um flock isn't in the mp4 registry as well should the process be the same so publish rfc request addition to the mp4 registry and then publish in errata or should we do that differently because flag isn't published yet flak is not published so we put it in specification directly yeah as we did for apple v1 so so go ahead i'm sorry if you check the uh ffv1 matrix ffv1 specification i will send a link there is something about how to to store the format of a stream inside the container so we can add such kind of text in flag also yes okay but the uh this was specifically about the id one wasn't this the ffv uh issue for ffv1 we have of mp4 registration so it is better but for avi for example there is no public registration so we just force it to everyone so what we can do for flack is just to say okay everyone use this uh flak kodak id so let's do let's make it public in the"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:42:00",
    "text": "specification okay um we can see uh with mp4 registration it is a long process because they are not responsible they don't respond immediately but we can try to do the same thing for flak but what we did for ffv1 asking for a public support from apple because it is apple who managed to manage his register but first we we can still uh put that in the flag specification as we did for everyone in matroska yeah there is a car there is already an issue for uh what does it say document mappings into containers and there is already a working container that's being it has been implemented in firefox and probably others i i think ff and pack as well so there is already a mapping but well we can make it more or less official in the specification we do yes okay excellent and uh mike am i capturing that correctly in the notes which you all might know if you're looking at the notes but if you're not then it would look like this i i found some links in the chat about what we do what we did for ffv1 in metroska and then uh from mp4 okay so there is no flag registration but we will ask to the uh mp4 registration to to register a"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:44:01",
    "text": "flag or kodak id okay perfect um and so i'm just cutting and pasting that into the into the uh not there cutting pasting out of the chat is a little bit weird sometimes um equals yes and see okay perfect um and uh lastly i think that uh we've still got uh do we lose dave dave that's not too quick sorry he needed it to leave so it's no more okay okay yeah so we'll we'll uh we can leave this one for the next for next month right here's his second action okay and um that gets us through all of our special agent items and we still have 14 minutes left just to uh help me out a little bit here uh so we would not be having matraska discussion until uh after the end of working with last call at this point or are people gonna keep working on stuff"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:46:00",
    "text": "probably starting working on the codec or tags maybe tags okay shorter to to do by the way since i missed some of the talking the working group email do you send it or do i have to send it wait certainly yeah the chairs the chairs would send that i think that's actually i think that's actually built into the data tracker that the chairs see so you know you can just let you know you so uh let me open that while we're still here well we're all here here so i will not get uh terribly lost uh and forget things so i've got a batroska-9 and excellent um cool so i will uh i will figure out what to do with that okay but thank you but thank you thank you guys for that excellent uh it'll take a little poking around with that that's what they that's what they pay us for of course right um i'm kidding so um is there anything that we need to talk about on flack on this call anymore morgan not sure there are a few issues there are a few there's there are two new issues i've posted earlier today um that need a little discussion but i'm"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:48:01",
    "text": "not sure whether the working group should discuss in this or general people on the flock mailing list um i found two shortcomings in the flux specification points where the specification says nothing and various implementations have done things in a certain way and i think those need to be solved before the specification is finished uh but there are the technical so i i don't know uh who should decide on this the working group should have consensus right yeah i guess so i guess uh no i i promise you um i i only i only laugh because i'm still jet-lagged um so can you give me the issue numbers for the notes yes that's 145 and 146. perfect thank you okay cool and is there anything we need to say about the ffv1v4 oh we can't keep it there's no news no update we have we have the expression no news is good news in english is that true not this time so i'll just leave there's no news okay no so there's no update or you can say no update okay better okay"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:50:01",
    "text": "um any other questions will be needed for for this topic for for the ffv1 version four i think we need much more time to discuss some directions in which we wish to go okay excellent is there any other business not from me not from it you say going once going twice nothing sold excellent and uh if i'm not hearing any other things we need to talk about right now thank you all for your uh diligence and hard work and uh thank you for putting up for with me after the meat echo disaster in february uh we're doing better um and uh i look forward to seeing you all in april okay thank you all cheers have a good day you too make good choices i always forgot [Music]"
  }
]
