[
  {
    "startTime": "00:00:16",
    "text": "At least targeting to get a few remote remote remote people in. Okay. Oh, in order to accommodate the crowd in the room. You guys, oh, yeah, you guys can still see it. I'm just gonna give us a minute or 2 more. So we'll start in a minute or 2. That's obviously being facetious. So anybody else having a really quiet audio this better? Do you want me to get closer to the mic when I speak? Oh, yeah. Is That's that's quite a bit better. One music? Music. This would be nice. Oh, that's, I'll have to take that under advisement figure out if I can do that for for next time, figure out how to get music playing for the while we wait. Oh, I thought you were gonna sing. Okay. Okay. Trust me. You do not want that. I'm gonna go on mute because I'm gonna make some coffee here. Hey, Chris. You hear me? I can. Coming through clear."
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:02:00",
    "text": "Okay. Thanks. How's how's the of Western Pennsylvania treating you. Oh, man. It's kinda light out. But early, So Alright. I think I'm all set here. I don't know if we're gonna get much more. So we're just gonna kick this sucker off. This is, in fact, NFS V Four. Welcome. Scan the code. Increase our numbers by a significant percentage. 2 Alright. Noted well. You may not have actually seen this, especially with our, with our remote folks. So leave that up there for a second, and I already have somebody in queue. Which, which They've changed the interface for me. Did you do that? Do you want out? Go ahead. This seems a quite small crowd in this working group. So I would appreciate, or newer people to, mention your affiliation and, name in the beginning of speaking. Thank you. I think we can manage that. I already lost one of my contributors in the room. I got them on the blue sheet, so it's okay. Note really well. So this is the, other part of behavior for IITF. Be nice to people, I think that that Summarize it if you have any questions, reach out to one of your chairs or ADs, if you feel like you've"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:04:02",
    "text": "been harassed, you can go talk to the ombudsman's people. And they tell me to put this slide in, but I'm hoping that everybody's figured this out already. Okay. So welcome chairs. We're we're working on that. I'm gonna go through kind of the document state and then, kind of a where we are with engagement, and some Bakeathon. That's all in these chair slides. Any Bashes, does anybody want to, inject anything into the agenda? Going once, going twice, Okay. Moving on. Alright. Document status. So this is kind of where we're at. We pushed two documents into, up for publication, One is at IESG. You can see that, as the top one, it now been scheduled for the end of the month. We have, Delstid, which is also pushed out of work in group. It's waiting for updates from the authors. And then I also have layout and working group last call. I really need more reviews on lists so I can move it out of the working group, So I would really appreciate if anybody can take It's a shockingly short document please take that 15 minutes or you know, what have you to to read that document and and give a thumbs up, thumbs down on the list so that I can closed the working group last call on it, and and move it forward. Or at least we can"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:06:01",
    "text": "send it back to the authors for any updates if they're needed And then we have some other. So, I'm I'm sorry, Chris. Which which short document did you ask comments, sir? Layout WCC. Claire. Got it. Oh, needs reviews on list. I see. Yes. Sorry. You got ahead of me. I was looking at something else and but No worries. I can get a review out of I would say some of the folks, have been a little bit, preoccupied or busy with their day job. So we have, stuff for the, I'm expecting some updates to happen kind of after November or as we go forward. In the early or late in this year or early in the new year. Okay. Okay. Chair status. We are managing to move some things through to publication. We did not manage to schedule the promised interim, and that was mostly this chair's fault, I will say. We're probably not putting enough pressure on per participants for some updates or getting the feedback we need to do that What are the chairs the engagement of the working group and is Would we say Hey. This is the chairs not managing to push things along, or is there does the working group feel that the chairs are doing enough, not enough, too much, give us feedback on this. We we're we're"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:08:01",
    "text": "I mean, we we have some documents kind of in late stage but we're not moving them. In any noticeable fashion. And we have some documents that we've kind of agreed to adopt, but we're were stuck on on, you know, kind of getting the updates and moving those into the process. I will note and, and I'll this this previewing the next slide, talking about some work that happens maybe outside of kind of the IETF list and, and what have you. So with you know, you know, This is your chance to tell the chairs you know, What do you guys need for us to be more effective for you? And you if you don't wanna say it you know, here and now, you can put it on list for sure. Or you can, you know, tell our friendly AD you know, what what what the issues are, if there are issues. We need to raise our hands. Oh, I'm sorry. There's somebody approaching the mic I'll I'll get him on know, they updated the the chair queue management in Mead echo, and I'm not super good about how to, manage it at this point. So, Tom, go ahead. Oh, okay. I I think the chairs are doing a fine job. Although, I'll I'll say that things seem to go dead from time to time. And I just might suggest that The chairs could use some of those quiet moments to push people. I'm I'm guilty of not being able to produced much in the last 2 months. And I'm hoping to come out of hibernation here in November. Actually, I'm I'm I'm promising too. I have a draft that is not yet a work group, document because I haven't actually produce produce produce the document. We discussed it, previously."
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:10:01",
    "text": "And, you know, a little a little nudge and a little reminder will help But regular messages to the work group list that aren't just you know, here's a new draft that's been published from the automated robots, it might just help. Other than that, I think yours is doing fine. Can I, ask that you also state affiliation for for, I have no affiliation? I'm an independent, protocol architect. So I software developer I act yes. Thank you. I'm just trying to get everybody to do it so that We Sure. Sorry. We we suck in the new people, and we actually keep them. Gotcha. So so, this is Jihad. I'm your friendly ID as, Chris was saying. Yeah. So so I'm just going to put my thinking what's happening here. And, like, my suggestion. So, like, the question that you are asking, like, I think Obviously, we have, like, small working group, very small participant, late and only, like, today, you can see, like, like, number later on the So I'm not I'm not expecting a lot of serious discussion happening, but I'm was expecting some discussion on somebody who was happening. So what I would suggest, like, but she has to be a bit pushy on, like, as you said, like, the number of documents and a state like nothing happening happening. Like, I have done my ID review on 11 of the document, right, And I'm I have not gotten any response on that one. So, it it think the chairs could actually should go and talk with all of the authors on the different drafts and try to ask for a time plan. Know everybody's pretty busy. But but but but having a time plan and putting in somewhere you have this, working with Wiki or something"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:12:01",
    "text": "that will help you and me to understand how things are progressing. So that that would be things. And then so I I know, like, you guys have the chair of like weekly meetings. So you can schedule, like, inviting some of the authors to actually talk with them. Not just talk with within yourself, but talk with the authors. So they're like, hey, you are sitting on it for a long time, and we need to move on, those kind of things. So That will be my suggestion part. And I also think, like, there are other things here. So we had this hackathon news happening. I think some of like, all of you were there. And you you say, like, a lot of, in, yeah. Okay. The then there you're happy. But, So I would like to get those experiences that the the missing parts are like, the that, oh, this is this is not done done right in their specification. To come to this mailing list. This is not about only, like, any particular document though. This is about, like, hey, we we have been implementing. This is this is the is basically our experience from the hackathon or Bikaton and these are the issues we we listed. So at least that will infuse some sort of like what do you call it? Because I'm I'm thinking to our participants like, oh, do we have something to actually do? Because if you do this kind of back at home and just forget about and fix it, hack it through and not not reflect on your standards, that would be a problematic thing. So, you have a slide, so you wanna say something about it, I guess. Well, that's just that you brought up hackathon and and and and and the we'll bakeathon and Yeah. There is from a chair's seat I I agree with we have work that happens outside of IETF that that, the chairs, go, and try to do extraction of those events and bring it back to IETF. Which which it'd be ideal if if, there was And we and and and and"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:14:01",
    "text": "full disclosure here. The chairs do it before the meetings. So so so that's probably not the right time for the chairs to necessarily do it. Maybe we should do it a little more proactively. But that said, the community is somewhat more involved and we don't see it on the mailing list or obviously at the meetings. You know, showing up in person or necessarily even virtually. Yeah. I mean, that's that's basically where I was thinking, like, if you guys share some, like, some of the some of the responsible and then to be cut on like, like, Chuck or somebody else, like, Tom or, like, I don't know who was there. Otherwise, but but if if if you have participants there, And maybe we can assign some some kind of short summary of, like, What's the findings? And what's the impact on this on our standards. So if the if you say, like, RPC with TLS, implementors in March. That's really good news, but did he b d went like a spoon, or do we see like, okay. Here, we have missed some part that needs some some sort of updates or whatever. So I think those things should come. This this is a small community and they should they are happy to talk with each other, but if we care about the standards, then it should come to the mailing list. It should come to the meeting. I would like, I even say, like, Let's have if this kind of happens, have a presentation on these things and, in our sessions. So that we actually really go and talk Yes. This chair agrees, Tom, and you're in queue. Yeah. So it it that it's good input, when you say hackathon, are you referring to the HTF hackathon because That's I don't even know what what that is, but I'll give a report on the local event that I think you're referring to the Yes. Bakers on. Yeah. Bakers on. Yes. I think I I used the generalist time here, but"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:16:01",
    "text": "Sorry about that one, but I was really thinking about the the one that went to the list Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. I I was I was hoping, like, we can actually get some summary in the meetings So, or in the Well, yeah, I I'm just looking at the names of the participants know if there's anybody hiding in the corner of the room. It looks like I'm the only person who, was at that bakeathon. But I can give a quick a quick summary. From my That'd be great. Would appreciate that. This is this is your moment to shine, Tom. Oh, boy. Wait. This is BD. Brian Plasky from Quantum. Just what I'm be kinda clear on something here not for Tom and Dave, but for everybody else. So the Big designs have been going on since the dawn of time, but they are specifically not associated with the IH f. Don't follow the F guidelines for anything. Right? They're lightweight, events for NFS developers to get together catch us, catch can, with their, you know, implementations to test So we've Previously, shied away from any kind of official interaction with the Bay Catons from an IATF perspective in the working group. I that's we've We know what happens. But we've never formalized it anyway within the group I I I, Brian Plasky, have no no objection whatsoever to talking about it. I wanna the crystal clear that This is not an IATF. Lead. Event. Okay. So don't Yeah, Brian. I mean, that's clear to me. And these are"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:18:02",
    "text": "this doesn't need to be. I mean, this doesn't need to be an IT thing. But what I'm saying, like, we get some, I mean, when you are hacking, like, the IT packet have been hacking on a multipath week. Can we help you issues. And then we go to the quick working ones to resolve those issues. That's but this doesn't need to have a hackathon or or like, IT related activity. This could be anywhere you because this Beka Town is basically, as you said, it has been there for from the dawn of this kind of technology is very effective. It's very, you know, appealing and involving and if you can get those experience into the into this, like, working group or mailing list in some way or another, then you get more kind of engagement from this working group as well. Like, because these are the same part different, I would say. Like, Tom was there. I think you guys were there. Like, This is the same participant. So you don't need to be officially tied with this NFSB but I think it could getting the information, a in FSB work in Google, actually. Infuse some new blog or infuse some new kind of thinking to how to solve the problem and making this work more engaging. That's what Okay. I just want I just wanna make sure that for the record, It's entry to the Bacathon is not for everyone and free to bakeathon is I have an implementation in hand I'm going to test it, and it's it's not a not a popcorn event with people watching. Right? So It's it's all about It's all about testing, and and it was So I I I'll just remind a little. I completely echo BP's comment, and that's That's what the intention of all the participants is. They're there to test. Physically test their implementations. So the one, in, October was held just a couple of 3 of 4 weeks ago. I don't know. It was early mid October. It was,"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:20:00",
    "text": "held in Westford, Massachusetts in a Red Hat facility. It's been held there several times many times, but for it's, basically put on by Red Hat Steve Dixon, who, opposed to the list. Organized it, and a number of Red Hat, engineers helped create a little test network There were probably about 12 or so attendees about how of them were remote, half of them were local, the, remote was facilitated by a VP which actually worked pretty well. Like, best I could tell. I didn't need to use it, but they did and, and it worked well. It was primarily testing. You know, it was like we're not trying to push boundaries. So the protocol, we're trying to test the implementations. That's that's what the attitude of the event runs. Although there were some really interesting discussions and and, you know, one of them came to the list those messages that Rick Macklum sent about directory delegation and questions about they should behave. Recalling directory delegations. That was out of that discussion. Gave a presentation. And we all encouraged him to raise it on the list. We all agreed with his question that it that it wasn't something that any single person could just answer that spec didn't really say it clearly And so, you know, we that message was one of those messages. Didn't represent the Bakeathon. It just represented Rick Mackle. But, you know, that's that's what it was. And I thought it was it was a very productive discussion. We had a good time The the other things that we're couple of others. Jeff Layton, who's a Red Hat developer. Has been working on facilitate MFS in the Linux kernel time stamping the files. It's a little awkward. It happens at at odd intervals, unpredictable intervals depending on the file system. And it causes"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:22:00",
    "text": "cashed, attributes to be invalidated. Because the time stamp changes seem in nonlinear, unexpected fashion sometimes. And so he had quite an interesting discussion about that. It's really not an NFS protocol question. Although the NFS protocol could adapt to do something about it, I suppose. Nobody really wants to do that. And, he made a pretty deep dive on it. And that effort still is making a deep dive. He's getting a lot of pushback from Linux about how difficult it is to, implement uniformly over the hundreds of file systems that are in Linux. 6 And so, that's kind of a meta question from a protocol's perspective, but I thought it was a very interesting discussion, and I support Jeff in his efforts to, to at least, I don't know, level the playing field, clarify the the horizon and do do something to make it more predictable and more useful. To We're calling from And personally, I was there to test RDMA. Actually tested SMB as well as NFS. Over various, RDMA, implementations the, the NFS worked pretty smoothly. The SMB was add a couple of, not so much protocol issues, but interoperability issues regarding support selection and things like that. It was an implementation question questions. Thanks. Dave. Okay. Yeah. Okay. A couple of these items that Tom mentioned, might be relevant to RFC 5661 bits down the way. Certainly, those related to, to a director delegation."
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:24:01",
    "text": "I have some other work planned for director validation. Not not not immediately, but there will be some changes to that, and I will discuss with Rick his his issues The other one regarding time stamps, I haven't seen, but I'd like to have some discussion of that on the list. So see if there's anything there. To go into and the mic relate to, Well, it's an it's a Linux. It's a Linux discussion. It's for, for the protocol. The goal is not Not to create any implications for the protocol. Okay. But, Erin, well, you mentioned that's something that being clear. Maybe if if if if if if if if if if if if if if if if if if if if if if if if if if if if if if if if if if if if if if if if if if if if if if if if if if if if if if if if if if if if if if if if if if if if if if if if if if if if if if if if if if if there's some clarity that could be in Well, the, no, the clarity was was in the, recall of a director delegation. Okay. Alright. Alright. That's Rick wasn't sure whether a direct 3 could receive a delegation because of the way the text was written for instance. Okay. Yeah. I'll I'll I'll I'll I'll I'll follow-up with Rick on those. Yeah, the time stamping The time stamping is different. It's pretty much about 3, by the way. Know, NFS 34 has a more, easily, determined state for a, for, attribute Okay. So the NFSP 3, is it re related to, the sub flexible files. Thing where the typical mode is that the daily they transfer a promo protocol NSV 3. So I think that would be I'd like to discuss that with, with with Tom Haines as well. Yeah. Okay. Flexible fight, Yeah. NFSv3 with a flex file usually has the pnfs/nfsv4 metadata. Relationship. So the constants"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:26:00",
    "text": "The timestamps are coming via NFS V Four. And have a different behavior. The timestamps of the of the flex files are a slightly different aspect. Linux is still trying hard to support NFSV 3. Have a lot of users of it. And, people expect it to work. And it winds up invalidating its cash all the time because the timestamps have jitter in and it drives some crazy. So, Rick, not Rick. Jeff, is trying to correct the behavior of time stamps which is actually slightly broken in Linux, by the way. And, in order to improve NFS. The argues that it'll improve other file systems too, which it will, but there's a ton of push So the as a This Chris Sonacio, as a chair, is that something that's potentially worthy of some kind of note, you know, an informational write up or and I get Tom, I I understand. I I heard you loud and clear it it's a Linux issue. And so the answer could easily be, no, it's not. But you know, curiosity. There is so much tribal knowledge in NFSv3 You could you could write an implementation note for the next 100 years. And, you know, but before all the developers die off and aren't there to write it anymore. You know, I I don't think that's That's a fruitful Pursuit. Personally, it it sounds good. But it it's just I don't know. There's just too much other baggage out there. Now one could consider at And if if you if you narrow the scope really tightly, say. We're only gonna talk about time then maybe here, I just I mean, that was the whole point of connectathon years ago."
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:28:03",
    "text": "There there really wasn't a spec for many years. Right? It was just kind of creep crept out of sun into other companies and the companies figured some things out. They didn't quite interoperates. Everybody got in a room and It it know, it was like tribal knowledge. And as a chair also, Dave, can you state your affiliation? Oh, I'm I'm I'm work for NetApp. Thanks. I feel like we've kinda covered this other topic Bacon, and I feel like there's some other things that out of this conversation, we should initiate a conversation and do some follow-up on the list. So, Brian, hopefully, you're you're making a a few notes if you haven't fallen asleep because of the hour that you're dialing in it. If not, we'll play back the transcript and, we'll get something out to kinda follow-up on some of this. I am I am taking minutes, furiously. And I will, and I'm also noting in my minutes to look at the transcript to some detail out of that. Okay. I'll I'll just say one more thing about all the participants in Bacathon, are well familiar with the IETF. And think about it all the time. And, you know, we we're sitting around the room and saying, you know, we really ought to take this to the IETF lens. And things like that. There's There's quite a bit of, of, you know, participation and thought about where some when something rises to the level of requiring a protocol type discussion, IDF content, So it's not like it's hiding. It's just I don't know. It's kind of self filtering. Sometimes. It's still maturing in the in the VAT till it's ready? Well, sort of, it's just these are they're not answering protocol questions. Right? They"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:30:02",
    "text": "already agreed on the protocol. The IETF has brought them together on the protocol. Honestly, I'm I'm serious about this. Everybody as it at the front of their mind. Is this a protocol question? And if it is, they they they don't stop talking about it in the big, obviously, but They realized they can't decide it there. Okay. This is, really gonna be kind of eating up the rest of this meeting. And Dave I opened up the deck, but you're welcome to I can close it out. You can it, or you can tell me to you know, move forward slides. Or yeah. Okay. Then if you if you can do that. Okay. Alright. So, Again, I'm Dave Novick. I work for NetApp, and I've been working on the four documents that are just discuss here is a part of that effort to do abyss. To update 5661 and a a actually 8881 is will be updated. Let's go on the next slide. Well, I also had issues with my day job and other things and work has been the proceeding, but not as quickly as I expected. Because was more work than I expect to coordinate changes to multiple documents. And I have the limit time to work on those, but I have had some time and made some progress I'll discuss later. Anyway, I think people should expect in the next month New drafts and all of the ball, the major touch. Documents. I'm working now right now on on security, more specifically, draft, and a a draft ITFNFT for security dash. I can't remember the number. And then I'll follow-up with another draft of the of the business proper. That's soon thereafter. And then in in internationalization, which will be discussed later, I'll I'll I'll"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:32:00",
    "text": "Well, I think we I think there will be a draft to respond to the external reviews. And what pattern that takes will be such later. And I think working group will have to make a decision there Let's go under the next slide. So the 2 major issues. Up of mine. And sounds and sounds One is we have a stalled adoption process for the security draft, and we'll have to fix that. Maybe will discuss that later when when they're going forward because that is something we have to go forward And we have had a lack of discussion of the existence the existing draft. And I need to figure out how to address that issue. Maybe folks to try to, maybe we need to schedule interims or just have to period. I think send mail to the word group. We need discussions on these issues. But but but but but organized pretty well. Some of them organized pretty well in the documents. I think we just have to focus the discussion and proceed with it. If in modern many cases, I hope in some cases, we'll have the dis we'll have the disagreements we just have to have that discussion. Okay. Now I have this summary here. These are the 4 documents, and it's the best proper which was one of the doc documents, and I have some slide about about three slides about that. Internationalization, which is another the other adopted group. Document And we've had some very complicated situation with external reviews and decision to make. Anyway, the five slides on that and then security. We've been working on I've been working on a long time and there was adoption processed the start months ago and never really finished and the the the draft that I has to be adopted has expired and it's now"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:34:01",
    "text": "I've made enough changes that the 06, which was to be adopted is not is now relevant. I will come out with an o 7, and then I'll ask for adoption of that. Is another draft which is Rfc5662bis which Smallset changes, I've never submitted it. Asked to be adopted, but it will go along. We don't have an it probably should be delayed so that it it's working for the last call. It should be should be about the same time as 5661bis. So we've got a lot of time to do that. But but but it has to be done. And over the next slide. Alright. So the big change in, you know, Rfc 56 61 biz relevant relative to RFC 1 is that we adapt adapt to a multi document straight structured. Traditionally, every every minor version was its own own big set of drafts. 2, usually 2. 1 for the draft document specification and one for the, the XDR And now we found a number of areas which you're more properly dealt with for the, For the, of the protocol as a whole and not in variant specific matter. And those are Which is all one we've already addressed which is Rfc 18178. Extension issues that that that was explicitly in the RC 5661 said, hey, This is dealt with an RFC 8178. In that situation is the same in in in every minor version, But right now, 7530 says one thing for version 0 and and"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:36:01",
    "text": "RFCAA, one's a different totally different thing, which nobody's ever and security, I'll get to that later, but there are a number of reasons that that needs to be addressed. In common for all the minor version. Also Another thing that we've done is was we had a ton of Erado reports And I think, I don't know, I'm gonna how many dozen, but this has never been a number. And include some of the the were officially rejected, but there was a general sense in the Wharton group that we need to go ahead and make that change anyway, but the workman group will have to confirm that once we have a text. We do have texts now. Hurgen Group will have to make sure that, yes, we do wanna do this. We do wanna make this change. And right now, we have only 5 left to address, and I those will be addressed in probably in the next draft. I hope you address them all in the next draft. Alright. Let's move on next slide. At at Brian, thank you. Yeah. Hey, when when you say something, hi, Dave. Thanks for all the work. When you say somewhere rejected, and fight, fight, fight, fight, fight, fight, fight, fight, fight, fight, fight, fight, fight, fight, fight, fight, fight, fight, fight, fight, fight, fight, fight, fight, fight, fight, fight, fight, fight, fight, fight, fight, fight, fight, fight, fight, fight, fight, fight, fight, fight, fight, fight, fight, fight, fight, fight, fight, fight, fight, fight, fight, fight, fight, fight, fight, fight, fight, fight, fight, fight, fight, fight, fight, fight, fight, fight, fight, fight, fight, fight, fight, fight, fight, fight make the feeling that they have to be addressed, is that just clarifying things, is the erotic. Some of them are actual actual changes. So they're being unrejected and then address within the the document. Changing to me. But unrejected. I'm not changing the state of the thing. We're just making the change that people wanna make. Okay. Okay. Thanks. Top, Yeah. I I have a question about your assertion that we need to update the document. Are these fundamental issues that require a a rewrite. These can't be, address Errata notes. with Which was? They can't be changed. Addressed by Erada. Because they say, hey."
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:38:00",
    "text": "Is a technical change. We don't do those in IRADA. That's why they're rejected. I thought I ETF allowed Eurada updates to RFCs. I mean, for something small, but I think this is the There's well, there's a feeling that if you love that, it's it's it's chaos. So that there's a a general I admit that it's a long list. It's potentially a long list, and chaos is bad. But in the case that it's not chaos and that it's something fairly trivial, you know, waiting for, 800 page document update or even a 200 page document update. It's kind of a high bar for fixing a bug. Well, since we have to do that update anyway, I'm doing that update anyway. So I've only seen that. Well, I agree that the a new document must, contain all the No Neurada. Sure. But there's no way to push out. Yeah. This is wrong, and here's what's right, in the meantime, so that we don't Well, you're right. Problem that I'm not prepared to deal with. Well, yeah, no individual. This would be a working group question. I'm I'm just kind of putting it out there. It seems Offly heavy weight to to put an IRADA bar on a new version of a large stock So so guy there. Yeah. So the the the the in this slide, what I'm I'm really a bit thinking about when I was looking at some rejected one's address. I mean, you rejected some error and you addressed it. And so I don't get that point. So if the Ira was not there, it has been rejected for some reason, why we're addressing it. So that's that's one question. The other question is like, well, yeah. Yeah. Of course. I mean, I think the whole idea of the beast is that"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:40:01",
    "text": "you have so many letters and so many letters are technically letters that it's also doing the best thing. But, So so they they the thing is still, if you have a version 1 and version 2, and Basthen 1, basically, Russian 1 and Basthen have, like, 100 of. And with with version 2, we are addressing most of them. But it doesn't mean, like, we need to remove all the data from version 1. So in version 1, you can still have actually, accepted Eratas they are saying like, hey. Is this still, if you're doing partial money, you please go ahead and see this IRata so that you know what's going on. And then your question too, you you basically says obsolete. You don't off sell it, if you don't off sell it. Question 1, person 2, in person 2, there's, like, no way of, like, addressing all the editors and say, like, I'll just implement version 2. And what I'm missing here is basically if we have version 2 of this, whatever protocol we're talking about, if the industry is not going to implement version 2, First, while you are doing it, 2nd in question 1, is it still important? And we can live with the IRATA maybe some of your data should stay there. So it's it's kind of like it's not a process question to me. I think both of you are right. I mean, when dev says, like, hey, I'm only doing the updates. So why not? But also what Tom said, like, if the IRAS are shortlist we can just leave with the aircraft. That's, like, that's not those are the eratres, not like are accepted. It's not for whole for documentation, document update. If you have a whole phone documentation update, that would be that need to be addressed in the list. Okay. Ready on. Next time. Okay. So I'm I haven't actually started working on this, but I know it will be in the 2."
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:42:01",
    "text": "Press the remaining erratic reports thereof 5 of them. And, this reorganization of Adju which was suggested by discussion that we had at the at the last meeting, David Black, and we came to the conclusion the that the attributes after its mode, owner and owner group, should be required. Record. And the existence back says something different. But nobody nobody's ever implemented or try to interoperate with a server that doesn't support those attributes and it's really no point. And really effectively mix. We might as well, although working group has to confirm this, days are these are required attributes. Because without them, you have no security. So That's the connection with the security document. Which we'll discuss later. Okay. I'll just move on to the next slide. Next slide. Okay. Well, this is we'll discuss internationalization. Alright. So as I said before, The treatment in the RFC 5661 and 881. Do not correspond to implementations that basically what was in RFC, 30 thirty, which never worked nobody implemented and A lot of people never really read, but then it they basically implement something very similar to what was in the NFV 3 and what was in RFC 3010, which was obsolete for other reasons. So we need a common approach for all minor versions since all my versions the actual implementations take the same approach to, internationalization. And that should follow the description in RFC 7530. Which"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:44:00",
    "text": "which people actually followed and, continued in because No one wants to implement the next version with the the entirely different internationalization. So included in the current version, which is I think these, I think I can't remember the number. Anyway, It's basically right. To match, of the Indian United States to match what's an RFC 7530. And then there was some work to adapt to reach it. It changes. Because, What I had in 7 to 5:30 and try to bring it forward. It turned that for a document that had been obsolete. So I think it had that's more to draft that adapt to that. Anyway, let's move on to the next slide. Alright. Now we had a comprehensive set of external reviews and, I'll go through these. First, we had an early international by Nico Williams. And the headline of that was on the right track. But, actually, if you read what he wrote, wanna be run a completely different document. You want to write a BCP that apply multiple protocols and I wasn't prepared to do that. And, Number of people senior people in the idea have said that was crazy or big new stuffs where it's but but that was being important of of the of the response. Anyway, He also had helpful suggestions regarding client name cashing and the effect that doing representation normalization process and case insensitive would have for those. And, those are valid. And try to incorporate those into a later into a some of the subsequent in some in, like, 06. And that made the document bigger. More complicated, but I think it was okay. But"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:46:02",
    "text": "then we faced further problems as we've moved on further steps of review. Okay. Let's move on next slide. First, we had this some document looked like a review, but it was but it says it was it was not a review. But made comments that have reviewed make and John in in the process said that he had read the document, but not very closely. So of the things that he was worried about we're not relevant to that to that document. We're they reflected some issues he had with many other things that he's seen in such as anyway, He did raise some generations regarding the non opacity of character for lookup, which I have discussed with Trond. I think Trond still might have an issue. With what it might have been. But I think he and I will have to negotiate Well, as part of the discussion, of of those changes, they will the working group will have to decide what we do to do because John did raise a real issue. And, So the upshot of of John's review, non review, is they suggested dropping the new material regarding case sensitive it lives to this leaves us with decision to make, and I'll discuss that in the next slide. We then had an official an official review by I'll just I'll just say something here. I mean, don't put it like a non review. John didn't review and put it in like John deed and review, not like art, art review, but John deed and review. A lot like to quote it as a non review. Because this has been a new and John and the John the whole communities. Okay. Alright. Whatever whatever that that No. No. It's not sort of whatever. I I don't know. I is not about whatever. I mean, this is this is kind of abusive. So this is not whatever. You cannot say that whatever. This is, I'm seriously, I think you should go and change this to"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:48:01",
    "text": "individual review or review by John Clenson. So don't make it an official statement saying, like, is a non rebooting. Has created a whole lot of issues has almost grip into an uphill kind of situation. And people asking, what the hell we're doing in our NFS V Four. This is not acceptable for me. So don't say, like, whatever here. Please. Okay. I will not say whatever, but I will say that this is document he wrote explicitly said it was not a review and was not a substitute for a review. It may be that in fact, it was a review, but Let's So but you you were addressing his comments. Right? Well, yes. I think I understand what he said is the non internal non review from the because he was not assigned to do the review, but he did it in front of a good faith. Like, knows something and he would like to care we are truly care about those comments. So that's like individual review. Well, some of the reviews are and you're not relevant, but I did try to address all the ones that all of his comments. Yeah. Sure. That's what I'm saying. Like, This is a good review by Clinton Yeah. And then you're addressing it, making the document better. You should be should be all thankful for John to helping us out here. Okay. Okay. Now the the last hunt there One suggestion that I have thought it was worth doing, but given what we've had from the official review, I think we might not do that. And again, this is a decision, the work group to make, and Umovado will discuss in that slide. Yeah. So and also, like, you understand, like, this will go to working of last call, IT of last call, and then this will just delay if we just move on with, like, not resolving. So I think had a very good conversation with the you, me, and the chairs. The John Clayson, and I was hoping, like, were working with John placing to like, agree with him. Like, he's fine with whatever we are well, yes, but, there's one point this"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:50:03",
    "text": "one here, dropping the new material. I'm not sure we should do that. I think Yeah. I mean, the thing is, like, it's not like if somebody comments, we have to follow every common as she or he would do, but we absolutely need to be having a agreement on, like, And then the working will decide what is the best way of doing forward. I completely agree with you on that one. Right? But don't teach it as a nonreview because this is this is what John Clayson was like complaining about, on an attitude of, like, how we reply to his comments. And if he sees this slide, He'll be reacting previously and I'm not in a position to different any of this. So please don't just change those things at, like, individual rebuy even if you should take it off. I can, but but I've presented this. I'm not gonna rewrite history. I don't give you I can you can't do nothing. Version. But I don't need to rewrite your history, but you don't need to carry on your bad history. 3 would do Okay. Fine. Like, you are doing with me. I'm giving a suggestion, like, just to diffuse the if it's the situation, but you're agree. I'm arguing with me. I don't like what to do here, actually, seriously. This is this is like, I'm as a Eddie I'm not an individual member. I'm an ID. I'm requesting you. To done quote it as a non review. So that this doesn't create any more problem. Okay? I'm understood. Okay. I can make that change if you'd like. Thank you. Alright. Let's move on. Alright. Next steps is I'm one versus submit 7. Now we'll definitely include Okay? The suggested Glabranz is sub subject, and I think and the issues regarding lookup and the any other issues that I that But the other one, the one that is in question is Whether we get his associate, depending"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:52:01",
    "text": "is is basic suggestion to cut the document back, and I'll discuss that in detail in the next slide. Let's move on to the next slide. Okay. Zipro and a con. That will simplify the document, and it might simplify the approval process. On the other hand, it leaves the treatment casing senses, file systems, and unsatisfied. Unsatisfactory state, particularly those that incorporate international station. And Personally, it was probably a bad idea So then in the first place, but it's too late to remove them now. And we would need to follow a document later. So, I think the working group, I'll still try to start a discussion next week on this issue. Maybe in maybe need to do doing an interim. I don't know because maybe Mhmm. Or anyway because we had such a a small, We didn't have any very many people here. So I think we'll probably need to have some sell things discussing an interim meeting, and this would be one of them. got the security draft because I think I also should be scheduled. In Intrum. Okay. Chris, you have a comment? Yeah. Yeah. As a semi contributor, I suppose, but not as a chair. So Dave, can you admittedly, I have a little inside information here. Dave, can you kind of expand a little bit on Right. So between the last slide, right, there was a comment being, taking advantage of the fact that I control the slides. Right. So in here, and you know what? It's it's a few slides back, but Okay. There's no There's no, notion of in v3,"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:54:01",
    "text": "of how you share what the encoding is. Is that correct? In in v 3, yes. That's true. Okay. And And so in the 4 So there's like this interoperability problem between, you know, what happens on on clients and how they understand you know, kind of their you know, whatever they're encoding is versus what's actually stored in the server and agreement on that between multiple clients and a server, a like, so the fundamental problem is Okay. You can't say sort or find uniqueness in a file name, because you don't know the encoding you don't know you know, kind of character set mapping so that you can do this. But I at as my understanding of the conversation We don't know how to how to fix all of the stuff that's out there today. And is that still necessary in order to make this advancement on internationalization, Well, no. It's not. But Let me let me just Now most file systems it doesn't matter. What the mapping is. Basically, our two names are identical are the same if they're identical. And, therefore, it doesn't do the the file system, nobody really cares what the map is. There are two situations which it does matter. And one of those is when you do normalization related processes, And one of them is when you do Kayson says, Siri, And the assumption is has been that you do either of those things you have the encoder. It has to be UTF 8. Unicode. Code as, you know, UTF8. And I think that's the approach taken in there."
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:56:00",
    "text": "The the problem is There are variants particularly even with that assumption how you deal with, you know, dawndai@capitaldawndaiandturkishetcetera, etcetera. So that's the issue that has to be addressed. Were not dressed. So John suggested that an address that take it all out, but that leaders in the year. Question them how you deal with that. And I would really have to deal with it at some point. But the other other issue is, the other the the other issue is Well, if if John is is dead set against this and he has a voice and he will have a voice and not last call. Maybe we just need to defer that. So, again, that's that's the that's the overall issue in my view. And, and that's the conversation to take to the list. Well, yes. Yes. Okay. I'll try to write it out clearly. And I'd like and I will do that. So I'll try to do that next week. That's Thank you. Thank you. Alright. Now security Well, this should have been organized, but the the the we have important set of motivations in the next slide, but In the process of Ryan document, I had fur would further motivations and work to do discount. 1 is the derivative of the axles leaves too much unspecified. And it's not in the case of it just doesn't specify. It just say, Hey. Well, it it it could work this way, but you can do anything you want. There's also a lot of spaces where it's where they use what they call what's called, intentional shoulds"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:58:00",
    "text": "really amounts to May even though it's not done in fact, yeah, it's not the dash official definitions should. And therefore, it's impossible to indirect makes it very differently from an indirect point of view anyway, That's the other thing. And the document status is is We we need to I think we need to adopt that but we started it a long time ago. It never finished and the document the 06 of which was done on has expired, and now there'll be no 7 and I will start again. And we need to rectify that problem. And have something that happens in a reasonable time. Alright. Let's move on to the next slide. Okay. This is why we started this was no threat now since it any of the in the in the end of the end of this, you force best students for any minor the description of offices in both in the RFC's 7530 and 5661 and 81. Says that us is an optional means of authentication. Well, 1st of all, optional suggested clients are free to use without negative can't can't see whatever they choose to do. But, actually, I don't know whether this should is the right word, but recommend is the right word. But clearly there are negative consequence, consequence, to using, Office and the document has to say those. Explain those. And, unfortunately, this says it means that they hit doesn't do it. Thanks. It's not discuss the security consequences, but fact that everyone did it was considering considered enough but that's not appropriate now."
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:00:02",
    "text": "And there's also a need to include the connection or or insecurity fee like, RBC TLS rather than relying only on an encryption, an encryption provided by in various off flavors. So those are the motivations and I think we need a document to do those, and I think we need to adopt that document, whatever there may be a lot difference of opinion about the details before we resolve those. We need to we need to do this within the frame of, of a work group document, and that's why I need to follow-up as soon as I can, and we need to move on to adapt the diagnosis. Gonna move on. Next slide. So, there is a draft 06 that is submitted, but it's not not not adopted I thought it had expired, but actually hasn't. But in any case, I will be working on a 7 with few of the issues. Discussed later. And I will request adoption on that, and I hope we can proceed with it plan to do it proceeding with that. A rhythm that, like, within a month, that the changes in the note 7 brother to 06 is I reorganize the of security related attributes. In the in 06, they're scattered over the dock. Now I have a separate section dealing with all the attributes. And I think that worked worked out better. And, there's changed staff who classifications, which you're in the next slide, which was which was the result of some discussion we had at the IITF117. I think I discussed that with David Black and we kept came to the conclusion that degree. That changed me to as figured out I knew mode, owner, and owner group had to be different. And as result of the discussion, we side that is best to make those"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:02:01",
    "text": "required even though that's a big change. Okay. Let's move. Okay. I think Mode, owner, and owner group group on group owner is the name. Okay. I think are going to be required rather than recommended. And The fact is that even though we were recommended, it was in the document that Let me let intention was option. And, That's gonna be addressed. In this in the RFC's see 56 this and in security. Most of the work is gonna be in the security 7. We're also needing decided that given certain attitudes, Alright. So I'm just specifying that it's that can't really you can't figure out how to make a implementations. Certain attitudes are experimental and they they made a discussion of whether it's a but those need to be called out. Anyway, those are gonna be discussed as consensus item number 58. A in a in a in a appendix B of the security document. As long list of issues that need to be resolved and we need focus on those. Later later. Okay. Next slide. I need to get 7 out, and that will be within the month. It's gonna be the la that's gonna be one of these documents. But, oh, actually, that's the that's the next step. So that should be within a a week or so. And we need to restart the adoption processes as we can. And, we need to discuss the issues. The way that we haven't been discussing the pending issues for all these documents. Okay? Let's move on. Now is appendix all the issues for all the issues"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:04:01",
    "text": "where I think we have to make a change something that was on really unclear, not just beyond beyond textual changes. I have annotations There's a tied to specific discussions that where we need consensus and an appendix say they're all summarized and we can organize the discussion around sets of those. And I think probably with most of this happening will happen on the on the on the list, but we'll also have the opportunity might have need to have the duty to have some interns for some of those, which might be contentious, but as we as we move to consensus and each of those consensus items, the the documents to remove the vestigial text, which is now marked vestigial, replace the new text, get rid of the author's size, and Right. As if it you know, reside as as in as the or something the work group has decide. Decide. Okay. Let's move on I think that's the end of that. Okay. Last document is one we haven't talked about, but but I should my my fault. I haven't submit But anyway, it turns out in addition to 5661. Destiny is the 5662 biz. There were small set changes I neglected to submit that. And, fix that in the next few. In fact, When can I submit I think I can submit documents now? Yeah, you can you can submit again. Okay. Fine. So I will do that within thisweek. Alright. And, move on to the next slide. And that is the end. All right. Next slide. Alright. Once that's met, we'll be able to discuss some and I don't"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:06:00",
    "text": "report me. I don't think it requires extensive discussions and expect adoption and it it probably is closer to working with Google Ads called, and they end of the other documents, but There's no real point in in in in in doing that separately from 51. 3661 best. Alright. That's it. Any questions overall or are are am I done? I'm not seeing anyone in queue. Looks good to me. Okay. Thanks everybody. So So, David, just hold on a bit. I was trying to get on the queue, but it seems like it doesn't work. So the guy there, again, so I I think First of all, big thanks for me. To you to do all these things. Is really great. I mean you have been working, almost solely in a number of Thanks. So big thanks for that one. Doing this. But I I have I have been thinking. Like, I mean, There are too many things happening at the same time here. Like, as you see, like, you have been presenting all this thing. So I was thinking, like, do you have a preference? Like, which one we should go target and finish first of all those things that you're doing. Like, you said, the security is almost done, but their bees work going on and other work going on. Do you do internal internationalization. So do you have like a preference of like which one we should target and try to finish it. The tech go for the next one. Well, That would be internationalization, but also we need to keep we need to make start to make progress on security and get it adopted. So so I must, so I'm getting it, like, first, we'll target the internationalization. So you're gonna start some mainly this discussion, and then we"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:08:01",
    "text": "you know, glad that we have to make that that decision about Yeah. Exactly. And then we go for the security and then the these things that's happening. I mean, That's right. I think if we do this kind of sequential ways of thinking, it actually helps us getting through. Rather than stack doing things all things parallel. Because many of them we have problem getting the reviews done. Right? So Yeah. That was just the only thing I wanted to say. Thank you. Okay. Alright. So We had a good portion of this. Already happening. So You know, we still have these updates. I I said, you know, and I you for the feedback in particular, Tom, We, the chairs, this is a chair failing, for sure, didn't get interims Worked out in between 1718. Is that Is that going to be a game changer for the working group? What what what what what what does the group want the chairs to do to, to make this effective as kind of the the closing statement as we walk out of, 118. Without raising my hand, I have a comment, 2 comments, I do think the interim just a Every 2 week cadence of an interim touch base meeting. Would help us on the adoption pace on the documents that Dave is currently pushing through."
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:10:00",
    "text": "I I I I I think we need to try that and do it because the Mailing list waiting for people to push is not comments is not helping us. And so we I think we need to do a pull function right now. And I and I would rather that be a discussion than mailing list latency. Give it a try. Can we just I just like to see that happen. That's all. The other thing I heard at the beginning, I think, from It's ahead. Was, regular touch base on the mailing list giving quickie status or you know, this is where we are. Maybe on even a weekly occurrence from the chairs. Just to Shakes the tree. A regular basis. That's a lightweight action that I think said requested. That might help keep people on track for the reviews we are needing from them over the next couple 3 months. K? That makes sense? Sounds good to I want the interims and weekly touch base on the mail list. I want the interims. It makes sense. Biweekly might be a little bit. Often, But Why not try it? See if it gets enough. Participation, Yeah. I was By the way, we we had we We never implemented the interim meetings, but we talked about a a fair bit I was I was looking for a biweekly our meetings, I think was where we finally landed instead of longer meetings, that people would have a hard time finding Yeah. I guess. Based for in the calendar. Not every week, that would be a little bit burdensome I thought we I thought we had settled on every 2 weeks. And, we keep it to an hour."
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:12:01",
    "text": "It's not mandatory attendants. But but but but It's a Yeah. So It might be a little ambitious with the holidays coming up but, you know, long term, it might work Okay. Right. 2 weeks from now is, US holiday, 4 weeks after that is another one. You get holidays? Since this is Monday on IETFweek instead of Friday on IETFweek, I will schedule them before I leave Prague. Thank you, Chris. Yeah. If if we can get a if we can get an ICS that lands in our calendar, that'll probably, ensure better. Attendance. I heard the The feedback from 117 of used zoom which I work at, that, Carnegie Mellon University. I will use Carnegie Mellon University's very large zoom account. So not that I can't accommodate all too physical people in the room on our Zoom account, but I can accommodate very many people, so it will not be an issue that any way, it excludes anyone. You want me to echo? I would say, but my AD is already giving me a little side eye on the zoom comment. So, yeah, I mean, the thing is like, 2 things. 1, this need to be, on the lecture, so basically, I'm there. You you can choose your whatever tool you but you have Mexico. You have Webex, for the NFS 34. So big one. I don't have a, like, Another info. I'm gonna go saying like, okay, you must do this and is this tool. The users, like, whatever you're you you are empowered to make those decisions to do that, but only thing is required here, like, well announced. And in the data tracker, so other people actually see, like, this is happening."
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:14:01",
    "text": "Absolutely. I will not make the mistake I made last time. No. That that doesn't that's learning. That is learning. Yeah. Alright. Any other comments before we So Sip. Sorry to sort it. Yeah. Thank you. Soren, you have you have a common Oh, man. I was just gonna say the only surprising thing about today's meeting was that Mideko was working. Soren, if you're talking Oh, it was surprising. That's right. Yeah. And it was We can't hear you. It's no bueno. He's Okay. Anyway, Sir, do you wanna chat us the question think he can Can you hear us, Saul? It's unmuted. Yeah. We can't hear you, Soren. can see you We I'll Yeah. You're still muted, soarin. So I think make it. Slick the right I can see your mute status. I can't change it. I see Yeah. I see it. I really feel like if I could only, Damn it."
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:16:07",
    "text": "Yes, sir. And you're showing as muted, and we don't have control over that. Seeming like No. Alright. He's back. If you can unmute, Soren, we'll little Well, listen. His little thing is shown Soren, can you do everyone a favor and type your question into the chat you may have just basically I called down the wrath of the gods when I said, meet that. You said it was working good. Okay. It's all your fault. It is. Actually, I shouldn't have opened my mouth. I mean, we had this problem. So you can share the blame. Yeah. For, and Can you chat to us We can't hear you. sorry. I might be messing with it. Okay. So I'm gonna try it one more time. Oh,"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:18:02",
    "text": "Yeah. So I see some kind of green mic that I can revoke your audio, but we don't actually have audio coming from you. So you're As far as Mead echo goes right now, you're unmuted. But we still we're still not getting audio from you. Can you check can you chat your question to us, or because because Reid Echo sucks. Put that in a minute. No. No. Well, Brian, you obviously shouldn't have said anything about me at all. I apologize. Okay. You've done it now. Because every other every time we've used the meet echo, we've had 1 or 2 people with audio problems and once maybe the last time was me. So And worked really well for an hour a half here. Oh, well. So Brian and, everybody else, I mean, this is a right thing to do put in your comments. Any feedback to meet echo. And definitely, I think, Yeah. I mean, they they will they will take your comments seriously. So Yeah. I think I okay. Well, sir, and we're gonna follow-up after this meeting. I'm sorry. Chris, I I don't think we wanna do this. Okay, sir. And we'll follow-up on the mail list, Everett. Perfect. Perfect. Okay. Thank you, Soren. Alright? Thanks everybody. You get 40 minutes back. I think. I"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:20:00",
    "text": "Thank you very much, Chris. Thanks for being out there and Sharon. Banks ahead, You're, always there. Thanks, everybody. Alright? Take care. Sign the blue sheets if you haven't. Okay. Fine. And we're out. You have it. My classes are not, but you can reupdate update the slides missiles"
  }
]
