[
  {
    "startTime": "00:00:04",
    "text": "I was a lot louder than I expected this is the cider ops meeting at IETF 102 if you\u0027re not supposed to be in the cider ops meeting you\u0027re potentially in the wrong room this I\u0027m sure will also still be fun thank you very much before we get started too much further down because somebody closed the doors in the back potentially the last person who leaves okay closer to the mic so for those people who speak at the mic there\u0027s a pink box please stay in it please keep the mic in front of your face a little demonstration sometimes helpful here\u0027s the note well read it quickly we\u0027re gonna need a note-taker and a jabber scribe can somebody volunteer for one or both probably just one jabber okay Joel will do the jabber thingy and notes nobody wants to take notes you don\u0027t have to take super detailed notes that\u0027s not notes that\u0027s different okay well I guess we\u0027ll take notes all right there\u0027s a actually six presentations those six ones not on the list but we\u0027ll sort that out the current status wow that\u0027s nice I know what the obj means but the currents have a drafts in the in the tree for us are these they\u0027re all currently relatively active and being worked on if there\u0027s the one missing from here and it\u0027s yours you should speak up oh okay Thank You Warren and now we get to the presentation part so Sharon oh and you can feel free to hold the mic or put it back in the stand and also the little clicker thing works for you okay there\u0027s a little bug in my "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:03:08",
    "text": "slide by the way that I\u0027m gonna send you an updated one after I finished talking okay great thank you so I wanted to update on this best common practice draft best current practice draft that we\u0027ve been working on with several folks who are here it\u0027s a very short draft it\u0027s just some thoughts on how to use max length in the rpki so let me tell you what the draft is about so I\u0027m just going to tell you what the draft is about and I\u0027m going to tell you the recommendations we make in the draft so let\u0027s start off with something that was defined in RFC six 907 a minimal rower so Aroha is minimal if we have this a yes and we know that it announces this set of prefixes okay then the ROE is minimal if it contains only that set of prefixes so you can see here that there\u0027s exactly the same of I same set of IP prefixes and boats the rower and the AAS okay that\u0027s what it means for a rower to be minimal pretty simple minimal Roiz are awesome we always want to have them as was said in RFC six 907 so why are they awesome is because they stop sub prefix hijacks so in this case we have our attacker over here and what he wants to do is hijack a prefix that\u0027s unannounced by this a s so you can see these are the two prefixes he announces the attacker is announcing this one twenty 2.0 right you can see there\u0027s no to 120 2.0 slash twenty four this prefix is unannounced it\u0027s a sub prefix of the slash 16 and therefore all guesses that see this all routers that see this announcement will prefer it because it\u0027s the sub prefix right if we have the rpki in place we would know that this announcement is invalid because there is no prefix that matches this one in this row right so we have the dot one two two 5.0 slash twenty four but not dot 0 dot 0 slash 24 okay so very simple this is why we designed the rpki everybody here knows this okay so enter max length so here\u0027s a loose Rolla so this rua is not minimal let\u0027s look at what\u0027s in this row up this row has a slash 16 and this is up to max length 24 so sometimes you\u0027ll see this as like the prefix slash 16 - 24 if you\u0027ve seen that before so that\u0027s the max length attribute so what that means is that you can announce any sub prefix of the slash 16 up to the slash 24 okay now for the AAS that we have here it is the case that this row uh authorizes all the prefixes announced by the say us "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:06:08",
    "text": "right so this prefix that the slash 24 here is contained in this row ax right because this row all authorized I know every subtree fix up to length 24 of this they say us so that\u0027s fine so we won\u0027t have any routes going invalid that shouldn\u0027t which is great the downside is this row is loose it contains many prefixes that are never going to be announced by Ras okay so why should you care about that the reason you should care about that is because there\u0027s an attack that essentially obviates all the security that you get from our PKI from the first sub prefix hijacks in this case okay so we have our looser OA and here\u0027s the attack this is the prefixes that are properly announced the bug here is that this should say dot 2 to 5 I\u0027m really sorry this should say Dokdo 5 ok so sorry about that bug I\u0027ll fix it I\u0027ll update the slides but here\u0027s the attack our attacker is announcing a sub prefix right that is covered by this row ax right actually no there\u0027s no bug I\u0027m really sorry everything\u0027s fine so what this is fine this prefix is a sub prefix of this row ah right but it\u0027s not announced by Ras over here it\u0027s not in the set of it prefixes that it\u0027s are announced so the only time we\u0027re gonna see this slash 24 announced is by the attacker okay this is the only place that this announcement ever happens in the Internet our attacker is smart though because he knows that there\u0027s a row uh so he knows that the origin is has to be the legitimate a s and so what he does is he puts a legitimate a s number here the subtree that nobody\u0027s announcing and then he puts his own number okay so we call this a forged origin sub prefix hijack if you were Alberto you would call this a type 1 sub prefix hijack according to the text on amia presented a tear and RW it this morning so with a forge origin sub prefix hijacked the impact is the same as the exact separate fixed hijack that I showed you before okay the number of aces that would fall for this would be the same the reason is because this is the only path to the sub prefix in the internet okay so the fact that you\u0027ve made the path longer doesn\u0027t matter it doesn\u0027t slow anyone down it doesn\u0027t make it less attractive for anyone it\u0027s still the only way to get to the sub prefix this path will win this attack is really bad we don\u0027t want this attack okay so that\u0027s what this draft is about so in the draft we explained this attack which has appeared in other places but we just wanted to like make it very clear what this attack is and then we make the following recommendations our recommendations are coming from the fact that there was a measurement study that we did a couple but year and a half ago I think it\u0027s finding that a lot of people use Mac\u0027s links in a way that leads to this type of attack so they use the max length and this type of attack is possible against their rowers so what we want to recommend in this draft is that operators should use minimal rows whenever they could and we want to discourage the use of max lengths okay the reason is because max length is very "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:09:08",
    "text": "confusing for people it\u0027s easy for people who are not super experts like the people in this room to get this wrong and so we don\u0027t want to give people a chance to configure Lucilla\u0027s without knowing that they\u0027re doing it okay and so what that recommendation comes down to is operators should avoid doing this designers are providers of row a config interfaces should provide warnings to draw users attention to the risk of using max length attribute so you know early rpki interfaces had like a form where you would fill in the a s number the prefix and the max length right and it was just kind of all sitting there in front of you we\u0027d like to move into a world where you can\u0027t really configure max length unless you kind of asked for it in like an advanced setting and you get warnings and make it hard for people to do this because the risk of misconfigurations is high I think we found that like more than I don\u0027t remember with an like more than 80% of max length using Roiz we\u0027re vulnerable to this attack just a note max length does not reduce the number of rows in the rpki it just reduces the number of prefixes in each individual row up so this practice does not actually cause there to be more row as in the RPK it just means that there would be lists of prefixes as opposed to you know just the prefix with the max length so that\u0027s of one of the key recommendations I wanted to mention that there are cases when you cannot use a minimal row so we give some recommendations there so if you\u0027re in a case where you can\u0027t use a minimal row because for instance you want to have a row that includes IP free IP prefixes that are sometimes announced in BGP but not always in this case the recommendation is the rower should include the set of prefixes that are always originated in BGP and the set of IP prefixes are sometimes but not always originated in BGP and no more okay so try to keep it as minimal as you can the rower should not include any IP prefixes there will not be originated in BGP and again avoid the use of max length whenever you can okay so it\u0027s a pretty simple draft we just outlined the attack outline the recommendations and we hope that this will limit um Mis configurations in the ARP ki and that\u0027s it thanks curator blips Alexander Alexander okay Alexander\u0027s email computer labs I hope you\u0027ll see me so now it\u0027s better my question is what about black holing normally a black hole roots are for ipv4 is slash 32 and are you suggesting that nobody needs to the calling or I suggesting to update Rose in case of emergency do you want to take this actually yes he\u0027s a co-author "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:12:10",
    "text": "this industry faces a challenge related to black holing we don\u0027t want people to set next length up to 32 for IP 4 or 128 for ipv6 what I will be working on with some others is we need to expose the underlying reason why it prefix is invalid is it invalid because of next length because of the origin or both in the case of black hole routes I want to accept these more specifics that are invalid if they contain a certain community if they match a certain prefix list and there are P I region Federation state is invalid because of max length but this is work we need to do I I think the max length feature should not be abused to facilitate black holing we need to solve that in a different way I need to admit that from my personal view I disagree here that I agree that we need to duplicate much length but it should be like every year what is covering this this row is OK including slash the deterrent because if we\u0027re speaking about malicious activity it will anyway bypass rows using ice bath poisoning and there we should focus about ice baths purification process and it is and furrows bigger we should make it simpler duplicate max length but without any additional restrictions make it since in that you go fuck actually I\u0027m looking at this and I am thinking some people may take this a little bit misleading because the first and major message that man that has to be placed is to tell people you should not publish row us for which you do not intend to actually originate Roo that are meant for global distribution everything everything that you publish as a rower that does not match these criteria could be viewed as an invitation to an attacker to use the draw and the next length is just a way of very conveniently register a set of things that you may not actually intend to use and a kind of the comment about the intention for global distribution seems to be something where I think actually that also addresses the black "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:15:10",
    "text": "holding things because kind of I doubt I doubt that black holing and similar function roots actually actually have an intended distribution reach that goes that goes very far and a kind of actually talking about that authorizing roots that are that are meant for very limited distribution is something that actually that actually should be put out because if we do not provide that advice people will say oh I want to send this privately to Alexander and nobody else should say should use it but well okay because I don\u0027t think about it I allow hope to hijack that route globally sorry just energetically were we\u0027re at the end of time so no more questions after the TV go out the mic and keep quick okay so Warren Kumari without any hats I\u0027m assuming I\u0027m missing something obvious let\u0027s say that I have a prefix and I announce that as a slash 20 and I never have plans to add nobs anything more specific out of that and let\u0027s say use it for like YouTube or something and then somebody else like Pakistan South\u0027s site start announcing a slash 24 seeing is we don\u0027t have full rpki distribution they then win and I immediately need panic and stop distributing a slash 24 or something really I think Randi can answer your question actually because so you\u0027re you\u0027re saying that like nobody\u0027s verifying rpki Roiz and so there\u0027s no actual prevention of attacks I\u0027m saying not everybody I agree but I think that in order to get to a world where everybody is verifying rpki rose we should have them configured as accurately as possible and actually Randy just presented his co-author presented a paper this morning that people are actually turning it on so I take the point but I don\u0027t think that it prevents us from thinking about this problem Randy Bush ijr Castillo whatever I don\u0027t wear hats at all it\u0027s just an enumeration macro it can stay there it can go you were correct there are no more roles created if the software is going but the list of prefixes in the Laura fully enumerates which is why it\u0027s a macro and it is enumerated in the rpki to router protocol and ter has all the little pieces and it eats his memory and it eats his processing a little now I\u0027ve "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:18:13",
    "text": "stood up many times and said let\u0027s stop saving ran but I\u0027d like to save CPU a little but max alone can stay or can go we have bigger fish to fry so just a comment on that so I don\u0027t we\u0027re not proposing removing max lengths from the spec and in fact we have a research paper that we wrote that I\u0027m happy to send to the mailing list after this where we wrote a little tool that would take a minimal row that does not use max length and compress it down using the macro and so the proposal here is not to stop having max length or even building macros that can just compress it with that the idea is just to not give paraders this degree of freedom because we worried that they\u0027re gonna make mistakes that\u0027s what this is about okay so we just want to limit misconfigurations if you do the measurement studies you do see that this does cause a lot of Mis figurations so that\u0027s the thinking okay so I\u0027m going to wrap up so from the perspective of the authors we\u0027d love to have your comments on the list we feel like from a technical content perspective we\u0027ve got most of what needs to be covered if there\u0027s something we missed please let us know we\u0027re gonna do like a bunch of editorial passes and we\u0027re gonna kind of try to wrap it up with working group last call\u0027s so if there\u0027s anything we missed please let us know on the list as soon as possible also as you can see I\u0027m on a short timeline so now is the time if you want me to do any edits get them in now thank you alright I think the next person up is Randy whatever your presentation you gave me was the other thing not sure not your constant battle that\u0027s right you could okay no no we could let Alexander go yeah no no yes how can you tell that\u0027s mine okay um you were supposed to have read the draft okay so within a rolling trust boundary like a pop okay and think hard about the term routing trust boundary it may not be desirable and it is not necessary for all devices to individually perform origin validation because you\u0027re within a trust boundary your neighbor can do it for you I am NOT saying trusted from another is okay a nice use is route reflectors and so yes I can learn to use this device so here\u0027s the "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:21:14",
    "text": "cash it is feeding the two route reflectors they are doing origin validation and the art reflector clients could learn this information from them now what do I mean learn this information I am suggesting that these be the only evaluations of bgp announcements and that they signal back invalids to the aggregation routers I want to be careful about terminology because this is especially designed to be confusing an evaluator is the device that receives routing announcements from senders and applies our PKI based origin validation and now comes the fun part and signals the invalidity back to the sender who all of a sudden is receiving the validity checking information so watch out for the word sender here okay so the hack is an evaluator can signal receipt of an invalid route and only invalid routes by announcing that route back to the sender with the prefix origin validation state extended community involvement a little bit as defined in 1897 if you\u0027ll remember 1897 was the RFC for vendor do-gooders who wanted to automatically do this and just tag prefixes validity states I\u0027m just reusing that extended community gotta support you up in some ways community gets a nickel for every time a community\u0027s used the sender receiving the return prefix with the invalid marking must treat it the way it would treat an invalid origin that it itself detected and that means withdraw any announcements of that prefix with valet s and watch out for ad path you\u0027re a simple and stupid what did you expect from me look okay you want to cut in oh no you\u0027re welcome to okay now of course since the sending the invalid announcement is the sender\u0027s not expecting to receive it back they need to signal the capability so we have a wonderful new BGP capability that says I can rescind and receive this GARP isn\u0027t this outsourcing security no it is not it\u0027s remote decision-making as my friend Steve pehlivan says not letting a third party make the decision "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:24:15",
    "text": "it\u0027s simply doing it in a different computer in the same party its symbol similar to a pop having a single rpki cache with all trust vested in your within the trust boundary as with all communities which cause semantic change chop it at your border don\u0027t let it outside the trust boundary and don\u0027t let the marking to come in across the trust boundary drive safely job Snider\u0027s NTT communications I think you\u0027re looking in the right direction there are use cases for this type of technology my suggestion would be to do it perhaps a little bit different instead of using communities in the ipv4 unicast and ipv6 unicast API have a route reflector set up within a new API or subsequent API issues yeah subsequent API communicate the in violets or communicate what it needs to say rather than recirculates the invalids with a community that differentiates them from other things the use of a new API in my opinion will be safer because you need to agree on the API we can put in stuff like this API can only work on ibgp sessions yeah keep this out of ipv4 unicast and ipv6 to the cast and we\u0027re good to go you\u0027re not choosing confederations anymore my problems are my problems indeed they are Mountain levy cloud Fleur have you considered an outer bound method as opposed to throwing this into bgp if you look at things like certificate transparency checking which is done as a web api I just this is a very high-level question of one or two the 376 possible ones and we could use smoke signals - well that\u0027s out-of-band but yes I mean I want a fairly immediate reaction I have received that announcement I want about reflector client I have told the route reflector I want the route reflector to say it right well as the simplest stupidest way with no additional protocol this additional protocol here but but I\u0027m just the simple question then is so "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:27:15",
    "text": "BGP in band versus a versus an alternate effort and you you your your only focused on BGP you only want to focus on on a BGP method yes ok transcoder so does the draft to address the obvious instability problem if it doesn\u0027t if it does I\u0027ll go over it ok no it\u0027s not so here\u0027s here\u0027s my concern about back forth back forth which I will illustrate with an example is the peering router gets you know prefix a from you know here\u0027s 1 and 2 he prefers Pier 1 sends it on to the route reflector the route reflector sends back no you won\u0027t either so the peering router says ok great I\u0027ll choose my backup route number 2 so he withdraws route number one towards the route reflector what is the route reflector do now 3 decides so he withdraws the thing that says no you won\u0027t either now the peering router doesn\u0027t have any state telling him not to accept route number one again lather rinse repeat I\u0027m just clarifying the that out reflector simply does the validation the receiving guy when it receives an invalid route for all practical reasons thinks it as a dampened or an invalid route in this case takes the route out of the best path decision for path out of the best part decision and just follows with n - 1 - even if he runs out he has got no pants let me ask Sir John let me ask it a different way John it\u0027s the same if that peering router was doing validation by itself you know it\u0027s not because the one the peering router always has the validation in the in in the way it\u0027s currently expect the peering router always contains the validation database so when the candidate we\u0027re out arrived the peering router evaluates it says no and then moves on now instead your taste chooses the alternate right it chooses its alternate correct and the alternate oops is invalid and then it tries for the best path over the left it\u0027s so I guess I will defer to the chairs remote signal whether we should take this as a band yeah exactly so yeah how are we for time and also mitigation suggestion would be fun well tell you what I will yield to the rest of the line and then if we have time oh no no no no I\u0027m definitely interested dr. Montgomery nest just to be clear so when I when I get back invalid from the route reflector I\u0027m to treat all all updates I\u0027ve received both "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:30:15",
    "text": "ebgp and ibgp with the same prefix origin pairs invalid who the same prefix origin AAS as invalid with the same full a s path No so just prefix origin let that bear I treat treat all entries in my rib as invalid when they get it back to me reflect yes oh that\u0027s interesting it\u0027s truly a question I I\u0027m not saying oh right I\u0027m saying when I get it back from the route reflector and it says this prefix origin pair is invalid I look at my rib and I find all such prefix origin pairs specific right that match that and I treat them as well and also I should just be rejecting there are you know on prefixes like that because you always get the invalid in context of a prefix and a path well I chose one as best path and sent it to the reflector yeah right there there could have been alternate paths alternate peers that I received the same prefix origin Airport so I\u0027m going to project out and mark them all invalid you can mark all the subsequent paths of those pictures correct okay if you like that would be an implementation detail as if they want to inherit that on the other paths that have the same origin Phyllis okay clearly I should read the draft and see what it says as a passing comment the next prototype of both origin validation and path validation has always done and out-of-band protocol to a validation server and so there\u0027s other approaches to doing this without doing it in bgp sure they\u0027re well made the comment as to whether or not we wanted to change bgp machinery or just have a simple remote procedure call kind of protocol that validates so there\u0027s one one instance of an implementation and a document and protocol that dozen Jeff Jeff as out-of-band good you\u0027ve heard one example somebody actually doing it as the draft describes it not good we need this to be in a different place of the pipeline we want this before hits ribbon not a trip ouch which is sort of where you\u0027re doing your you that\u0027s the main thing second thing consider two then in fun pushing that to remote I have a significant delay in my ribbon path you are correct I did this for some "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:33:17",
    "text": "of the reasons that Jon will get to that would be the place to do it you would need a little additional binding to be able to figure out what the full loop looks like it\u0027ll smell like a death it won\u0027t be at that he\u0027ll smell like the second comment is you\u0027re thinking origin validation right now think this also later on for outsourcing HP sec joke from NCT again in the case the well-known community no expertise is associated with an RPI invalids the announcement will not make it to the router flexor and the router flexor does not have the opportunity to signal back this is a poisonous route Jared watch Akamai you can you can match on well-known things and override the behavior if you want to send it to a route reflector I\u0027m not saying it\u0027s a good idea but you can do this this way leis madness however if you use some API to pre-populate the ex router with everything that\u0027s invalid this is not an issue anybody else thank you alright check your check next person after Randi is Alexander good afternoon one more time my name is Alexander Zima I\u0027m from Q at ellipse and today I am going to discuss with you possible methods of future security bgp deployment and let\u0027s start with the current state one may find the current state of bgp security terrifying there are regional events that are happening on a regular basis there are numerous local events that goes fully undetected there is malicious activity that may took days or even weeks with full support of the community to shut down the entrada because there is no support from the BGP protocol itself and ok there are problems roof leaks and hijacks but the problem is not limited to the anomaly itself the problem is that these anomalies are propagated and what do we have to detect these anomalies in in the world here is GP security quadrant and we have "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:36:23",
    "text": "several tools that are capable to detect mistakes mistakes hijacks mistake root leaks there are old well-known IRA futures with old well-known problems such as problem with authorization problem with naming problem without it outdated data there is rose which is finally on fly it\u0027s a great news that recently several huge axes have started to drop invalids it\u0027s the level offer router there are also several drafts that are targeting detection of mistake root leaks using additional attributes and it is believed that to detect malicious activity we all need BGP second and this BGP extension has several well although they can entrance problems the most highlight here is a computational cost it\u0027s has great computational overhead but there is another one which I was not able to find in the available literature and it is web compatibility there are C states that if we receive if our neighbor can\u0027t speak BGP say we\u0027re switching back to the plain old BGP and my Croatian is what will make an attacker to support BGP SEC does it mean that to secure which should be safe - to secure BGP we need to make a take us to support BGP SEC from its sounds at least we\u0027d the results is here but don\u0027t be too upset because as far as I know from numerous discussions nobody was going to deploy BGP sick during their lifetime so it\u0027s a room of opportunity and let us learn from the mistakes and clearly specify the goals or what we need from the any kind of protocol extension to detect malicious hijacks and reduce so what we need we have already a region validation with rows we need opportunity to detect invalid eyes paths and it should of course support incremental deployment and it should be lightweight which should be no signatures in BGP that must be checked there should be no shipping messages no address families and so on so on so it must be simple to be to have a chance to be deployed in near future because we have already in the world of disaster and let\u0027s go back and speak about the "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:39:23",
    "text": "anomaly propagation it doesn\u0027t matter it is hijack or root leak it\u0027s is propagated like with any other prefix announce it goes from a region or the attack it doesn\u0027t really matter to providers to the upper providers to be use and after this of course to the down streams to the customer cone so and so on and if we will be able if we will be able to detect it at level when it is propagated to providers and peers we\u0027re done and there is a wonderful thing about routes that are received by providers in peers if I will learn a route from provided appear in its I spot they may exist only customer to provide a pass and the soul so to be able to not really did but verify I spot we need a validated database of customer to provider relations in the soul so to achieve this goal we propose a new ArchiCAD project it\u0027s called out own system provider authorization it has three fields first one is the customer here he\u0027s a record holder host he\u0027s signing the object second is their provider and the last one is address family because connectivity in different address famous families especially IP 456 of course I can hungry table right so of course there are some boundary cases for transit free networks such as access and dear ones it can be easily solved so we need to signal that routes from this ice piece should not be received from any customer or peer and it\u0027s like was row zero we suggest that they should create a single Ice Bar record with value 0 that\u0027s all there are also some kinds of complex relations this happened between ISPs especially that are the same administrative control it\u0027s also sauce in a simple way you know they just need to create symmetric eyespots so let\u0027s go to the verification process I think I don\u0027t want to describe that we can split ice bath into players of different I sense we\u0027re all prepared values I ignored and after that we have a brief occasion process this is very similar to raw validation we are gathering all candidates as pass we\u0027re checking if there is overlaps if there is overlap so then it\u0027s it\u0027s returns with it "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:42:23",
    "text": "it\u0027s is there is no elapsed into its returns invalid and if there are invalid pairs in the ice bath the ice bath was leaked or malformed and we doesn\u0027t really care so here is an example how it works here our own system before is an attacker it will be trying to hijack address space this belongs to our own system one but a consistent one was prepared so each has signed its address base with rows each his ice bar records this has seen that it has single provider ice to and also a consistent to industry also have created rows so that\u0027s that first one first of all as for mate right just to announce every space that belongs to is one of course it will make complex we draw and it will be detected and I hope it will be dropped learning from its mistake ice form a try to more form high spots by adding ice one into the beginning of this path but we will be so still we will be it is we can easily detect it using a spot next ice for may try in addition trade even ice to in into a ice bath again it will raise complex the last thing that eyes for may try to do is to remove itself from the I spot but again it will raise conflict because I three eyes free must check that their neighbor Ison is present in the ice bath so there is no way attacker may hijack create an ice bath which is valid according to Rose and I spa and small benefit this process may be fully automated so a few I think two years ago I was presenting the GP roles it\u0027s a configuration option that can be negotiated between which be neighbors and to avoid mistakes it\u0027s quite super suitable here so we have a conversion configuration option that says that these link belongs to custom of these links belongs to provide that is the link belongs to peer and with these options we can automate on which links we should apply ice positive verification on which we should not because it doesn\u0027t work on provide the links we can\u0027t verify ice path for us "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:45:23",
    "text": "that I received from provides we should think here access because they are not present in the ice bath also there are some structural limitations there still who they exist Ripley attacks their provider can send malformed routes to its customers so because it can\u0027t be purified but I don\u0027t think this is a showstopper here there are still several open questions the most critical one is about I sets and I\u0027m speaking not about our objects I\u0027m speaking about the wage segment in the ice but it may still exist its provides a back door science with ice set we it doesn\u0027t have order and so it can\u0027t be fully verified the question is how should we should we be aggressive maybe it\u0027s time to drop it maybe it\u0027s not I will be glad to hear your PIN here and there are several other questions some of them were already discussed in the mailing list so please feel free to get back to me or other authors and share your view or go to the manatees maybe it\u0027s the pictures here and summary this applique record is really simple it scales we are not bringing any new messages new sign e inside bgp protocol itself it has a low computational cost and with a rose and a spa together can provide a full solution for malicious activity in BGP and maybe one day we will wake up in a next beautiful world so thank you for listening questions please John Scudder so I have two comments the first is as far as I can tell this proposal from 10000 meters is isomorphic to sob GP so it has all the same security properties that sov GP had yeah don\u0027t we yes we don\u0027t change BGP at all but just provide so I don\u0027t know if your if you remember sob GP but this is basically the same thing which is fine I think the all the protocol bits that you have are nicer than all the protocol bits that were in SOP GP so it\u0027s an improvement and so that\u0027s that\u0027s comment one and and it\u0027s interesting I haven\u0027t read your draft yet I you know based on this talk I will go and read it the second thing is just that in in your motivation you you know we\u0027re talking about how BGP SEC got it completely wrong because it\u0027s asking the attacker to participate in BGP SEC and I think you are mistaken about that and it "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:48:26",
    "text": "doesn\u0027t really affect the rest of your toe so if I were you I would just you know drop that claim the reason I think you\u0027re mistaken is the the underlying assumption in the GP sac is that once you you know when once you start deploying it you start preferring valid over valid BGP SEC routes over non BGP SEC routes as long as you have that policy your the attack that you\u0027re conceiving doesn\u0027t work yeah but most Pacific\u0027s sorry but if I can use more specifics you know you will not drop most specific routes if you have less specific one which is well it well see previous talk about you know I mean it\u0027s not not really necessary to make that extreme claim in order to support your proposal so if I were you I just wouldn\u0027t okay okay thank you for suggestion sridham nist have you thought about the situation where Naas has a lateral peering relationships a in north america with another AAS and the same a is and that a s in europe has a customer provider relationship that is that that has happened in practice have you thought about how to create the ASPA in in such a situation yes here\u0027s the dancer just create symmetric I suppose that\u0027s all you need it doesn\u0027t provide any restrictions that one should be only a customer to another okay it\u0027s that problem so here it says s1 is a customer of a s2 and they s2 is a customer of yes yes and that\u0027s all it\u0027s all just solves the problem of complex okay I need to think about that - both Randy Bush IJ um - both continue John\u0027s thought and also to disagree with little this has the two major problems to me of sov GP which is over revealing relationships and it\u0027s per a s not per prefix um but that\u0027s why you like the protocol a little better than this OB GP is SOP GP and unfair number of its later iterations transported the database within region which this is not true which is why it appears the little cleaner but I\u0027m not complaining about that right it\u0027s reusing the rpki which is cool yeah thank you for coming and Warren quarry just a quick note Sriram and I have a document from like 2012 which deprecates ASX and it\u0027s now on version 12 because we just revved the date and the version number every now and then if people really want it we can progress it yeah "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:51:28",
    "text": "yeah thumbs up okay where yeah so I think in here there are no comments left thank you for listening would I like the poker thing Wow yeah how many people in the room were not in IE PG okay too many of you so this is an attempt to talk about the fundamental deployment problem with something the our IRS would like to do we have a concern with an exposure of risk in the current model of validation in rpki which is basically an all-or-nothing model all resources must be correct in the entire chain of trust between you and the trust anchor all the time for all assertions to hold and if anything is not currently correct because somebody has over claimed then all your products are dead all of them and the higher up a tree towards the root you go the more the risk of unexpected damage to on a real unrelated party Rises and we feel that this is an operational burden which the community should not have to bear we think that a reconsideration of validation that provides for pruning the tree of resources to the subsets which are valid so that you can continue down the chain to find the things that would not be affected by this mistake operationally has lower consequential risk to the entire community of relying parties when we first presented this idea we didn\u0027t expect to come out the door with a discreetly different OID the thing here is that certificates can only have one OID that\u0027s the nature of an x.509 certificate as I understand it and since the oh I D defines the validation model and since there was no consensus in the room to agree to repurpose the validation model of the existing OID it is necessary to accept that there will "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:54:29",
    "text": "be a new I D and that immediately puts on the table the transition question so if we think that we have to move to a new model there is this fundamental requirement that requires some degree of coordination and I absolutely stress I do not mean to imply hierarchy of ordering of the things that have to be considered here I\u0027m just saying there appear to be a minimum of three things that have to be thought about you need to have code and that\u0027s on two sides to both make things and validate things and you need to have an agreement in the community at large which principally is about both the signers and the relying parties that they want to move but you also have to know how you\u0027re going to move so the document about deploying validation reconsidered effectively kind of implicitly said well we use the same mechanism that we do for rolling mean algorithm it\u0027s it\u0027s it\u0027s a mechanism you just put up stuff and then you have a transition in an orderly manner in 24 hours and at the end of it you shut down the old tree you go with the new tree we\u0027re in a new world some of us have a feeling that it might be better to think about operating permanently in a mode where both oh IDs can exist because it effectively offers an extra bit of information it\u0027s the bit that says I\u0027m saying that my children\u0027s minted with this OID have behavior a or I\u0027m saying with the OID minted like this they have behavior B which would a plow allow flexibility people could say I asked my parent to make me a strict tree I don\u0027t ever want you to validate things if I over claimed or they could say no I think there are operational risks here I want to be signed into a world that if over claims happen prune don\u0027t throw so let\u0027s think about these things one by one so code change um if I by the way this is an unmodified pack from a presentation given in IE PG and if I could try to short-circuit and represent the views of a speaker in the room at the time my first bullet may be wrong because in fact changes are not minimal to signer I don\u0027t remove his right to stand up and say it for himself but in principle I believe they were a simpler class of change than for relying parties but the fact is there is quite a high change burden even on signing side because the depth of the barrier of this behavior interdependent libraries and related systems is quite AI but nonetheless the changes in some sense felt to me minimal you just have to say I want to use an OID and you put it in a certificate if you choose to go with mixed mode they\u0027re slightly bigger because you now have to think about user interface and systems and flags to say type A or type B but these are reasonably contained but for validators for verifiers there is this other burden you now have to live in the world where previously you were carrying with you the data structure down from the root or up from the bottom of what assets you care about and at any point if you find they don\u0027t exactly are match or are fully covered by their parent you\u0027re out of the game and things have terminated but now we\u0027re saying no no no no you "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:57:29",
    "text": "have to go and get some malloc memory or some other space you have to construct a tree of the things that are valid hang on to the things that are invalid for error reporting and carry on inside your recursing structure or whatever you\u0027re doing you actually have to mint new data structures so the burden of code construction to make a validator for the new model got to accept that it\u0027s actually a bit higher the principle point here is that we don\u0027t actually have anything deployed now at some level we think signers could probably deploy more rapidly but the fact remains there aren\u0027t any it\u0027s my belief that the right validator community actually did talk about this and the developers have discussed this and have thought about coding this model but it\u0027s not currently in deployment and the two other principle packages that are used are pista and dragon research they don\u0027t have code that does this so in the community of code packages that make certs or validate certs this code just doesn\u0027t exist and for a pinochle issue here because our relationship is not that all things we sign exist directly with holders and use of as acids we have intermediaries the national internet registries and we know that of the NIR community\u0027s two of them are in deployment using dragon research software and two more actively testing the deployment so we\u0027re walking into a regime where we know that there are people using systems that don\u0027t have the ability to use the new our ID okay so let\u0027s think about the second arc getting agreement to move we haven\u0027t had any sense of engaged conversation about this so we haven\u0027t had a dialogue where we\u0027re talking with the real users of this in routing what are your feelings here where do you want to go how do you feel about the cost burden of the flag day and we feel like if we\u0027re going to put a line in the sand and say all right we\u0027re going to propose concretely a transition document that says date july 2019 I mean it\u0027s an arguing point and in principle the dock could get modded but nonetheless we feel like we should be out there talking in the community before we put a date forward and we kind of feel that doing things insider ops acts as if the closing moment is definitionally in this room and we feel a little more like there\u0027s a conversation to be had with operations communities at the nog circuit to understand from people who are in deployment mode what their feelings are here okay so the third question I put on the table about what kind the flag day that\u0027s really lovely because it is compellingly simple you just perform a bounded transition across the interval that\u0027s stipulated for completion of all relying parties to completely refresh against the new state and then you\u0027re done but if we want to go to a mixed mode of operation if we feel like the benefit of an added bit of knowledge in the tree is there we actually have to think about this a bit harder and the primary problem for us as registries comes down to the moment when we add the "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:00:31",
    "text": "new OID high in the tree principally when we put it into our towel if we create a towel a root object a trust object that bears the new oh I D and all the relying party software does not accept this our ID we have immediately invalidated the state of the entire validation tree for those relying parties so that\u0027s a very difficult move to make it\u0027s kind of one where we have to see acceptance and consent to move otherwise we are simply preemptively destroying the tree so we really have to achieve some sense of understanding here oh sorry whoever\u0027s got the microwave on your coffee\u0027s hot do not give me the forks that is extremely rude in my culture that\u0027s better that means I\u0027m entitled to take a field gold in Australian rules football well done okay so this is kind of a three-way deadlock you know both wrestlers are on the ground and the and the ref is knocked out too we can\u0027t move without code we haven\u0027t got any code we can\u0027t move without consent from the people involved we haven\u0027t sought consent and we can\u0027t deploy a new towel without either of the above so basically nothing\u0027s happening here a parallel question is who\u0027s actually in the game and I did some basic work looking into our logging fabrics are you going to use up by 2 minutes ok do I get extra time for wasting time asking questions ok so I did some rough rough measurements and I see somewhere around 300 IPs from 178 ASNs doing arcing which really has to cover the 65 IPS and 39 AAS ends I see doing our RDP an interesting moment in IE PG is that Randy said he has radically different numbers here and I think we may have a little moment where we find a student to do some measurements on who is in system and where they\u0027re looking because that\u0027s kind of weird remember this is an all-encompassing framework if you look at us you should be looking everywhere everyone should be seen everywhere all the time and that doesn\u0027t seem to be the case which is kind of weird so I was able to gather from user agent strings in our RDP what the rough count is of the distribution between app Easter dragon software and ripe and my rough feeling is that it\u0027s approximately two to one a using our P store and Dragon it\u0027s possible those numbers are wrong but in no sense is the majority of the community using our RDP and in that sense in no sense is the majority of the community using code that I know has potential to do modified validation because ripe indicated they would think about it so in a world where there are three platforms in the space and only one of them is thinking about implementing and they\u0027re not even the dominant player we\u0027re not heading to a trajectory where community is going to be using new oh I D aware software so that\u0027s kind of a strong message um it is already a "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:03:33",
    "text": "distributed problem this is the breakdown of the economies of the prefixes that came to me doing validation so my sense is in no sense is this an activity where I only have to talk to one or two people we the community interested in making the move we actually have to talk to a lot of people spread across a lot of places so if we\u0027re going to do this it\u0027s actually quite a big burden but I don\u0027t think waiting not talking about this I don\u0027t think anything gets easier here because we\u0027re talking about a change that I believe is a conversation with under five hundred parties the number of downstream affected people the IP coverage that\u0027s not what I\u0027m talking about I\u0027m talking about the moment of change how many people have to engage to have a moment of change here and it feels like it\u0027s under a thousand and it\u0027s a distributed problem logistically choosing to flag day it would be a hell of a lot simpler and I\u0027ve even proposed the hack which no one will want which is simply to mark the Oh ideas understood but continue to reject if it\u0027s an over claim at a bare minimum that would allow the world to carry on working if we move to a new oh I D but obviously it\u0027s a hack because it means you\u0027re not respecting the model of validation so in that spiritual sense of honoring the principle of a no idea in a certificate it\u0027s it\u0027s a complete fail uhm that\u0027s it thanks Chris seems like roughly you\u0027re proposing there\u0027s three things you prefer you seem to prefer one which is a flag day you point out that there\u0027s potentially five hundred some users who would be network operators who would be affected yeah I think none of the answers really look great but I think picking one is opposed to vacillating would be good so picking one and picking a date that\u0027s achievable and then trying to figure out how to message to people who are certainly going to be affected yeah seems like your goal yes that is my goal how do we get into a conversation with people who were affected so that we can achieve a target for a flag day assuming we want a flag day outcome let\u0027s just go with that assumption for now because it\u0027s easy I think one thing I think about is the 500 people those 500 people that are fetching they\u0027re not necessarily using so now long ago I would have said that\u0027s inconceivable but having looked in logs I know that\u0027s true because at least three of the user agent strings appear to be web browsers that have walked into the our RDP URLs in someone\u0027s documentation and they\u0027re refreshing for no purpose so yes that definitely exists it\u0027s a superset it\u0027s not just people doing work so I think there are folks in there folks in the right area hmm Joe who are looking at rpki stuff and potentially know who\u0027s they\u0027re either pushing people to do this they know which deployments are happening same thing in LAC nick "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:06:33",
    "text": "Carlos\u0027s folks or my brain is skipping my old ad who\u0027s probably in the room not Joe Benny Joe I\u0027ll figure it out later but the point is I think there\u0027s folks in region that probably have some idea what\u0027s going on discussing this being very loud and very clear at some Nanog ripe APNIC whatever equivalent lack Nick good studies all general intent get out into that community and it\u0027s a engage with be on this date honor about this date we\u0027re going to take this action if you don\u0027t have your software updated to this version you\u0027re going to be sad yeah but it\u0027s it\u0027s a triangle and if the software authors are sitting there saying not sorry no we have to pick a direction I think we have to pick a direction that\u0027s your stance here I think yeah maybe Randy\u0027s gonna come up and say differently well I think he probably is but if we\u0027re going to do this yes you pick a direction and go at least 12 to 18 months so we should do it now yes and if we wait another year or two years that numbers gonna be more than 500 yes it\u0027s always a moment when your co-author gets up to the microphone queue because he\u0027s probably gonna say something that says what George said it was completely not what I intended no no he\u0027s walked away from the mic he\u0027s walking back he\u0027s walking back he\u0027s walking back Rob Rob hit me Rob hit me with your rhythm stick I meant Alvaro hit me hit me hit me shorten hit me there\u0027s an item missing from one of your slides georgians this little disingenuous no offense there are three choices on this scheduling there\u0027s the we could do the flag day we could do the gradual or if we do the when hell freezes over yes the implicit do-nothing choice always exists secondly there are actually two separate conversations here one of which you are making it difficult to have by not having a draft yes I know there\u0027s upstairs politics about that but this is the ITF we discussed drafts here with like actual schedules and timelines and considerations rather than our point so next time you do this please have a draft or you know stop wasting our time yeah I just I deserve that the decision not to bring a drive disrespects the process in the room I get that but that was the decision and the other thing is unfortunately a conversation that really can\u0027t happen here so I will mention its existence and then it has to go somewhere else which is this is a cost transfer and that is not something we can really useful it discussed here but this is the RA RS offloading their legal costs the people who would suffer the consequence of an operational mistake that caused over claim and not just the are IRS and their lawyers it\u0027s a consequential risk to the community of users I mean you don\u0027t buy it but that\u0027s my honest belief okay I\u0027m doing this "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:09:33",
    "text": "year one of the 2735 mistakes the our IRS could make would in fact have exactly this effect and that\u0027s what this fixes okay the problem is that this is the only one the our air seem to care about because this is the one where they get sued well Randy\u0027s gonna talk to that Tim knock holes and meet him it\u0027s fashionable so yeah my girls no longer with ripeness to see actual evils and all that laughs so I can\u0027t speak for ripens to say but I can speak from memory a bit as to the implementation in the archive validator by the writers version two of that was implementing the reconsidered protocol at some point but as a global setting right and changing that to respect a birth certificate choice based on the oid should not be that hard but I understand there\u0027s more players in in the room and you know this is Jill so when I said there was potential for the right validator to be in this space I wasn\u0027t over claiming now I think it can be done for the version three I wasn\u0027t involved in that project there was a decision not to do this until you know it would become clear what far forward is but regardless there\u0027s a new idea so no matter what current software doesn\u0027t support it so there would have to be an update to support this particular way yeah and so the community of use if you\u0027re stuck in software I and you\u0027ve built your portal around software a and software a isn\u0027t going to adopt the OID you\u0027re in a very bad way and I think there are three choices here indeed so one is don\u0027t deploy another is look at the the algorithm all over document depth steps in existence is about best practice but that still includes flag days it just prescribes that the whole tree should have the same ideas um and you can look at the mix model which also has flag days but I think less of them finally I don\u0027t know if you can agree to disagree on this with other people but the way I see it this is not an excuse to cause over claims but this is a way to just limit those things and I\u0027ve always felt that the change was fairly minimal in the sense that what it\u0027s trying to do is it just limits the impact to resources our on the dispute this is something that any CA that has a over claiming certificate could take they were aware of the fact that their certificate has been shrunk this doesn\u0027t always happen though yes it\u0027s good if you can avoid this and transfers but the reality is you may not be able to so you know is that a big enough problem that this should be deploys I don\u0027t know I I can\u0027t speak for the RER anymore abuse me but I I know that the problem is felt big their operators I think it\u0027s good to "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:12:35",
    "text": "reach out to the operator community because they should think about this if we want to be impacted by this or not Randy Bush ijr Kasbah operator should think about what where\u0027s the document this isn\u0027t just disrespectful of the process this is disrespectful of the people here and the people you will go around showing this slide deck to who cannot see exactly what I\u0027m being asked to buy into and I agree with Chris if we\u0027re gonna do this better start soon let\u0027s start what soon if you don\u0027t give us the document where some expletive expletive exploited the you know documents take a while here and there\u0027s a document by Tim and oleg documenting the right validator algorithm that has been in this working group for almost six years and all messages to the chairs fall on the floor that\u0027s what I\u0027m really talking about because oleg asked me to twice in the last week got the message thank you ritika video folk yes also coming back to the question of were well okay how well is the required communication working in my view in my view this group is the identified forum where this technology is being discussed it would be potentially good thing for having an actually existing forum of the people who are actually operating stuff I\u0027m not aware that that is the that that is available and being developed and kind of the first thing that has to happen to actually having documents to be scrutinized here and quite certainly I would not go away where you essentially bypass this group and start discussing details with operational groups which in the end certainly have to contribute so that the operational aspects actually get fitted in but kind of the thing has to actually be done first here or well okay you are free you are free to instigate an RP ki operators group that actually that "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:15:37",
    "text": "actually has rules and that has an existing member mailing list and a website where all the relevant information is published and there is actually a lot of rpki operational information that is published in very desperate ways which means it\u0027s not really available for people who are not spending lots of effort getting Randy from blah blah blah there actually is such a mailing list in such a group of little places like Deutsche Telekom and too high and other things like that aren\u0027t big enough to participate alright so Tim again I think I think realistically you can only set a day when you have a good understanding that relying party tooling will be updated in a way that\u0027s well defined and understood so I do think it\u0027s good to talk to two operators that maybe not be in this room but I think that a good understanding of we now understand if it\u0027s a mixed model or whatever we now understand this thing to work in a particular way I think that has to be a shared understanding between relying party George and I did this dance at the IPG meeting um when Nietzsche I said this he was not talking about religion he was saying that we are responsible for our this is the birth of existentialism we\u0027re responsible for our own acts God is not don\u0027t blame her we\u0027re responsible for our own that\u0027s where\u0027s the clicker this is no fun without a clicker okay George and I are actually friends we write papers together we work together we had lunch together but maybe it\u0027s more like brothers we fight a little but we not our masters are responsible for our actions so you have my sympathy George but the facts are the facts the real problems with the rpki what actual problems do we have and I\u0027m an engineer I worry about problems we\u0027re researcher we only care about problems bla bla bla okay the rpki is doing fairly well and warning some of these data are old and I\u0027m going to whiz through them "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:18:37",
    "text": "routing relies on it which is why I care but when we look at current publication which is mostly by the our IRS it is not of operational quality okay what matters is what the customer sees when they install an RP and run it don\u0027t tell them to tune it don\u0027t tell them to change the TAS don\u0027t tell them to stand on their left foot and hold their nose what do you understand not understand about normal user okay here\u0027s one thing installed this is a problem a penis is very aware of it they hate it George is suffering he\u0027s caught between his masters and reality my sympathy George I bought you lunch okay the same thing shows on dragon research RP except the eye candy has less sugar and there is no trust anchor role protocol this is our mistake I\u0027m not strictly speaking it\u0027s trust anchor locator enrollment yeah tell roll correct okay certification problems they\u0027ve gone on for years everything below this our irca went missing because the e certificate had a different mount expiration for the manifest than the CA they went away they don\u0027t have a knock it goes on and on okay I won\u0027t drill it down this these are some old data right you see that\u0027s an inability to fetch for days they didn\u0027t monitor they have no knock they don\u0027t work weekends that\u0027s right a friend this is old Veda they still do not have a knot they still do not work weekends okay that\u0027s fine except they\u0027re asking us to rely on it operation that\u0027s not fine if you can\u0027t do it yourself how sorsa to a real obstacle okay and it goes on here something was rotten in Amsterdam this went on for weeks it was logging in our logs it was an NFS problem nothing can be wrong finally they fixed it black makes ta expires for weeks okay weird data RFC 71 15 says our state must be hierarchic directory structure so it can just fetch it with one TCP setup instead of five thousand here\u0027s the five thousand ripen AP NIC make you fetch all of them and it takes "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:21:38",
    "text": "forever ripe fixes it look how wonderful that is and look at a nice clean key role by the way they doubled their objects went back to normal so ap NIC still has not fixed that they\u0027re still out of RFC on that and everybody running our sync pays the TCP setup price okay luckily the RP software is willing to use stale data but how long is stale our IR s have had three and five-day outages of various services now of course I never make mistakes you\u0027re supposed to laugh um but you know you can\u0027t reach me on weekends but we\u0027ve had no major rpki disasters recently okay so let\u0027s make some lane delegation ap NIC has the problem of having a child repository that CN make that\u0027s behind the firewall ap nichkhun CN nick have been working on this for um you could have had a child but it\u0027s the same as a DNS flame delegation right how do we support that okay DNS changes a root server they send out email to everybody everybody ignores it everybody keeps accessing that IP address for ever but the DNS protocol is designed for this no one notices and it all works okay the our PA kr trust anchors our towels as well points out and our PKI and our our wants to change their towel and they\u0027ve done this a lot they send out an email everybody ignores it but the protocol was not designed for this things break and the ri ARS blame the user so let\u0027s deploy a major change to the core of crypto validation let\u0027s have a flag day this is an actual count and you\u0027ll notice it\u0027s quite different than George\u0027s of the number of our RDP fetchers unique IDs fetching our RDP and unique IDs fetching our synced that those are significantly different from George\u0027s is fun and we\u0027re already agreed to scrape up a grad student fetch all the CAS and find out why this is different as I said George and I are friends and do research together but "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:24:38",
    "text": "there\u0027s a lot of folk out there to have the flag day as chris says it ain\u0027t going to get less if we\u0027re gonna do a change do it now okay but do what now where does it say what we\u0027re gonna do where\u0027s the document I can read if I want to convince my fellow operators researchers or whoever the hell\u0027s foolish enough to associate with me what to do where is the document okay if the I Anna was the single point of trust as we expected they are conservative about this they document things they\u0027re the other extreme and they\u0027re successfully rolling things okay but rir is politically refused to let the Ayane do anything except accept their cash of course the our IRS aren\u0027t operators they\u0027re like PT t s so the protocols don\u0027t have the resilience our bad and that\u0027s what we should be working on our IR s have operational and publication problems repeatedly they need to fix this or outsource it or whatever validation reconsidered solves a problem that they are not having and it will make things less predictable and understood and it looks like it\u0027s going to be a flag day so how that flag day works what\u0027s going to happen when people fall out and don\u0027t make it how that\u0027s detected how it will be fixed etc needs to be documented but we will learn to love validation reconsidered can you go back to the job Snider\u0027s entity can you go back to don\u0027t go back to job Snyder\u0027s the third slice thirds that one yes that\u0027s the eighth slide unfortunately this is not how things look when you install the software as shipped for instance the air Intel will never be there and I\u0027ve deployed rpki in a number of commercial ice peace in the Netherlands now and invariably every time we install this beast there is no moment where it clicks that it\u0027s agreed that\u0027s another problem and I should check oh my god the aren\u0027t there I do not I just built a VM threw it up and did it and clearly there "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:27:40",
    "text": "clearly I have indeed manipulated the towels because also the alt see a towel is there yep but the fact that the Arum tell wouldn\u0027t be there is a serious problem it is very very concerning yep good point I have spoken with some of the re ARS to create a feedback loop between their own rpki services and how that looks from an operational perspective so for instance this weekend I proposed to pave that K routes should do origin validation and that way it\u0027ll suffer in the same way the greatest one the grad students who works well this has a listing of all the root servers and what their roast Attis is I think rpki dot and me II would be interesting for people similarly I asked Erin to do origin validation in their own infrastructure as well so perhaps when they eat their own dog foods things will improve a little bit but other than that\u0027s you\u0027ve made a list of excellent points thank you but but you know we need to think about what we can do to make this more resilient that\u0027s our job and we have been lakhs about that may occulta okay but I think we\u0027re not as bad as the operators in fact creating a mess today Kabhi you\u0027re not wearing a suit why should we trust you I could that\u0027s why you should trust I can\u0027t cover dyes but right this is just informational point yeah guess four carat or we have rose for the prefixes we announced and we got a proposal to actually start religion valuation which we are looking into so case were out for our multi humped home site you\u0027re going to do you know publish a 24 hour number sorry we\u0027re gonna to publish a 24 hour number no no a telephone number that can be called 24 hours a day seven days a week if there is an operational problem ripe ncc in general has that and and there is a procedure is a general number that at the back they have procedure that if it\u0027s about this then send it to that support engineer so we already have that we don\u0027t have it for our PGI it\u0027s specifically for any part of our cacao subsystem but that\u0027s another thing we have to consider to set up support for that cool thank you Tim thank you okay so Randy did you read written that you ate his document yes okay thanks great good Anna and I know I did get some comments "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:30:42",
    "text": "from some people but I figured maybe let me ask the room if people looked at this because this disk goes in into the issue that there\u0027s no way currently to roll a trust anchor key in the aapki I and I think it\u0027s an issue we should be thinking about so I know some of you have read it nobody wants to show their hands like yeah look at it I\u0027ll look at it later okay well anyway let me go on so comments most often I am hear from people you should be looking at how this is done in the in a sec and I think that\u0027s true that there are lessons to be learnt there and well you may not be any better in RPI at the moment to be honest at least they have something but yeah there are lessons to be learned so what can we learn well first of all I did talk about this at the last ITF and then I made a quadrant about you know is this important urgent where are we and I figured that maybe this is really important to me at least but maybe it\u0027s not super urgent but I cannot reconsider that position to myself I think this is also earned I think this is something that needs to be addressed before you have a bigger number of relying party tools out there that don\u0027t support whatever algorithm there is then there are lots of things in RFC fifty eleven that are very DNS specific and while they make up for an interesting read I\u0027m not so sure that they really apply here because the model of getting things is differently there is no time to live with regards to if you get this certificate that\u0027s mentioned in the tell you can keep it for so long essentially you get it every time you may keep it all back up but it\u0027s pretty undefined actually so maybe that\u0027s something that should be valid it fine but you know backup keys yeah so that\u0027s possible in in the NSX I\u0027m not sure that we should go there to be honest because you can easily end up in a situation where you have two problems now you have two keys protect and if you lose one of them Braun\u0027s bootstrapping is a big thing so you have outdated software you want to get up to speed so that\u0027s something to think about as well with you can jump in any time for robust I\u0027m just going to put comments on two things one I agree about the lots of DNS specific timing the TTL stuff that was self inflicted DNS damage on DNS SEC don\u0027t worry about it the back of keys I would recommend you at least think about a bit more the main reason being that there\u0027s no way to do an emergency key role basically you can do staged key roles you can do Plan B key roles the backup key is basically in order to allow you to convert a disaster into a oh okay we\u0027re doing a plan to key role early yeah I have some more slides "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:33:44",
    "text": "later maybe it makes more sense to talk about it after I come through that so what are the objectives well my main objective this plan roles I want a process that is automated that can work unattended and I want to leave a trail for outdated software I mean people install things on docker images and they don\u0027t update it you know might be the wrong way to do it but it happens so wanted to be able to get the latest somehow so this is going and if you read the Drakh you may notice that yeah maybe I changed things a bit but that was also after discussing and I\u0027d rather focus here on how I think things should work and then have a discussion about that and move forward but I think this is still in alignment is rough this is basically there\u0027s no role happening at the moment at all what a draft then says is that you can have a new object a dot L object and it basically refers back to where a difficut file has been found if a relying party sees this they can go like okay that\u0027s great that\u0027s is an agreement but I have nothing to do so I can just continue a small then during and this is where I\u0027d rather focus on this mice and what\u0027s the exact text of the document is this the rights my back I wonder now no it isn\u0027t it isn\u0027t it is not these don\u0027t have the other one because yeah I can keep talking because yeah so much how I talk about you should never you should never upload your first very you know drop of a slide deck so I guess time Warren Kumari DNS me me a lot of people believe that the DNS SEC trust anchors should actually have a backup key already published Pro time and that\u0027s been a long discussion okay well there is something to be said for that but then you really also have to think about how you protect both and I\u0027m not against it but I do want to avoid over complicating the model damn part of it is of course you\u0027re protected against what right to grab tax on the key that\u0027s one so you\u0027re just worried about staging it\u0027s a different thing it\u0027s we got to do the trust now I welcome that discussion so one thing you could protect against if you\u0027re afraid of key loss you can use hardware security model theft you can use hardware security modules with card sets and all that that make it very hard to steal a key not say but then you still have an issue of key loss that you may want to think about but what are the properties of that when you now have two keys to protect because yeah maybe it\u0027s "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:36:46",
    "text": "slightly better because if you lose the new key you still have the old one and vice versa but yeah in any case are used but it\u0027s missing the yes yeah oh it\u0027s just not fullscreen no right okay yes back so ta roll so we were here everything is fine that\u0027s just this new object says to the relying party yeah this I think this is still my current certificate a my current key now during a key role what you could do and what the document kind of says but they don\u0027t miss a important detail is you can set up a parallel structure actually you can set up a new ta certificates new key you can publish all the objects there you can have a truss anchor there so Sangha tell final that points back and you can actually set this up before you publish a new trust anchor tall file in the blue part just like the old current let\u0027s say so a Shawshank always performing this can set all of this up and in the new validation they can make sure that everything is okay before they communicate this to the world there is one thing though we have these pesky Authority information access your eyes that is basically I think intended as an informational thing we had a talk about it you know a long time ago though there\u0027s a back reference for every certificate that says this is the arcing URI where my parents certificate lives if you\u0027ve really really strict about that you would find that there\u0027s differences if you find something through a different path you might reject things and that would really complicate this so I would suggest that we talk about deprecating the this field or at least make it a informational thing we already have to ignore AIAS during internal key roles further down the tree I\u0027m pretty sure we got that right somewhere buried in the depths of the original documents that their advisory you should not reject anything just because the AAA is wrong so I don\u0027t think there\u0027s any documentation needed I don\u0027t think it\u0027s a key for the ripens received on the data either but it\u0027s it\u0027s good to know because yeah another place where this may cause an issue is that you know in case you want to change your publication points you have issues maybe you want to outsource it you know and you can\u0027t otherwise so but anyway you can have two parallel structures and but the draft "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:39:46",
    "text": "actually currently says is that you would go to the after stage very quickly but I\u0027m quite willing to discuss that and say you know maybe not go there very soon you could leave both in place for awhile this also gives people see the the opportunity to you know update their relying party software manually you can communicate this no-tell out of bounds as you\u0027ll probably have to do at least if you\u0027re beginning to deploy this stuff because not everybody will support it straight away I\u0027m sure and maybe it\u0027s something you want to build up operational experience with before you go further let\u0027s say but eventually you\u0027ll get what to get rid of the old key so afterwards what you can do is you can throw away your key you old key you can throw away all the objects and just leave a pointer in place these things need to be signed with a long pole it at the time we can argue about how long makes sense there\u0027s currently something in the document that says one year but that\u0027s completely arbitrary maybe it should be much longer but yeah that\u0027s it essentially that\u0027s being proposed and you couldn\u0027t Deary also talked about using this to have backup keys rather like indicate this this is a backup new thing it\u0027s not supposed to be used but I think we probably don\u0027t need the full structure like this term so it\u0027s an interesting discussion to have what else didn\u0027t want to say about this well maybe we\u0027ll come back later no sorry so again maybe click through this if you read the document it basically goes from this to this very quickly but after discussions feedback I think it does make sense to have this stage there for a longer time at least until operational experience shows that people can do the role automatically what I do think makes sense if we want to peek provision keys that can be a separate discussion but as written the and that\u0027s what I wanted to say the TA dot star in the blue column here immediately points to the new choice anchor here and when that happens I believe that relying parties should be should be able to trust that their TA that I work I mean it ca can mess up their system in many other ways if they\u0027ve done the validation I think it shouldn\u0027t be necessary for you know an arbitrary number of relying parties double check whether they did our work correctly at least that\u0027s my view but yeah if you really want to go there and we say we want a pre provisioning key or you want to say we intend to role on this today and you are welcome to verify "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:42:46",
    "text": "then I think we can do it but we need to risk everything to structure a bit then the tall file that is currently just pointing at a single certificate and set of your eyes that is supposed to be current may have to be extended to something that says this is what is current and this is what is coming so can be done but in any case very happy to have discussion on this because yeah I don\u0027t claim to know exactly how this should work but I find it important enough to make a proposal and then see where we go so that\u0027s I would say come on down yet again I like this I don\u0027t think it\u0027s quite cooked yet but I think it\u0027s going in a good direction I totally support this work thank you so well I\u0027m here all week if people wanna discuss offline which may be better for this time great I\u0027m around from the happy to do so thank you that\u0027s it all done time to go yes okay thanks "
  }
]