[
  {
    "startTime": "00:00:21",
    "text": "hello jay how about now i'm not hearing you either can hear you robert but i couldn't hear jay something no i'm here okay i heard russ and it looks like the bridge is now hearing me but yeah robert it sounds as if you're using the wrong microphone okay i can hear robert just fine okay hey guys"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:02:06",
    "text": "so to see if i'm using the microphone i expect are you hearing this scratching noise so i hear that scratch i'll just move the microphone closer to me for the moment give people time to join please do share video if you can with these team meetings trying to make it an around the table experience as much as we can has been useful so i would like to ask everyone to remember that this session is being recorded and will get pushed to youtube so the side effect of using the intermediating mechanics for the group having the recording is useful and having it pushed to youtube isn't isn't going to hurt us but we do need to remember that um what we what we say is going to be captured in that record so the point of today's call is to go through the workshop proposals that we have so far i have copied what was in the repository into the notes page for the interim just for"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:04:00",
    "text": "convenience so that we could skim through these things help refine them look for missing ones this is a brainstorming opportunity to add to the list um if anybody um has anything that they haven't um sent in to the workshop repository already and then set some priorities on which of these we should tackle first and start talking about dates for the first one two three of them i'm planning to just go through these as with a quick introduction for um the proposals as exist i think our conversation should have a tenor that is not unlike what the isg uses at their buff coordination call we need to refine you know what the workshop would talk about but not try to have the workshop while we're on this call um if you would please add yourself to the attendance list in the notes liz may be chasing to do some of that for us so let me do a quick introduction of the proposals that we have so far in the order that i pasted them in which is basically alphabetic by the file name that was in the repository one of the workshops that we could spend time on is discussing larger data tracker refactoring projects before we jump into them we have many big projects that have been put into a pending queue"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:06:02",
    "text": "there are a few listed here one of the biggest is moving rscs off to be a separate document type to clean up some of the mess that we have in the data tracker right now with document with rfcs appearing to be sort of a virtual final version of a draft this would allow us to make better use of the replaces mechanic make it much easier for the code and for the ui to do the right thing when people are trying to look at the last version of a draft before it became an rfc there are big changes that we might make to interfaces the submission interface has had several requests over time for really large changes including things like having the uh a preview of what the renderers would um render if it was given um xml to make sure that if the uh renderer is pulling bibxml from common sources that it's actually producing what the the submitter intended um the agenda interface is um kind of long in the tooth there have been suggestions for how to improve it i think lars has taken a stab at some of these things already in his bootstrap 5 branch and there are some large suggestions about making adjustments to the role uh models and the utilities that we have that use them to let us build views that do better things for um um access permission without um"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:08:04",
    "text": "sometimes providing the the finding to find a grain or two open a net access permissions based on the things that we've got here and adding something that looks like the role model that we have now for groups against documents so we're capturing actually formally capturing things like shepard's as a role on a document maybe even authors as a role on a document um if people have other ideas for things that might go into that kind of a workshop or if you think that the a workshop on this is silly and that the developers should just get on with it let me know i'm not hearing anything from anybody anybody want to vote this off the island you think this is a not a good use of time for the community to to beat on this together or you think that it this actually would make a good workshop now with the exception of greg giggling at my voting off the island comment i'm feeling like i'm alone in the room now somebody speak up please well to help you to help you not feel that way um i just wanted to confirm that even if the developers were to just get on with it part of that process would be checking to make sure that what was being developed addresses sort of the ui ux issues so the workshop's intent is is merely to understand the issues better or maybe identify other issues to put into this project exactly"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:10:00",
    "text": "so we that workshop we wouldn't actually be doing coding in the workshop it would be gathering requirements for what would actually make things better for the for the community all right let's move on and describe our question this is because i didn't pay attention for some at some point but who are the participants in this workshop is the subset of the tools team or the broader tools discuss community or this is the tools team would be throwing this open for anyone to attend okay as we did for the mail infrastructure workshop that we did earlier so my main concern about some of these is that it's like inviting bike shits right um and and i if we can find a way to avoid this and to keep the discussion sort of on the things that that don't need to be bike i think that would be useful like with the interface right i can see that going pear-shaped very quickly um and maybe i'm colored by the like the whole discussion on how we the simple proposal to make auth48 public that we thought was very small straightforward and it's getting you know uh rebuild uh by a few people yeah yeah well you know that i would like to avoid plus the other thing is that some of these things um i don't know if the broader community really has much insight like the role management for example i don't i don't know what we would productively get from having a logic community participating that other than the people like on this call or participating in the course prints that know the data tracker under roles a little bit at least well specifically you know the conversations around should we should we attach roles to the to documents what would what would working group chairs find useful for being able you know more than they have now for being able to attach a person to a document and have that person have"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:12:00",
    "text": "different ways to interact with the document based on that attachment so it is a kind of conversation that i think might be useful so you know let's go ahead and and do a quick introduction of all the others and if we need to we can make a second pass through these um thinking about the questions like what you just asked in in in the context of the of the larger set um to see where um offering the community the ability to spend time which is it's an expensive thing to put these things together is non-trivial the the the core team here will have to do a lot of prep for each of these in order to make them successful so um and maybe towards the end of today's call we should talk about um criteria for success you know what is it that we really really want to have come out of these um and if and if you see in line that something that we really need to uh address around that question um just go ahead and jump in carson i see you've got your hand up um there are a few enough people here that i think you should just everybody should just jump in and don't bother with the q mechanism unless we get into something really heated yeah i just was wondering how we actually communicate about these things so the the road management part i actually can imagine because this is essentially a brainstorming but there are a few other things here that really uh essentially would need a prototype to talk about um because it's so hard to to visualize um so that this would need extensive preparation uh and and i'm just wondering how how we could make those"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:14:01",
    "text": "parts work yeah mock-ups things of that nature it's a good point but we would you know it fits in with the um it would require quite a bit of preparation to make a um group conversation um make sense um and maybe the um we should change the focus of it to be less about refactoring and talk less about what the changes in the code are but talk specifically more about have a workshop on how the data tracker can help you better and bring some of these questions like um do we want to more carefully start tracking um on contributor affiliation i'm going to say we're away from the word author even though that's what's in the in the in the thing right but this is a conversation that we could have with the community to find out you know how um if there's institutions or what we would would gain out of having a better sense of what organization somebody was affiliated with as they were contributing i came up in the discussion today uh was uh people would like to learn from data tracker when something specific happens and i know that there are lots of little notifications things in there and atom feeds and and all that but apparently people have trouble finding these and also they are kind of unselective um so when you switch it on you get a barrage of these things and and it's hard to get really informed about just the"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:16:01",
    "text": "things you care about so that's one thing that i would add to this because getting notified about something is really one of the best things data tracker can do for you so this is if we did hold a workshop it's pulling ideas like that out that i think would be a good part of the brainstorming so let me go ahead and move forward and let's talk about some of the rest of these and see if they have a similar shape or um if there's an obvious difference to them and that might inform um how we would how we would work with some of the some of the others uh the next one in here is about document publication um i like to sum this thing up as the dot itf.org conversation uh we have had many email threads about what should be authoritative for a given document um how people should be able to find documents and how software should store documents and and and retrieve them um improving search the uh um maybe uh improving accessibility right so i as part we we could have as part of this conversation you know the uh um argument over do we want people to land on a metadata page which is really what the rfc editor has been pushing for um or do we want our search when when people are just walking up to the system and trying to find something do we give them the content of the document so a if this were held in a workshop it"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:18:02",
    "text": "would be kind of like a you know working group off conversation where we brought that question found proponents for each side had a decent argument about it and um hopefully after the conversation would have a a documented um informed decision about what we might do more uniformly across all of our properties go ahead lars so clarification question because you say rfc is an internal draft so is this this would this include rc.org i think it would have to okay because that's well going to have a different answer we can come up with on rsc editor.org we do foo and everywhere else so i like that that we're trying to include rfc.org and i would love us to have a uniform something here but i i don't know if they are seeing their beasts they have been very strongly leading to this for example metadata landing page right um they seem to like that and they don't seem to want to move away from it but i think sort of like these the people i talked to on the igf side sort of seem to want to you know give give the content and maybe uh put the metadata somewhere else on that page can i just jump in there the two are not inconsistent in any way we have this language i don't know if you've come across it called javascript that enables us to write a page that is both content and metadata and the metadata can be configured can be hidden can pop down can you is javascript free as far as i know at the moment and the question is do they do they want to get to the times so yeah they so i think i i'd slightly disagree with robert i think we might have to do the two separately here because i think that the rfc editor one"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:20:01",
    "text": "changes to that we still need to understand what role the rswg will have in that you know that's been discussed through the rs editor future program where the uh some of us have been trying to limit it to setting principles and strategy for the how that website should work not choosing the colors you know but we i think we need to go through that process to understand that um and one thing to add is that um greg and i are looking at doing an rfp for a ux design company to have on you know permanent contract so that we could work with them for some of the something like the irs editor site which is going to be much more um widely used in forward-facing than say data tracker where we could potentially do that ourselves you know if we wanted to so but in both cases i think we we really ought to consider trying to lose this dichotomy between a a la you know a metadata landing page and a content page and try to consider a design that's so you know solves people's tasks they want which is a c vote yeah we would it's a quick segue but we would uh uh probably also want to have some high level ideas from this ux uh people for the data tracker because like what carson talked about right this different ways of getting notifications but just i mean data tracker's like organically grown over decades and and there's no unified methodology to to anything really right it's basically some pages are new some features look old and so somebody would need to like refactor that pretty heavily um to make it work right and it's also like we have it's not there's no reuse of any like components or anything like that not over different to different pages yeah absolutely yeah i i wasn't saying that we want to keep the ux people out just if people worried that we need to move ahead quicker than we can potentially do that but yes i think i think ux design yeah to say something positive though i do like the the the blob storage right i"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:22:00",
    "text": "mean our our most of our materials are like we we turn them into key value things right so it's a natural way to store that right everything nothing ever changes we just create new versions right so this is exactly what a key value is good at so um i think people have a fairly good idea of what a workshop around this might look like um there's we we could be on its contents more um we started to slip into you know the the the kinds of conversations that we would have in the workshop there for a moment um but is this is this the right unit do we do we have a workshop where we focus on um this question around having something like docs.itf.org or having a common feel across different properties for how things land or is there a better way to split that conversation up into different workshops this is russ and i was wondering if that isn't actually the topic of the first one you hold is where do people want tools to go as a brainstorming session that then decides which other workshops to hold liz you want to capture that at the end of the of the document as a suggestion for another possible workshop is just a general tools brainstorming session a short one just give people an opportunity to come in with random ideas exactly"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:24:07",
    "text": "okay we're 25 we're almost 30 minutes sorry robert this is alice i just want to go back to what lars said so the um to clarify two points one is the html for rfcs of the v3 era does use javascript to put the metadata header at the top the gray box header and there is some um change to to making the html you know desire to make that html version be more prominent and i no one that i know of at the rfc production center has a strong tie to having the metadata page be the landing page but that was the outcome of a long discussion regarding do i have what the doi resolves to and if the doi resolves to metadata at the top an html version of the rfc at the bottom that we have no strong feelings against that but there has been as you know multiple discussions about whether whether to go forward in that way the google scholar indexing improvements are pointing to the html file itself not the metadata page so that would be a a shift that we would see theoretically in google scholar search results in the in the near future but uh the i i agree with you that there there's some modernization to be also the concept of how the metadata is displayed on a v3 era html rfc is different than how metadata is displayed on a old one so um i i like the idea of including rfc editor although i see jay's point about the role of the rswg in the future um but i i think um the workshop has more value when it includes rfcs as well as ideas yeah i agree and sorry i didn't mean to imply that the rpc was somehow like you know holding us back or had opinions that were like uh outdated or something i actually i tried to like john levine specifically where it seemed pretty pretty opposed to the idea to move away from the landing page i think it was actually"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:26:01",
    "text": "i was referring more than him that to the rpc so sorry but that caused confusion and thanks for clarifying next on our list is a workshop about how people are using our mail list archive interfaces the mailart.ietf mailarchive.iatf.org and imap um and how they interact with subscriptions this would be the place where we would um further refine um the suggestion that jay's made towards um moving towards an integrated interface from the data tracker for subscription management into um whatever our distribution system is can i um add something to that um it it it strikes me as odd that mail archive as a tool is um doesn't tell you anything more about the mailing lists so you know that there isn't a um subscribe to the mailing list link from mail archive or am or anything else there so as well as the um subscription management um stuff that uh i've um done a a you know a design for um uh in order for us to think through it not not to intend it to be the final design um i i it would be useful to hear people's views about where we can go with um integrating that with mail archive as well you know um whether malaka should sit alone or whether it should be you know effectively that once you"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:28:01",
    "text": "have your i'm dealing with mail tall you get archiving and management and description all of that all together and the second question i have is to understand whether we should aim to make the mail archive tool more than just a mail archive tool but also have the java logs within it and attempt to timeline or thread those so that you can see you know um the messages you know in the sequence in which they arrived almost across those things because quite often i think people are having sort of a semi-real-time conversation across um jabber and email and is it possible for us to help people unpick that historically so just two things i'm interested in you know more conversations about so my immediate reaction this is russ is um that the integration of jabber is a very interesting idea i think it'd be a real ui challenge you know but maybe you know if successful might hit pay huge benefit the subscription part i'm skeptical about because um the search assumes that you want to search a whole bunch of of lists because you know conversations sometimes migrate all over the place we just had one that must have gone you know from the coin research group to the main list that often then ended up over in the ieb's architecture thread anyway the the point is to find those kinds of things you need to search a group of lists um and so then when you've got hits on you know 10 different mail lists how do you which one do you want to subscribe to"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:30:03",
    "text": "so this may come up in a minute um as one of the as part of one of the other suggestions when we when we get down to it um i'd like to caution us not to dive too deep into the workshop um but i do want to um add on to jay's suggestion that we are exploring at least thinking about moving future chat to zulip instead of jabber so if we did somehow integrate the historic java logs into a conversation threaded view um we would also want to look at providing access to to zulu and that might bring new challenges as different threading models become hard to reconcile so i think i'm hearing interest in actually the the this one is resonating having a conversation about the way people use and interact with the mail system is something that is people are resonating with even more strongly than just a conversation about you know how do you interact with the data tracker and want to make your interaction with the data tracker better so we'll come back and prioritize these in a minute um the next one on this list is is a biggie so i think everything else now is not sort of related so much to um how a participant would interact with the system which is why i so do we have any we don't run google"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:32:01",
    "text": "analytics or anything else on the data tracker or mail archive do we so do we have any usage data about what people are doing on this so it would be helpful in order to sort of decide where we like put the investment for these things if we decide to do some of them right to put them where most people will see the benefit yeah i think great i know just announced we're going ahead and start using at least matomo's analytics over sites like the data tracker and we will have that information available to us after a few in some reasonable time period to get a valid sample set okay i think it would be good to have some uh idea of what sort of the the most common usages are so that we can sort of trade off whether we want to and you know improve some of those versus something else obviously it's not necessarily going to help us with like deciding on new functionality like you know zulet4 or anything else but at least in sort of in terms of the what do we do about the stuff that we already offer but we want to offer it in different ways i think that might be helpful like for example when it comes to html there's other formats if we knew him from ymca.org right click rates right does anybody on the landing page what do they click on or does it and then even very coarse-grained statistics like for male archive i guess you don't have to be signed in so we don't it would be useful to know like which fraction of the really even uses it right and if they use it what do they use it for uh do they basically just just click on the link in the browser somewhere and they they get shown the email and they go away or do they actually like interact with the systems and the searches and all that stuff i think that would be helpful so it sounds as though we could do with a session on motomo and what analytics we have and things um i know from talking to greg that we have a problem about how much can be shared"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:34:02",
    "text": "publicly with motomo um uh you know because of the it's it's security model um but we can certainly you know i think having a conversation to understand what people want to see will be very useful because we can understand whether we give people logins or whether we try to build something that makes it public or or what or or even just understand how we use it yeah so i'll give you an example like the bootstrap file stuff right so we have in the data tracker it's the search functionality on the on the landing page there's also a search thing in the top menu bar um and then there's the pull-down where you can search for like all kinds of complicated queries and and it's not fully clear to me like what's what is used at what to what degree right so is it is it actually worthwhile to uh really like work on the detailed query api or everybody just type in a document title and and like dealing with the results so i think those are the things would be useful to understand when it comes to some of these improvements should we add in a matomo data collection session but i don't know if that's a get the community in kind of thing or if that's to say um we have some core part of our team going in and do detailed work there i i i don't know if it would be useful for everybody to understand the details here but i think it would be enough to know that we have some data and if i have a question like this i can go and ask like you guys and you can tell me or you can tell me we don't have that data but i i don't know if everybody needs to understand what is there and how to query it and all that"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:36:00",
    "text": "and i would also trust you guys to just tell me i just think it's in use so we want to remove it from the data tracker the other thing we could do is we could have at some point later a general session on all of the performance monitoring and monitoring um services that we have so scout apm as well as moto mode um yeah yeah i wanna forward performance because that's very different right i i was mostly sort of trying to figure i was trying to use this to drive our investment and the changes we want to make so take the word performance out but we could have a general thing about our monitoring you know services that we have and what people want to see what visibility they want of things the observability buzzword is is um rising again and we could have a conversation about what our observability is and what it should be yeah yeah but i didn't want to derail the continuation of the discussion so i just thought i interject this here because the rest i think that you're getting into now isn't necessarily directly related to people using our systems um yeah there's more that that is um the i guess the the the it infrastructure service thing is is is maybe different enough that let me skip forward and talk about the search and search engine optimization workshop and then we'll come back and talk about the it infrastructure workshop so we've winged several things that are contained in this proposal for a workshop in others right you know large even with what you mentioned how are"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:38:01",
    "text": "built into the data tracker and do we want to have something that unifies search across all of these platforms at least at a high level and then feeds you into more detailed search in the application specific um search mechanism in a a friendlier way to actually let people achieve what they're wanting to achieve the their proposals that we had in the past about standing up a something that would use something like elasticsearch they had data feeds from all of our properties that with an interface on top of it that would let you quickly find likely relevant stuff get you into the right application to find more details and then using these things using something like that or whether you had it or not putting a lot of effort into tuning how the engines are interacting with us so that when people are using the external um search mechanisms they land on more relevant um results more quickly so would a workshop that just focused on search and search engine optimization um be something that would would be fruitful do you think we'd get good input from the community around um having a conversation with this being the the lens about what we're talking about"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:40:01",
    "text": "i think it's good topics i don't know if it's one workshop because search and seo are two different things right one is used like how do you optimize for an external search that indexes your your stuff and the other one is how do you search provide search internally to our applications and there's not obviously to me like a whole connection between us but i might be wrong yeah now if there is a connection it's that the seo could leverage a better internal search mechanic you would just focus the seo on the thing that's providing better search internally all right so then jumping back to um the it infrastructure we do want to move to a world where we have um better reproducibility of the things that we're deploying we have better insight into how the things that are deployed or running the ability to scale horizontally when we need to scale without necessarily having to have a lot of of um manual intervention in this and we have been accruing a set of things that we have been asking ams to do um that needs to be informed by a better vision for where we want to land and we need to have a clear set of um goals a a clear pattern that we're moving forward for the way we evolve our our our infrastructure services"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:42:00",
    "text": "um over over the next couple of years and we really need to develop this clear picture as early as we can so a workshop around this i think we would bring in people that have done transformations that have led transformations in enterprise environments or other small organizations to talk about what's worked well for them what technologies that we might want to use what are better strategies for using external services might look like i'm envisioning somebody that has started to make really good use of of um ansible to come in and talk about um what the challenges are when you when when you you're making a transformation into a system that's that's using um ansible as a primary tool for its automation um what other what other topics might land in this and lars i'm since really sensitive to the bike shed thing here where somebody just comes in and says oh don't use any of this stuff just everything should go you know exist on google docs and and get github and we're just done right i don't think that that trying to argue against that kind of solution would be a good use of time i'm not so worried about about like getting here actually"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:44:00",
    "text": "i i i don't actually see a lot of other viable tournaments but very optimistic so if i could add um just so that people haven't read the um uh the the notes that well so we this is um we've put um uh ams and glenn or you know through through that um effectively on notice to say that we want to change the nature of the contract we have with them from a black box contract to a contract where the community has much more say in specifying the nature of this of the service that's provided the three key areas that we've identified there um basically the virtualization strategy the build strategy and the monitoring strategy are all three key areas where um there's been a lot of feedback from people or are either from the community or from internally within the various teams about people who integrate who interact with these things that that's where they'd like to see some significant changes um so this is something that we uh um some of this direction is already set to be blunt you know it we are going to move towards um automated proper build using build languages and that kind of stuff um the question is you know how which ones how does that do we do we end up with everything you know all the build scripts stored in github um that that sort of stuff um we are going to end up with a different monitoring solution"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:46:00",
    "text": "the question is you know what standards do we use how do we do that what access do people have to it those sort of things and um we are going to end up with a different virtualization strategy and the question is um you know that so this is why robert said that we want people who've done this before you know as much as possible to help involve you know because um ultimately i think we're we're quite comfortable those of us on the tall side simply specifying all of this and expecting it delivered by glenn but and his team but i think that we are very much keen to involve other people other people's skills expertise and other things rather than just go down that route so um this is one that has could have a lot of momentum behind it quite quickly if required thanks rob so all right so um skim back through the set that we've got here um do we have are these all the same kinds of things as it makes sense to continue to talk about them as as things that we would prioritize from a single set do we need to break these things into separate sets and approach them differently after the conversation that we've had is there anything is this sparked any other ideas about things that we need to add so"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:48:12",
    "text": "so i'd like to get a feel for um if nobody's having reactions that will just we'll we'll continue to work with these as a single bucket of things let's talk about priorities and timing um i'm expecting all of these to require a significant amount of time from hopefully more than one person um for preparation to get them ready to go and to follow all through afterwards and turn the result into an artifact that will actually be useful for guiding our development work going forward um what pace do we want to try to have these things at is this one between every meaning do we try to do one a month what's the what's the uh what's the speed that um you think these can be digested in i'd like to just throw out the initial cause once a month seems too much but um i would hate to see it as part of the itf agenda so maybe staggered you know halfway between each one yeah i was anticipating that they would not happen during the meeting okay between the question is if we do we do we try to do one between each meeting do we try to do two between each meeting or you know the three between each meeting we're hearing is probably too much right one or two depending how much prep they end up taking"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:50:03",
    "text": "[Music] yeah that means that even with the list that we've got here we're dealing we've outlined on nearly a couple of years worth of of conversations can can i ask them um ross or any others are there any of these that you think you would be happy for us to get on with as bau and keep the community up to date with you know produce more detailed plans rather than have workshops with or anything like that i guess the mailist archive one jumps out at me that that we went through so much community discussion about it um and then when we coupled that with the ability to do the imap uh or a mounting of the archives it it just feels lower priority than some of the other things anyone else have a view on that michael oh he's jumped he's he's gone now carson are here he was distracted so just just cast them just wondering if any of those things on the list um there are things you would be happy for the tools team just to get on with rather than and keep the community engaged and about our plans and stuff but rather than us need to have a workshop first yeah i'm i'm"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:52:00",
    "text": "pretty happy if the tools team can do their work so whenever such a workshop becomes an opportunity for people to to meddle with stuff and and make stuff more complicated um that's a problem i think that has been said before in this meeting um so i think we have to be a little bit selective so i'm i i can imagine having a workshop about i.t strategy but it should be pretty selective in who you actually invite to that um i can um much more imagine having workshops about things that people are trying to do in the itf and either do not get enough support from the tools or actually uh are being actively hindered by the two words so that makes sense brainstorming looking at mock-ups and so on that that might work well but these workshops should not have any any normative character okay thank you so to robert maybe for some of these such as the infrastructure one we could have a project team and open project meetings that the anyone from the community can join but we don't need to go through with a specific workshop um in order to do that we just you know started as a project and we obviously tried to bring in those people with this expertise some of the not people those sort of thing so that they're there but otherwise we potentially try it that way it of course depends a lot on whether we need a big bang or can do this iteratively so a project team can probably do things in an iterative fashion quite"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:54:01",
    "text": "well doing a complete remake probably requires some some more planning and some more drawing and enough expertise okay thanks russ i know you need to go very shortly do you have anything else that you want to throw in before you have to leave not hearing anything from russ um tom i thank you for joining as well um haven't heard from you yet do you think we're on a good trajectory here is there something else you think we should be pursuing um just wanted to kind of keep an eye on what you guys were talking about uh i've voiced my uh things i would like to see on the mailing list a few times but they aren't generally things people want or don't seem to be things people want so um like archiving of um the meetings in in separate streams that can be recombined and things uh i think that things should be application oriented the features you work on and so if there's an application that someone wants to do then you have the back end support for that and changing the back end before you know what the applications are just trying to guess what they are"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:56:01",
    "text": "probably isn't as productive so you might want to say hey what applications are people working on or what ones would you like to do but you can't do to drive some of the changes to the data tracker all right well thank you i think that's a pretty pretty interesting input so just remember that i wanted to say that i do much of my work by simply pulling all the gigabytes i can get out of the ietf system and doing things locally on my laptop which kind of works for me but maybe it's not a strategy that everyone wants to go after yeah i know there are a lot of people that do that though and i don't think we'll lose the requirement to be to make it easy to pull all that well there's some things that you just can't get today um you know like um today when meat echo does a meeting and they are you know changing slides it would be nice to have change time time stamps for the when the slides were changed um it would be nice to have like a a feed of the speaker information or stuff like that but that all requires meat echo to collaborate and to provide this stuff separately and today the only thing that you get is this"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:58:01",
    "text": "youtube that everything's combined in and that's all there is so you can't download certain things i think i can capture a note to keep a place where you know there have been suggestions for access to information that we don't have and make those easy to find so i think from the discussion that we've had we've decided that we would take the infrastructure services conversation through a different tracking workshops um then we go find a a team to work this and start working it iterative on on a separate track and what we're doing with with the workshops in general given that which of these workshops should we try to attack early which which just assuming that the work on the infrastructure services is going to happen in parallel which of which are the proposals we have here do we think needs uh would would we would benefit from covering earlier rather than later anybody have like upvotes you know really really want to see one particular thing happened get involved in it quickly i'll take a lexi's you know proxy for what he wanted to participate in as as arguments for um having things earlier"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:00:04",
    "text": "and afterwards sorry jay you were cut off in the beginning sorry we could send a poll round afterwards okay just because when i have broader participation than just um those else on this calling and let's ask people their priorities use that um ranking system that michael's had so much experience with to get the weighted preferences well michael's still on the call nope he dropped he's used this with several nom comes the way the nomcoms internally would pull their votings together would do what the many canadian governments use for their voting system okay well i will send such a poll out um i think the other takeaway we've gotten from this is that we would only try to do one or two of these between meetings so let's plan given that we're going to have this poll happening um just set our expectations that we'll have one between 113 and 114 because i think that's a fairly short in between meeting time and it will work out from there anybody anything else they want to try to cover today i want to thank everybody for the time that they've put into this so would i thank you thank you robert there's two mute buttons that's very confusing"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:02:05",
    "text": "all right well with that then i think we're done for today thank you"
  }
]
