[
  {
    "startTime": "00:00:04",
    "text": "I can hear you and I think we are waiting for a couple of people Goodale hi Tony hello everyone [Music]"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:04:38",
    "text": "this is a test hi Laura yeah foreign"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:06:10",
    "text": "six minutes after and we have 16 attendees uh present it's a good number um so what are we expecting are we missing any of the core attendees I'm missing Andy uh and I'm missing Matthew but I don't know about Matthew I know that um Nick is on vacation so he's not will not show up but um I don't know about Andy and Matthew Stewart do you have an idea all right okay I've got a microphone uh no I I I I don't know about either of them and he was busy with something else on the chairs meeting wasn't he so yeah I don't know it's very much holiday season over here I am so okay let's go okay do you want to drive or uh no you you're driving okay all right so thanks everyone who's joined and this is the m a interim uh meeting uh um uh the first one we're having after IDF 117 um this is a joint effort between the three working groups and um this is an official interim so we have to flash the note 12. um if you have not got acquainted with it please do so"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:08:00",
    "text": "um and um this slide shows some administrative useful links for anyone who cares about these calls you will find the minutes available online as well as the recording and our mpls working group Wiki and so on today's agenda we have couple of items to go over we will talk about beer with M A and mpls network actions and beer over mpls um then we will give a chance for the draft m a header solution draft uh the authors to ask any clarification questions following the um the IDF 117 feedback that we got and we will talk about future agenda items but before going over second the third fourth item I wanted to review the action items uh that we have outstanding and lastly we have uh the usual all other business so if anyone wants to add or modify the agenda please speak up I don't want to speak up on any other business I just want to say that uh again the item number three is not uh intended to be a discussion it's just a chance for authors to ask clarification questions on what's been going on what has happened on the mailing list regarding the m a header draft okay that's true it's a chance for authors right yeah and number four is just a reminder so it's probably"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:10:02",
    "text": "just about 30 seconds or something like that yeah okay yep okay let me jump into the action items that we're tracking let me flip my browser to that page um we do have we do have an action item to track uh updating the documents the working group documents that we're driving for m a uh specifically um we have the requirements draft um during itf-117 also Matthew was author on that raised a possibility of merge between the requirements and framework draft but there was supposed to be a follow-up it was not converged that there is this merch will happen so it's a chance for the co-authors attending for the two drafts to update this action item if I think Matthew is not here but anyone else think Tony uh was supposed to follow up with Matthew only Lee so do you have anything to say about that I have failed utterly okay all right is there a plan to uh to attempt again be happy to try again thank you uh the second document that we want yes Eric I'm in"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:12:02",
    "text": "the queue I'm sorry yeah yeah I know you can't see that's something uh out with the mid Tech with the and share sharing the slides can't see the the last thing for it you have this be able to speak uh I have one comment yeah Tony and Matt you should discuss this but uh I'm not in favor of merging into documents and I haven't really heard anyone that is so it might be that and second the um requirements draft is actually passed a routing directory review and I think we are ready to progress it in just a couple of days I need to talk to Matthew first great yep so that's a good feedback and I think it's a start for the discussion on that we're not saying we will merge but there were some Nets or Snippets that could be moved between the documents so that's another alternative okay uh and the second uh action item was against the solution draft the mpls sorry uh the mpls mne header draft um during the idf-117 sessions we and as well on the mailing list we have good discussions about updating that draft with suggestions I believe Joel had made a suggestion and even in IDF 117 session there was a concern about uh how to handle"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:14:01",
    "text": "um you know same scope uh adding actions in within the same scope so uh that's a action item I'm tracking and if anyone has an update on it please come to the mic um I can call out names as well I mean if um Joel or even the the authors was the concerned raised uh before the other I have sent texts to the list there has been discussion I am waiting for either the chairs to say incorporate the text or the authors to say there's a problem there have the the objections that have been raised have been unrelated issues and that's exactly I think that is okay for the update I'm not looking for more than that I think also that uh you know item three is related to this uh on the agenda item three on the agenda and the office will get back they promise to get back so I will tag this as an update and and move on um okay so sorry I'm still on yeah okay and so thank you Joel we appreciate the text there is actually more than that The Next Step there are and come back with some type of feedback either saying yes we will"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:16:00",
    "text": "include this or no we can't because of and then the working group will actually decide on it so the target just now is that we hopefully can have a discussion on the m a header document on you know at the next meeting foreign okay all right and I I think we can safely move on and uh to the next item on the agenda which is the m a uh where interact interactions with beer in the same packet so today Greg will talk about this and uh I can present the slides for that myself and let me see if I can give you a chance to flip slides Greg [Music] okay so okay out yeah I'll do the flipping somehow I okay one second let me see if I can find you Craig uh past slide control so you should have slight control Craig ah yeah I see it I think I see it okay great uh thank you Tariq um and thank you for joining uh this presentation um okay first I'll give you the overview um of our beer over mpls looks like and uh then there's some discussion I had with Tony and Jeffrey about um uh post that data uh mpls Network action uh combination with the beer over npls"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:18:02",
    "text": "so what is bit index explicit replication uh it is a multicast uh technology uh it works in a data plane and it does not require creation of their per Flow State in the transit nodes so uh we can think of it as a source routing Plus multicast or multicast was so strolling because they're Ingress node the encapsulating node determines based on routing control information or orchestrator input of their explicit destination for uh their packet to be uh replicated and then uh beer domain consists of Ingress router it forwarding beer forwarding index Ingress router dfrs it's a Transit nodes and egress routers so each router uh identified by uh dfr ID and if we look at the beer header so here we see and that's what we will be uh talking uh for some time now so dfrid is identifier of their Ingress router and because that is um uniquely associated with IP address it gives the opportunity uh for routers that want to reach this uh route of their uh this multicast distribution"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:20:00",
    "text": "tree over IP network to map it back okay so uh yeah actually that should be uh okay let's look at the first uh four octets um because the space for uh identifying destination addresses uh is limited there might be a multiple forwarding tables and uh each of the bfr routers uh it advertises uh one or more uh beer um bit indexed forwarding tables so that it will know how to map the bitstring too at the same time uh this beef ID occupies the 20 bits and uh can be in is viewed as a beer mpls label so when we look at the beer header it does include as defined currently in um their architecture over ntls it does include uh the bottom of the stack uh LLC uh that's important to note because we'll get to that uh later because that was one of the ideas uh how to do a PSD M A with beer over mpls so that uh then it follows by their uh nibble and the value is five um so uh the version number currently is zero so this gives their uh length uh this"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:22:02",
    "text": "field carries the length of their uh bit string and the entropy value uh two bit OEM flag uh been discussed in one of the proposals is to use for uh to to flag alternate marking uh that's being discussed by dear uh working group so then uh prata uh is explicitly identifies the payload type of the beer and uh followed by their uh bit string which is a bit flex for um destinations any questions okay okay Tony yes so was there any consideration given to stickiness in the ISD header ah okay I think that that would be a major rework and uh there was something okay in my exchange it was Tony uh p uh my interpretation was that there was some idea towards that but the problem that I see would be that it will significantly uh impact especially the bit string because uh and we are giving the most significant bit"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:24:02",
    "text": "agreed but you would also end up being able to drop some redundant Fields such as entropy and TTL uh yes again definitely it's something that could be discussed again everything can be done right so uh whether it's a better solution because I believe that Jeffrey has another solution uh how to do a PSD m a while keeping beer Heather outside or at least most of the deer header outside of MLS Tech yes Jeffrey um I want to clarify that while this beer header includes the first uh four options um which includes a peer label here um a more logical view here is that um the the MPS label is part of the mpos layer but uh the rest of the beer header is Bo is beer is beer layer and so we can think that mtos labor stack ends after the the first octet and so if if there is ISD in the mtos label stack is is transparent to beer and if there if there is PSD then we we need we need to worry about uh uh um Legacy peer router that does not understand the uh um the PSD I think that's where you are getting that in the next slides uh so I'll stop here yes uh actually I agree that uh ISD M A is uh transparent to uh beer even now"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:26:03",
    "text": "uh the only uh the only question that we'll have is that and that's again uh for uh future discussions uh with the beer working group and mpls uh working group is that uh my understanding that beer and PLS label which is if first or bottom of the stack here is expected uh in the current uh solution to be bottom of the stack so whether it will remain to be requested as such or that can be eased up and say that uh when the beer uh bfr finds the beer mpls label then it might followed by uh one or more uh link State elements and label stack elements uh that to be seen but uh what I wanted to present for now is uh the current state of the art lower please um so I have two points one point of order the can everyone that is not speaking actually mute themselves so the we get rid of the noise I think we see Steward popping up now and but he has Newt yourself and everyone else also the other one is the discussion on the what I would call the beer label being bottom of stock uh how do we take care of that that should must be a discussion between the two working groups or at least maybe three working groups because"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:28:00",
    "text": "will be involved also uh I think that's very uh reasonable uh and um again if there is an agreement that a new evolved architecture of beer orientals is needed okay yeah uh again I I I consider myself to be a messenger I don't uh say that there is a consensus that we need to have a solution to this so clearly there is some uh Oddity and there is some uh issues with uh using uh PSD over m a uh over brm PLS because of this uh require expectation and requirement that uh bottom of the stack includes via mpls label and immediately followed by the rest of their beer header so one right yeah the the that's actually uh where I was getting those if you say bottom of Stack may be possible but I think that the position immediately after the bottom of Stack bit is actually taken by a couple of other applications that actually could Collide so I think what I want to say and I agree with attorney that if we actually find that we need to do something that is a bit of extra work but I think we should discuss it uh one"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:30:02",
    "text": "way or another um to see what what we should do and see if you can live with the current Build architecture yeah I I I I agree that uh already uh they're identified as several options how to do it and uh Jeffrey proposal to First architecturally separate uh this uh first four octets that include dist ID or beer mpls label from the rest of the header so uh that will probably most likely require some work uh with the concern of uh being compatible with existing uh Solutions and then uh I agree that whether this uh label must be a bottom of the stack that's another question and then probably trying to get to their more flexible uh solution so I have one further question is I don't know if you can answer or someone from the beer working group can answer but if the first label here is set to five so it do you have any other context to decide that the five actually indicates beer or a line soon only on the first nimble uh that's a good question um so this beer mpls labels there are local significance"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:32:06",
    "text": "so uh I can try to answer a Lord's question ah okay yes please thank you um so then the neighbor five is really there just to prevent uh someone doing the uh uh easy anti-hashing he's taking it as IP okay if that's the easy purpose then it's fine right the the the beer label itself well what what what what how uh both the two things one is that a beer header follows the other one is that which particular beer folding table to use so the label itself will uh or explicitly tell that a beer header follows yeah I thought so thank you um another point I want to make is that uh um the bottom of the stack assumption I don't think that would change but that's just my my view here but the the real issue is that after the bottom of the stack label what happens if you have a PSD a block and that that is the real issue yeah so please go ahead and yeah I I agree with Jeffrey that again uh I believe that this is a solvable solution uh and how to do that uh but again it's something that will require work yes tariff please yeah hi Greg um I am the entropy field uh attracted my attention and I'm curious in mpls uh"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:34:02",
    "text": "I presume this is an mpls beard header um that's what my guess is um so we have entropy support in mpls so what's the interaction between this entropy and an entropy that can exist in the label stack and if if the entropy label that we support in mpls is not there is a Transit router supposed to be parsing this entropy and doing hashing based on it okay I think the Jeffrey can help me here okay I will lower my hand go ahead oh I I was talking um uh I'm muted all right so the mpos forwarding and that gets the package to this particular beer router will only look at the mtos really hit the labels or whatever it does not look into in this in this entropy field now after this router received this package it will start spear for forwarding and then the beer will only look at this entry entropy field in this peer header or for its for its purpose the uh that's totally independent of each other yeah so um we can think of it uh similar to a service function chaining so uh service function forwarders may be interconnected with mpls network but that will be uh LSPs that connect uh these entities so similarly uh bfrs might be interconnected uh with their mpls Network and that's so that will be only uh mpls tunnels that interconnect them but uh it's not expected that Transit LSR will look into the beer header"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:36:02",
    "text": "and uh understand the entropy information in a beer so it's like a transport Pilots probably not the right word to say mpls is a transport but it's a uh in mpls we have uh underlay Network entropy and in beer we have a service entity or overlay the have I managed to make it uh confusing even more or it's clear enough thank you I think the appetite is opening up and maybe Tony is trying to speak so I typed something into the chat sorry um my mind is very slow picking up uh I type something in the chat explaining why beer entropy is basically has its own use that you clarified okay um so um let me switch the next slide okay so um what uh rules appear over in PLS I wanted to highlight as we talked about it that last uh LLC uh expected to have uh beer and LS label which is at the same time identifies the forwarding table for the dfr and um next protocol 6-bit uh identifies the payload type"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:38:04",
    "text": "so uh and some values that being already assigned you can see here in this slide okay any questions to this slide yes Lord have you seen any implementation of the Upstream assigned a label uh probably it's better it's probably better ask Tony uh Jeffrey and ice they're more familiar with the status uh of implementation deployment of theater yeah pretty common online you are talking about uh Upstream assigned label after the beer header that is that it is uh how it is expected to work for uh uh example mvpn or evpn using beer as as the provider tunnel for multicast traffic oh okay thank you thank you thank you thank you Jeffrey okay um I will move to the next slide okay is it not responding to me okay here we go okay um okay so uh obviously because uh"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:40:04",
    "text": "for uh top octets in uh beer header interpreted as uh bottom of the stack label stack element uh post deck M A cannot uh proceed uh beer mpls header so yes G i g you have a question afternoon hello can you hear me uh yes very faintly if you can speak up louder or get closer to the market how about now yes better okay okay so I think uh I guess the chat with Tony p in the chat window I think the current brmprs encapsulation was designed before we have a m a right so uh we may consider that Peter is following the mprs layer it's another upper layer of the amperage layer but when we consider uh Mna is introduced in the future network uh Mna is part of the amperes layer right so we may also introduce the encapsulation of beer following the mprs layer which includes an Mna so that in my understanding that is can be we may call it like a peer over mprs MNA so that limitation is based on the existing mprs encapsulation it does not consider the existence of the m a right so that is something maybe doable in the future"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:42:00",
    "text": "um I I see it a little bit differently um so and uh earlier there was a note and discussion that for instack data m a uh because that applies to uh mpls stack entirely uh it it's transparent to the air so if effectively it works on an underlay Network so uh the only concern or issues that we see now uh is that um posted data m a so I would not say that the introduction of m a uh in mpls in general requires uh work with a beer over mpls it's only if there is a need to use a postdecdata m a then um something needs to be done yeah actually I have some different opinion about whether IST will introduce some changes to the beer or whether there's something we need to consider further maybe we can discuss it the Isley part also okay for this I see in your slides only that he has the Whisperer is analyzed right right because when I looked at it um so uh in my opinion uh ISD M A is not required to be bottom of the stack so in that case uh so if the bfr is capable of uh supporting ISD M A then um Nas can proceed uh the deer header"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:44:02",
    "text": "that starts with the bottom of the stack are label step element so I might be missed something but I have not seen uh then there will be an issue uh with um peer over npls header and uh ISD MNA yeah actually if you consider the peer label to be the bottom of Stack it means that anime will precede the peer label right which means that foreign node all the MMA in the ISD will be popped right then we cannot convey this harmony in ISD further to the downstream nodes [Music] correct yeah I concur with Greg it's basically mpls processing until you hit the beer label and you do beer processing and if"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:46:01",
    "text": "the underlying preserves the ISD and builds a new stack and puts beer on top for the next guy nothing prevents you from doing that so the only real issue that um we kind of um uh so here is that the PSD after the bla right because the beer is right and there's a couple of solution proposal levels of type something in the chat while we're talking here yeah but I I may have a different opinion here if you want to continue to carry this is the information further after the first peer node it means that you need to pop it and then swap the beer label then push another uh M A ISD well you need to do that uh again uh you need we need to understand that this is a multicast so uh again uh in each underlay we'll have a different labels so the label stack on each replicated packet would not be the same right so that's that's why reconstructing their underlay encapsulation for each replicated packet uh right to me seems logical that means you uh you need to in uh push the labels stack for the next uh LSP or the tunnel to the next video node right but the wider you still need to encap the previous iced tea into something not uh apparent operation to me it's something maybe need a special operation again this is not something related to the next LSP to the next beer node is something you already popped"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:48:00",
    "text": "okay uh if somebody doesn't like doing beer they may not do beer okay that's I'm not talking about the barrier operation just how to encountered the already pumped ISD into the next level stack we don't we don't do that here mpos is just a way to get uh to get a beer package from one beer router to another beer routes browser in fact if the two peer routers are directly connected we only use one beer label in the label stack and the only purpose of that beer label is to indicate that their header follows and the whiskey Pier 14 table to use if the one peer router needs to tunnel to another beer or a router a PR packet then um mpos tunnel may be used but in in all the cases between the beer routers mpos is just a a transfer or a mechanic mechanism we don't carry the uh mpos information from one beer router to another beer router so the ISD data and PSD and PSD they all terminates at the uh at this beer router itself we do not properly propagate it further uh actually maybe you mentioned another possible issue with size the if you say that the peer knows uh directly adjacent to each other then you will only allow one beer label in the MPS label stack then how you can how can you add ISD in this case again um because you don't we don't need one for ISD at all UMD in this case"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:50:00",
    "text": "no uh the type of the connection does not uh has any consequences on the label step so you have one transport label but uh it could be uh segment routed mpls right so again uh we we need to separate underlay mpls network from uh beer overlay because yes ice please yeah yeah I'm sorry Choice interrupt yeah I think G's Point here is that if you put a an Instax m a label in place stack with beer I want to carry it across end to end right then each time you put you know push and pop the B label yes remembrance label and put it again on the stack so it's a bit inconveniency that you have to sort of you know deal with that inside of the beer forwarding to to you need to remember that context maybe that's the point G is trying to make uh no I I think that I understand but that's why uh early in our discussion I use the analogy of service function chaining so in the service function chaining we have service function forwarders and they are interconnected with the underlay so but these tunnels that are in interconnect uh service function forwarders they're terminated between these two uh entities so similar with the bfr bfr the interconnected with the underlay Network so for beer domain as I understand it there is no notion end-to-end underlay because if they can be they may be interconnected by mpls and IP tunnels"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:52:03",
    "text": "it's not necessarily will be all mpls so for that to to say that uh I want to have my ISD M A to Traverse end to end it might not happen because that will be a different uh underlay Networks even more so there could be that we have an uh islands of beer they're interconnected by uh underlay tunnel that connect one island with another so there might be different scenarios and that's why I think that uh the requirement that if Ingress uh bfr sets ISD M A then it will be automatically replicated everywhere so yes if that is possible and that's desirable that needs some additional Intelligence on dfrs right I like to jump in at one one analogy here mpos to beer is like ethernet to mpos you don't you don't carry a internet a related information from uh one LSR to another um here is the same thing yeah and I agree with Jeffrey that's a very good analogy as well yeah I agree with that but I think one of the purpose of the M A is for example to carry a slice ID across right through the amplus network that would not work well again uh it does not work out of box so uh if we want to do some information uh preserved uh"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:54:03",
    "text": "between uh systems so we need to do something again I probably will go back uh to this uh service function chaining analogy because uh what we are chaining is not only forwarders but the forwarder has service function so something that uh performs certain uh processing on a payload but it's expected that service function will hold some information that is needed to continue on the service function chain because it has some information that is uh will be used to identify where the next uh service function um may be located as it mapped to the service function forward so if we want to have this uh Network slice identifier as a dedicated identifier being traversing the whole viewer domain then uh it needs some additional instrumentation on the system or or maybe another thing and we're probably digressing a bit but if you do it post stack it's probably easier to sort of uh keep it possibly yeah that is uh one difference between the ISD and PSD PSD can be preserved even if the left level stack is popped but that's that's something that we need to discuss further because uh again as uh been mentioned by Tony p and Jeffrey there are several ideas on how to do uh how mpls PSD uh can work with their beer but"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:56:01",
    "text": "that will require uh some discussions and considerations okay um sorry G yeah yeah I think I think just want to mention that it may not just consider the prmprs with PSD the solution with eyes they also needs some further analysis right right thanks okay I disagree but okay well please because you don't have this in the slides and we already pointed a several uh possible issues for discussion or for consideration I don't see issues here um they need to document this maybe either in the slides or somewhere else um again I don't see issues here for the underlay uh there is no issues lower please uh I have um it would be good if someone can actually look at how the labels are handled by uh different notes in different cases it's kind of a tricky job but it would be good if it could be done we I have two other things that the the thing where you actually pop one label keep it somewhere and then pop it back again on the labor stack that has been discussed at least two times in the mpls working group and being reacting both those times so I don't think that that will work the other one is that we had about a year ago a discussion on uh if I think the starting point in that"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:58:00",
    "text": "discussion was that there were more than one specification that said that um the this service header needs to be immediate after the bottom of stock but my stack and this is the third one so and I think that was related to pseudo-wise so maybe Stuart or Matt you can uh try to figure out how how we solved it at that time I don't remember thanks uh Tara please okay hi Greg uh um I want to look at this a little bit differently rather than retrofitting beer to m a uh I want to State you know to me beer is a replication action at a specific LSR at least in the mpls network so it's an action to do replication at that LSR and Mna advertises itself as a mechanism to invoke one or more actions at one or more lsrs so rather than retrofitting can we state that beer is an action an m a action is specific what do you think um okay uh let's um get to a discussion of some proposals uh that we identified before this meeting when talking with Jeffrey and Tony P because that might be something that you're proposing"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:00:08",
    "text": "of course yeah so um Tariq you mentioned LSR I would say l-e-r and and you you talk about the BRS action uh I I think we really should stick to the fact that the beer is the a payload of nkos here um but we can talk discuss further uh later but just here are just some two quick comments here I'll I'll get back to uh to Greg yeah um actually uh I think that Jeffrey point is very uh much uh helpful because uh indeed dfr is a egress router if I if you allow me just to respond quickly so I to me you know LSR is not the core of this discussion I mean to me if you're doing transport multicast transport and you know uh you you will do replication at multiple uh nodes or call them whatever you want and um you know if you're going over mpls I would like to do this uh you know action at select nodes so the question is can M A invoke these actions thank you we can discuss that further uh separately yeah so yeah foreign are you saying that every node that's actually do the replication is that terminating the incoming LSP"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:02:01",
    "text": "and in effect it's an early r correct okay so then I'm kind of doubtful whether you want to have M A for that um well maybe you want to but it would be very rare to have M A for that LSP it's just one hope and you might want to do yeah some who am but uh I think you can do that on the beer directly that's exactly correct in the one-hub case there is no issue we can handle everything in beer or itself is that a situation where where you have the tunnel beer packet from one ear router to another beer router then we may run into issues um in fact before this meeting I sent out the email in reply to to Greg's email at least some of our thoughts that I had I guess after this meeting if people can can read their email and then see if that if that does make sense or not but for now I I we uh we can continue with Greg's flow things okay uh lo you have your hand raised ah okay sorry yeah and then I'm just curious okay okay so uh let's go to the next slide and I think that uh I try to"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:04:02",
    "text": "capture some ideas that we uh exchanged uh before the meeting so uh one was that uh for uh posted M A in beer is to uh present post-tech m a as part of the beer payload so um then using uh Define uh their protocol ID for a post at m a uh block uh that probably would follow then uh after the deer header but that will require that post that encapsulation will have uh the protocol next protocol field and then use the same registry as defined for uh beer next protocol identifier registry and again that's only a proposal it's not something that being done so another is uh I think that was from Tony P not to set uh s beat in a beer mpls LSC uh and then Define the new version of beer header but I believe that that will require uh more discussions as well as uh Jeffrey proposal uh that will look at uh beer mpos label stack element and the remaining of uh beer header as a two separate entities so thus"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:06:01",
    "text": "um there might be a post-tech data Mna in between so I think that we have at least three proposals uh on a table for discussion ESG for the option one I think this is something if we put this Mna inside the pier header that will be something specific to beer it will not be called the mprs network actions no uh gee no it's not putting a m a in beer header it's putting M A after beer header and that's why uh it's important to have a distinct protocol identifier so it's not part of a deer header so beer header is a fixed size uh that well not fixed size but the size is determined by bit string but then uh What uh this option uh proposes is that uh they're proto-filled in the beer header identifies that the beer header is followed by post deck data and then post that data has an optional uh Has a Field that might identify their uh payload and in accordance sorry maybe some delay on my side yes yes yeah with that to the encapsulation I think they may change the hierarchy between the MPS MLA and the beer we can see the beer as a upper layer of MPS and Anime is the part of the mpis layer"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:08:01",
    "text": "right I mean if we put something after the beer header that will be either peer specific or the upper layer specific functionality and it's not a generic mprs functionality I I agree I it does put it on a beer uh level and that will be all replicated and uh we need to understand the consequences of this and see if that's what we want I agree and again this is not uh or ironed uh solution it's just one of the mechanisms that I thought of but yes you are correct there are some implications we need to understand if that's implications we are comfortable with and that's what we really want but on another hand what it gives it gives this uh uh that these actions would be uh applied uh on overlay not on each individual so basically at all uh Lars of npls underlay okay so but for option two do you mean the beer label can be not uh located at the bottom stack then uh for the following the bottom stack there will be a M A or it's a steel uh beer header I I think it's a good question so yeah I think that's a good question so again uh it might become a little bit more trickier because again the requirement would be that uh this beer and POS label uh will be at their"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:10:04",
    "text": "top add their intended uh dfr so whether we can safely remove uh bottom of the stack indication that will again have some issues uh with their existing implementations deployed implementations or how that can be addressed so again each option as I understand I will have uh some significant discussion and consideration require before it becomes a solution yes and For Me Maybe the another option is to have the ma first and then the peer header follows in that case we use something something some other indicators in the Mna to indicate the existence of the beer header that is we can call it an um peer over ampere 7A encapsulation which is slightly different from the current temperature over mprs uh I think that would be along their uh suggestion uh from uh by Jeffrey that would separate their mpls label stack element uh from their uh bit string of the deer header so again that transition maybe yeah maybe the Ampere label will not be required because we don't need a indicator in the label step just so we need some indicator in the mmaos label uh is required because it"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:12:00",
    "text": "identifies the forwarding table to be used uh how to uh resolve the bead string so it it is required this must be present for the bfr to identify how to do processing of the bit string okay maybe we can discuss this uh further offline Jeffrey yeah yeah indeed we need to discuss these options uh uh further um JJ already spoke about uh this uh my comments uh about option one that beer is no longer uh the mpos payloads if we do option one and option two um it's not exactly uh to me how it is done but uh both option one and option two I don't think they handle the situation where you have two Legacy a a beer forward in router the following the old practice and then the bfr beer router one panel the packet to be a router 2 and then some Transit LSR puts a a a a a PSD MMA and then the bfr2 will be screwed um so I I I I think we have issues with uh for both option one option two in that case options three which is not on the uh slide but as uh Jay mentioned and Greg mentioned that where we put a psdma between the beer label and the rest of beer header um that that one works well except that we need to make sure that we don't send"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:14:02",
    "text": "uh a legacy beer router or uh a packet with that psdm Mna between the beer label and the rest of beer header and I have some thoughts on how that can be done and that it actually may that may need to be done for non-beer situation anyway and I have some thoughts uh uh written down in the email I mentioned earlier so um we can we can follow up for for further yeah uh Jeffrey if that's okay I'll I will forward this email to mpls uh working group so then uh we keep beer and mpls groups together yeah that that is already to the to both uh uh to both lists right we have some uh offline discussions and later on I realized the real issue here is the backwards compatibility and so before the meeting I summarized the uh that on that on that point uh uh so um we can we can follow up on that further yeah no please uh so for clarification again option two if you say that the beer mpls LLC don't have their spit set it means that it's not the last label in the labor stack then it needs to be followed with something with something with the aspit set right mm-hmm and that means that we are giving up the the requirement that the beer mpls LLC must be the last label in this direction did I understand it correct"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:16:02",
    "text": "my understanding was that uh envisions that beer mtls are labels that element can be anywhere as long as at the top for their bfr um and I would say at this time uh that is something that we can discuss to me again everything is possible uh how much it will cost uh how how difficult it will be what it gives us do we need this uh flexibility uh I believe that's something"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:18:07",
    "text": "Gregory okay yeah sorry so I was talking about the option 2 uh point one right so isn't it uh this uh optional I mean uh the yes bit set mandatory thing is uh even applicable for ISD m a so that we can place our ISD Mna anywhere the stack in a reworked uh beer over in PLS architecture then it gives us more flexibility but I envisioned that it would not cost uh would not come for free and as Jeffrey pointed out and I think that's what we agree is there are already implementations and deployments of beer over mpls uh how the new solution into works and doesn't break the existing deployments okay so thanks because uh we can consider as pointed out that uh we are creating a new beer header version so how these two uh coexist uh the second option will be pretty much harder vision of beer as far as I see we violating directly the current you know proposed standard rfcs if we don't set the S the first option is more subtle uh because we do not prescribe you know which protocols beer silicon has to"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:20:00",
    "text": "support So if you add a new protocol uh then detecting the incompatibility incompatibility will be more subtle we basically have to stick more signaling into igp to show who actually understands you know these PS M A stuff yeah thank you Tony again to me it's all about uh compromise so uh we want to do something let's see how difficult or easy that could be so that's how we'll compare these Solutions just always to repeat what what Tony was saying so in the beer specifications we've not specified you know not setting the S bit right so implementations just probably assume as bit is set and will just index immediate you to the post tag data for beer I would be highly surprised if implementation would deal with situations where the sbit is not set so I would think that we're going to invalidate you know a lot of implement well the implementations that are there we're going to validate them so I would say this is probably very costly option another police preferred one yeah the not setting s bit is a direct violation of of the published rfcs yeah so somebody who does not set the S and not checks the as they are pretty much violating you know today's you know purple standard so the option two is really ramping that via version completely no discussion there uh yeah yes Juan thought that might be shut down pretty quickly but it could be our question if we actually need"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:22:00",
    "text": "M A for a LSP that has a brmp less LLC is it really necessary yeah I'm asking it because I want to understand if it's necessary well I didn't see a you know concrete use case for any of that stuff yet so from my side it's basically working architectural possibilities without understanding how the obvious what it will be used for anyway nope I mean the slice ID I mean I buy that but that's looks to me like an ISD and not not the drpsd okay wow very good discussion thank you uh let's move I don't think that I have much more yeah okay so that's just a rendering of option one which I think that uh easy to understand now so basically what it shows that it has uh posted M A identifier and then post Tech MMA header include some product field that uh identifies the payload which follows um okay so um that's all uh Jeffrey please um so indeed at this time is this space is a basically a theoretical exercise on"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:24:00",
    "text": "what if we they have a a PSD MMA and it appears uh yeah uh in a beer package and what happened what what do we do um exact use case we we don't know yet um but if some if somehow that becomes uh uh uh uh possible then then we need to to figure out how to how to how to handle the issues and we have we talk about three options uh and um I think we did do need more discussions and then and again please uh if you're interested in this topic to uh uh check out the the email I sent out sir earlier today yes uh thank you Jeffrey and I I agree with you that uh that's what I try to uh present that um the current state of Art and then uh that uh if even when there is a need to do uh post-tech data M A then uh there are certain uh well some significant work uh and discussion have to happen uh for the beer specifics okay so that's all I have uh and I will try to give I'll close the deck and I will turn off my mic okay thank you Greg uh um all right you mentioned um you know stay tuned to the discussion on the on the mailing list so there are good ideas here to follow up on and let me go back to the agenda agenda and uh"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:26:01",
    "text": "before that I see that Laura wants to speak let me give him a chance go ahead thank you I think there are some action items on got the bad Echo somewhere some actions that the uh [Music] shares need to discuss and see if we what how we should organize the following risk the upcoming discussion but we can do that among ourselves I think yeah definitely we can review the feedback from today and work on it if you think there is an explicit action item anyone uh thinks that we should be tracking an action item let me know and I'll add it to our list otherwise the next uh item on our agenda today is the mpls m a header solution draft and a chance for the authors to ask for any clarifications on previous comments that were raised so anyone from the attendees of um of the authors of that draft please hold the mic and you know foreign if you have anything to add otherwise we can move on okay I don't see anyone coming to the"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:28:02",
    "text": "showing and raising their hand in their queue I presume you heard me and uh you don't have anything or anything to clarify so I'll move on to the next item on our agenda which is future agenda items for future interims uh so that's a reminder that we collect items for upcoming interims and if there are no Russian points uh then the interim will be canceled uh Loa you're trying to say something go ahead please tell the shares [Music] the it's true what Turk said that if we don't have again that we cancel uh so there might be a space for discussion so please let us know if there is anything you want to discuss thanks okay with this uh we come to the end of the agenda of the day and uh if nobody else wants to see anything and we can conclude today and look forward to the next up upcoming interim okay thank you so much for attending today it was a useful and good discussion Greg are you planning to say something oh no I'm just uh reiterating uh your and Jeffrey uh uh call for continued discussion on the mailing list using Jeffrey"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:30:00",
    "text": "yep using Jeffrey's email thread sure okay thank you I will log off thanks bye bye guys"
  }
]
