[
  {
    "startTime": "00:00:14",
    "text": "hello good morning guys can you hear me yeah I can I can yes thank you good morning yep okay I see Darren is also here and just um virtual notification that everything is recorded in this meeting so please follow itf's note 12 rules and we can get started uh should we share the document again just should put up this the not well slide oh we need to okay yeah you have those handy turn so Darren you un muted again Daren that's a cool couch and you as well Ted am I no we're I'm not muted or my L speaker do not work which is maybe the case as well yeah CU I heard Darren can you hear now pl's point to know going to share my screen just for the purpose of not well"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:02:10",
    "text": "here we go here we go all good yep y all right so I'll start sharing my screen and um who's going to share the document um that is it going to be you I can do it again if you'd like sure I think you'll be typing faster um once the edits start coming in all right I just need to remember how to do it w oh here we go so somebody has to approve my request we will done oh wait uh sorry I should have said share screens share screen not share slides so you have to approve me again sorry just hope for the best"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:04:03",
    "text": "at least you're not in the car today oh you're you're doing that thing again where you uh Karen where where your audio just kind of like there's some kind of buffer blo or something going on on your network where your audio just like gets okay I'm going to change my speakers and mic just I'll come back so please go ahead I'll join in 30 seconds all right so that screen share did not work hey request again and we'll approve see what's going on here weird uh second oh generally I like Safari but every so often it really pisses me off you know this manufacturer of tools is pretty bad right you we should never never work for them yeah well I'm stuck with it at least for the time being all right let's wait until you hear Dar and myself complain on Cisco routers right sometimes so yeah Lily all the code in them so we get to complain here we go wow this is really bad sorry I'm like just trying to get"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:06:02",
    "text": "all of my tabs in the same window because I can only share windows I can't share application so I can't just like share Safari okay all right let's try this again oh wait uh yeah I granted you permission okay accept fer no reactions thank you all right so we have our lovely uh wow that's really bad uh okay this is terrible oh ah got it there's this little uh feature that's in uh like newer versions of Mac OS where there's a little button that you can click on to control things like uh uh for example whether when you give a thumbs up it like does a weird animoji um and that was just kind of stuck up over and it's like this big dialogue with a bunch of stuff in it it was stuck up over my Safari screen so I couldn't see what it was doing anyway uh so the actual thing that we need to look at is the issues let me get that into the same window all right so are you guys seeing the issues now could you make it video please yes in theory math is hard how's that do you mean is that is that like reasonably good yes okay great all right so uh uh one thing to mention before we dig into issues is I sent some email to the mailing list just now about um the stub"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:08:01",
    "text": "router document the stub router Flags document which I'd kind of forgotten about um and it's currently expired um at some point probably on the order of a year and a half ago Eric asked us to uh do an early allocation which we never actually got around to doing um so I think there's a couple of action items that the working group should do one is ask for the early allocation that was a good suggestion two um we actually need a version of it published uh and three we should do a Last Call on it so that we can get it reviewed because the agreement that we had with six-man was we would review it decide that it was what we wanted and that it was correct and then we would send it to six-man and six-man would review it so in order for that to happen we have to do our last call within our working group even though it's not our working group document just to get it done and then after we've done that then we can uh send it on to to uh to six-man so that means we want this document to be reviewed in our work group as well we need people to review it and read three read through it and be satisfied with content yeah yeah I mean Bas basically six-man doesn't care what it says they just care that it's not wrong uh so we have to decide what it's supposed to say before we send it to them that's the that was the ask and we should not call it the working group last all of usually we should call it something like a snack last call or something on the document right just to be clear yeah y y okay because it is not snack working group document it is it will still be six men um so does that mean that a stub router bit is going to be mandatory for snack to work or St networking to work okay good that's I mean that the document I think currently makes it mandatory certainly the the changes that we were that that that I looked at this"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:10:01",
    "text": "morning that from Jonathan had a poll request two weeks ago that made some changes and and some changes been made to that pull request since then um and that pull request does seem to require the the sub router bit and I don't see really how we could like I I think it would be a mistake to not use the sub router bit because uh I think it would be more likely that on a on a network that provides IPv6 service we would create instability if we don't use the St router bit yeah I think as a developer it is a very good um hint that you're working with stub networking and it your since it is a state machine based having this kind of bit is really helpful MH yep one quick question on this if I mean uh is there this is about the the stop rter flag bit uh any like how confident are we that this will be the allocation like currently there is I think a suggested allocation in the the document is there any risk that like would be a different flag or different bit set later on or are we confident that this would be the thing the reason I'm asking is if you start using it in the shipped product will it will end up with a compatibility issue in future or not this is the reason to ask for an early allocation yeah because the answer the answer is I mean I don't want to speak for Eric it's kind of his bwick but but I'll just tell you from my experience that the answer is they're not going to capriciously change it but somebody else comes along and asks for a bit it might be the same bit so let's get our bit be quick on it makes sense thanks okay so uh I guess we can start looking at the issues uh or the PRS that"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:12:00",
    "text": "we PR yeah so um maybe I'm going to start from the from the back uh so we reviewed a number of these last time um I don't remember if we reviewed this one yes we did because it's approved so all right so so this one's been marked approved um I think because we uh let's see uh Esco have yeah so so Jonathan did that one um did this one did this issue get fixed no it didn't but I suggested to First commit what we have and then I can make a new issue uh okay based on the text otherwise you keep iterating on the same text gets very complex so apparently there's someone who understands it so that that must be the author of the text so we can always clarify later wrong okay so so then I think and then we have some more text here and this seems to apply this the same comment you just made seems to apply here that we should do this in a separate poll request so um so I think the answer is this one's ready to go right no objections nope okay I'm hearing no objections uh so then we've got uh generating a Pur brought Ula site prefix uh so we had a pretty good discussion about this last time um and so uh one of the things that Jonathan did between then and now is add the glossery definitions that we talked about for Ula site prefix and uh U link prefix and I note that Esco has some some language clarifications for those two definitions and I also suggested a language clarification um and then"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:14:02",
    "text": "uh a lot of these changes are just changing the terminology to use the the new term that we defining in the glossery um I reviewed these just this morning so I'm just making sure that I'm not missing anything um if anybody else wants to chime in on this please don't hesitate um yeah right so so one might object that the prefix the stub uh this this statement says the prefix the stub router is advertising is a Ula prefix and the received prefix is a Nona prefix but it's certainly true that whatever we're advertising is going to be Ula prefix I don't think we need to make it any more clear than that we we could say a Ula link prefix there that was kind of the one slight knit that I saw there but I don't really think we need to change that I think it just makes the language clunkier now um this is actually this change is actually a little bit questionable in the sense that what we're saying here is the onlink prefix which happens to be a Ula link prefix what we're saying here is the Ula link prefix but Ula link prefix does not uniquely identify a prefix because we might have a Ula link prefix for infrastructure and Ula link prefix for um for the stub Network so uh so here uh we might link prefix what that is it the AIL link prefix is that what's yeah right so it's the so uh so and you"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:16:04",
    "text": "know this is in a section that's talking about um I don't actually yeah uh I don't know if we see the we don't see the section name here but this is in the section that's talking about um uh about the AIL the prefix on the a so in in principle it's probably okay to say this I just the reason I'm objecting a little to this change is because uh on link sounds it's it's it's it's not saying it's not saying something that's ambiguous and UI link prefix kind of is so we could say uh I mean I think personally that onlink prefix was good and I think we should just not make this change but what do you think Jonathan you made the change for a reason obviously yeah no this was more just I I don't have a strong opinion on this I I guess the other question is whether we should have defined terms for the a ail prefix and the stub Network prefix and I would s your suggestion Jonathan on this one you may want though to put prefixes just in case and by the way it's just me Eric not the ad right just to be clear yeah so I don't think we would ever have a plural here because it's just one we we never advertise more than one so I think we're okay on that uh yeah just in this case that wouldn't necessarily what you said might make sense on the on the stub Network um yeah just one comment I have on on this so when I was reviewing I did assume that because the whole section is"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:18:00",
    "text": "about ail that that everything is in the context of a so I did not add in my reviews specific terms like ail here and there because it's already implied by the cont I think yeah I I I tend to agree with you Esco I think I think it's not really necessary um so it should be clear whatever the term is here so but okay yeah uh okay so I mean we could also change this to uh yeah but I don't know that we need to yeah one thing by the way to keep in mind is that this prefix that it is advertising U might not be derived from the UL site prefix but it might be derived from other information like for the threat case that in another PR like this is a better way yeah but so it's not not necessarily A Ula link prefix that's derived from the side prefix okay the other should all the changes in this section then to back to onlink like the one below that you're hovering over oh sorry so this one here uh uh yeah I don't think we need to use yeah I don't think this change really needs to happen either you're right you know what step means right now I do maybe that needs a name then there so the prefix that it's advertising on the"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:20:01",
    "text": "AIL yeah I mean we could we could just you know dub it the uh it's ail prefix but the problem is ail prefix is also ambiguous because that could be the prefixes advertised by infrastructure so that's right yeah so um if we were gonna I mean basically it's it's just going to make that text even clunkier because we would have to say the uh prefix I mean basically we'd have to change all of these to the prefix so the prefix well I mean in fact we are saying we're saying the prefix is preferable to the prefix it is advertising right the we said the one it is advertising but I think that kind of means the same thing so uh so it continues to advertise its own prefix there we're being very clear about whose prefix it is so I think actually changing it to the Ula link prefix somewhat breaks that um so so yeah I think I think putting this back actually is probably all we need to do if we tried to do more we would just be making the language more sort of clunky and complicated um okay generating a Pur rer Ula site prefix that's great name change uh must allocate its own Ula site prefix yep yep yep okay so that was the clarification we desperately needed last time so that's good um and there's a good language clarification from Esco um should be maintained across reboots and should remain stable over time uh so we've got a TBD here to mention the exception cases I'm assuming the proposal is to do that in a separate PLL request yeah I this is just text from previous oh no right yeah yeah I mean you tweaked it but yeah yeah um"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:22:03",
    "text": "so yeah so so we would need to add some more text about this and we had a discussion about this I actually I apologize for not having gotten around to this in the past week but uh I'm still sort of in the you know things are definitely a lot less busy than they were two weeks ago but I'm still kind of in recovery from the development cycle so hopefully this week I'll have time to actually review the audio and type in the stuff that we talked about that I said I was going to do um anyway so uh so I can uh if nobody else wants to I could probably uh write up some text about this in a new poll request once this one's been merged we should probably merge all of the poll requests that we agree on as soon as possible so that we're we have a clean slate um okay so I don't see an issue with that um must use yeah right uh so here uh in this context um if we really want to say the Ula site prefix then we would have to change this to say allocating a Ula link prefix out of its Ula site prefix because we're certainly not going to use the whole Ula site prefix here self allocated Ula link prefix or something like replace self-generated well actually so here we're uh no we're talking about the the stub Network so so we're definitely using the self-generated site prefix right now so rather than the link prefix it uh"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:24:08",
    "text": "allocated um so I mean that would be the sort of strictly correct thing to say there it might be possible to say it with fewer words but I don't know if we need to um so I'll just make that suggestion um is not you know okay so and then yeah length greater than 64 right so I don't actually say what to do if the if the uh if we get a prefix delegation that's got that's narrower than 64 and we probably should um oh it does say that on top does it 64 right that's what it says to do oh yeah yeah you're right you're right yep yep okay okay so good something else I just wanted to finish reading it sorry oh okay all right uh so this is mostly just a reform so it looks like a big change but it's not fact I don't think that"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:26:00",
    "text": "nothing just the Ula prefix to Ula site prefix okay sorry can you guys all see this it's Bas basically the the stuff that's highlighted is what sort of changed but most of it didn't yeah so literally this is the only text that changed Ula site prefix um right and I made a suggestion here which is sort of maybe should be a separate issue so uh Jonathan please feel free to just change that into a new issue um which is we talk about the fact that because we're using our own Ula site prefix for the uh um for the the nat64 prefix if there are multiple border routers uh whichever uh whichever address the uh the device on thread sends to overnet 64 is going to be specific to that BR and the return path is also going to be specific because the ipv4 address that was used on the other side is going to identify that BR specifically so we don't it might just be worth mentioning that the path is covered in both directions for anybody who's curious but I don't know what we need to so um let's see and that's just usual thing um right and this is the text that uh we already discussed all of this text this text was previously uh placed in a different section um but this is the section about handling partitioning events so previously this was in the section up here um way up here maybe no oh yeah so previously th those three paragraphs were in this section section but uh when we talked about this last time we decided it was a little"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:28:01",
    "text": "confusing uh and so this section now just kind of talks about the motivation for doing for generating a Pur du router Ula site prefix and then the discussion about partitioning is moved back down into the sectioning section on partitioning originally we were talking about uh partitioning in the other section to motivate generating the prefix but it seemed like that was just sort of a duplication of effort so so uh I don't think we really need to review this text again we already reviewed it um that's changed link prefix and that's it so I marked this one as appr or sorry I marked this one as needs work based on uh uh this comment um so the point here was that uh the the glossery entry says a unique local uh the Ula L link prefix is a unique local address sl64 prefix design derived from the Ula site prefix and I just wanted to change that from derived from to allocated from and then also talk about how many of these prefixes can be allocated just to get the reader into the state of mind this is an allocation and not like some mathematical thing um yeah that makes so yeah um I mean it's possible like there's so we talked about uh see where is it um yeah TBD this TBD the exception cases it's possible that we will that the allocation might be like sort of predefined and static but it's still it still would be an allocation not a derivation I think um anyway so I think this one's good uh like Jonathan if if you don't mind making those changes and like any"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:30:01",
    "text": "changes that you don't think are appropriate for this uh make a new issue is that all right okay sounds me thank you all right so that was this one so and then this one uh we already approved this one in the last discussion so I think we're good here uh this is um right this was the change from usable to suitable so yeah we already talked about this one uh okay and then the make file stuff uh I don't know if there's anything in here that is in any sense controversial I think the answer to that is no so I think we're good there um oh well actually I don't know that this has been approved so unless anybody like I'm going fast here but if anybody objects please stop me um so and then this is the one that triggered me talking about the uh sub rer flag um so I think Esco you proposed this yesterday or today um so uh right so yeah we were we said originally that the A and the L bits were in the stub router advertisement header flag but they're not they're in the prefix information option header um so and then uh this also adds some text about"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:32:04",
    "text": "uh Dale ra time right um yeah so basically documenting what recent means here um oh right yeah yeah no the other thing was adding the m&o bits because we had talked about that kind of in a separate issue um and so so just talking about how to do the M bits and then uh uh so one interesting question here that I had when I was reviewing this text is stale ra time is 10 minutes um and I'm kind of on the fence about what the right thing to say here is um I guess just to sort of State the problem um we there's there's two issues here one is we don't want to um we don't want to advertise different values for the m&o bit than other routers on the link or advertising um and so uh and the purpose of advertising let's say the m and the O bits are set because if they're clear we're not advertising anything different right if if the other router advertisement didn't have the M or the oit set we're not changing that um but if let's say the the infastructure router advertisement did set the m&o bits in that case um what's being said is that DHCP service is available on this link and DHCP service is reachable by a well-known multicast address so it's actually sort of orthogonal to the router advertisement um and so um so the so when we say that the M bits are that we're reflecting the m&o bits"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:34:00",
    "text": "what we're doing is we're basically just not contradicting what the other router advertisement said um and then the question so the the reason I'm belaboring this is because I sort of I'm a little concerned that stal time is not the right time to use here um because the problem we're trying to solve is avoiding thrashing the M bits back and forth not um like if let's so suppose we we say we set the m&o bits right we're advertising at this point we're advertising uh potentially um let's let's say the router is stale so when the router is stale we start advertising a usable onl prefix because we want to make sure that there's IPv6 service so that devices on the link can communicate with the stub Network um so we are now advertising a usable prefix if we set the M bits one of two things is going to happen um either the DHCP service is still there and so the device that sees the M bits goes and does its DHCP thing and gets an address allocated potentially or it doesn't um if it gets an address allocated uh we have we know uh what the we know how to reach that address right for us that address is on link even though the the router advertisement is quote unquote stale because we saw the router advertisement and it hasn't expired yet um and so we can route to that address so we don't actually have a problem if um if a host on the link does DHCP even though we consider the router advertisement that we saw to be stale so I'm thinking that the actual time here should be longer than stal time it probably shouldn't be infinite but but um I think making so I mean sort of"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:36:02",
    "text": "notionally we could say that it's whatever the lifetime of whatever the router lifetime that was advertised in the previous Ra was um I think that's potentially too big because some routers advertise stupidly large router lifetimes but um there was a discussion uh in V6 Ops about this a while back and I think they settled on like 30 minutes we could I could probably track down what that RFC or that document was and reference it here because I think that um you know basically the idea was we shouldn't let an RA that was sent on The Wire three months ago uh cause dysfunction now just because it had a super long lifetime even though that router is long gone but um similarly I don't think we need to thrash the the the the ra bits so I don't think we need to thrash the m&o bits in quite as quickly as we're providing an onlink prefix because we're solving two different problems we provide the onlink prefix so that a new host arrives if if the if the if the infrastructure onlink prefix is stale we advertise a prefix so that new host has some address to use but uh that's the only reason that we're doing that so so we're not sure that the router is gone it's possible the router is still there like the host might send a router might multicast a router solicit and immediately get a router advertis back from the old stale quote unquote stale router so um anyway that's that's that's my pitch I think we ought to we ought to true this up to whatever the document that was being done in I don't remember whether it was six-man or V6 Ops uh that was talking about shortening router lifetime so just use the same number that they're using rather than using 10 minutes so does that make sense would just that makes sense I I"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:38:01",
    "text": "think one thing um like we we talk about maintaining reachability to the routers that we see and I guess the question here is if you just if you determine that a router that was advertising M set is no longer reachable do we take any action there to basically reset the M Ando bits so I mean I I can't remember what the what this document currently says I will say in our implementation right now we actually probe the router every 60 seconds with a neighbor with a unicast neighbor solicit to see if it's there and uh and if we don't get a response within 60 seconds we start advertising um a prefix on the adjacent infrastructure link so that's really fast um and one of the reasons the router might not be there is because it's rebooted so certainly we don't want to do it that quickly for because like it could just be a reboot so we missed the router advertisement because of a reboot like we sent the neor neighbor solicit right when the router was rebooting we didn't get an answer because it didn't get the neighbor solicit and it took longer than the time that we retry the neighbor solicit to reboot U that's perfectly normal and acceptable and should not result in the m&o bits fluctuated I think um yeah here we're saying sorry go ahead yeah just to add to that I think you also have to track all the potentially all the routers that uh are advertising M bits and that are not stop routers and in the current draft I think the tracking of reachability only applies to one router right that oh well so I mean let's say there are five routers providing a usable prefix um if what we want is we certainly don't"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:40:02",
    "text": "want to start advertising a prefix just because one of them went down so if the document currently says that we should probably fix it I don't recall what the doc says but in our implementation we we track each router separately yeah I'm pretty sure I mean I know my implementation tracks all the routers I can't remember whether it does neighbor solicits on all of the routers at all times or whether it just does it on the one that that was detected as like the the the current usable prefix but if if the current usable prefix went away then we would probably select a different router and be probing that so either way I think in that particular case we aren't going to get to the point where we stop treating the routers as present I mean there's also the issue that like there could be five routers on the link and uh three three of them are advertising with the m&o bit set and two of them aren't because they're not complying with the protocol in the way that we're trying to comply with the protocol and if that were to be the case then we'd be kind of like you know I guess I guess it's not our fault at that point but yeah okay but you have to track uh then probably the last one that send the rou advertisement and make sure that one is still alive at least so always the last one I don't think there's a need to track all routers so what if there are five or 10 you just keep unicasting to all of those for no reason I think yeah I agree because the last one determines well the value basically anyway the the the point I was getting at with the with the m bits is that if we set the M bits when the DHCP service isn't there it doesn't actually cause any harm and so um uh I suppose the the case in which it could potentially cause harm is if DHCP service is there but ra service isn't"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:42:00",
    "text": "but I think that's like such an weird Edge case that I I first of all I think we would still behave correctly in that weird Edge case and secondly um I I don't think it's likely to happen um like if you if you've gotone to the trouble to set up the hcp service on your network you have your your intention at least is to have stable IPv6 service on your infrastructure link and so if it goes away and things start breaking that's not going to be a surprise to you like what we're really aiming at here with all of this code with all of these probes and stuff like that is the case where the network isn't managed at all so um so anyway that's like my my pitch here would be to use um uh like whatever the time is that's documented in the I think it was uh Fernando Gant was working on this um or yeah there was a big discussion on V6 Ops about a year ago about this I I don't actually remember how it came out um but uh if that document exists we should probably rely on it if not I guess we could just keep stale time y okay that sounds good is it yeah but I me Ted was it um and maybe I'm opening up again but wasn't it is is it St time or whatever the lifetime was that was advertised in the the last right so so so the the the question is so stale time is 10 minutes the lifetime is arbitrarily long it could be three months yeah um so I don't think we want to use three months under any circumstances that's just bad because you know things can change in three months right on a on a local area network so um"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:44:02",
    "text": "so then the question is should we just keep stale time or should we pick an intermediate interval like if the and you know have that be the the upper limit on how long a lifetime can be before we just ignore it I but but then when are we going to get the next um when do we get the next ra right you yeah I mean normally we normally we should get a multicast ra every like I I can't remember exactly but I think it's like every six minutes yeah um so so in principle this should never happen if the router is there but you know if it rebooted or if there was a reachability issue for the router maybe I mean yeah it's like yeah so what if we get an what if we're looking using M from uh router A's advertisement and then we don't see any Ras from rder a anymore and we start seeing them from rer B um this just basically saying switch the M Flags when the star time expires set right so I guess what you're getting at is that we haven't really talked about um remembering advertisements from all of the routers that we've seen on the link um we just say seen in a recent router advertisement re the most recent one is yeah yeah right just the last in right yeah and then it's just if if we don't see anything for a period of time any raas for a period of time then we need to do something with the m flag but do we really need to do anything with the m flag or do do we just keep them as we last learn as we last knew"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:46:02",
    "text": "them yeah I mean that's a good question too right we could just you know we we saw a router advertisement at some point we could just leave it that way um yeah yeah because why would we change them from the last thing we saw because then we're gonna end up the reason I asked that is because we end up with problems in assumed timings like 10 minutes is a long time for us right now but maybe it's not I mean that's that's why I was suggesting that we use Fernando's document um because I think you know the the the tension is right why did the router go away well if it went away for a brief period of time it's probably because it got rebooted or like somebody unplugged it so they could plug in a vacuum cleaner or something like that right uh we've all seen that happen um but uh also it's possible that it actually has just physically been removed from the network and the the user intended for that to happen and so if that's the case then we don't want to perpetuate information that was advertised by this router forever right right so but when would we adver yeah when would we advertise something different only when we learn something different right well but we might not learn anything different it might be that they've just decommissioned that router and they have no intention of putting a new one in yeah so go ahead sorry yeah so so in that case uh I mean that's the whole point of of this this this bit of text is to deal with the situation that we can't assume on a on an unmanaged Network that the presence of a router at time a implies the Perpetual presence of that router for time A Plus n for any value of n right so um so you know in a in a in an actual managed Network that wouldn't be the case but here we're talking about the UN maner case so uh so so that's why like"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:48:00",
    "text": "we I I think it does make sense for us to do some to make some effort to uh sort of track what we're seeing on the network but not be too quick about it and that's why I'm that's why I keep mentioning Fernando's document because the the Fernando's document was basically observing that the defaults that are set in the in the original I think it's RFC 4861 or whatever the original neighbor Discovery document are like huge like the router advertisement sets a router lifetime of a month right and a month is a long time and uh in operations we see that that that a month might be too long to retain information that we received from a router advertisement uh if the router isn't still there and so so Fernando's point was let's make these numbers a little bit smaller but not stupidly small um and so so I think that that makes sense in this cont context as well yeah there's also the thing to think about if a stop router reboots while the the normal router has been taken down for example then the new stop router will start with Z 0 yeah because it doesn't see anything else yep so it means it also has to not conflict with the other stop routers that that are up for for maybe weeks right so it has to eventually consistent I think and then 30 minutes or so sounds good yeah so and actually that's an interesting point because I think right now uh what do we say recent router advertisement okay so um I think maybe we should say"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:50:24",
    "text": "uh does that make sense well maybe think about it first if that is stable in a way like uh if it doesn't perpetuate uh the values of one for example and that's not what we want then yeah that's a good point yeah I was thinking so uh so my idea was to have for this particular case to allow some short period of inconsistency uh if these reboots happened during that time but then after let's say for example 30 minutes it should all go back to uh everyone advertising zeros again okay so um that does still get us the the flopping m&o bits um or maybe we can't assume sorry I was just gonna suggest maybe there's some fixed period of time after a reboot that you allow adopting the m&o bits from a step router right"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:52:02",
    "text": "yeah so right name I can't remember but hopefully St time uh so I'm not entirely in love with this text but basically what this is I mean the the the challenge that we have here is that um well no I mean this this would work right because uh let's suppose all of the stub Riders reboot at the same time except one and then we get the m the Obits from that stub router well so at some point that stub router is going to"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:54:02",
    "text": "consider the m and the O bit stale and or the the the router advertisement that it's using to justify the m and O bit stale and stop advertising them but if that stub router reboots after the other stub rers have rebooted so they've adopted the first stub Rider's m&o bits now the first stub Rider reboots um and so it's going to adopt the m&o bits that it sees from the stub routers that are present on the link which might actually be set because you know we're doing this copying thing it's still going to stop doing it fairly quickly probably more more quickly than stale ra time because the other stub routers are going to have expired its advertisement and start advertising zero m&o bits so I think this works like I don't think this has a a a sort of self sustaining quality I don't hear anybody objecting is this like rank skepticism or does everybody agree I'm just trying to think through like is there a way to contrive right just rebooting the devices in a specific order but that that I don't know how mely that scenario can happen in practice Yeah I mean if you reboot the devices if you if you basically very carefully reboot all of the devices like before the stale ra time has expired it's possible that you could sustain the m& bits for a long period of time by doing that but if you did it's not the end of the world it's not actually going to cause an interrupt problem right yeah so yeah so so if we sustain the m&o bits is there no interrupt problem so we we no longer"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:56:02",
    "text": "receive yeah right I don't think like the reason to not sustain the M bits is just because like you know we're trying to reflect the the network operator's intention and we don't really have a way to do that like the network operator can't tell us what their intention is so we're just kind of trying to figure it out based on what we see and so yeah the reason I wonder about you know do we need to zero the M bits at any point is that if there's no other router on the network then what is our stub network doing right like well no there might be an ipv4 only router okay yeah and yeah which case we never received it and M must be zero okay right yeah but I mean also like you know it can be the case I mean certainly we test this in our test environment that you know an IPv6 router shows up and starts advertising router advertisements possibly with the m bit set and then after a period of time it goes away again and do we handle that correctly so anyway uh so I think this text basically works so I would suggest that we are done talking about it that's all right yeah that's okay uh can update it PR all right uh and then so uh the text now says the router advertisement header Flags field but in fact um if I'm remembering"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:58:02",
    "text": "correctly I'm remembering correctly we currently are not using yeah we're currently using the ra Flags extensions option personally I don't see the need to use that option but because there there is room in bits like uh I think the reason was that the bits are full right and then we to the extent I think I think there's two bits left very little left yeah yeah so the question was would they allow us to take one of those two right yeah so I mean personally like I would be a little tempted to just you know request that yeah why not take it someone will all right uh yeah here's the bits so yeah two six seven are left yeah and I mean you know the bits that we're currently using some of them I think actually possibly aren't even being used but anyway yeah so so I guess the the reason we started this discussion was because it wasn't clear that we actually wanted to use the router advertisement header Flags field but uh if if we sort of as a group agree that that's what we're going to ask for"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:00:00",
    "text": "and we can let six man tell us no we can't have it then we can leave this text the way it is for now and change it if six-man tells us we have to well it's I think it's both header flag so if you look at the Yana registry they kind of lumped the two together so the header flags and the extension thing are now just one thing called header Flags I think yeah that's true I mean another thing to say is that uh you know Apton raised this point earlier uh if we request an early allocation uh it's going to be pretty easy to get an early allocation for bits 8 through 55 but probably rather difficult to get an allocation for bit six or seven an early allocation yeah was the Assumption we had right yeah so so I guess I guess we need to ask ourselves like how important is it to get a uh uh uh one of the last two bits because we will have to wait for those we'll have to wait until after six-man working group last call even if six-man agrees to give them to us I I think we overdue it a little bit honestly um is it a big difference is in the extension part or just in the the the main one does it really matter for us snack I could tell you from a practical perspective I've run into implementations uh and and this is this is not an excuse but I'll I'll just tell you I've run into implementations where which options appear in the router advertisement in which order determines whether the implementation handles it correctly or not I don't think that's a good reason to do anything but you know there is a cost to adding a new option to the thing I will say I think it's maybe the same issue that Ted is but a little worse there's"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:02:02",
    "text": "they see an RA option that they don't understand like an extension a router advertisement flag extension they'll just bail on parsing the rest of the options in that yeah that's what I was talking about actually that's I think that's uh what is it uh that that iot ipation yeah lwip right yeah now I mean I think that's been fixed in lwip it is I hope yeah so you know within the last several months right yeah and and by the way the workaround that we came up with for that was um to just put all of the weird stuff at at the end so uh so we did actually fix that in a sense um and the the presence of the of the ra uh the the ra extensions Flags field doesn't actually prevent us from interoperating with those lwp implementations so yeah it is really I mean I don't think these excuse will be will fly in six man right it's not because I mean so I'll I'll tell you my motivation for doing this is that um like we have the bits and like if we're not going to allocate them for this purpose what purpose are we going allocate them for my guess is we're never going to allocate them maybe that's okay if that's the case though maybe we should actually publish a document that says these bits are reserved and yeah and by the way my question is that as well I mean I have no opinion right it's basically up to 26 man to decide we can May well end up and bat six or seven without any any question ask so that's what I said don't overo it right just asking see they say yeah okay so so that sounds like the argument is that we're just going to ask for the"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:04:01",
    "text": "bits and uh that that means Apton you're not going to get a clear answer for a while is that all right I don't think so I mean you ask for a bit uh we need to get a draft right which is clear I mean I quickly browse again to Jatan draft I mean it needs to be a bit beefed up um I think it's very short draft is okay uh but maybe more some more justification and some more text um and then you ask the six man working group chair um forcation and I don't think every cent uh will oppose it because it's the responsibility for six man right all right well let's try that and see what happens exactly I mean if they say no let no right when we know yeah then you go to the exensions all right we have a plan okay uh so R header Flags field uh you yeah okay so I don't see any reason not to approve this document or this change does anybody have a reason I mean I made this comment but so I guess I guess the answer is uh we're just requesting that change or those two changes yep that sounds good okay yeah the only instead of saying ra header Flags is just use the term that's defined by the the registry oh uh right so that's ND router advertisement Flags these terms can be different than the ones in the rfc's by the way that's what I found but okay well okay well that's we want to use the well so uh this is referring to RFC 5175 so RFC 5175 5 obsoletes 5075 it doesn't appear to update uh the original it doesn't"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:06:00",
    "text": "appear to update RFC 4861 so RSC 4861 says uh rer advertisement message format uh check some m o reserved uh so it doesn't even use a term for those um yeah it just refers to that field as the reserved field you may want to have a look at the in section of this document maybe they using another term yeah they may have created a registry or they may not have let's see uh just look for I consideration here we go yeah so in fact uh it appears to be the case that we did not create an registry for the flags right yeah exactly right so uh this is uh but regardless the name is the one that's in the Ayana registry right doesn't matter what the the only way the Chang that so the uh the registry the I has defined a new IPv6 neighbor Discovery option this text is wrong um has created a new registry for the IPv6 ND router advertisement Flags Yeah so basically yeah that's the name that's in the registry as well um let's use this one yeah so yeah yep and yeah"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:08:08",
    "text": "so okay all right so we've captured that um so I think we're done on that poll request that was this one um add requirement for no default route yeah so this this is just some text that we decided we needed to add I think this is the text is good uh St rter should not advertise itself as the default router on the a by setting the non-zero router lifetime value except in the case where the stub router is the default router for the a I think that covers it and of course there is an typo in connectivity and I SP the new text yes yeah contivity you will remember right in you yeah whatever is the first one right yeah uh okay so yeah so I think we can approve this one yeah make F the change in the word right yeah F the thing so yeah all right um and then just uh I'm not sure the way this one's set up but I think the conversations need to be closed before if you have if you're Auto merching or anything yeah well so right oh I see so you yeah you could approve prove it and it'll you know we can still wait and merge once conversations are all closed"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:10:04",
    "text": "the bottom line is as far as I'm concerned once all of the objections have been addressed it would be perfectly fine for whoever made the poll request to just approve it um we don't really need to have the working group micromanage that process I don't think uh the reason we're doing the approvals here is just because it's convenient to be able to mark these as things we've already looked at so uh so and this this request was just to add some text uh uh about what kind of host this will work with and I think when we discussed this we concluded that there really aren't any type A or type B hosts that we care about the only type the only hosts we care about are type c hosts and pretty much every host you're likely to encounter in real life is a type-c host so problem solved so this this text is literally just capturing something we discussed I think either in the last meeting or possibly even in um in Prague yeah and on the mailing list as well yeah okay so I think we can just approve this one hearing no objections okay so that's all of the call requests um and then so we have 50 minutes left um there were a bunch of things we discussed in the last interim meeting which have not yet been captured um in order to capture those my plan is to actually sit and listen to the recording and just type in all of the stuff we talked about typing in uh I don't think we even captured that stuff as issues here um so yeah some of them we did like kieran's right yeah but not yeah maybe not all of them yeah oh right Kieran"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:12:00",
    "text": "added an issue right here yeah yeah so good um okay so think there's one that could be closed too now Ted based on the um based on what we were what you just covered uh it is issue issue 36 actually looks like it's I think it's covered now by the that are made in the M bits I'm not sure so so the usual way to do this is to uh when we when we merge the pr you can say yeah I think if you just say in the comments to for the merge fixes whatever issue then it will close the issue automatically yeah but this one not uh yet because there's one aspect of that still needs to be add added so this is not only the flag bits but also things like uh all kinds of timer values basically the ask was to to have every bit and piece that that happens to be in the ra described in detail and and why including motivation why we make the choice that was at least the outcome of the discussion yeah that kind of made sense and probably requires a section just for ra on its appending or or something could be because it kind of repeats some things we already have but it's good to have it in one place like uh you know like these appendices where you have all the grammar collected in one place something like that but then for the ra so that still needs to be add that that part yeah yeah some of the some of the stuff in this comment is actually like um uh RFC 44191 contradicts a later RFC and the later RFC I believe updates RFC 4191"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:14:00",
    "text": "so um so I think we're okay with that but but anyway yeah so um I guess the question is how much do we need to discuss uh these so I I um I had stuck myself on that and I don't mind writing up that glossery section and putting a PR out for um I've got so I'll just yeah I'll put out I think it was Esco who suggested the you know the ra bits and all the every value would be described somewhere I like the idea of the appendix if that's okay with you guys I can submit a PR for that yeah that think sounds best for an appendix like he can use that as a reference just uh to look it up and and also know why we made those choices yeah okay cool we can do that yeah the the gr thing was just a simple question like I encountered the word note and I was thinking like shouldn't that be host and then I I found that note is also defined in IPv6 context M so the question is is that already known to everyone or or um should we just have this reference to to that terminology froms um I I there we have this idea of uh uh abbreviations that don't need to be expanded but I don't know if that includes um it Al also defines address for example so like the real basic stuff yeah so we've got the abbreviations list but that probably doesn't cover I don't think it covers nodes and O and a few things like this but honestly yeah is is pretty clear right right uh I mean it certainly is true that the term node"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:16:00",
    "text": "is a term of Art and it has a very specific meaning in the context of IPv6 and somebody who's reading the document uh but is not an expert on IPv6 might not know specifically what the term node means like I think you know that would sort of that represents your confusion right Esco you're obviously very experienced in the field but you're not a you're not quite as deep into the uh ietf terminology as some of the other folks on the call and so for you the term node was a little bit new yeah um and I think it's reasonable to assume that other readers of the document will have the same issue that Esco had so therefore having putting the stuff in the glossery makes sense to me just reference I think it should be enough and yeah 200 right so and and I don't mind right right so I think that that's sensible as well typically when you think about the audience now it's not called glossary usually it's called terminology but beside it that's okay good point yeah are we actually calling it do we have a let me see here's somewhere in here is the document I thought maybe not uh yeah it's called glossery in the document okay so yeah we I guess we should change that to terminology uh I'm going to add this to the discussion is there also an RFC that says you should call a terminology then well I mean I think it's even maybe uh honestly I don't know for sure right uh but the RC has got a specific format with a start a middle and the ending uh and you need to put section at the end and this kind of stuff so I would not be surprised let's go"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:18:19",
    "text": "okay okay so captured that um I guess we could just uh look at the issues I mean consistent caps for terms I think is going to be pretty uh pretty uh non-controversial I think I agree with both of these statements uh no I'm not an English native speaker as you can hear right right but using capitalized terms like this except if you want to introduce an acronym looks weird to me like Ula link prefix with the upper case L and the upper case p and the same thing for Al yeah speak again I I guess I I I agree with you I mean it's it seems a little bit like you know German they cap capitalize proper nouns um and then yeah it but in English we don't um so I don't have a super strong feeling about this either way I I sort of agree with I I think I prefer your approach Eric to uh to having them all be in caps and since we have terminology entries for each of these we probably don't need to you know in the terminology entry we definitely would capitalize adjacent infrastructure L um but that would be in the sort of the left-and side of the definition and the right hand side we wouldn't capitalize it so uh does anybody feel strongly the other"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:20:05",
    "text": "way no strong opinion yeah I think reducing capitals is good in this case because we will get more terms over time yeah I just saw that both forms we're used now yeah and just to clarify this is Ula link prefix not Ula on link prefix uh yeah okay um so uh that's actually another question I think that's actually a really good point Kieran because it is a little confusing to say ula link prefix and then also to say onlink prefix uh we're not actually saying Ula on link prefix I don't think um I had suggested earlier uh that we use the term Ula subnet prefix um subnet isn't really a term that's very popular in the world of IPv6 but it captures I think the meaning which is uh a prefix the the set of uh Network links on which a particular prefix is on link uh I prefer not to use subnet here because I think just with the person again who's coming with little background in NDP uh some of the terminologies are already confusing and if we overload with subnet it is going to be an overwhelming developers or people who are really deploying this home network and using it so avoid subnet as much as possible okay so um so I guess the question is so so you had been concerned about Ula link prefix versus Ula onlink"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:22:00",
    "text": "prefix yeah when will we use which one so or can we consistently just use on link in the document because that's the school uh we certainly can't do that because the Ula link prefix is only on link on a particular link um and so when we say onlink prefix it's because we're ref referencing the relationship between the prefix and a particular link um but a lot of times when we use Ula link prefix we're not referencing that relationship um and so that's why I'm a little concerned about the ambiguity here um I mean we could one thing we could do is we could say ula 64 prefix um and we could just always consistently say ula sl64 prefix in the places where we're currently saying Ula link prefix uh that can phase sorry or we can continue using um the way you're using it right now but the place where we describe Ula onlink prefix in our uh terminology section maybe we can be little bit more descriptive and show this differentiation right uh so right now to be clear in the in the uh in the current proposed change uh so that's in uh maybe in this one uh no actually no it's not in this one it's in this one um so the current text in the glossery uh says Ula link prefix a unique local address sl64 prefix designed derived from the Ula site prefix that stub routers adverti to provide addressability to the stub Network and the adjacent infrastructure Network as"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:24:00",
    "text": "needed um so so that's different than than uh so the the case where we use onlink prefix was down here somewhere I think yeah when it's provided by other routers basically well that's one case yes but um and on link has got also a very specific meaning in a pv6 right this is the lbit that we sent into the Pio right that's not perfect either yeah uh well so so when when we use the term onlink prefix we are talking about a prefix that has the lbit set for a particular link so I think that's maybe okay um but I mean it is so so we talked about this earlier this so this is the section where we're talking about um the adjacent infrastructure link right and so in that context there's only one onlink prefix that the stub router is going to be advertising and so we can kind of get away with using that term as if it's unambiguous um but we could also say the AIL prefix and in fact I think we do say that in other places uh so that would that would be completely unambiguous and then we would not be using the term on link anymore and we could in fact in the glossery we could say something along the lines of uh"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:26:20",
    "text": "uh yeah so I'm I'm realizing like actually there's another problem with with using the term link prefix Ula link prefix which is that one of the uses that we have for U link prefix is the uh Nat 64 prefix and that is never on link for any link so it is a little the the you the choice of the term link prefix is a little bit questionable um I I have a follow while you're thinking about it a follow-up question so when we say a prefixes they can they must have lbit set or not or they it could be optional depending upon the scenario so when we're advertising a prefix on the AIL we actually explicitly say uh in a different poll request uh see yeah in this poll request we actually made it explicit that we're required to set the lbit so whenever we say um a prefixes do they implicitly mean a on link prefix that means well so here's the problem all of these prefixes have terminology problems if we say ail prefix that could mean the prefix we're advertising on the a it could also mean excuse me it could also mean the um the prefix that a uh that an infrastructure router is advertising on the"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:28:00",
    "text": "a those are both ail prefixes so it's not perfectly may I suggest that we in the terminology right GL should really insist to do it introducing acronyms see so like I I mean I prefix or something like that it makes things maybe a little bit easier to read after once we get used to the acronyms not that I like so much acronyms though and by the way I'm a little bit confused now with the on link use here right the lbit like owning means that you can do never Discovery to reach the mapping between the IP address and the MAC address of your neighbor right this only meaning of it right it's you don't need to go and to send the traffic on the same link to the router so I don't think you should send the bits here no no we do s the a bit here because we're we're advertising why why why we're so we're this is the case where there isn't IPv6 service on the infrastructure link so we're advertising a prefix on the link that is to be used by hosts on the link you do not know for instance whether the infrastructure allows this broadcast of NDP messages well if it doesn't no but then it's not going to work you send it right so so I mean the thing is so so so we don't know we we we don't have any control over the infrastructure this is a this is a situation where we're just coming we've been attached to the infrastructure and we're going to do our best to make things work but if the infrastructure is blocking neighbor Discovery then it's not going to work no no no it's it's NE block because think about it right some Wi-Fi systems for instance dies AOW communication from station to station that's one thing but if your St router right can send array to all the station because that's assuming right if"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:30:02",
    "text": "you send it not receip then you go nowhere of course but then the station to me the attached note cannot send ND to other attach note you don't know what the infrastructure can be right and traffic to you yeah we so the thing is this is a best effort situation here we do not have control over the infrastructure we don't even have a way to detect that the infrastructure is blocking neighbor Discovery other than that when we try to do neighbor Discovery it fails so what we're advertising when we set the lbit is it is Our intention that this prefix be used on link and that it be used for neighbor Discovery and if it turns out that neighbor Discovery doesn't work then stub routing isn't going to work like we don't have an alternative there isn't some other thing we could do good well if attach note host cannot talk to another attached note right on the L you don't really care as long as they can talk to your step Network and then can do it because they know your address uh anyway the point is that I understand why you said it because it will work in 99.999% of the times um we want to explain why we say it do because it's not correct to send it like this so I'm a little confused by this statement Eric because um it it seems like I mean I don't think that requirement is is is enforced for regular routers but regular routers know which kind of network they they are attached to no they don't oh they do they do they're just they're just connected to the network I mean the operator knows what kind of network they're connected to so the operator no but it depends upon the interface right"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:32:01",
    "text": "the interface type right so if you know that on this typic I mean Wi-Fi or Internet or blah blah interface you are allowing communication from o to O Direct on the same Lan right then it's okay to send it but if you attach to an interface where the network the data link layer is not Ethernet or Wi-Fi you cannot send the lbit because you know there is no traffic there that will go from attach host to attach host okay so so the distinction you're making is not um whether the the network is operationally enabled for neighbor Discovery but rather whether neighbor Discovery is even possible on that particular link no only if you are multicast traffic I mean the multicast traffic of NDP is a loow on this network it's a layer two thing right it's not a layer three thing right so the thing is that yeah I guess the the the the the pro the the the question that I'm trying to get to is so we've got a a stub router that has a network interface physical piece of Hardware in the stub router we know what kind of Hardware it is it's Ethernet or it's Wi-Fi or it's something else um and I if I understand your point it's that if it's something else the lbit might not be appropriate correct okay so I think that's a good thing to capture in the document I think on a practical level it's probably nobody's going to make a stub router that that has the something else but I think it's it's worth clarifying that so that they know that yeah you can say simply the lbit must be set according to the network of something like that right you mean some could be some P some text from 4861 for the route advertisement when when it's set or according to uh 4861 so does 4861 specify this yeah I"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:34:03",
    "text": "guess so right where the flag is defined well let's see so uh 4861 s prefix information option elbit uh when set indicates that this prefix can be used for onlink determination when not set the advertisement makes no statement about onlink or offlink properties in other words if the L flag is not set a host must not conclude that an advertisement that an address is off L much right yeah I mean this is this is why I'm kind of like confused here because I don't think that that the existing document ments really cover what you're talking about which doesn't mean that you're wrong to bring it up it's just like I I don't know how to solve this in a snack document but um but we can just make it I mean is there a document we could reference that talks about this particular conundrum let me check about on link on the on 4861 if you look about the terminology I guess I hope yeah uh there is onlink terminology so and by the way we can want to use it okay an address uh doesn't have be there right yeah I mean I guess the another question would be so we're updated by a lot of documents let's see if any of these documents support for adjustable maximum rouer life oh actually is that yeah and if you look about section 2.2 and 4861 there is the"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:36:01",
    "text": "link type and we could talk about shared media and the non-broadcast multi access and this kind of stuff so yeah um I mean what I would be inclined to say uh for this is uh links on which um or you say simply according to RC 4861 and the attach link but the a is of course mandatory because that's up to you right it's up to you the meaning the in the router yeah so so I mean I guess I'm trying to capture so uh the element may not be a for some Layer Two not for some Layer Two implementations uh the exact handling of such situations is out of scope for this document that's what I would say okay which is fa enough H which is fair enough okay yeah so uh if you don't do something in the same vein I'm pretty sure that the man people will say hey what's happening there okay so we've captured that I don't I mean I think this what I what you just said Eric actually is probably where we're going to wind up with this we'll float this past six man mention the issue and ask them what we ought to say there yeah because I I have no idea excuse me all right so uh well that was an"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:38:00",
    "text": "interesting discussion actually I wasn't uh that was that was a little Lacuna that I was unaware of um so uh let's see so we added the not okay so sorry these are polar quests back to issues consistent caps uh the consensus we documented uh consistent term for flag bits uh okay so this is uh yeah I mean I think I don't I don't I think this is correct so I don't have any objection to this this uh yeah so the idea was to do it at some some later Point uh after emerging more text yeah once so so I I guess I think you know sort of our next step after this meeting is that everybody who has poll requests should address whatever issues remain in the poll requests and then merge them um and then once that's happened then we can start adding some additional poll requests to fix some of these uh things that we're discussing here right yeah uh okay Kieran this this was mentioned in the meeting I think I agreed to add some text about that so I'm going to have to go over the meeting recording and I think I actually said what the text should say and so I'll just go over the medeia reporting and then type in that text and that too will occur after all of the merges um so here client"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:40:07",
    "text": "Mobility yeah this is more of a question do we need to consider anything from that particular document well so let's see did that document I can't remember what the status of that is um this isn't really saying uh yeah it seem to be a related in a way so you use PD to allocate a prefix one one client and which is in our case the stop router who uses it on the stop Network yep uh I'm not seeing is a link here that gets us back to the like so uh okay so document status submitted to the I okay great so all right I just wanted to make sure that this document was actually I I couldn't remember what the what the ultimate result of the do the discussion was so so this has been basically approved by the working group so yeah um what would the stack snack stub router do if there's no prefixes available so uh certainly we should document that um and I mean I think you know the answer is indeed fall back to a self- generator prefix what else are we going to do um so that's one thing um do we pay attention to the Pio flag well uh so they're the the the"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:42:01",
    "text": "uh so what this document is talking about is prefix delegation per host um and so for the prefix that we allocate on the stub Network um this is irrelevant because we want prefix whether it's per host or not so we don't care about the setting of this flag for the prefix that we're allocating for the stub Network however um this is talking this this is really about what happens on the adjacent infrastructure link so on the adjacent infrastructure link um the the the node on which the sub router is running um may not be permitted to do autonomous allocation and so this would actually kind of implicate the uh the the text that we have about uh acceptable or was it suitable suitable prefixes so uh in the case that uh in the case that that um PD per host is enabled on the link um this could mean that even though excuse me even though there's no quote unquote suitable prefix advertised on the link that nevertheless uh the link supports IPv6 and we don't have to advertise a prefix um and I think that's true and we should document that um um so let me just write that down because I actually had to think about this and that means I'll forget it um so"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:44:19",
    "text": "uh for yep okay so so we should update this text um and actually I would say I'm going to create a new thing because this is a whole this this is going to be a significant issue and I don't think it should be part of this issue uh well actually no I guess so uh I don't know how to"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:46:02",
    "text": "um so we're already uh we're already dealing with this with the prefix length we already we just talked about that text um for client Mobility um I don't really know what this means yeah you're referring to the link here that links to another issue basically uh yeah so that was basically about uh non-mobility case where or possible Mobility case like uh if the device could have moved to a new link so what what to do with GIC delegation and that's now clarified in the update for the RFC about PD MH so that's some new text is included there just to clarify okay okay so so my main takeaway from this this bit of discussion is that we don't need to address this question in this issue because we have another issue that's specific to this question so yeah it could be moved there yeah yeah so uh okay so PD prefix length I think we already covered this we've already"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:48:01",
    "text": "covered or we're covering a different thing this is the I think the key issue which I just talked about down below uh and then uh so I think both of these I I I sort of feel like we already talked about what happens if uh we try to do dhcpv6 PD and we don't get prefix which is we just allocate one but uh I think this is the one that's actually the biggest change and so I've talked about what that issue is and I think we now know so somebody whether it's me or somebody else just needs to do a new poll request that addresses this point and make sure that also this point is fully addressed this is the third point so uh okay so that's that point uh we're getting down to the last 10 minutes do the chairs want to talk about anything before we close thanks um so there's I mean from my point of view and Kieran we haven't really been we haven't been chatting in the background so um uh oh where did Kieran go there she is Kieran okay um we haven't been chatting in the background but from my point of view there's like there's still a lot of issues a lot of work that needs to be done a lot of pull requests that need uh review a lot of uh requests that need to be made um uh so as we come up to ITF"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:50:03",
    "text": "119 um I'm thinking our most if closing off as many issues as we can before 119 is great whatever is uh whatever is left um we probably need to do or ask the working group to become familiar with them before we meet again ref familiarize ourselves with them and be prepared to discuss and close those issues in the meeting I think that's that's probably what we're will be moving towards for an agenda at 1119 does anyone have other thoughts I know that's fair so from agenda perspective we will update the work group all the progress we made in these two ENT Rim meetings and um if we have time we will go and address more open issues third thing is what are the next steps that's something maybe we want to discuss is there an opportunity to write a um new document after simple or something else one thing came to my mind is can we describe scenario or a use case document um we don't have to do it for this it PF but is there an opportunity for a new document to write and then we can ask the work group if somebody's interested in taking that up so on the charter I think we had two documents planned one was this document and the other was the managed use case document um and we pulled some of the managed use case functionality into this document but not all of it so there's definitely still work to do in the managed use case so I think definitely we want to do that document okay and oh this document still has a lot of work to do we need to the entire Nat State machine and all so yeah yeah there's there's plenty to do here so I mean and and so by the way the cut"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:52:00",
    "text": "off for document submissions is next Monday at like you know midnight UTC which is 7 pm here and I think 4 pm in California so um I would suggest that we just try to first of all everybody who's got poll requests that are open I think we approved all of the poll requests with caveats so if those could get closed quickly that would be awesome um because that then enables us to do like one more passive poll request before before the cut off and then um one of the authors should basically just take whatever is in the repo Monday morning and publish I don't think we like if we try to if we try to get fancy and like push the deadline on Monday we probably going to get in trouble so I would say Monday morning somebody it's somebody's job um I'm going to nominate uh either Jonathan or Esco because I'm a lazy person but you guys can also tell me that I have to do it that's fine but um somebody has to take whatever is in the repo at that time and publish it which should be pretty easy yeah however you guys want to work that that's uh that's totally fine yeah yeah if if and there's there'll be some good changes and some good content to discuss um and that will yeah Kieran you're right that that will be the first focus of the inperson meeting is to go through what's been what's been changed right just review what's been changed like an overview of it um and then get into what's next yeah and um another thing is even after the inperson meeting U after you guys have recovered from your jet lag we should continue with it ENT meetings so that we keep pushing the progress on the document I hope everyone is okay with that the question I would have is"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:54:00",
    "text": "whether the California people are willing to tolerate such an early meeting but it actually for me it was fine I don't mind it at all uh let's see Jonathan's availability the yeah the time is generally fine because which specific date are we talking about that's to be to be discussed okay if if we were to do this every three weeks some Cadence um uh every two three weeks something like that uh would this time be satisfactory good for me yeah I'm just I think it's generally fine I'm just seeking through my calendar I think it's fine yep fine for me as well I can make it work okay great all right all right so that's it let's see how much um someone will definitely uh send a document otherwise we will send a gentle reminder on Friday that guys please publish the document y thank you so much everyone thanks guys yeah thanks for thank you you take care"
  }
]
