[
  {
    "startTime": "00:00:04",
    "text": "it's a it's a kind of uh we all know it's a failed opportunity on our part but um you know but for this one we have a chance we can only push strings so far is the point right i like this one at some point at some point if no one's pulling on the string it never goes anywhere so you know that's what we have to do okay okay get yeah thank you um welcome everyone this is the ata 514 pronunciation routine overlapping networks um so i please be aware that this meeting is under not well and um we have we will not read it but um you have if you participate you have to already with atf process and policies then we have resources as depicted in the slides materials these mini diggers we have minute takers the prescriber okay we have yvonne just volunteer thank you very much and michael will you be on jabba i know you're a pro of travel thank you okay excellent thank you very much um okay the meeting tips um so we request you to sign mytico so we"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:02:01",
    "text": "can have the blue sheets and to know what's in the meeting um use mitigo to join the meet you that's as well required uh keep audio and video off if yeah it's not used in the onset version for more participants um well mute unless you are speaking and the use of headset is recommended okay our agenda we are going through the working of the status right now then we have pascal um depicting the status of the projections and then the six no multicast registrations and we will have two minutes for open floor for everyone some comments on the agenda okay thank you [Music] so our draft status nsa is received the ada evaluation and the elders are working on addressing the open issues all the variable is back to the working group and that's where we are addressing the open issues to be able to send it back to this team uh though projections are going to be discussed today as mentioned previously and noticed that this document is in working group last call for several weeks already and we haven't received any objections so today we want to know their opinion and if you agree with the document we can just close the investment and then the enderman priority now those are working in addressing open issues mopeds and capabilities are waiting for attention they were expired in november last year so we need to return to work on those"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:04:01",
    "text": "um as well we want to form ribbon steering root act we would like to again issue the working group adoption for this document uh for nfp this work was adopted by the working group review is needed probably we will need to set up work events to work on this tomb but now we want to focus attentions on dow projections in the document that we have working with thank you then we have our milestones um for this year we aim for the projection enderman priority on muppets if possible and as well close led ripple and then for next year the rest of the documents including the evaluation but we have to recharge their clothes as well probably start their repair version 2 or rebuild these and then we have a bed lincolns for urban priority how the rivers and they were closed but they are listing some open then as well for ripple observations we have future work items more books we have one um then i just want to mention that on friday we are going to have a month in the money meeting there going to be a discussion of multicast um with the bible and roll um so we would like you to participate um and yes um there is a agenda basically present multicast in barbell house multicast in the end we manage as well so"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:06:01",
    "text": "this is as well kind of a brainstorming uh how to address multicast but i think it will be interesting and i think following this meeting there is a buff on multicast as well so yes a lot of work on those topics okay thank you pascal the flooring source i will pass the controller's slides [Music] many thanks and maybe i will turn on the video um hello guys so very very sad not to be with you today but yes we will do it remotely and so um this is about the dow projection so cincinnas has already introduced the situation so um this is basically what we do we build instances within instances and you can uh you can call them overlays and the overlays take the usual shape of a traditional ripple instance meaning that it's a geodag and and it reaches some targets which are considered as external destination in rfc 9008 and basically to reach them from an ingress point which acts as root you need to build a deodag and we use typically non-storing mode to to have the dotted lines and storing mode to join the dots basically so this is the things that we are building we call track a complex dotted line uh basically a geodag a complex expression of a of a potential for a path between an ingress and an egress and we call a segment a serial"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:08:01",
    "text": "direct sequence of nodes which we can install using storing mode for instance in black on the top you see a story mode pedal which installs a segment between a relay a and a e um so so basically you can also see that as a way to use ripple to do traffic engineering and really to install what row will be using to make wireless a lot more reliable so summary of the recent changes so we had a number of reviews we had lee it took two round three to to go through um the the edit the second round included michael's editions about amman's and extends and since then i've tried and thanks for dominique and dinners to remind me but i've tried to uh to use ameld when it was needed um 25 included a rewarding of terminology to make sure the terminology was more clear on the concept of legs which is one possible path along the track source right path along the track um and and possibly a sequence of segments to get there then 26 was remove series so we we uh the chairs are screamers to to do uh a deep uh review as well so it was it was quite instant intense but uh i think there was one bug that he found and for the most piece it was a lot of cleaning up um and so his review the second step of his review went in 27 with dominic's review so then again dominic was very kind to to propose like every most for the typos a pro request so that's really appreciated saves a lot of time processing"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:10:01",
    "text": "uh so that was neat and then um dominic had these comments in line in the in the pro request so so i handled them in line that we actually use get to discuss but i i copy the main results on the mailing list as well so all the gory details can be seen on github and the summary of the changes in the mailing list so there were a number of interesting issues that were raised directly or indirectly by dominic's review first thing is and i think it's quite important um the the sibling information option basically gives you um [Music] so a node it sends a daw with an sio in it and basically what it says is i've got all those siblings so these are the nodes which are one hop away from me which i can directly route to so basically that means for instance if the root wants to get one of those notes along the path i can forward to him he's mine it can be a next stop or if he's a target then you can you can build a track which terminates as me egress and i can reach those siblings but it can also mean if you have a packet um to give to those guys even if it's not a track anything if you give it to me i can give it to him directly and this really reminds of a next star preservation protocol uh i guess in many they've got variations around that i'm pretty sure you can basically say hey if i'm one hop away from the destination well two hops i have one neighbor which is a neighbor then we don't need rating multicast now in ripple was initially without siblings just for direct connectivity i'm sure i broadcast the multicast everybody around me knows i'm here no need to use a ripple path to get to me"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:12:00",
    "text": "we are neighbors with the sio we extend this to two halves it's one of the consequences of having an sio is we can we can do two halves away and it's loopless it's just having a common neighbor that can rely so it was there but it was not clearly stated and doing the changes for dominic i realized that it was important to make it more clear and in particular what was missing is we were not amending rc6550 on the multicast now the multicast though was explicitly for one half and now because we have cio we can make it to hops so so i i made the changes to make that very explicit and i did a sentence which talks about amending your c650 um so yeah and by the way there is one api which was related so it's not fully that it's never fully that but um just in case i asked the lawyers to to add that ipr we already had cisco apr on this draft so this is the second cisco apr on the draft which will i mean the guy promised me that he will push it just now so before before we do the shepherd call i will make sure that the second apr which really relates well at some point it uses those two hop things so it's quite useful in fact so so i will declare this app here next slide please oh it's me i forgot hey yeah so um another thing which came up as part of the discussion with dominic and that one also is important uh forever we had that discussion about loop avoidance i mean we have we are in a situation that we used to call multi-topology writing where you have the main topology which is the main report diode x or the underlay if you like and you've got the track which is which is an overlay and when you do multi-topology routing"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:14:01",
    "text": "if you let a packet bounce between topologies it can look just depends on the way the topologies are organized so it's very important that the topologies you're manipulating or basically the rules that you're using for writing have a strict order so you can go from this to that and this to that and this to that but never the other way around otherwise you have a chance of loop so we we are the the text that we had was clear that in the cons context of forwarding along the loose track so to the loose hops that um [Music] you could use either the next up which is a segment to get to the next loose hub uh you could use a direct neighbor or via a command neighbor using the you know that's when we found that the sio discussion was missing but basically if if you have a packet you're you're a logger truck you're one of those loose hops if the destination is direct one hop then pass it to him if it's not but you have a common neighbor then pass it to him if not but you have a segment route basically a story mode dao which reaches the next loose hop use that else it could be encapsulating inside another track which effectively gets to the next loose help do that which creates a new encapsulation but that's still okay else drop so you you add all those methods but what you didn't have is a strict order of them so we we clarified that to avoid loops basically do there is there is not only a preference to use direct top if you have else common neighbor etc but it's also a precedence meaning that you you can never take a packet uh off a segment and put it in a different"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:16:00",
    "text": "track if if you are rotting due to the common neighbor never put it in a segment it's it's it's it's it would be the recipe to disaster tulips so the the text is is now i hope more clear about that um there are two things though one of them is a very old a pull request which really does not apply to the text at all anymore but maybe there is something to dig into it they don't know if halle is with us but howell basically is the one who made that poll request and i would have liked raul to shine in and and look at you know the new the new way we do a group of items basically if it matches his intention in this poor request the second thing is uh this preference of you know using a direct harp and then a common neighbor since segment is is on the right you know it's less preferred forwarding a longer segment can use a direct hub but it could also use a common neighbor so today the way the segment is is written is you have to be in direct site to the next step in the segment it is a straight thing but we could have made it one hop loose basically the segment could be you could be relaying to someone which is not your direct neighbor but the neighbor of a neighbor and that you would know using sio it's just not done i don't think it's we want to to to take a big risk and change that inside the segment but when the segment you you you're done with the segment that you have to deliver at least the destination could be via common neighbor but anyway the way it's written right now is when you forward the longer pedal uh which is a story mode pda or segment"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:18:00",
    "text": "um it has to be a hub by hop strictly when you forward along the track it can and uh you have to deliver a packet that you know just you know lose heart and you look at how to forward it then uh you can use the one hop two halves other than the segment so there is a slight inconsistency if you look at the strict order uh two common neighbor is acceptable is has more precedence than segment so common neighbor will not loop even if you forward inside the segment at this time it might not be very clear the way i said but basically the question is should we allow to forward the outcome and neighbor as we write along the segment and mostly when we deliver the aggressor segment it's not fully consistent the fact that we we allow it for tracks but not for segments just because i didn't change the text and did not want to i wanted discussion on this so i hope we come back to that and that's pretty much it um by the way there is a 28 on the works because i got the new feedback uh from dominique after 27 and we found that something else of interest was was missing um so it is let me find maybe i can share the divs yes so the the bottom line is we didn't clarify this document something which is very clear in the main ripple spec which is that each ripple instance it's on rib it's it's a vrf if you like it's it's it's it's on rip so when a ripple node runs two instances already"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:20:02",
    "text": "with 650 when you forward along a a a a an instance you really use one verb and when if you can never go from one instance to the other it was already there it was important they are shipping the night and that's why we tagged the packet with the hub by hub option the ripple up the api basically the rpi tells us what instance that is that allows us to look at which rib we forward against and we can only use this rep that's why again we avoid loops in this multi topology routing thing it was already there with ripple but it was not really said again in this document that yeah even if you do an overlay inside the main dodge it's still another dag so it's still another instance and still it's a different trap and you have to forward along that trip you know unless unless you have a common neighbor unless you have a one hub so i i added some text to just clarify that it doesn't change anything it just clarifies that hey each instance is a rip for the for the router multiple instances multiple reps and then forward along so so that's that's one thing you will find 28 and if there are commands today then i'd be glad to add them to 28 as well and then i can publish it so so any comment on this i can't see any comment in the room anything in the chat"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:22:00",
    "text": "nope so everyone accept this via neighbor sorry uh about the proposal that you say common neighbor i think it's okay but some comments about that and just yeah think about next stop reservation protocol next up discovery protocol it's it's basically the fact that if you have a common neighbor then it will relay without the loop and without a writing protocol i mean that's that's in money that's a usual thing just that triple was not using it because we didn't have the sibling but now we have it so we need to average it in full about overlapping legs when it will be needed because it's not clear to me so much what what will be needed i'm sorry uh sorry overlapping legs um interlac segments like north south oh when you expect no sights no stars we cannot do because um so if you go that's when we refer to the raw architecture so that's that's another interesting discussion and uh alvaro is in the room so i will like just to say hey i will run for you here um basically one one consumer for what we are doing here is raw wood needs those tracks and row has defined them so i i refrained to do too much definition this document wanted to keep the two completely consistent and so raw as a concept of track which is a little bit wider than what ripple can build because in repo we have a dodec meaning that all the links are oriented so you go east-west from source to destination"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:24:02",
    "text": "with a row there is also north south north south is bi-directional you can use it up down or down up just don't want to loop so you must have something which tells you how not to look for instance a source route but the link could be used in both directions and the reason for that is in a row sometimes you want to do checkpoints to make sure that the packet for instance if you have a north path and a south path having a north-south link to connect the two allows you to check if both hands have received the packet and if they don't then they share it so now both hands have the packet and you can fall so you can basically replicate over the north south in either direction to make sure that the packet is is there and then you can continue to to the west this capability is not present with ripple because ripple does not signal um sibling rods basically rats which would be between notes of the same cost uh it was proposed very early in the design of ripple because of one big drawback of geodex which is basically that the node which is closest to the root has no plan b because every link is oriented at least the node which has half of the load under his heart on his arms you know because it's close to the root it's just one half away from the root well because he's the closest he cannot he cannot not have a plan but he cannot pass it to somebody else if the connection to the root is is dead so so yeah half of the traffic or so and no plan b so rotting between siblings around the root for instance would have been useful but we decided not to do it so ripple does not have no cells still today so that's why a row has a little bit more than what ripple can build we can always discuss in the future how we do nerf cells but the the use case is basically the scene"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:26:00",
    "text": "as if you want to replicate a packet on two path and you want to verify at some point in the middle that both sides the packet is still there was not lost then you can reconcile you can think about this north south and basically the first one which has it passed it into the other universe is that oh i got it from him it won't pass him but if i didn't get it from him i will pass him and you see this kind of rule and so you're sure that both sides of the segment now they have the copy and it can progress against to the west that's replication form okay thank you and can you mainly uh how can we differentiate from a track from a complex drug basically there is a metric or basically if they have a lot of segments the term complete track was there to just explain that it's not serial you know if you express something f a dot b that dot c and that would be your simple track basically serial track and now you would have segments between a and b and b and c which would be the the one hop storing mode thing um now if with this if you lose the packet there is no way to to get it to destination if you have more than one possible path then you have a complex track um the track is is a potential you can send your packet along this diode you know and when it forks you can choose to send it up through the up path or the down path i mean each time it works or you can decide to replicate or anything that's raw so how you use it is really wrong but um basically it's no opportunity see the track as an opportunity if a packet is not replicated then when you forward then you have more than one next step you choose one that's what you typically do with repo you choose one typically for instance you use your preferred parent to go to the route but you have an alternate parent you could"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:28:00",
    "text": "have passed the packet to him it would have gotten there so so the dag is a potential a certain packet will experience one of those potentials it's gonna be the path so the path is the actual experience of one packet a different packet may experience a different path between the same a and the same b if you have a diode between the two and and you load balance or do whatever so so the path is different from the track the track the potential it's the global set of everything that's possible and the path is the experience of one given packet yes okay thank you [Music] more questions in the comments so there is any objections to close the working glass call after these issues mentioned by pascal where raised are addressed in the version 28. um maybe again yes stated differently pascal we've been in working group last call for quite a few weeks maybe a few months already what's your opinion on the stability and convergence of this document given the the various changes addition that have been made in the recent weeks that's your feeling well for the most thing i would say that we have it's a lot of clarification uh for instance what i just said today uh you know reply to you on on the email is something that has always been there each instance is a red but it was not written so so i think it's all going the right direction the only thing which and it's nothing new the the thing that which the most surprising thing might be this this sio thing which maybe people did not realize it"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:30:02",
    "text": "so again it's clarification so i just voiced it on the mailing list in your reply i made a point today so i hope if somebody has a problem with that but you know it's it's a very traditional thing to to to be able to write through one help so i would be surprised know that somebody shines in but if somebody shines in you know today or on the mailing list uh happy to address that but no it's i mean you've seen the fixes that you've proposed right you you made the document a lot more readable and the guys before you i mean tourists for instance i spent a lot of time asking me to to reorganize to help the first reader then we had all the reviews that i showed i mean we had a good number of reviews if you look at my slides for the previous ietf and the one before i always you know retrofit the last four or five [Music] the items you've seen it's a lot of of clarification a lot of um typos as well sorry for that but it's all going in one direction that's basically my answer to you we have not fought we have not we have refined clarified but i i don't think we it's all stabilization it's not forking to something completely new at the last minute so i'm good i mean basically okay so i'm hearing from your point of view we have converged on this document yes and i'm sorry because i was i was uh telling alvaro i have a point for you the point for you alvaro was that i'm referring the raw architecture for the terminology of trucks and because it's terminology i made it the normative reference"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:32:01",
    "text": "problem is the raw architecture is still in the works i mean it's in lascaux type of situation but it's still on the works and so and and by the way i'm pretty sure it's going to end up as an informational so we will be in this um double situation of of a done ref to informational and basically this document will be held by the raw architecture the alternate was to redefine the terminology from the raw architecture into this document so what do we want to do i think it's more correct to do it the way i did it so i did it but if you if you prefer otherwise hey pascal um thunder rolling id so um is this [Music] so um i i think referring to another document for terminology versus redefining is the right thing to do right we don't want to define the same thing in many places and then have the definitions maybe not be in sync or you know etc so that's a good thing um don't worry about the reference and if there's a downrive or not um first of all knowing that it's an architectural document i'm sure that it will get referenced later by some other things as well so yeah that shouldn't be a problem um and i'm going to say don't worry about the sequencing either thinking that the raw architecture is a little bit behind because in any case my publication queue is relatively deep so by the time i get to this uh you know we won't have to worry about it anymore yes okay that's good"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:34:00",
    "text": "and if if for some reason we completely abort row then i change that obviously but i i mean the architecture is on the right track so i'm not just to let you know that it will it will it may hold this one that depends on the different cues i mean john's versus servers okay and that's pretty much it for me okay very good so um so ready for pr i will publish 28 and then you press the button that's that's the deal and that's the deal unless i hear a strong objection here in the room or in the mailing list in the coming days but okay so we do that at the end at the end of this week depending on the mailing list activity if nothing wrong shows up i'll publish because after that i'm in pto so i'll i'll publish 28 and then cry okay thank you so much thank you and you're back again for the next presentation okay let's go did you just disappear i'm trying to pass you the control again oh ho ho ho okay so um well i mean i'm lost why do you pass me uh aren't you talking about uh six law registration oh oh sorry agenda yeah yeah i forgot that that was that i'm sorry you just so we convinced 20 people in a room just for you"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:36:01",
    "text": "okay so yeah this is this is a work which is let me start the video again just be a little bit polite um yes there we go so this is a work which started at six low but really the way it's written right now it impacts six low six man and raw and the reason for that is we wanted to to give a complete story across work groups and that's kind of based upon some other histories for instance the sixth opponent versus report stories which has been bouncing back back and forth between six low and raw um you know we did rc8505 and then we did rc 9010 again to make something like that work you have to think in advance in ed 505 everything that 9010 will need and obviously when you write 9010 you realize that oops you should have done this in 9545 or something so so if we want a consistent story and and as we build it we might impact nd and we might think by triple so so this time we try not to make the same mistake and say oh let's build the full story and and write the right impacts on the sixth side and the right impacts on the wrong side so next next slides me so that's why we ended up with this single document the document showed up at six low because it starts with what you register in this case we are talking about extending eight five four five for any cast and multicast registration and why are we doing this we are doing this because we got some users which came to us and came to the atf effectively and said hey um we we we're good for nd we live without"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:38:01",
    "text": "multicast and that's really great but we still need multicast and for multicast we have the same prime as we had with nd right so the the report creates a pool a multicast pool by the router which is exactly the model that you don't want in an iot network because it means that the devices has to have to be awake waiting for this pool and reply even if there is nothing interesting to it report the devices prefer to sleep on their own schedule and tell the router when they like and guess what they already have a 545 to report that they have an address a unicast address why don't we extend 505 to report that you're interested in listening to a multicast address or if you're participating in any guest address so basically that's what we did with this this document we said hey the nodes already don't need mld for nd right a six open nd does not rely on mld now there will be no mld at all even for multicast you can register to your router and the router will do what's necessary so we we have the same benefits as we already have with h505 we have a basically a host to router interface which is completely abstract to how the router routes or now does multicast so um that was that was where we started from but then we said hey by the way uh what is the multicast for this oh it could be meepo and that's what weissan is doing but most of the time people are using non-storing mode and guess what we have multicast only in storing mode so we said hey let's provide the multicast that goes with it for non-storing and the very cool thing is we had all the tools in our toolbox for doing this because with rfc 9010 the reaper and"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:40:00",
    "text": "aware leaves we already know how to build tunnels from the root to the router that serves the device so typically a device that doesn't want to do mld is a low power device that doesn't want to do ripple either so it will do it 505 it will be seen as an external destination and then it there will be a tunnel to the router for him so for non-storing mode multicast why don't we leverage this tunnel and so we said hey basically the multicast addresses are registered using non-storing mode but basically the way it percolates will be very close to to the way we do unicast with only one thing the tid will be omitted that will that won't be considered that's gonna be next slide because multiple sources can can ask the same thing and the the root will do ingress replication so there is no multicast tree inside the non-storing ripple there is just a set of tunnels between the root and the routers which serve the final destinations and so we we added this into into this document and we called it mod5 so that was the discussion on on odv repo with map five and we agreed that aodv repo is map four so we can beam up five so it's still question mark but basically we we are there so we have new flags in the arrow and those flags are propagated in the dow so now that that's basically consistent the changes we do in the arrow and the changes within in the dial so that's the the cool thing about having a single document and so we pushed it three times since last iatf mostly clarification again right it was clarification but we we wanted to be"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:42:02",
    "text": "quick with this document because there is a huge need on the weisen side so we really worked on it and i got the why some guys to do reviews for us as well um so we clarified that it's not an a2mld where the device pushes that he listens to an address as opposed to to getting a pull by the router we clarified that the tid freshness assertion is not done because there will be multiple devices not synchronized that will do the same request for the same multicast or any cast address so ripple should not decide that the only good ones are the freshest based on tid because the tid won't be synchronized so it's not a unicast moving for which the the tid is meaningful it's just multiple richest registration for the same address so don't use tid now the most interesting thing that happened recently is this question that we did not really solve in 9505 which is what happens if the router reboots and basically how do we does the 6ln know that it needs to refresh the state in the router because until then you won't get any packet so what we did is we created a new ro status which is registration refresh request that the router can sound in an asynchronous n a which already exists in a 545 but this status is new and the asynchronous na can be unicast or multicast so for instance if if the router gets a packet from a 1600 that it doesn't know it's not a normal situation because you need to register to your router before you use them i mean for savvy or stuff like that so the writer should know about you if you start sending him a packet it doesn't know your address he he may send"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:44:00",
    "text": "this new error status um it can also be an essence multicast in the case of ysun for instance they have effectively a multicast channel it's slow it's periodic but they have a time where the devices are synchronized and will listen to a multicast so the router will have an opportunity to send a multicast with a narrow status registration refresh request after it reboots you can do it once try twice three times and you know getting a chance for the six elements to discover that that's rebooted um now it's not the only way that we propose and that's going to be next slide and by the way i i had an early discussion with amanda on the ins section so i've revisited the inr to to fit better with the model that she expects basically the the we used to call things subregistries and registries wasn't clear what was a registry and sub-registry there is no sub-registry so so all the tables individual tables now are registries and the the basically the web page which aggregates the number of registries now is is kind of a registry group or you can say it's under the name blah of the page but the page itself is not a registry it's a group or just a page the registries or the things inside so i rewarded things in here and in dow projection document as well and you'll see that in 28 but it's all now fitting the way amanda wants it so so this this item i just said is next slide let's go to it so the second thing that the router could do when it reboots is effectively sent in a second array now sadly this does not exist at six men and that's the reason why i'm saying this document in fact six men alvaro again this one is one that could deserve your attention"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:46:01",
    "text": "so so you know that when you want to have a new option in rme sages you need to to get the documents through six men and so we had the discussion at six law yesterday uh what we do with this option and there are two things we can do we can take the text out of this document and publish without it or we can get the documents through six man to say to get our approval and the recline yesterday was more into let's make it a separate document which means that either we we of block this document to make the other one a normative reference or we live without it and when we publish the other one we say oh by the way we extend this one with you know as a potential user of this option and basically what the option is is just the time that the router has been awake so so if you register at 5 pm and the router at night 6 pm and the router says have been up for 30 minutes you realize that you know the router has lost your stay and so you can re-register whatever so it applies to 8505 it applies to this and it would apply to anything that anyone is doing with the rotter and the rata's reboot so eric kind of agreed that it was of general usefulness and so it was it was more into let's make it its own draft so that's where we were and so basically eric has a task to to discuss it with uh the other ids you know basically you and eric wink for six man and probably the six-man chairs as well and you know come back to me and whether"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:48:00",
    "text": "i should take that particular option and it's processing out of this document make it a separate document so it's for me it's either way is okay we can live without the array option because we have dna so we still have a solution uh it's good to have the array the toolbox adding it later the only problem i have is is the implementers of this rfc might not implement the array and when we publish the array they won't even care or know that it's there so so that's they will have to leave probably with dna that's the only problem unless like i said we make the other document a normative ref but i don't know how long it takes to take the other documents through through six man that will delay this rfc quite a bit now going through six man having its own document i guess we'll have a much better result because six man will hopefully pass it but they will message it make it more useful hopefully so that's where we are so so don't be surprised although if you if you see rick coming to you and and asking you know how we proceed with this thing i made sense hey um i love her though yeah i didn't know if you wanted me to say something uh yes it makes sense to me um okay and uh i'm neither six eleven or six man or my working group so uh yes i'm fine with this when you're finished i do have a couple of other questions for you but i'm done i'm done sorry go ahead okay so um what is the status of this in six law oh we are done i mean the the expectation that what was discussed at six low was to trigger uh work group last goal and i guess the chairs maybe i we should leave dominica i guess discuss this"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:50:00",
    "text": "right because you already agreed with them i guess munich so i will leave you yes we did so we'll issue working group let's call synchronously between the two working groups and sixth law stays at the home for this document but we're working together perfect that works perfect for me uh the reason i was asking was was not that but um was because of the relationship with pim and i know that i had asked that we discussed this in pim i know that he sent an email uh to the print working group i refreshed the email a month or so ago to see if you know there was something and and there was nothing yeah and i'm actually that's that's thank you alvaro for bringing that up uh tim also mentioned that yesterday and the answer timothy winters and and the the the answer i made to him was like we are not really doing multicast we are doing grass replication um is that um pim does other things besides pim the protocol uh like mld which is something that you're placing here and the pim working group right now is working on moving mld to be an internet standard so it would be nice for them to consider if there's other work needed if the signaling doesn't come through mld but the signaling comes through the mechanism you're specifying here so i'm gonna um so that you're not surprised when people come running behind you i'm going to go talk to the pip chairs because i think this is important that the working group discuss that at least that we get something at least that we get no problem type"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:52:00",
    "text": "response from them but but i would really like to see a response because there's a lot of processes that are dependent on as you mentioned in the draft mld snooping and you know some other stuff that would have to change so if a host now starts using the signaling in a network that would otherwise be using mlv you know someone has to do something different so just so that they're at least aware that we get some positive feedback from them that that someone read the draft and that yeah that's neat alvaro i really appreciate it um the the way i i i would like uh what i'm mostly interested in on my side is whether um there is something we would need to add in our spec here uh because basically the the whole the whole thing about 545 the philosophy behind it is we have an agnostic way for the host to talk to the router what the router will do with that if it does ripple if it doesn't deproxy if it does rift if it does a vpn we don't care that's the router business but it's important that the host always provides everything that's needed and that the router cannot infer by himself that's why the arrow has the sequence counter because when you move the routers cannot know what's the most recent location you have to provide it to them so so the sequence counter the proof of ownership those things the router cannot infer but everything else like deciding to inject it and how to inject it cetera long as you know so if if mld needs because the router could today what we do with this pack is we say hey if you if you have non-storing you can use this new mob 5. we also say if we have nipple you can use meepo but what else"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:54:00",
    "text": "just like at 505 the else could be anything but is there a case something that mld would like to to to get from the host so that the router can proxy mld on behalf of the device right and you know i think that as as we've talked about before uh 8505 and even the extension that you mentioned to this about restarting have broader applicability and so it's not only going to be in networks where ripple is running it may be in the network exactly i want to get from from the pim guys and at least again so they're aware so that if other work not just in the spec but other work that they might need to do that's fantastic i really appreciate that okay so i'll uh it's too bad that the pym meeting was this morning but i'll have mike and stigg chase it down at some point and and try and have some discussion with the pin working group that you know they push them to actually say something well if if someone could contribute to the worker plus call and a supplement saying oh you know i'm good but i'm i mean uh if if you know he comes and say please add this flag to the to the arrow because we need it or this field we have an opaque field where we can put one bite by the way so if there is something like that that they might like us to do i mean it's perfect time to it doesn't change the philosophy or anything big right but it could be you know what they want right thanks oh thank you and that's that's it for me thank you very much there is a question there is a question pascal in the chat can we draw for all type of address registrations and then"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:56:00",
    "text": "the second question will be that uh sorry i'm traveling oh that's a great question so we so the tid is normally a sequence counter what it normally does in ripple yeah in the arrow but then it passed in ripple as the path sequence is if you move and you send a dial then you know you compare the sequence of the different dials that you have and the most recent sequence comes from the latest location of the device so every route that you would have for an older sequence has to be invalidated this is basically traditional ripple now it was not said enough in the ripple multicast support in 6550 which is only story mode it was not said enough that the tid does not apply to multicast because if multiple people register to the same address i mean they don't know what tid the other guys are using they all want the multicast so it's not the tid was meant to keep only one route only the most recent for unicast moving for any cast you want to keep them all so basically the only way to retract the multicast route is to time it out to let the lifetime time out and the tid cannot be used to say oh this one is absolute because it has an order tid now for the rover the rover um is normally a proof of ownership and then again we will need to do something like 8 9 28 if we want to exploit rovers for multicast what is what i take from your command is i should probably say in this document as far as this document is concerned there is no owner of the multicast address so you don't use the rover just the same way you don't use the tid"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:58:03",
    "text": "which synchronizes the rover values and synchronizes the tids between the different requesters in which case the rover would would have effectively a significance but for now i guess i need as i take as a workplace call command that i have to say what i say to about the tid i would say about the rover since they are not expected to be synchronized there can not be one value of the rover for this multicast group at this with this specification we have no way to to to force everyone to have the same rover okay so and then was that your question yes for the kid yes i know what you said but i just want to know that you are removing the kid in future specifications oh no no no no the tid is very important the tid is important but only for unicast routes because it allows you to figure where the well you know that and then but it allows you to tell us the the router the rotting to know the freshness yeah most recent okay i was thinking about the um [Music] sorry go ahead and then uh it's okay it's okay from my side if i i let me think but if i have some question i will email on the group okay okay thank you for this actually i mean i will make a change i have to take a note to to say oh tid but also rover great point very good we have one minute left any more questions in the room in the chat uh i'm just starting this that about this document by multicast if you're willing to review the draft please raise the hand"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:00:05",
    "text": "the good news it's not a big document it's not the dow projection thing or rift speaking to alvaro here okay we had four so it's good okay thank you very much okay five good okay thank you very much i think we can close the meeting uh thank you very much pascal for the presentations and we continue in the mailing list have a nice itf week and thank you since i'm in a room we have a few new comments with a new attendee ribbon so maybe we jumped quickly into detailed stuff if you are interested to learn a bit more about what we are doing what this is all about you can come forward to me and we can have a five minute chat so i'll give you the the context of what is being done and the history of this working group if you are interested thank you thank you very much dominique and thank you very much to the jabber taker armenia sticker travis cryer media take care thank you very much dominic can i ask you one thing i i don't know if you can but can you can you go for me at the registration because i i paid for the full trip but i'm not coming for some reason but they have a t-shirt for me so you want me to carry your t-shirt back home don't worry if you can't but you know if you can get my kit i would appreciate otherwise forget okay let me know which size you want large okay i will do that for you nice thank you so much bye-bye thank you very much bye-bye [Music]"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:02:08",
    "text": "we had that last time if you remember you you ordered one size they would you give you another one purposefully because they were odd sized okay bye-bye-ness this is gone yes we are elbows hello nice to meet you um"
  }
]
