[
  {
    "startTime": "00:00:08",
    "text": "yes uh okay i got the meeting uh i started the meeting in this thing with the thing can you pick it up the knife hello"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:02:26",
    "text": "okay all right uh cnn best version for working group meeting uh i'm starting mike hi [Applause] i'm brian palaski um this is the nfs version for working group meeting um is the sound coming out okay to remote participants please let"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:04:02",
    "text": "i'm worried that we have too many microphones can you hear me well we're good okay great um um okay so uh this is brian blasey again uh thomas haynes is with me he'll be taking a minute i have no clue how to get there uh from the reading materials thing click on the notepad for fs version 4. there is okay it won't let me edit yeah i logged in and then it took me to another screen and then when i went back to let me look at it we're having technical difficulties no um we're fine now uh so i just want to say that tom haynes is with me here uh uh taking minutes uh i'll be driving the slides uh all the presenters are on site right yes and i'll take minutes while you're talking and um dave novak is not here today and i he's not in remotely either um thank you all the remote participants for joining us and again if you have a problem with audio and you can't hear something or we're not being clear just uh send a message over the thing and um you're doing the hand raising richard and uh i can't pronounce your last name um richard n is uh going to be looking uh and monitoring for people that want to ask questions remotely okay so uh it's tuesday everybody in the room is messed up except for the guy in the back row in the room man i'm a beanie okay and um"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:06:01",
    "text": "the uh i have a beautiful butterfly mask i have one in the room here and 95 mass or km95 master required uh blue sheets are signed when you log in to meet echo for all your people already logged in and the local people have also logged into um i'm gonna touch on a note well and then we'll do agenda bash uh at the end of the agenda is a discussion and finish one big thing we're not gonna cover the this document which is uh under dave novak he's not available today i'm going to take that to the mail list and i need to after this meeting and talking as we go through the discussion today i'll send out to the mail list the an update to the overall document status and where we stand from the comments coming out today and any follow-ups after this meeting i'll take it to the list uh there's the note well i can sorry i had another one um the session is being recorded everyone um so everything i've said has been recorded for posterity you signed it i'm just looking at the general rules here from the uh slides i can't get to see you to see yeah okay that's it that's enough back to the regular schedule program uh so everything you say is uh kind of recorded property of iotf is a very simple summary of the note well uh but there are a lot of documents below by the way which is very useful in the links if you haven't looked through the documents"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:08:02",
    "text": "for the meeting and ietf sessions and ietf work they actually do change once in a while so you might want to refresh your memory if you haven't but you saw this when you registered all right this is the agenda um a little bit over on mice oh just live up here um no well agenda bashing is there any additions from anyone uh we have kristoff covering layout um issues chucks on the news security and rdma tom is going to be talking about issues with the open and delegation operations and then client recovery so under agenda i thought like i mean the last last one you have like was the road map of the working group would would need more than 20 minutes to i shall come to an prospective conclusion so i was thinking like if we can run some of the discussions really short and have more time allocation for the last discussion if that is possible i can give you ten minutes out of my two presents okay great just just for the presenters to think about it okay did you say your name would you like the microphone sorry i had transported it again thanks uh and then i i'm sorry i really do have to and then i just i clear you after you uh so no changes anybody updates updates we're gonna try to move forward and then we have the discussion at the end okay that was a no all right uh up is uh kristoff yeah hold yeah now i gotta switch horses hold on"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:10:16",
    "text": "this yeah okay so the nvme mapping for the scuzzy layout and we could straight jump to the next slide because that one doesn't have a lot of information so background story is five years ago we got rfc 8154 published which is basically a revision of the block layout that ties deeply into scuzzy concept most importantly for his persistent reservations and device identification it turns out just around the same time the whole storage industry is all on the nvme hype that does the same thing just different and we somehow need to support that as well and because of that i pretty soon after started a document that explains how to use that layout with nvme in a way that doesn't change the underwire protocol but requires a lot of normative language how to map nvme to scuzzy concepts that fundamentally are the same but expressed very differently and the way the initial version did that was to by referencing a nvm express nvme document that's called discussion translation reference that does this mapping but it does it rather sloppily and isn't really up to the standards that the ietf has for normative documents and because of that that document lingered for a while the next slide and i know dave and sarin did another take on it and but not a whole lot of things happened for years so this year after chuck"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:12:01",
    "text": "started prodding we put a lot of work into it like chuck and dave and me and especially dave did a lot of work to me so we know yeah but you also did a whole lot of work and chuck also did some nice work and dave so we we finally got a team instead of just people doing it and put out a new version of it which gets rid of gets rid of that reference to the nvme stlr document and instead puts in its own normative language and i think we're more or less ready to have working group adoption for a status track document we have like two open issues and that goes to the next slide so one is uh the on the wire protocol has the concept of and designator for the device ids that is basically that binary blob that identifies the device what type is a discussion has a bunch of different types so the two two of the three types relevant in nvme actually three of the three types uh defined in nvme map one two one to the concepts in skz so what the current document does is it reuses them and doesn't do any on the wire changes so dave brought up an idea that we would use different identifiers to show that we're talking about an nvme device which reduces the amount that the scope how the client has to search for the device and might be a little easier to understand for administrators or devops the downside is instead of just being a mapping document this actually adds new xdr on the wire i mean basically just two new code points but it's still a change of the on the wire protocol and the other question that's kind of related to it is do we want to add a new uuid designator type so nvme and scuzzy both added a way to"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:14:01",
    "text": "define um device to do device identification with an i with an ietf was at 4122 uuid and we don't have that in the previous rfc yet because scuzzy hadn't edited at the times because he was adding it right around the time and nvme also edited it around the time so if we want to change the wire protocol anyway we should support that as well and preferably also for scuzzy and not just friendly me and that's basically the two interesting items we have left open and otherwise i think we're ready for nitpicking review and bashing the document into submission are there sorry if you can hear me are there any questions i i guess i just want to say i disagree with exactly one thing you said he said you started off by saying there's this fad or something like that of nvme um so the thing is is that it's probably become a lot more important uh moving forward for this type of application than a lot of other things because of mb media fabric stuff yeah i i don't want to get into the technical discussion because i think it's often more religious than technical but it's the fact that in shared storage and be me is a really big thing yeah so so this i i do know that my company's interested in this work and i know that obviously your stuff that you're working on and i think i've and just to add it so an implementation of this draft i have it for the linux client and server and on the server it's about 20 lines of code and on the client it's two versions the version without the protocol without the protocol changes yes i'm sorry uh i got uh chuck lever at the microphone hi chuck lever um"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:16:02",
    "text": "a couple of comments uh i would like to propose moving this to a working group document i think somebody has to do that so let me let me do that um the second comment is right now it's an informational the status of document is informational i would like to see it become a standards track document because it it does have some normative uh statements in it that i think really don't belong in an informative document so those are my two comments okay thank you uh the chair recognizes even with his mask on david black i'm in deep trouble so i completely agree with everything chuck just said in addition um uh having been the source of some of the open issues i'm going to agree with where the draft currently is let's get this document done done quickly with no change to the wire protocol and then and then if somebody sees value in the uuid bring in a separate draft to add the uuid i'll take a note while we're talking um we got that and the chair richard schaffenegger just uh i haven't heard anything that would block this from not being adopted and quite the opposite i would also think that uh having this document on the standards track is would be very valuable all right uh can i get a virtual hum or a hump here uh moved working group standards track no protocol change and let's just get this out the door"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:18:00",
    "text": "okay that was the best so so so brian if you have the online participants cannot harm so there is a raise up hand tool is that one everybody on the online and on site can actually vote for it so ask your question and use the tool i think all right i lost my chat tool i'm doing it i'm doing it coming in coming in come in come in just for that i had it and i lost it man easiest thing to do rather than trying to get the short hands tool to work would be simply state the proposition let's see if anybody objects does anybody object to moving this document to standards track and taking it on in the working group with no protocol changes right not seeing any objections without the case"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:20:00",
    "text": "okay okay thank you thanks all right uh next up is uh thank you chuck weber um uh discuss security uh rpc with tls let me pull you slide that i'll try to stay in the pink next oh sorry okay next slide uh the publication of this particular document has been a long time coming it's it's always been a problem uh of these three normative documents listed on this slide uh not being ready yet uh these normatively cited in this particular document the two of them at the bottom of the slide 9146 and 9147 are now published so those are no longer blocking this document um the kitten document is now on off 48 at least when i checked a week and a half ago which means it's well on its way should be published any very very soon in within weeks or less um so this document is now in ref um meaning we're we're this close to to uh to uh being off 48 and mile 48 it just means for those who don't know that's just uh the authors uh making final comments before publication next slide um there are still these two uh matters that were discussed uh probably 18"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:22:00",
    "text": "months ago um and i did i did mock these up in the github repo for this document so if anybody wants to go and look at them they're available in uh in the github version of this we haven't made any changes to the actual cued document that will happen during off 48. um i should say i did check to see how long this document has been waiting in the rfc editor's queue it's been 88 weeks this is not the longest awaiting document in the queue right now there's one that's been waiting since 2015. so i count i count us as being lucky i think this is a not too much of a price to pay for it so next slide i just wanted to mention the um implementations of this standard that we have uh so far i think three of these are already listed in the actual draft um the freebsd implementation is both client server um daisy has a client and server user space implementation which is based on java hammer space i'm told has both client and server although it's not for nfs right now um i'm working on the linux client prototype which is uh for for nfs and uh ben connington has produced uh an nginx module that can act as a front end for a box standard nfs server of any flavor and do the rpc with tls translation in front of it um and he recently told me that he's he's put up on uh github i believe so that it's open source and people can look at it and he intends to um ask for the nginx folks who to merge"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:24:00",
    "text": "it um and he's actually uh online so if i said something wrong he can you can speak up and tell me the right version of that next slide we've had decent uh community testing exposure um at the most recent one we had all the implementations present from the last slide that i mentioned um and um we were interoperating so um that's going well next slide um a little bit about the linux client implementation i'm working on it's a prototype um there are a number of number of issues that need to be hashed out with our upstream fellows specifically in the um tls handshake mechanism right now the prototype uses an up call which means that the kernel requests a tls handshake from a user agent it doesn't do it itself the user agent then calls into a standard tls library to do the handshake we support some a new mount option we've discussed among is there a question okay we discussed among the various implementers what this uh administrative interface will look like and this is sort of what we've come up with so we'll just add a mount option that allows you to specify a tls or or not um and uh the prototype is available on uh in my repo github and on kernel.org next slide so last we talked about this um there were some other standard actions um that we were considering um uh for example how um exchange id and friends could use tls peer authentication"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:26:01",
    "text": "uh in the same way that they use kerberos today um kerberos principles um there hasn't been any progress there um and the other thing we had sort of uh extended conversations about was how servers can tell clients that if the client wants to use offices it must use uh tls or some of some form to protect the transport um we've had a couple of proposals in that arena but um they're not well liked i had one called rpc tail suit of flavors um i've gotten two thumbs down on that one so i'm going to let that document expire um and we can continue to explore um basic uh basically not uh wire changes but rather just conventions for servers to communicate their um security policy requirements uh via existing protocol elements rather than adding new ones um and we can take that conversation to the list uh next slide oh i'm done yeah i was wondering i do get previews over here all right um and and so what's the ask here um what's the this is a progress uh report implement implementation status um i guess i'm asking whether people agree that uh letting rpc tlsu flavors expire gracefully is uh what we would like to do and then continue the conversation on um uh soliciting other proposals for that for that uh requirement about servers nfs servers um indicating that they want stronger uh transport layer security for offices okay i got it too i know that's a long no no i got i got so first um let's suit"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:28:02",
    "text": "the flavors expire any uh any objection to that online can you check it should we hear from uh ben cadec first sure yeah just to mention real quick the kitten tls13 channel bindings document was literally published as an rfc during this session so it's roc 9266 now yay so that should free you up to uh to get into auth48 for this one thank you ben oh very cool thank you uh so i don't think it was an objection there i think nobody objected uh the next thing was uh let's take this to the list and discuss the do you want to how do we handle this and just description yeah um uh mr novak and rick macklin both had some ideas about how they wanted to go uh rick's proposal was um he had a couple of um uh he used some pre-existing protocol elements for both nfs v3 and nfs v4 servers to indicate requirements for transport layer security um so we should probably just um reinvigorate that conversation on the on the mailing list okay and there was a third thing that was that's why that's good enough okay okay cool uh anything else online in room okay thanks chuck ready oh you we are gonna do the next one which is surprisingly uh sure and go right to the second slide"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:30:00",
    "text": "right not sure why we even bother with title slides because we're just that kind of people well for me the title side and the supplemental material are for people who are looking at these online after the after the fact um so i've been working on this version two of rpc over already may i did a little prototyping about a year ago it's very limited in scope and hasn't really changed since last time i presented on this topic next slide um the concern a year ago was that um if we wanted to support message chaining properly we really need to have a a full a full-on flow control protocol built into our pc of already made we don't have that in version one um so over the last year i've worked with john a gar to fix that to rectify that we have it the description is written in section 4.2.1 now i don't think there's been any further review of that but i believe it addresses all the concerns that we had about flow control so that part of the protocol i think is now ready next slide um dave novak had a concern that we can't expect the iesg to sanction a new version of a protocol that doesn't address security especially transport layer security and rpc of rdma doesn't have any security in it um so his proposal was to add a mechanism in the protocol to exchange certificate material or authentication with their material i would rather see us use build on uh existing security protocols that are more sophisticated like tlsv 1.3 so that we have"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:32:01",
    "text": "underneath rpc over rdma um the transport of the rdma verbs etc etc are protected in the same way that tls protects um communications on tcp next slide so i guess it goes without saying that the itf doesn't have any authority over infiniband rocky opa but it does have authority over iwarp and we could specify iwarp on quick or we could specify eyewear upon tls i suggested this tom talpy recently and he directed me to section 5.4.2 of rfc 5042 um which i've read several times and i don't find it convincing um that's not something we need to go into here but um i just thought maybe it would be interesting to consider uh specification of ddp and rd map on quick um but maybe that's more than we ever want to take on so um at this point yeah so i don't know what to it's an open question how we will deal with transport layer security um for rpc already rdma if we want to continue uh work on this protocol which i will get to in a moment but first they have black hmm the layering on quick might not be anywhere near as bad as you think it would be because the time that we did uh our i did i warp which is in on mpa and ddp we also did a fairly quick mapping of that onto sctp i guess what i'm not clear about is uh what the goal this exercise is are we trying to write something or get it past"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:34:00",
    "text": "the iesg are we trying to spec something that's likely to get deployed yes i remain confused um i i think both um i would like to see something that is useful to people um we certainly do need to guarantee that that uh the isg especially sector is not going to complain about what we're proposing okay so david black again my i suspect we're going to wind up having to get into a discussion of what do we expect to see in the hardware data paths because that's going to be a strong influence over what's deployable i want to recognize tom yeah uh tom hi soundcheck can you hear me yes yes good um uh chuck yeah i mean the there's a couple of concerns about putting rpc over our dma in charge of security in that rdma will be basically transferring you know encrypted bits so the software layer of rpc rdma has to decrypt it so you loot some performance that's not a very compelling architecture um i can agree i agree okay um second you know there's rocky which has no security whatsoever um i wore which referred to ipsec um i work over quick i agree with david it's a tractable problem i think it's a fairly significant problem we deferred that work because at the time we wanted to do it a few years ago quick wasn't uh fully specified now that it is maybe not the datagram service part of it but um you know there's there's a possibility now but the"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:36:01",
    "text": "discussion at the time was to have a quick extension specifically for rdma and uh that's a bit more of a problem than just simply mapping rdma to a quick uh stream so i think there's some thinking to be done there but all those would be much better solutions than slapping tls into rpc over rdma in my opinion well i'm up for it i mean you you know that i'm still engaged on iwarp even though the industry seems to be drifting slowly away from it i think it would be a great effort for itf yeah i'm happy to uh entertain more conversation about this uh on the mailing list or privately go ahead um okay uh so richard just just in high level observation i would strongly refrain from doing any private security whatsoever in a protocol at this level so i'm sorry that he's not here but i would really not support that uh how the layering at the end of the day then is done um yes there will be secure performance implications if you do it with rdma over tls you can do the layering the other way around so that you can do some hardware offloading there people that really want to have security they typically don't care about performance that much in my opinion well they do care but you know depending on on which on who's well stronger than um is is getting the is getting the the the thing that they want color me a pollyanna but you know i like to think that in some day in the near future that we can have both security and performance um especially with offload solutions so um i'm optimistic security will always be a bump in the road so yeah but anyway"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:38:02",
    "text": "my main point was not to do an any any uh custom solution to this problem here in this group but use a standard industry standard uh security um uh protocol and again how the layering is then done ultimately is that that's the sound that's something that the group needs to decide yeah i that's my personal view as well okay um i have uh christoph hellwig on uh mike and then tom kelby yeah so i i don't think uh security and performance really are that far apart right both both with existing uh tls offloads with ssds we absolutely know there's hardware encryption engines that do line rate without any problems but for that we need a good enough standard that they can implement which brings me to the next question i'll step aside i'll just emphasize and someone's kind of specified this and i don't think this is the nfs people and given that storm has disappeared and i know there's a lot of discussions about this working group disappearing i think we need to have a good conversation about maybe grouping that kind of work in a new working group that includes a broader group of people with applicable skills okay um so christoph i totally agree we want the broadest skills when when nfs v4 was going to take over rdma the the discussion was that all the rdma experts were already hanging around nfsv4 so to the extent that we branch out of nfs and rdma uses we need the additional expertise that's"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:40:00",
    "text": "present in itf like if we go for quick obviously we engage the quick group but um richard if if somebody deploys rdma they absolutely want performance that's the reason to deploy rdma and security is mandatory to implement these days nobody can design or deploy an insecure protocol so you need both performance and security absolutely at all times unfortunately i think i need to move on so okay that's the next slide uh it's recently uh come to my attention that read plus is kind of more critical than i thought originally we looked at read plus and said that's going to be difficult to fit into the rdma paradigm because the client doesn't know in advance what the reply is going to look like it could look like a single uh content data segment or it could be some set of uh content data and content whole and there's no predicting and so it was impossible for the client to be able to set up a reasonable set of rdma registered memory to receive replies in general so our upper layer bindings have therefore not permitted any uh resulting items in replus to be eligible for a direct data placement um however it's been pointed out to me that um uh certain file systems will start doing a whole instantiation when um reads happen over uh um unwritten extents um so rate plus is a is a really good idea for large sparse files where you want to keep the sparseness um so i think we and of course we do want to serve large sparse files over rdma those are important of course in hvc as"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:42:00",
    "text": "well as in the cloud for uh virtual disks so um i'd like to just sort of throw this out here and say we need to think a little bit more carefully about how replus needs to work over rdma um either we need a convention that explains how to make it work um at least for the simple cases or we actually need to extend either rdma or um nfsv 4.2 replus to make this work correctly and this is something that can be deferred to the list next slide um we had some performance goals for v2 when we started this project a few years ago and i think that most of them have been met they'll either be met by the piano bus layout type that kristoff described earlier or um they will be met in practice with the um private data extension that we did in rfc 8797 so i think the urgency for our version 2 is less than it used to be um and my concern is as it was last time represented that we don't have more than one version two prototype right now i don't see more than that happening so there really isn't a an interoperability issue there um there are loads of other projects in front of the working group right now that i think are higher priority um especially tls related issues um and there's really only one person who's available to prototype author review and perhaps steward this document so um here's where i do put this in front of the group um maybe we should just let this work expire for now and leave it to come back at some later point when we might have more resources to bring to bear"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:44:02",
    "text": "do you want i'm interested in opinions thoughts comments i think letting it expire is the wrong term it just kind of let it sit right um it's uh well the you know physically the draft will expire but it's still out there and it can still be discussed and we can reactivate it when it makes sense so yeah what you described makes good sense i just the terminology of expired doesn't sound right to me yeah i was referring issues strictly to the mechanism rather than to anything if you're going to give it up implications okay well drafts expire all the time don't be afraid of an expired draft and it's not necessary to refresh drafts i see people doing that they make no changes just to keep it active it's not necessary okay oops sorry i went back into queue i don't want to do that oh okay i'm gonna kick you out i click click the wrong button sorry bye yeah you scared kristoff christoph was going to come up and say something but then you just scared him off that's kristoff alex so i i don't think great plus really is a protocol problem i know we have some implementation problems on the linux site but read plus can always do a short read so you can always just return one chunk of data in one hole and let the client retry which i guess for most cases is simply the right thing to do sorry uh believers nodding his head sagely uh no i would call it sage but we should yeah we should talk later um"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:46:01",
    "text": "there are there are some there are some uh more subtle issues about direct data placement that uh make me a little concerned but if we can find a way of making it work um i think the the benefits of not triggering whole instantiation are are real and strong and uh important so all right um so back to the back the question of uh any objection to letting this draft expire in the ietf sense and uh and if needed we will pick up the work in the future but at this point chuck is saying that the gains are not there to warrant the effort nor the resources to take forward the v2 rpc already made route any objection to dropping work and freeing up bandwidth so we can focus on more important things nothing thank you okay let's see what's on the next slide that's for uh i think we should deliver remove the milestone for delivering these documents because that's not going to happen yeah and i think we just agreed to that okay good next slide okay done good uh thank you chuck for being clear pickaxe [Laughter] if i've ever heard that before uh could you get a chair for the microphone uh tom delegation hold on i'm fine at the front of the doctor focus focus pulaski focus"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:48:02",
    "text": "[Music] this one market layouts impeding file recovery no the the other one another one no sorry they're out of order right never mind i got it and i just noticed when i got up here that i didn't provide my email but you can figure it out so a delegation of state id is going to the next slide please so i i call it delegation of state ids because and or open because it's mainly about the delegation of attributes from the server to the clients most get adders are done but you know while the file is opened by the client so we want to move remove the the client from asking the server about the attributes next slide please so i thought i'd give some some dates we first published it in april 2018 we've had a hammer space has had a private server application since that time we've also had an open source client implementation since that time and the linux flight maintainer kind of is a um i want to say hard-ass well i'll say hard-ass about this and he he doesn't like to take changes that haven't been ietf standard track documents because it clears up ipr concerns and open standards equates to open source right so i'm trying to get this uh the him to push the changes upstream as they call it and he won't do this until i get this more solid and so you know the work is the the documents written i've let it slide for a year or two while covid was going on"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:50:01",
    "text": "and i want to push it into working group last call get a document shepard etc and push it on yeah um so basically the ask here is to is there any objection to taking the state id document yeah forward um to a working group last call and attaching a document shepard to it any any objections yes okay any objections okay up tom talfi question tom you said there's an implementation in the client is there also an implementation on the server and so the the implement this the server is the hammer space private server so we yeah is there any other implementer interested in this feature i i don't know i haven't talked to anyone who's interested in it that sounds right but you know the we're the only yeah i know it's not it's not your responsibility to convince others but um i just curious how broad the interest in this might be if it's been idle for a year or two one might ask is it gonna reawaken outside of hammer space i don't know i i don't know i mean you know i don't have any objection i'm just raising the question because it seems yeah yeah that's all thanks"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:52:02",
    "text": "okay so we still stand with no objection to moving forward um all right thank you uh i'm this is the one i was going to grab before i think so my next presentation is about layout competing file recovery um if we go to the next slide please so the problem statement is when a server reboots we have a grace period for the that allows the client to reclaim open files the server doesn't necessarily know that which files are opened by the client so the client just is informed that the the server is rebooted and it knows it has a set amount of time to to reclaim those files if it's interested in reclaiming them and it can use the claim previous with the open to which is typically only valid during that reclaim period to say i had this file open i want to reclaim it and keep it open and we we we have that but we we never considered what happens if the client had encountered errors before the server restarted right and if the client does this it doesn't have enough state to inform the server that you know errors had occurred next slide and so what what happens when these errors occur and that depends on whether we're strongly or loosely coupled right so a strongly coupled system is one in which the the mds and the ds have a private"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:54:03",
    "text": "um it's it's private protocol in which they can communicate state changes and errors that have occurred and everything a loosely one is one in which we use a storage protocol like nfs in order to communicate those changes and that's very limiting right so the loosely a loosely coupled system is one pre uh pretty much which you have several different proprietors proprietary code bases for the servers so with the strongly coupled the mds already knows the error from the ds right it can report it with loosely coupled it depends on the clients to report the error so you might report it with a layout return or a layer of error but we just restarted so the state ids for the layouts are no longer valid after the restart please so can't we just get a new layout and then report the error well again this we have a complication if we have client-side mirroring um actually even without client-side mirroring the server may have moved the file the data instances of the file to different data servers so it's no longer possible to report errors that had occurred next slide please so what's the importance of reporting the errors well if we report the errors it allows with client-side mirroring it allows the the mds to pick which one of the the instances are valid and should be re-silvered if it doesn't have that then it has to scan all the files assume all the ones that weren't reported as errors may be an error and uh go across all the files"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:56:01",
    "text": "and the the cost of it depends on the size of the files and the number of open files i feel like i'm going fast but i always do next slide please so i'll present two potential solutions and of course i've picked one already but i'm just trying to show that we did consider this um we could introduce new operations which would allow the server and the client to agree that uh the server has this capability and then the client knows that since the server is advertising this ability it can then use that ability or we can use the special state id on layout return and define some new semantics during the grace period i picked to find the new semantics with um the special state id so the special state id is defined not to be valid with layout return and if it is presented with layout return uh the server returns nfs4 error that state id but if it's inside the grace period we could have it we could understand that this the client is saying i encountered an error when i was trying to [Music] when i was writing to this layout i want to report it and if you're capable of using that information use it if not go ahead so that if the server was inside the grace period was returned bad state id the the client would know that the feature was not supported there's no need for layout error because layout error implies that you're going to reuse the layout state id afterwards and we're not going to and then there's no need to reclaim the file because the client has already said here's what's happened with the file i don't need it open all right next slide please the big question is where to put this i could tack it on to dell state id but i"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:58:00",
    "text": "don't like that because it del state id is pretty close to being done and i don't think it fits in with it all right it is about open files but that's kind of stretching it for me i could do a new document but it starts a new cycle it's only two to three pages and the next topic and the working in is about what are we going to do with the working group so i guess the the the open question i have is where do i put it and if other people are interested in as tom talfi would point out you're trying to think about a phrase a question here what's your ask you phrase a question i'm helping join the cube all right tom you phrase the question the big question i'll leave that to you i was just going to ask tom if it's only two or three pages what does it say what kind of normative statements does it make i'm sorry it's about what um if we were to go back a couple of slides about the the presence of the special state id during the grace period versus not in the grace period and how the client can determine whether or not the server supports this feature and those are those are musts they're not just you know figure it out kind of a thing it seems kind of heavy-handed to make it so normative somehow but okay no i i appreciate the feedback i mean i'm struggling with where this goes myself well i guess my suggestion is if you can find a way to make it subnormative you know if it's sort of a behavior it's a way of implementing it then it's easy right you just publish a simple note"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:00:01",
    "text": "okay i can't form a question i can't form a question i think my suggestion is to take a step back and put make a proposal unless to uh to the working to the working rebellious uh in the next two weeks okay um but uh chuck leaver please chuck lever i agree with that um uh following up on what uh mr talby said uh making this a convention seems appropriate rather than something that's normative um it seems pretty straightforward for a client to try this uh and the server says uh what the uh the client goes okay this is isn't working i fall back to whatever the old and otherwise it will do something more reasonable right um so in other words it wouldn't require any action by this by the working group at all okay just just a thought so but uh all right i'll talk later i'm i'm so used to normative documents i don't go with the other workflow okay so you hit your button i wanted to say one thing back to tom a normative document states a protocol that needs to be interoperable by everybody in a specific way and this doesn't sound like it's quite the same thing so it may not even need a document it may just be the way you implement it again same deal as the previous one okay"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:02:00",
    "text": "well so you know it's always better to be clear and write a document i'm not trying to say get around it or anything like that it just if it doesn't rise to a requirement that everybody must do even if it's optional it it's like maybe this isn't really a protocol question okay just it's just food for thought that's all thank you oh thank you very much okay i still think we're at the and we're gonna you're gonna noodle frame and take to the alleys within the next two weeks that written down i think i got it now okay all right that brings us i think to the end of the presentations hold on let me pull up my little document here yeah that's the end of the prepared presentations um now you have a little bit under an hour left in the meeting um this is an uh time for an open discussion on uh the next steps and work uh what's open items in the working group and how do we deal with them and generally frame what we're going to do here um i would hope that tom's going to help me out a lot here by the way yes i would yeah um i i actually hope steve was going to help us out because he's"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:04:02",
    "text": "yeah so that's actually all right let me try so um so we've been uh negligent in meeting our deliverables uh to our uh to our stated um milestones on the uh the description of our working group um for those of you who have been involved with this for a while this is not a surprise um given the sometimes our change in direction and um just distractions uh but i think at this point we're coming up to a question of uh along i'm not gonna i'm just gonna use as an example but not it's not the most important thing but uh this discussion we had about the um uh sorry the uh rpcr over rdma uh the v the v2 document whether it was absolutely required that we complete that work at this time and is is it holding us up um from actually delivering on implementations and making things just work with what we have and what we know um so we decided basically to put that on the shelf uh until something would make us go back reopen that discussion and because there's something critical that we need to do in that in our pc over already i think that's kind of the discussion we had so i think what i'm looking here um at the working group is to just come up with the list of must complete items must do and uh define those attach dates to them find out identify the ones where"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:06:03",
    "text": "we're struggling to we're struggling to apply the people necessary to complete the document work pretty much everything in the i tip is document work uh for the most part that's all i care about um but backing the document work is sometimes from our side implementation work to prove out the ideas i don't know that the implementation work is what's holding us back at this time i think what we have is a pile of documentation work probably the biggest overhang we have is likely the completion of the bis document um that's just a bunch of clarifications it's just a lot of work so um i need some help here sorry i do need some help here tom um do we have a list of the if you could show the screen of the documents that are currently in the queue for the working group we want to see what's so yeah go ahead i'm sorry please please so yeah you had here uh transported with my id at on i mean i mean i i can tell tell you like what my my what i see happening here and then uh then which is basically what you said brian i mean like like that's uh this working move is like really um really i mean i have seen like a couple of times that people have finding reviewers like that for the beast one which seems to be when i took took over this working group seems to be very important but"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:08:01",
    "text": "then i failed to see like anybody and you have any interest in it and there are a couple of documents there uh they're out there i have been asking um the like whoever i i know cares about actually like how much it is critical for implementation to get it done i didn't get a really uh right answer so that's that's like this uh this this is an i understand this is this is like historically like really long it has been there this working has been there for for quite a long time and you you guys are really i see it today like you know each other you you work together you have done tremendous amount of work but now i but i see this one actually really declining and failed to deliver um that's that's the one part um another part is like uh when it comes to um errata and all this thing i have seen like we have like huge amount of ira down fs before the i have talked to three past eddies like what happened to those like why didn't anybody have to clear those aorta at least for document uh hold up for document update that could have been like purified you're waiting for something to happen that didn't happen so i i also wanted to see like how the working group actually think and how much that's critical because because this is a huge amount of irata existing the other thing is like how we're running the meetings and all these things but that i can definitely work with on my chairs to make it more workable so let's for example like the business document that has been like this like documented and dev had worked on it it's not even in the working group documentation list so i had to push it for like okay uh call for a working goal adaptation it got adopted but the record doesn't see tell me anything like that so i think this all these things is happening like whether there is the energy in this working group to actually carry on the rest of"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:10:00",
    "text": "the make the thing and or what should we do that's basically what i want to hear from you guys and i'll i'll shut the shut up and let you guys to talk why why why don't i believe you anyway so so uh is there a way uh david you're the zen master on this stuff is there a way to show a uh a screen on beat echo i i have the document list in my uh okay hold on share screen do you really want to share my screen i change my mind um jesus christ what the hell just happened it looks like i'm in an infinite well of you did not wait wait i do it again oh okay so yes allow okay that isn't very good i'm gonna screen snap that got it that looks like my entire life right now did that do it that did it okay so um i think one of our one of our issues is just frankly let's just be clear here our a minor issue we have is updating this page yeah that's not actually the problem but it doesn't help that this page is not up to date um because that just makes people confused so there's the documents we discussed today um up on top uh the tls the v2 rdma"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:12:00",
    "text": "open files and uh yeah so that's both the ulba and the rdma documents which we are going to shelve until something changes but it's these bottom documents i think that we're mostly talking about there's a list of internet drafts we touched on quick a bit today i'm not sure if that is um let's ignore that the big document here is the um the nfs v4 uh version one minor protocol this document i believe is the one that is uh being reworked uh and addresses the erratas i believe is i think is where those are appearing and um i i would just put out that uh dave novak needs help and i would have to figure out how to make that work mcdavis dave owns that document and he's been soldiering on a lot on this so what what this is richard what's curious to me is a if this is a beast document why is it still uh as a individual document it should uh basically go straight straight into the adopted into working group and the working group can then decide a number of editors uh so even people that have no technical inside knowledge and i just remember i should keep my mouth shut um i'm just basically working like i'm pinocchio because i feel like my nose is hitting the microphone but it's my mask i know so richard that was a an offer to help if we move oh you're in the first row yeah but they didn't provide any tables david i'm not dithering about whether to talk about this um so say sorry i'll get to you after this yeah"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:14:02",
    "text": "okay sorry um yeah and you did you didn't want to do that bp yeah i know but i don't know but yeah yeah television is such fun so what you're seeing here is a fairly small community that in the past has managed to generate the largest docks the ietf has ever seen i got ribbed for iscs he's being 300 pages and this this group beat me by two country minds it's like yes like i said two country miles um and you might be looking at one of the things that may be going on here is there's definitely enthusiasm for smaller docs i mean uh give kristoff and i and everybody else interested in the green light and and that uh uh scuzzy layout update draft uh will be what will be in your hands before the end of the year no problem however ask us to go do the maintenance on one of the main nfs protocol specs and suddenly we have other priorities uh i i don't know what to say about this aside from the fact that um yeah the specs need maintenance um yeah there ought to be some uh interesting stuff done there but the extent i can i can see enthusiasm or speaking myself enthusiasm it's for this small stuff like the scuzzy layout update that makes a big difference yeah so just uh just to respond your name is why you keep asking me i mean because there are people online like you told me i had called it i told it before i talk maybe i should i should talk loud and know my name but yeah sorry yeah okay okay okay you're transported so yeah just to respond to that one um because even if you were like um"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:16:02",
    "text": "laughing about it but you made a good point right i mean this is this is a small working group trying to take it like 600 press um the documentation update and all this thing and my question to this like if this is so important why there is no my much progress in it so if this is like really important thing to do the beast thing um do we have the industry ready to i mean when this is published they will be like updating their servers and clowns to to the new version that will be updating i don't see that enthusiasm i mean into the work i know this is important i know this is a maintenance is important but well uh i don't see any visible indication that's the case and suddenly you said like we have now a smaller document that becomes more important maybe those will if we get through those those will get have more probability getting deployed in the in the internet than the the updated uh base so i would rather be happy that if this working group focuses on the smaller document get them done and say like well we've done our so far we can and then rest in peace actually i was the author of the last this and it took me six years to complete the work and to be very honest i don't know that anyone's changed anything for that after that no i'm agreeing with you but masa pointing out it is a lot of work even when you're dedicated to it so i think thorin oh because every time sorry please there are a lot of work lingering because we were accident and we didn't"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:18:01",
    "text": "finish uh what we started and i think that uh needs to be addressed i know that we're exigent i know that we aren't the perfect thing yet there are several documents that were not accepted including mine for example for data reduction as an example but the fact is that uh there is work that can be done and we kind of didn't uh attach it attack it so what i suggest is to try to get to the point then we are finishing the 4-2 so i know that it will take time i don't know there's a four-three in the future i don't think so maybe there is maybe there isn't there are new technologies in the network in the memories and all this that could justify but at this point in time we have to finish what we started and i would be very sad to see this group closed because i think we have something important that i can tell you that my current company were using some of the the nvme stuff so you know it's it's that's why i want to be sure that all understand that we don't want to close this group or maybe i'm the only one i don't know so anyways that was my my point okay so okay uh thank you siren uh this is brian plowsky co-chair of the nfs version for working group so um i i agree with you when you said i think that this very much summarizes i think where we are finish what we started that that absolutely should be our friggin tagline and we should have t-shirts made um because that's i think what we're discussing um i no one is proposing shutting down the working group and dropping stuff on the floor and watching it bounce that's not it the discussion is what are the things we need to focus on what are the priorities"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:20:00",
    "text": "and what are the resources necessary to complete it before i am would you say r.i.p yeah before i am r.i.p and very very quiet and six feet underground so um i think that's that's just where we are um and and i think part of that goes to i'm extraordinarily reluctant to for proposals of let's do new work of any substantial size um like a let's redo the entire nfs version 4 protocol that would i i could imagine somebody proposing it and i would be saying that no that's just not where we are okay so the small documents are i would call not the diminished amount of work or thinking but the nvme document highly leverages the previous work done for pnfs and the layouts where a lot of thinking went into it and we're not revisiting that thinking we're just reflecting where the industry is in the this is the third decade of 20 sec 21st century i think is that over here 2022. so so i think that that level of work that i think the best document just needs i think the best document needs just to finish what we started completion i'm afraid to drop david help me sorry can i interrupt you kristoff for a second david can someone give me the strict definition of a missed document the strict i was just trying to find i really want to know the strict definition of this document strict definition yeah uh folklore it evolved as a as a convenient way to tell someone who's reading the document what it replaces that's it oh wait so that can't be it no no no no because it's not it's not it's not it's not on the level discussion of let's"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:22:01",
    "text": "manifest manifest version for edifice before version two or anything like that it's not a minor revision or anything like that of the nfsp4 document it is revision of the specification right and and and uh let's see okay well i'm trying to stare at the screen where the font's too small and as i said this head the what does this mean i said it it really is folklore it it became a convenient way to tell some to tell the reader that it's a example this draft is intended to replace rfc 5661 and that that's it would have a question is there a requirement to do a best document ever no no no so so i wanted to to this is richard you just kind of wanna yes i just i just wanted to make some some comments around are you both austrian by the way yes okay just checking having had some experience with uh being an editor for this document and i can fully agree with with david here a biz document is really just an convenient way to say something that this document will become the new standard instead of an old standard it has no meaning appearing whatsoever of the technical contents that are being changed or if it is just an update because of errata that's uh that has no bearing to one um other than this it a this document that is really just an update for errata for editorial things can become a very very lengthy work speaking of experience to very minor gain so i've been updating the 1323 document"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:24:03",
    "text": "to 73 23. nobody actually refers to 20 73 23 by the document name itself because everybody knows the old document however if you would nowadays implement the old document specs you would basically not be compatible with tcp stacks all over the world or you would have actual bugs in your implementation so a biz document that addresses technical and and editorial errata is an important aspect but it's a kind of an unloved child kind of thing a lot of work for very little gain so from a point by making um from a priority perspective if this piece document is the kind that i've referring to with errata technical and editorial then i would think the priority to do this and to complete this should be lower than the other documents if as you mentioned or as you alluded earlier that this document here is really a revamp of the entire document in a major way then i cannot i cannot comment on the relative priorities to this thanks okay thank you uh wait is there anybody i'm sorry i gotta bother everybody in a second nobody okay uh sorry kristoff yeah so someone who's a relative newcomer to the group and and and comes from more of a storage focus i think i mean one of the big problem with the group is i mean nfs 4.0 now originally was a mess that that basically wasn't helpful nfs401 fixed it then the group spent a lot of effort on doing the best document for nfs4 that no one really cared about and uh now we're trying to do the same for 4.1 and if it was just catching up with the errata it would be very simple document but i think the problem is it's trying to bring over the"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:26:00",
    "text": "internationalization rewrite from the four biz document which in theory is very important in practice doesn't matter what the implementations do anyway so uh yeah i'm not sure that's a good priority for the group so um yeah i mean i i'd like to understand the priority here i mean the definition of priority i mean prediction of priorities like what documents we should take on first and complete or priority based on like what is needed to get things um secure and get things interoperable and get things going so i i'd like to understand that part as well because i mean the um what i'm hearing like this this document is important and it is addressing lots of error time but nobody cares that doesn't tell me that like this this should get like a lot of attention right now it could just be there and we can have like very low updates and all this thing but at the same time if this is this is this somebody tells me like i cannot really run this nfsv nfsv4 one version um because i don't i have all this error i have um like hundred and some some hundred plus and if i implemented that then it's like it's not going to work and that's this is really important that so i please please mention like what is your priority and try to try to understand like what's the implication we have if nobody cares about this document well i can ask why we started this one um or something else what was the history i'd like to know that as well uh like sorry uh there's one person in front of"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:28:00",
    "text": "you and then i'll get to you hold on but i want to make a comment um this is why i was asking about the definition of this i thought that the best document started from addressing errata and unclear portions of the specification that's what i believe was how i stopped how we started it when when we did when we did new like when we went from 4.0 to 4.1 it wasn't a bisque document it was new it was like an area right it was it was a new version protocol because because you bumped the minor number i've also been involved in verb well i wouldn't say involved at the same credit in a working group that i run unfortunately other people did most of the work uh we just turned out a best document for sctp and that was a rather large doc i'm sure it's not uh as a head start saw it go by and it was it was not not all errata but it was all minor stuff that needed to be fixed that the implementers agreed this is this is this is how this is how it ought to work um so i i guess what i would recommend to us ahead is to structure his thinking as an ad around two types of docs we got this we got these relatively small stuff in which there is strong interest and then we've got this abyss and the maintenance of the old stuff and the errata and which is what seems to be causing him loss of sleep and those two things ought to be thought about separately and figuring out what happens here okay um and and i i need thank you uh david black dot soren are you still there are you with us yep yep please go okay so uh look i am going to go back to uh some changes that the industry uh went through that will require attention that i'm focusing on my draft for data reduction because that's the"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:30:00",
    "text": "place i live in today and this is the clouds so all the the the clouds the one that are relevant uh uh amazon aws uh google gcp and uh microsoft azure they all are talking about uh data reduction because that's an important part of moving to the cloud so i think from that perspective this is a new work that should be done in this group because you know the clouds are moving faster and we are staying behind if we don't keep up with that again i advocate for my draft as an example but that should be one of the directions that should happen today because it is what's happening in the industry it's not me it's you know i work in a company that does data migration to the cloud and i can observe all these facts so that's my point uh okay i want to say thank you um your transparency again again so uh david i i think you made a good point right i mean we have a couple of a couple of issues here and i say like i started with three like uh i mean the question is like i can i can i can ask the question about the process and all this thing and uh previously made decisions like why this is that and this is that like you have like 100 plus uh unverified errata that you started to fix it without any kind of like um like um resolution on this like even if it's not not like verified hold it for documents like nobody did anything uh it has been there for quite a long and then basically now if i look and into this whole thing the piece i kind of understand like these are these are two"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:32:00",
    "text": "this this this is supposed to take care of irritates which are not really um we didn't agree on how to solve them now this when this piece is happening we i expect that discussion to happen that's not even happening it's like dave is trying pushing his work he's trying to get reviews there were a couple of the ietf meetings and incrementing there was no review so i i kind of felt like this is not like the thing that the working group should focus on and then it comes to the smaller documents i would appreciate and the authors of this smaller document to get these things to some sort of a state where like i mean i think uh today we we said like we will we're getting getting this um nvme document uh as a working group and then dave you said like yeah i'll get something really soon and there are a couple of documents that we discussed today is very it's really like tom said it's almost done now it's just working with last call so do those things go for those things and see like where it ends up because uh because i'm i don't i see i would like to see this working group progress i'm not here to just um click on this button says close this working group i'm not here for that i want to show this working group this progressing um if it is a management issue how we are running things we can talk about that one if it is like i'm encouraging people to do that we can we can we need to do something about it that's what i'm asking and today i'm exactly i'm feeling it better like we're talking about it we see like this work need to be done we want to continue this one and that's exactly i want out of this discussion out of this working group thank you uh david black is going to say something yeah david blackman is going to say something so there's a lot of nfs out there there's a lot of running code a lot of it is not exactly close to the latest docs"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:34:02",
    "text": "this working group has produced to put it politely and unfortunately i got a plus one uh christoph snide remark about internationalization that uh that that that has that has a particularly that has a particularly sorry sorry his sorry history nfs uh that i don't care to go over further without adult beverages uh it had a sorry history before the itf right and that by ignoring it completely somehow most of the running codes seem to do something useful most of the time as long as you do it in english no it actually it it it it it actually it was it was actually actually beyond there but yeah but free work never mind that right with utsa by the way um sorry never mind that's a rat hole okay that's a rat hole because case case case sensitivity case sensitive and unicode is a rat hole all by itself which we don't need to explore i mean for example what is what what's y what what what's the upper case version of of an ascii lowercase i answer it depends on what locale you're in unicode doesn't have a single answer nevermind didn't we used to have a rubber rat in the meetings didn't we used to hold up a wrap go ahead so i think the structure here is figure out how to take some of this how to take some of the smaller drafts forward and then look at the sort of maintenance of the big docks and the and of the the bigger drafts as sort of sort of a"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:36:01",
    "text": "separate matter and if you tease those two apart at least has a structure uh to start grappling with uh with what what what is what is useful work here and then figure out what is what is necessary on the big ones given this given the small size of the community yes and and yes and and so let's just for everybody on the online just a reminder dave novak who is doing most of the work on this document is not here and i had a slide early on which i said i didn't want to talk about this document without dave not being here because we're going to be talking about stuff without the background to complete the discussion so um and dave did tell me he's not going to be able to give us an assessment of that until a month out okay so um i believe that was you know we had a brief talk before we talked so um i got it i got it i think we decided today to shelve two documents that are on this list related to the already already maywork uh the v2 stuff and then move forward with the nvme dock these are and people have put their hands up to work on it um and tom haynes on the state id document is moving forward so i think we made some decisions on the small documents then we just gotta put them in the milestone list i believe is what one thing we have to do clean what's been the milestone that doesn't need to be there anymore and then um get dave novak to come in and give us a do not do on the this document and assess the what's critical and what's not is that and we're separating out the decisions made on the smaller documents today from the larger pile of abyss document i don't think there's anything else and i brian plowsky i'm"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:38:00",
    "text": "not asking for new work right now um except when kristoff proposes new work kristoff uh not proposing new work but i think one of the big items our ad gave us was errata handling and i mean i think one of the problems is we have a lot of old big documents that aren't particularly relevant that have a lot of errata and a lot of people that worked on them are not actively part of the working group rit and so so what are we going to do about it who's someone needs to spend time on it i mean i could volunteer some of my time but especially for the older stuff like 4.0 i'm not sure i'm even qualified well the thing i was going to point out is the 4.0 stuff might have been taken care of with the abyss because at the time i was taking the errata as they arose and was fixing them straight away in the abyss document but i might not have been communicating that to the chair so that they knew that they were being taken care of well but that's supposed to be done in the in the errata tracker right so maybe you just need to walk through them and mark them as verified fixed in the biz document or something okay can i so christoph i'm gonna i'm gonna summarize that and tom's gonna put a note take a note tom um that uh we just gotta scrub the errata list and um and just really scrub it so that people aren't getting nervous and then determine to me determine two things one which errada we don't care about anymore you know what nobody's using it we're not going to update documents that no one even cares about and let's mark and just i assume there's a way to close those errata out um and then my thinking was that the this document that dave owns has been primarily um working on the existing errata for what people are interested in using um which a lot of what i thought we"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:40:01",
    "text": "just clarifications of the specification describing what we actually meant when we said something i thought there was a big pile of those and maybe dave's gotten through muslim but i i let's let me again follow up with dave he's not here okay there's three people at the microphone is there anybody online that wants to join this conversation no not yet okay i love it when i go so i don't believe this richard again just uh one one minor point that you that i've not hear you say and that is adopting of uh this document as a work as a full featured working group document so that the worker group has a formal uh change control over the document and not the author alone take the miss into the sorry i got yes take the bis as an uh working group document yeah i totally agree with that yeah i mean that's yes got it so well okay so check check come to mike i mean if you want to say something about it but but again uh so yeah the irata if you what what do you just say um and and i see one volunteer uh to actually look go through that one that would be great then we know exactly what you're doing uh what what have already been taken care of and what are the different things and and i have a clear idea like this is like something that that i can reflect to when i'm looking through to the documents and all this thing that would be a great thing to do so if you could do that that's that's that's great thanks for doing this um and for the practicality yes this joke will need to be in the item i don't know like if i have i have already mentioned a couple of times like this and there should be a adoption call i think there was adaptation adoption call for this document in the in the working group or i'm sorry so the biz document is now is the"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:42:00",
    "text": "individual document and yeah we have we have asked for the adoption call for that beast right i don't know like please check that one i think we have done that just it's just updating the data tracker then okay i got i got it um i think chuck's going to say something that's going to remind us of something that dave's working on um chuck leaver i think chuck lever oracle one of the reasons why this is still a personal draft and not a working group document is because part of this part of the mission of doing this business um uh to recognize that this is an enormous ass piece of work that needs to be split so dave had proposed um i think splitting it four ways into four different documents so i'm not sure about process here but i don't know if we want to adopt that particular document as a working group document or if we want to see the split documents adopted right and i yeah and i'm sorry that's and that was discussed a very long time ago yes it was and agreed to by the working group um primarily because uh frankly um anything that's done outside of this working group in terms of editor reviews and everything else that the size of the document is daunting it was felt that if it was broken apart with no changes to the protocol itself and that that just the act of breaking the document into four pieces um focusing on specific areas which i correct me from wrong truck but like one of them one of the four documents would be specifically a security document which allows outside review of the security portions of the protocol which aren't necessarily in one location on the document today so it was going to be like pull pull pull focus focus focus would allow for the faster final reviews of the best document once it emerged"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:44:00",
    "text": "because it was four parts and respective area expertise can be brought to the document they were interested in without having to wade through the 523 pages they didn't care about so okay sorry and like we don't see uh on this uh window in front of us the documents that have expired since january i think at least three of them security is not up here because it's expired so it's hard for us to track the uh versions of the documents that were the progeny of 5661 bis i don't think dave ever intended 5661 bis to be adopted as a working group document he just meant it as the base for doing the split okay so just to be clear i'm not objecting to to this work becoming working group uh working group documents but i think that there's some history here that we need to identify you're being very specific about what we choose to adopt exactly okay okay so again without dave here um i don't wanna i don't wanna say things that i can't speak to um but i have the list of questions and the concern and the asks around and priorities for the group i think uh general discussion here in terms of documents okay but i i need a lot more information from dave and i needed yeah and the other day yeah david black yes and yeah dave's going to have a cow when he uh understands what we did in his absence i mean and there's there's even bigger question on the table which is is the split worth doing versus stabilizing what we got"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:46:02",
    "text": "you know talking about cows um this is brian pulaski chair the version four yeah yeah yeah no no the cows always come when we submit the document for a review and then everybody everybody complains to us that they didn't want the meal supersized they wanted the regular burger right and and so i mean david you know we've been freaking yelled at by i know we're gonna yell about it basically repeatedly what i'm basically asking is is it sufficiently important i gotta i gotta to generate an across-the-board update that would as a baseline result in the enormous document that would then have to be split to get it through i get it get it through get it to get it through is that whole program of work worth the outcome so i will say sorry david s very good question is that whole idea worth the outcome i would say when we discuss the split and i cannot remember how long ago but this was not in the past three months this was in the past three years we discussed this split i don't think anybody thought we'd be having this discussion today i thought i think we thought that the split would be completed by now and things would be going along smoothly and also would have allowed other people within the working group to take the areas they're interested in to review right because we wouldn't be having a discussion of you know a bunch of people trying to find the area they need to worry about so i do are you did you scan in okay but yeah but if you scan in the name they might not disband us though um thank you um okay uh is there any okay i i think i have tom's been taking notes i hope uh i think uh david black rewrote all of my notes i think that was him typing um [Laughter]"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:48:00",
    "text": "and uh which is kind of funny um but uh i think i have a lot of follow-up week taking some actions um when the minutes get published we'll communicate the actions we took on the documents today i will talk to priorities on the working group list and um and i'm buying into david's model of let's consider two piles one of the smaller docks that people have gravitated towards to drive to completion that we discussed today and then the best document to step back for a second and find out uh and have that discussion on um where are we what's its purpose and um since nobody's yeah let's just leave it at that okay but i again i do need dave novak in that discussion okay um and then at the there uh uh yeah so so yeah i think i think this has been very fruitful discussion so far um we have at least an idea like what we are supposed to do we have some action points i would love to have you or or the secretary actually write write an email to the mailing list for the record like this is what we have discussed this is what we have action point so that we can follow up on this thing and for this this document split or not displayed i i don't mind actually we talk about it again and try to make a good decision so that's up to the authors and the working group to decide um my personal opinion is like we we talk about whenever we have a business document is obsoleting that's a different case but if it's updating and stuff like that the isg usually asks for like whatever be clear what you are updating and all these things so the structure of document really matters for that case um but that's a that's the"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:50:01",
    "text": "later case but let's discuss on this when dave is back okay um about the split and then do the right thing um like split or not split i don't care just add up the documents and carry on the work and the background um and please keep the data updated yeah and and i know and sanitize the the list get the drive to get the drafts up where they need to be and working group drafts and update the milestones and scrub that a bit just so that people looking from the outside are a little bit a little bit clearer what we're on yeah exactly because everybody knows this we are having this discussion today so that would be good to get them like the what exactly we are we discuss and decide and that's why asking for and written uh something record in the mailing list thank you okay thank you um is there anything any tom talpy i just have a random question is the charter still current um well i don't want to throw work on the pile but it seems like especially if we're going to promote new documents i'm guilty of not updating a document that's uh chartered for instance should i let me look at the charter before we start updating documents that are referenced there yeah okay please no that's i i i was looking at the milestones and i was going okay that's not up to date and then uh but i also want to go through the charter i remember when we wrote that the words for the charter we left it pretty wide open i mean yeah it's pretty broad yeah well we were being coached to not paint ourselves into a corner but also not to so but make sure that we're it reflects some of the things we talked about today okay right okay if splitting our work into a large"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:52:01",
    "text": "and small documents sounds like the charter might be impacted slightly thanks okay i'll take a look thank you i'm going to say going well i'm going to say two things um this is the first time we've gotten together since before covet is that face-to-face we've gotten ahead of interims and everything virtual um from thank you tom so much for making this a lot smoother than i would have been with only me here um and uh no it's uh it's been a lot more it's been a much higher bandwidth discussion than i think we we've had um and i mean and i appreciate the guys virtually but managing the managing the crowd with some of the crowd here and some of the people online is to me a lot easier from as a from a chair position so uh this has been a great uh thank you for the people that joined virtually thank you to people who showed up physically and for getting all the drafts in uh before the meeting started um that was super helpful so uh this has been great and i just want to say going once going twice nfl nfsv4 working group is over thank you everyone you have a great day take care thank you beer all right oh man that's amazing i think we'll click on the screen [Laughter]"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:54:19",
    "text": "remember the old days of nfs there was robinson eisler and uh robinson eiser and scheffler all of whom i had to stand like this to talk to and then i'd be kind of like and tom right right so yeah everybody we had this oddball genetic thing going on and that's a person of a lot of tall principal contributors it's really annoying no i always used on it nobody ever really leaves the v4 working group director trust me on this one i thought i caught matches out in the hallway so he saw me commented he started running and i said don't you run away from me but i don't like to talk with you oh what are you leaving uh tomorrow uh we're gonna drink tonight right apparently can you okay we already did last night but you weren't there i know i know i know i was finishing my refrigerator oh that hurts okay oh i forgot i didn't even look at the social media"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:56:02",
    "text": "one of my another quick chair that he got uh no no i'm uh this is still on okay"
  }
]
