[
  {
    "startTime": "00:00:04",
    "text": "I can the time we should start that\u0027s what you\u0027re saying huh huh give me a minute [Music] so we prepared to start I hope we are trying to find the meeting material first but hope it will work and so time to come in close the door sit down [Music] [Music] [Music] please close the door also so now we have free shares one ad but no secretary anyone that seems Maxine Mac ah he\u0027s there okay "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:03:35",
    "text": "hello hi everyone welcome to the mpls working group session so Lowa usually does this opening but he had asked that I give a hand and help this time and Here I am this is the mpls working group session at a ETF one is 106 I\u0027m Tarek I have Nick and lower next to me as working group chairs we have Mac as our working group secretary next slide by the way this is the only session that we\u0027re meeting this time at IETF for MPLS this is the note 12 it states the rules for participation and contributions to IETF if you\u0027re not acquainted with it please take the time and go through it and get familiar with it everything that you say in this meeting and other IETF meetings is on record and may become public you don\u0027t have to say much but thanks yeah so we we are using if a pad for taking no minutes I I ask everybody to jump in and help in in captioning any discussions during the presentations we are also streaming and recording please clearly state your name when you\u0027re at the mic this will help remote participants know the person at the mic as well as the minute takers next slide so we have our agenda posted there hasn\u0027t been many changes since it was originally posted we have a full agenda it\u0027s pretty tight we ask all the presenters to stick to their time slot and the chairs will be monitoring the questions at the mic and cut as needed we we do encourage longer discussions to happen on the mailing list next slide please yeah still the agenda so blue sheets we have two blue sheets please sign your name and pass it on and return it back when you\u0027re done Thanks next one we don\u0027t have any errata this time since last meeting it\u0027s a good thing we have one liaison that came to MPLS it\u0027s actually to multiple working groups from the optical transport "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:06:35",
    "text": "networks and technologies we have a scott mansfield these is working on compiling an answer and getting the inputs from their respective working group working groups moving on to our documents we don\u0027t have new RFC\u0027s this time but we have several documents that that are in the editors queue we were hoping that one will be already are see this time bye-bye this meeting I\u0027m not sure it happened but we have several documents that are as I mentioned in the editors queue as well as in the IHG for publication the first one in Nice G the yang model for LDP I we have it on the agenda we\u0027ll give it a quick update today the LS beeping registries is also on the agenda and lower we\u0027ll be talking about it Thanks so as I mentioned we will be giving and a quick update on all the yang modeling in MPLS working group so the three documents there are on agenda continuing on with the individual documents we have the zero zero version most of them are on the agenda they will be presented today again we have other other drafts none zero zero which are on agenda we have the SFL control draft we had spoken to Stuart last time and he indicated that he\u0027s gathering some input from the author\u0027s or co-authors we would you know if if you can come up to the mic and give us a quick update there that\u0027s also a good thing Stuart I\u0027m waiting for some input from one of my co-authors they are not very easy to get hold of at the moment okay I guess then we\u0027re waiting for more input from you when you get in touch with the person as soon as I get hold of them or when I decide it\u0027s time doubt I will pass it to the working group to take the next steps okay thank you we have a couple of other drafts also on the agenda I do okay maybe in the in the updates I will be talking about it so these are the documents that are already working group adopted and we\u0027re giving you an update on them the first one we have this MPLS PFD directed document the current status is stalled we have received feedback from the RTG directory and there are comments raised "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:09:35",
    "text": "specifically from Carlos if the authors or the or Carlos is here we encourage them to come up and and share their inputs we know that there are further discussions that are going to happen face to face as well as on the mailing list they try to come up with the conclusion on this draft how we want to progress it I don\u0027t see any authors or Carlos okay so the second draft or working group document the status its the RMR MPLS based draft it was submitted to iesg for publication we are currently waiting for ad right up and there\u0027s no it\u0027s not it\u0027s not blocked basically the third draft we have LDPR Omar extensions this one is waiting on the base erimar to be published and once that happens we will move ahead with requesting publication of this one if you go back the or more one I had we finished last call and they have to respond to the Directorate reviews there was a bunch of comments before we can schedule for telogen oh okay yeah double-check that okay and I security is there I thought you they responded but I think it was a security director that had comments they said you don\u0027t have to make a change to this and anyway we were locked up so as soon as well I guess at this point we can make the changes I don\u0027t remember anything that was difficult or you know so I I think we\u0027re good okay we\u0027ll have that in the next week or so your thing okay thank you then for the update okay so moving on we have MPLS mm LDP map document this one has gone a review from the mid doctor and the comments were addressed but we\u0027re waiting for the go-ahead from the the mid doctor we don\u0027t have my understanding is is we\u0027re trying to get a hold of a mid doctor there\u0027s a replacement in the works but so this one once we have the go-ahead from the mid doctors that all the comments have been addressed we will go ahead and close the working group last the next document we have is MPLS SPL terminology the status of this one is it\u0027s table ready for working group last call after a minor editorial update of "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:12:35",
    "text": "the abstract specifically and the next steps we will be going ahead with the working group last call after this update the last draft it is it is submitted Tori iesg for publication and we uploaded a recent revision that addresses all the comments we got and we\u0027re waiting on the next steps next one please and LSP ping registries update it is on the agenda so we will be talking more about it today the MPLS SFL framework this is the one that I wanted to flag that we triggered a working group last call actually we triggered a a Paul I PR Paul in preparation for a working group last call we did receive two acknowledgments from two authors but the rest of the authors we haven\u0027t received any response from them so we do encourage the authors to at least the ones that are present to try to get a hold of the other ones and so that you know we can move ahead with the last call could you privately and I mean privately remind the authors who have responded who they need to go and yeah I did I didn\u0027t set resend and mention who responded and not it\u0027s already on the list but I\u0027ll do that privately sure thank you and the last one it\u0027s still there related to the part of the SFL family drafts it\u0027s ready for working group last call but we want to proceed only after the base SFL document gets published so the next steps would be to go ahead with the working group last call after we published the base framework for SF l and that\u0027s it I did promise Nick will cover but somehow I kept going so what\u0027s next on the agenda I think it\u0027s SEC one one is up with the path segments NS are MPLS or MPLS interworking good afternoon everyone I\u0027m Tom from City my presentation today\u0027s "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:15:36",
    "text": "path segments used in s are in MPs interworking this draft has been presented in a stir meeting and we got some feedbacks and comments so thank you very much so this time we updated the term drafts and made some clarification so let\u0027s thank you so let\u0027s do some quick recap of their path segments past segment is defined in ITF of spring MPLS has eggman a draft it has her it has been proposed and adopted in a spring working group entered a segment phase is an identifier for s our path it can be used to to achieve three function like the performance measurement bi-directional past correlation and end-to-end pass protection and in this document at the pass segment we be extended to be used to provide end-to-end bi-directional service in SR and MPLS interlocking scenario for example the past segments who may be used at you to do the past correlation not owning their bidirectional pass correlation but also the inter-domain pass correlation and the past segments may be defined to you and then find an MP asti eternal under the mplt labor list so as the figures show to SR MPs ain\u0027t working we stir a path segments for example we have three domains from access network aggregation network and call networks respectively and the strain domains maybe or maybe older MPS networks before and then when we used her when we applied the SR architecture to the network\u0027s we may be used and we may be up we may upgrade there s are a technology to deploy desert largely to the access network and the core network and then we must consider their scenario over SR in mpos in trucking under the pass segment as we all know the pass Agana may be used to enter the head end to correlate the bi-directional passes and to achieve their bi-directional past so we lead to concede consider their bi-directional end-to-end service from their access network to Colette works for example from the load one to load "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:18:37",
    "text": "nine so there are path segments one two three and are the antenna fires after three domains and there at the head end the path segments can be used to tube to do the by directional correlation as the before ester ITF amperes per segment of the draft described her and in this document we define their path segments to do to do the intro to make correlation first we define the path segments to be and and then fire off over there NPR\u0027s GE Turner and then there are path segments one and past document EMBA correlated to dude enter enter poem a stitching and there are the procedure is the same mr. bi-directional correlation so the resentment can can be used that you do to achieve the end-to-end bi-directional VPN so we got comments from last meeting so we made clarification first in SR and M POS interworking there are two models nasty model and the stage model in the in estimate the less term nasty modo the fungus age and the path segments can be combined to achieve the in enter to May stitching and the past past monitoring durapan estate is can be used to to to the intimated staging and as per segment to do therapist monitoring and in the button nurse TV model the stitching overpass segments could be used that you achieved poster into domain stitching and past monitoring the because their SR and MPs domains may be deployed in incrementally and independently and thus TV modem may be appropriate for this scenario under a comparison with the bone in seat as we know the policy could be bound to a seat list of selected paths for example Durham PST eat earlier under used to choose teach the surface cross much much more domains but alter a Bonnie said mark must be provided and pushed onto the label stack add to the head head end and all over there all of them are popped at and a lot of men are popped after the engine or example in in the in transit to me and the gesture pour pour push pull out the pandan seat which panda chill under domain at the current domain but not popped out the "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:21:39",
    "text": "county seat of the Nestor domain so they said to me must maintain their ponies it of the last domain so we considered this procedure is not independently so we proposed the there pass teaching all path segments to do the end-to-end soviet bidirectional surface and there the the path segments can be used to achieve the endodermis teaching and repass monitoring so we need more feedbacks and ER to to their further updates so comments and the discussions are very working thank you any questions the next one we have is Rakesh are you asking question or just asking so the path segment draft which is the spring working of document and I think the comment was also given I describes the path segments of binding seed base stitching so what is new here compared to that like how is this different I know it it still just teaching because I know you call it nesting but it\u0027s this allows us to you know go from one end to other end and it\u0027s sewn in figure 3 in that document so I\u0027m not sure what\u0027s new here and what is it that this draft trying to do is it like an information or you trying to define the standard or not clear to me yeah my draft at their creation is that we defined their past agna to identify an MP else a te Turla second we used up a segment to do their intimate stitching not the bunion seat we think they\u0027re bunnies it is not appropriate for the stitching model so I\u0027m next in key so yeah I have a follow-up question to Rakesh yeah well I actually I think it would be a good idea if you took the author groups on both of these documents sometimes you\u0027re in this week\u0027s sat down and try to sort out how many documents do we actually need can be merge in one should we do - and what should you in each document and did that offline and report it back to the mailing list and I think that trackage has the you\u0027re the stock key here you need to make it happen okay yeah thanks so I think the solution there is a "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:24:43",
    "text": "another different appoint from the biting is that it can support a high direction stitching solution in the I think it it\u0027s a very useful for some operator who have a deployed the past segment with that we it can can be convenient for them to get in the to enter monitoring thank you yeah we\u0027ll talk more during the week but the binding seed itself would contain the label stack as well as the path segment right so the stitching really happens between path segments and bindings it not the path segment here and path segments there kind of thing so I be I\u0027ve tried to discuss with one already but we are not able to come to an agreement on the fact that when you define path segments and it has a particular use for identification only can we start using the same path segments now stitching that\u0027s the crux of the argument they their thing is we already have the path segment we want to add more functionality to it and on the other hand we said that\u0027s not how it was envisioned it had a particular meaning and if you are changing the meaning of the path segment let\u0027s go through the process and discuss it a little bit more I think that\u0027s where we are right now thank you yes we use the path segments to do the stitching but the stitching not they\u0027re the same meaning waster the stitching before we use their paths correlation to do this to do the stitch like the bidirectional correlation so I think their procedure is the same ways to bi-directional we also both do their correlation the difference basically is that in case of bi-directional there is no forwarding thing happening here when I received the spot segment on one inter-domain again I need to forward it on on to the next segment so it\u0027s leaving into the same action that a binding segment already does when I receive the binding segment my job is to decide what I need to do next and we are saying that I want to use the path segment to do what binding segment already does that\u0027s where the confusion is so in terms of y direction all paths this drop doesn\u0027t add anything new then what\u0027s already there in the path segment draft okay thank you we will do the discussion of nine for further discussion thank you "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:27:59",
    "text": "yeah good afternoon everyone my name is Lucas Gandhian presenting the p.m. for SR MPLS Taft on behalf of the authors and contributors so uh this look this is a 0-0 draft but this was just transferred from the spring working group to the MPLS working group so the agenda will look at the requirements and scope the history of the draft the updates that\u0027s made since last this was presented in spring some summary and the next steps so this is for the delay and loss measurements for SR links and end-to-end policies advertising the metrics in the network various measurement modes one way to way in the back the scope is SR with MPLS data plane using RFC 66 74 as well as 7876 for the UDP return path for the response so a draft is about a year and half old it was a spring draft it was it has been presented in spring as well as I ppm working group and recently moved to MPLS with a new name is mentioned so since it was presented last time we have I did return party LV block number TLV it\u0027s a standards track because there is an iron accents loopback mode is defined and added some details on p2 MPs our policy as well as a CMP and some various editorial changes so just a summary since this is being presented first time in this work in group so using the the 60 374 mechanisms gal gas as well as the message formats the delay and loss is measure for asar links the measure metrics are advertised in the network there are RFC\u0027s 74 31 or 78 10 or 85714 s our policy the probes are said using the label stack the path segment idea we were just discussing is is just about the gal the one way measurement mode where the reply is sent out of band using the existing 7876 mechanisms for two-way measurement mode this job defines a return path TLV for look-back measurement mode the return path label stack is added in the header of the packet so the new return party lv4 to a measurement defines a few types so we "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:31:02",
    "text": "had a sill feedback to align this the TLB with the BFD kind of structure so we have done that so there is one one written part TLV and it contains the sub t elvis and it defines either asada MPLS label stack or binding succeed or in case of bundle you want to send a reply back on the same incoming interface for loss measurement it defines a block number TLV so although we use the synonymous flow label for coloring the traffic when we send the probes we use this TLV to identify the counter is for which block number replication seed is use can be used for p2 MPs our policy so we welcome your comments and suggestion the RFC 6334 has been implemented and deployed in many networks it\u0027s been around for a while we do believe that this draft is ready for working group adoption in MPLS working group the IANA core points allocated by MPLS working group we\u0027ve been asked to keep spring working group in the loop for SR aspects so we\u0027ll update the spring mailing list when we update the drafts and about the milestones this is the message from Bruno that please keep spring in the loop for their spring specific content so that\u0027s all I had for this one Greg yes Greg Mirsky city can you roll back to return path TLV yes so how this proposed return path TLV is different from non FAC till V proposed in B of D for spring because it proposes to use a segment list explicitly for return path for the BFD session yeah so these are the probe messages crafted probe messages injected by query R and this TLV is added in the payload and when this one disease is it has a choice so without this TLV it would send a reply out of bed IP UDP part using RFC so distant otherwise it would send using this yeah I understand mechanics I\u0027m asking how this is different from what\u0027s proposed in BFD draft for spring yes there are many return party Elvis proposed for LSP paying or the BFD so the intent is the same there is and wise in this draft is because we need "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:34:03",
    "text": "the IANA code points for the 6334 tier TLV right but it\u0027s already being proposed so why not reference it and just use one construct for a FD and for perform measurement so it\u0027s the same construct and I think you give a feedback and the structure of this theory is the same as the BFD thanks for your feedback the reason why is here is that we need to get all of this quote points listed in the 6334 types a location from from one of these registries you can\u0027t have a private discussion okay okay I was just reinforcing what was said from the front that the only way to get a registry in entry in the I honor code points is to specify that you need it so they\u0027ve chosen to do that rather than virus an indirect route some other how but they do need to say please can we have an allocation for this T or the identifier yeah can we go to the next slide please so you said that this block number T V is for alternate marking method with the synonymous for labels yeah I mean the coloring of the traffic can be done by in any means which is beyond the scope of this draft the draft is for the probe messages and it carries counters and it needs to identify the context of the counter to say which block number it belongs to so that\u0027s what this TLB is for okay so so this is not for alternate marking method so alternate marking method Vedic basically says you need to color the traffic right so so the coloring of traffic is done either with synonymous labels or some other mechanisms outside the scope of this drug but all dot is defining the probe messages for counters for the loss loss measurement so you need to say the contexts say this counter is for this color or this block number so you can correlate but okay it\u0027s controlling a Greg well I think yours and Rakesh discussion now is nearing the point where you actually need to take it to the mailing list okay so you need to do that okay we cut excutive in line okay so we cut the line off direct Sam Waldron a couple of quick questions in this case are you proposing the I haven\u0027t at the draft completely so I don\u0027t know exactly what the content is but the curious to know "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:37:05",
    "text": "are you proposing some extension to existing mechanism like Alice pooping or something because I want to know for example everything is working it\u0027s fine but if they LSP breakage or whatever right how do you know you are actually getting response from the right node how do I know the response from the right node so the RFC sixty seventy four does have a source address TLV and seward is nodding his head so that basically tells you who is sending you the message so you can check I mean like for example let\u0027s take you have LSP breakage and it pops a packet right so are you discovering that okay this packet is not distinct for this so I\u0027m not going to process and respond but if it is punted right you lose the context of where the packet has come from and who\u0027s the destination is and in that case you respond back and so you don\u0027t know exactly who who is responding from the source yeah so let\u0027s say if you have node ABC is it\u0027s supposed to be pointed at C but it\u0027s pointed on me we will reply back to a you\u0027ll put the source address as B so a it comes to a looks at the session ID and says why is be replying and not C so something is wrong so you\u0027re purely basing on the source address of the response yeah so it\u0027s already in the RFC 64 TL V is defined for this purpose I see okay thanks dark I have a question Rakesh I asked it on the list about the delay measurement for end-to-end quickly when you have easy NP so you end up your probes or whatever way you\u0027re testing the delay they end up has been hashed on any of the ecmp paths yeah you don\u0027t necessarily exercise all the paths but your response was you you need entropy label and I want to make sure that you\u0027re stating that entropy label is a must in this case you cannot do hashing on any other field you have to have entropy label for your delay measurements to work if that\u0027s the case why don\u0027t you mention it in the draft so so it is there in the draft there is a section I forgot to include this in the slide but the entropy label is there in the draft for ecmp handling this is MPLS so there is no IP header here so housing has passing either is done using label stack or entropy label there is not nothing else that you can use for testing hashing on any other field so 63 74 is I remember talked quite a lot about this issue was newer to have closer to the mark sorry I think C\u0026C 374 "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:40:06",
    "text": "talks about this quite a lot for as I remember certainly synonymous labels talks about this quite a lot so I think the the normative references will give you a pretty strong hint although there\u0027s no harm in reinforcing it with a sentence or two here yeah it is there in the draft okay thank you okay I mean I see one next presentation please so a second draft for SRM pls this is the IOM draft so presenting the drafts on behalf of the authors and contributors many thanks to them the agenda requirements and scope the history of the draft updates made since last ITF this was presented in Montreal some summary and the next steps so this is to transform transport the IOM data fields with pls and cap so the III ppm working group has done quite a bit of work for IO am defining various data fields there are many drafts are some of them listed here but they will be you know more drafts and more progression of the technology but here all we doing is defining the end cap and D cap procedure for SRA pls we cover the s to s as well as a hop by hop so the history of the draft is about a year old it was originally discussing.i ppm working group then was asked to take it to the spring working group so it this was presented in spring as well as in MPLS working groups and we have a home now so this draft will be a progressed in this working group so since Montreal we have addressed several comments so one comment was about incorrect IP header based hashing so we have added flow label based mechanisms there is an example added with past segment ID various editorial changes as well we do have an open item to add procedure for hop-by-hop IOM so just to recap there is an indicator label added on the MPLS header and just below this is the IOM data field so I ppm working group has extensive procedures for IO am so what this job doesn\u0027t really talk about how to process the IO am various trace points and in order to not break the IP header base hashing there is a second "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:43:08",
    "text": "format defined using a different indicator label and right after that the first four neighbors are zero so that ipv4 ipv6 hashing is not broken and we took advantage of the space to put the float labeled that as well so basic procedure is that encap node inserts the indicator label and iom data fields and the d cap node pops it and text takes a local timestamp and gives the the iom data to for further processing so indicator label allocation methods there is there are two TB a one and T be a two labels can be allocated from the extended special-purpose labels it can be allocated by a controller as well or can be allocated by signaling by the D cap node similarly for hop-by-hop it\u0027s a different indicator label is used to indicate the transit know so this is hop-by-hop although I do agree that it\u0027s difficult to implement with current hardware and similarly one for the to not break the IP hashing so next steps we we have some more work to do for hop-by-hop or p2 FP and whatnot but meantime we welcome your comments and suggestions we would say MPLS working group is the home for this draft now we\u0027ll keep a spring working group in the loop for the SR aspects and the often this comes up in IPP a working group as well so we will keep that working group in the loop as well that\u0027s all I had Adrian hello I\u0027m Adrienne if I read this right you\u0027re asking for four new labels and that worries me we\u0027ve only got eight currently free we have yeah so an option here and is it extended yeah it\u0027s extended yeah oh sorry I will change my question could you consider redrawing the pictures to show that these are extended special-purpose labels yeah yeah we\u0027ll do that Thanks thank you thank you so thank you and "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:46:25",
    "text": "good afternoon and I think it this chapter we have a presentation it two times and before this meeting we have already received some comments and we also accept Azusa comments and the will update the draft next next time and I still hope to present the draft here and the zoom we will give some our next static line why we want to present this droplet because we have a deployed in our network it works really fun it can\u0027t give you some experience share so the requirement it\u0027s for the large network especially when we deploy our piece the functions it\u0027s really important for us to monitor and to end network performance at the this morning as that happened I give an example that has one biggest city Beijing we need to deploy even more than 30 key nodes and it\u0027s really hard for us to manage that so we need the curator in Banda Om to help us to manage the whole network so the requirement here is that we want the OEM is in band you know we want 8k money to the hop-by-hop performance and end-to-end the performance we hope it can use a unified solution to do the post VP in monitoring and tunnel monitoring and we also wanted the esteem controller can support such as a telemetry something like that to improve the efficiency and the the intention of the draft we defined the the encapsulation for MPI\u0027s performance measurement with alternate marking method and the outer need marking master to require one can\u0027t beat over the data packet to measure the packet loss of the data traffic the traffic flow and require one more comes damper bit of data packet to measure the delay and jitter and the the basic encapsulation "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:49:29",
    "text": "like this figure III know there are a lot of them big concern here such as we touched the Liebherr here we redefined as a TC bit but here I want to see that based on our experience this solution is really easy to be implemented in the existing network because it it\u0027s a if you can support an multiple layer labor and you can support this definition because the TC beats can easily be redefined within this environment but of course may be standard from under standard point view it break some rules but it\u0027s very easy to implement and it\u0027s very effective to monitor the performance it\u0027s a high efficiency and here is our deployment scenario and the left one is our end-to-end stitched as our panel we may have a different domains within one work when that work and we can use this solution to stitched the Asano\u0027s and on the second one it can provide the end-to-end between service performance monitoring and this is a basic use case in our network and in Beijing and Shanghai to speak city we have a deployment the ice artist network to carry 5g base station and we use this solution to monitor the end-to-end performance it provides a really good result and our maintenance team give a really good feedback and it\u0027s very easy to implement it our vendors also give a really good feedback because it did for them the workload a is very low but the performance really good and a next step we received some concerns as the first one is a special-purpose labor is unable to assigned so maybe the solution is that we will hope to get some something like the last presentation we use the extended special-purpose labor and the "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:52:29",
    "text": "second concern is that the trafficker class and the ttio of NPR\u0027s labor can\u0027t be changed we will not touch it in next version and this other one we cut some comments from email it seems as if our solution can be used to wrestle the unfairness of performance requirements but here we compare that and we found that the current version of SF our draft cannot meet our requirement including hop-by-hop performance and the performance our RSP and in parallel so we will update our draft to follow the standard but we will keep the solution yeah we\u0027ll network it\u0027s a not so good but the word maybe works like that that\u0027s all Thank You Stuart a few comments some of which you sort of address but I\u0027m going to touch on I\u0027ll touch on them anyway so first as I understand it if you in order to do you\u0027re in network along the LSP instrumentation you\u0027re expecting the packet parser to look at to pack two labels in the packet the top label another this is a topic that we discussed extensively during the time when we were looking at the T MPLS OAM design and the opinion of this working group was that that did not conform to the MPLS architecture and was not something that we could support being deployed it has particular difficulties in building parsers because you\u0027ve got to get your address recognition engine to go and look up two labels we we have rejected that solution in the past at yeah yeah that would be a major major change in a major major turnaround you want to use domain wide labels all right so you specify that the same label has to be recognized by any node along the path now this is an area that the segment routing people explored in depth and they discovered that actually it was impossible because all the different platforms have a different range of labels that they allocate from their platform space that is why they have the complexity of the segment routing global label base so how can we possibly standardize something here that another working group is explored in detail and decided is impossible to do implement on the deployed equipped bass in fact it\u0027s a it\u0027s a violation of "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:55:30",
    "text": "the MPLS architecture because the MPLS architecture makes no comment of where the label bases are and whether you should expect the same labels to be in any other router that\u0027s why they do swapping for example here the redefinition of the TTL I believe is a major architectural change and the particular definition that you use for it when you set it for zero I believe is essentially an undefined operation in MPLS you see you were allowed to pipeline operations when you have to deal with multiple labels and the second stage of the pipeline is perfectly entitled to reject the packet at that point so you cannot a redefine the TTL and that was a cause of major discussion between the ITU in the IETF in a previous design of an MPLS OEM I have no idea what the consequences of your redefinition of the TC bits would be but I would point out to you the the the ecn people have an interest in this as well because there\u0027s a congestion notification architecture based on the use of one of these consists of Al use in the network but I have no idea what is going to happen and indeed if I look at the direction the deterministic networking is going then they may well wish to classify the TC as part of classifying the packet we\u0027ve already covered the fact that you need to use a an ESP L because it seems inappropriate at least at this stage to take one of our precious tiny number of labels which everyone wants and dedicated to this until until whatever this is a proven technology so I think you\u0027re gonna have to go on ESP LS and finally you\u0027ve not made no comment about security and privacy indeed you\u0027ve dismissed that and yet you\u0027ve got a flow identification label in here which I know the security area is going to be all over the top of and you need to explain how you\u0027re going to deal with their security and privacy issues yeah yeah thank you very much and I think the most comments from you is really valuable for us and to to keep the solution follow the principle of NP RS III I think we totally agree that and here I just given some feedback about this labor and yes currently the this maybe we can keep as a TDI oh no problem and here the flow ID I think if it can labor some flu no problem it\u0027s a within the Empire\u0027s architecture and we have some consensus we also rise "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:58:31",
    "text": "to some concerns that here we reused the traffic class to indicate the lost measurement at column marking and the TB measurement at column aking from my point of view there is no clear definition of the traffic class and the traffic class can be used by operator to indicate what traffic is there and we can use the definition but themselves use of the traffic class bits to indicate that he is a color for the traffic so maybe this solution this labor can be within the umpires architecture and the problem is this labor if we change this labor to the extended labor maybe the whole solution can be under the amperes architecture so yeah we will we are running quite late so oh sorry I would I think there are plenty of comments so I would like to move the discussion to the mailing list to address all the comments yeah okay thank you okay raucous Francisco system so this problem has been solved by the IOM already using direct export right so no no it\u0027s different how is it different I\u0027m not sure the child okay yeah I I don\u0027t want to explain why I just point Rakesh to my email on the list so I indicated how alternate marking method is different okay time for any other person to pre sit down and we go on so I\u0027m going to talk about the draft on updating the LSP LSP being Jana registers last time I talked about the use and misuse and abuse of some of the registers and we actually sorted that "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:01:31",
    "text": "out and getting home we found one new problem that I actually also wanted to include in this draft and it has to do with again the background we have we have had a couple of changes over years and some of the graphs has been making small changes in oracy 81-66 we tried to actually do what we thought was the intention and it turned out that you failed there also so but discussing now is mandatory and optional theories with my background pretty much within LDP a mandatory LDP is something that needs to be in a message if it\u0027s defined to be in the message an optional clearly is something that can be there or cannot be there and the message is still well-formed I have an example here on the hello message from phone LDP the common parameters hello parameters are mandatory they need to be there the there are also a lot of optional parameters that you can stick into a Hello machine if you want to the whoops what happened so in Odyssey for 379 and also be it in eight is twenty nine they used actually they never explicitly used the term mandatory and optional TLB but implicitly they had a different meaning the meaning was that if you get a till V or a sub theory from a range that is defined as half of this base lower half of this page you are required to take an action that\u0027s also defined in the document that is what we talked about this mandatory deal way so subtly is optional theory is in that rapid or in that type document is till these that you can just don\u0027t care you can kind of silently drop them the problem here is that it has been hard for people coming with the different background actually to to agree on what mandatory and optional means in 43 79 80 99 so so what we propose is actually to change the text on the teal isn\u0027t up to "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:04:35",
    "text": "you actually sub theories are not discussed at all in any of these dr. documents is only two theories but sub teensiest has the same effect if it\u0027s not recognized you need to send a message back so we are saying that we are removing the mandatory and optional and yes defines what is required for teal V sub T is raised from those wrenches and I think I think this worked quite well the drawback is that if we do this there are I think three or maybe four documents it also needs to be updated on the other hand if we don\u0027t do it they\u0027re all about sixteen or seventeen documents that would need to be updated to actually make the you make a consistent view of sub the optional and mandatory theories in in India list of ping releases so this is the least hard way to do it and our next step is actually to go home do the updates add text that actually changes the document that we need to change and then we would be very ready working group last call questions you\u0027re going to do I thought were you to have Carlos hair but ah you up next for a moment I thought safar was going to hi Carlos pignataro from Cisco and today I have a very very straightforward draft in a couple of slides detailing what we\u0027re doing this is four segments routing actually hold on let me see how she so far do you wanna Billie Jean yeah and I\u0027ll do the other one they were the "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:07:39",
    "text": "mistaken B title of the draft it was switch so that\u0027s why in the agenda they were the switch of the title so Eddie okay so I\u0027m going to talk about the draft on generic fact Telly\u0027s for allah sleeping this is for a segment outing on behalf of my co-authors okay so problem step in the issue that we have today for the mpls onm is that every time a new FAQ is defined we have to go and define onm FAQ for every time a new segment or sit type is defined we have to go and define feck aesthetic subkey lv4 Wenham purposes what happens because of this is that and then we have in incidences here that some fact type forest segments routing are already defined but the OEM factory nation does not exist and working group just started to look into this and this thing can happen in future as well and the issue is not only this the show not only about defining and when in fact but the issue is also that whenever the new one in fact is defined it requires software upgrade to the network and it does not stop there we also have scalability issue in terms of the parameter the sheer number of parameter we need to fill in these segments or defects so just to give you a preview of this and and this is not to pick up on one particular example but let\u0027s say we take a look at even existing fact for parallel or agency said it has many parameters that interest needs to specify what is the responder node ID what is the responder interface ID what is this neighbor node ID neighbor interface ID and because Inglis cannot know in some cases like para legend ceases where or which interface the packet will lend to then we do not have actually a validation procedure properly defined in existing RFC and as we try to define an and n continue to cover new seat types for second outing we see this some of these definition that are in individual drafts and and a lot of this thing is coming really from the fact that the onm for MPLS or define with "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:10:41",
    "text": "control plane and aeroplane validation together so the information was there so that the nodes can validate data plane and against important consistency and that is the root cause of what we are seeing here and today we do not have a procedure that if you want to simplify this we can just validate the data plane itself and escaped the control plane validation the closest of that that comes is an ill fake but but we don\u0027t have the net effect does not have enough validation building it way so motivation here is that we try to simplify and the effect definition define one fact definition that works for all segments outing set type set types and it actually is simple so once we deploy we don\u0027t have to update that and and second part is that it it also simplifies the initiator job in terms of filling the data that is required for validation and control plane and a replay validation is a node behavior note local behavior and it should be done in a node local fashion so that\u0027s the motivation so for solution is really going back to if you try to look at from that point of view is we really have to look into the MPS data plain data model and and I will explain it using an example here so from a procedure point of view one way to look at it is that when we have an LSP or when you\u0027re thinking we have as end point in mind so in this case we are looking at node 8 as the destination node and node 1 is the initiator so now it can develop against all the labels that it has it locally let\u0027s say his local agency said it is local prefix it\u0027s whether they belong to the men I\u0027ll go off to the Flex I\u0027ll go so let\u0027s say sixteen thousand and eight one six zero zero zero eight is is local prefix it say basically just bounded to that I can for n for this said for this label I can receive packet on any interface and and and I can validate that that data plane action for a send for this label cop label was correct similarly for the CID 16 1 to 88 which is for the flux I\u0027ll go 128 it can "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:13:43",
    "text": "receive an aura interface but only agency said which is which is set up at node seven you can have multiple cases one cases the agency said one nine one seven eight which is bound to link one so the node it creates is local information that for this label type for this agency that I should be receiving this packet on this link one and I should be the endpoint and four nine seven nine two seven eight which is did link on the south it binds their information that for any packet receive a with this label an endpoint being me it has to be linked to and for a federal agency it would determine that I can receive either on link one or link to but this is done there is a local decision when an initiator initiates the thing it puts in the FAQ the label the target label and the end point the expected end point and it would work also for binding said you can see how it would work for by Nancy very easily and however work for other said type and with that top label all I said if the it\u0027s a packet itself with table level six one six zero zero zero eight it will land it no number eight don\u0027t know what it would say am I the endpoint yes is this my local said yes so that\u0027s a positive response if the packet lines are some other node then the endpoint would not match and it may not be the local label for that that node and the validation will fail similarly if the target is our agency said the endpoint is no d8 no rate is able to validate whether it receive the packet on the right interface or not whether this is being per religion C or this is being the agency they\u0027re bound to one particular interface so I have a question regarding this this this particular example Chris Bowers with juniper yes so if you add a link from 6 to 8 yes okay and that also has the label 92 78 yes how how does ate properly validate that that again then again the link let\u0027s call that link link 3 ok would have a local information at it it will be bound to that link 3 so a valid a ping very response should be received on interface link 3 not shown here it receives receive only imposes to come in on the link between 7 and 8 and instead it comes in on the link between 6 and 8 you can\u0027t tell the difference between that with this scheme if if you have the "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:16:44",
    "text": "link if it if it\u0027s the endpoint yes so and this is sort of a least common denominator approach to validating the forwarding plane so it kind of works in most situations but doesn\u0027t work in some situations in some situation when you have same your label advertised by the neighbor and you have a clash label clash for agency said only not for prefix it you can have that condition but those those things should so I mean it seems like you know a lot of work a lot of the work goes into actually getting the forwarding plane validation correct and this is sort of simplifying the control playing validation but that\u0027s actually not the hard part to do so it seems like if we\u0027re going through the trouble of doing this we should do it as robustly as possible and not sort of at least common denominator approach no I mean my take on this okay so please come to Naaman so there are there are there are two approaches here one approach is a little bit approach which is this there\u0027s another approaches which is the interfaces based approach where you can bound a specific specific interface on which you should be receiving or a set of interfaces okay but you\u0027re not concerned with like which IDP oh I realize this is what the f is is you\u0027re not concerned with those part you\u0027re concerned with this is the behavior from one one in generating a pain you should be receiving on this interfaces is my forwarding plane is working correctly okay and and and and I\u0027m not saying okay so the point here is there we can still define a fact type that works in the cases that you mentioned which is basically rather than having the onus on node number eight to do this of this generation of this table that it can use to verify if I receive this this packet correctly which also means rather than having the agency sit in the effect we can have the label the interface information of eight as the endpoint on which it should receive against that label stack so so I mean it seems though that defining two approaches is sort of the worst of both possible worlds I mean no maa a robust approach and then a least common denominator approach then sort of results in just interrupt problems and more more testing I also disagree with your initial State and that this is sort of a process that we\u0027re changing we\u0027re proposing a "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:19:44",
    "text": "protocol that sort of robust to IETF process that is you mentioned people are defining OAM effects when they\u0027re defining the original segments I mean that seems like you know if we had better discipline we could simply solve that problem so it is not only the problem is that you know define the fact the problem is is also to get those parameter fill in by an ingress node ability for an ingress road to grab all those parameters to be able to send in this message even is not possible in all ways and a lot of time you actually have to go and then there is another draft on the agenda once it comes you see that you actually have to go and get that information from the control plane because it\u0027s not for a human to be entering all those information or parameter is not possible so you get it from the control plane so we are running late very late so just I cut secure after Carrick and then we should move the discussion to the mailing list talking at arc with juniper so far I did send comments about this draft on the mailing list I encourage you to respond I will raise one comment here from the set there are cases where the label a collision can happen on eight you have multiple SR effects trying to clean the same label and there are actually there stated in one of the spring working group documents how you handle such collisions and you have a tiebreaking criteria now for the egress to do validation the label is valid and it will pick one of the facts and bind it to that label but the ingress may think it\u0027s validating something different a different fact so unless the ingress fails the SR fact that is trying to validate it doesn\u0027t know what it\u0027s trying to validate it will say yeah it\u0027s a valid label but it might not be the correct value label that the ingress once to validate so it\u0027s missing that there are holes there I see yeah so I think what could be and and this is the work that we could do it to address these comment is to actually have the interface information on which the package should be received rather than the label that\u0027s more direct and NN completing all the parameters I think it\u0027s very simple just to be GPL s you get the whole topology and then you know what each label means yeah but you can you take the information from the control plane and then validate that information on the node so you take them from which the whole point of doing control plane versus data plane validation procedure get get lost because you get the information from "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:22:44",
    "text": "these okay now it\u0027s call us and I think I\u0027m recur at this time all right second try this is indeed a very very straightforward draft and a couple of slides probably more than a couple actually you know just to give a lot of contextual details on this but you know essentially if I have to summarize what this is about is really about asking for a code point for OSPF b3 for a couple of information elements within LSP ping and that\u0027s because when we set those up we set them up for OSPF generically and now we\u0027re finding that we actually need to differentiate between OSPF v2 and v3 so you want to start with a question law thank you problem statement is this is a rephrasing of what I said the main intention is that we created a couple of sub registries in the LS peeping parameters which actually use a protocol field and this protocol field is really used for doing control plane validation and verification of the data plane the protocol fill exists in the downstream detailed mapping TLV and it also exists in the seeds for the target fix for there are three of them target fixed acts for segmented effects you can see right there graphically the three seed sub TL is where we define the protocol field and how we actually set it up historically for OSPF only I guess is is "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:25:45",
    "text": "agnostic to layer three OSPF b2 runs over ipv4 and advertises ipv4 prefixes and reachability OSPF v3 runs over ipv6 but advertises both address families and the other place where we have the protocol field defined for OSPF only is within the label stack subtly in the DD map this is a request that this graph is making OSPF v3 in those two specific registries and you know even though this is a fairly straightforward drafting which we actually explain some of the context for when we actually realized that we needed this even though it\u0027s really straightforward we\u0027ll really invite and welcome review in that review comments questions observations constructive criticism and you know even though that is a fairly straightforward draft also we actually request adoption on this very first presentation so thank you okay so lower Anderson Carlos there is so I think this is a very neatly to draft it does what it\u0027s tells us that you want to do pretty clear is to read I have about one problem so today there is a code point for OSPF in the registers are you giving to use that code point for OSPF v2 in the future if that is the case you should rename it correct and that\u0027s that\u0027s a great question Louis oh you know our experience say that point is not using deployment today are you saying it you\u0027re not used at all so our yes what we understand is that is not using deployment today and if that the case you know the easy thing to do is to actually rename that to SPF v2 at the same time the safer thing to do is to obsolete it and get a new one for v2 and we\u0027re really open to doing either of those I would take the safe way out and actually obsolete the current kill point and add two new code points one for his path v2 amount or III I\u0027m not I thought we had deployments of this if we have had deployments I would be very strict on doing it that way but if you don\u0027t have any differentiation I should take that back because I was thinking of just to be you know very specific and clear I was thinking of this use of the protocol "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:28:46",
    "text": "field however this one is absolutely running and deployed everywhere throughout so so and I think we should deprecated an instance a two new cool points thank you at arc with juniper Carlos I have a maybe it\u0027s a silly question but just clarification from you Oh SPF v3 is specific to ipv6 can we not rely on the efi on indian message 16 bytes - no this is OSPF III and it might be miss a silly no no no such a thing at all you know and if anything there\u0027s only silly answer so hopefully I\u0027ll I\u0027ll give you one that is not too silly the address family is gonna tell the rich ability information address family right not the protocol that is advertised in it and in that case if you get IP if you get ipv4 that can be OSP v2 or v3 so that\u0027s why you cannot disambiguate basically so what you\u0027re saying is Version three can we both address families okay although right and I think we wrote that down but maybe we did oh yeah on do you mind scrolling in yeah thank you so yeah you can see that there yeah thank you for the question any other questions thank you very much hi again it\u0027s dark and I\u0027m giving you an update on the yang the data models that were driving in MPLS working group this is a quick update I\u0027ll go over the draft current status and the next steps that we\u0027re projecting we have the first one is the MPLS yang draft this draft has undergone a yang doctor review recently and we\u0027ve addressed all of the comments that came back from the review we have no outstanding issues on this so the next steps are going going ahead and requesting working group last call no open issues we encourage the working group to give us feedback if if they get to review it again the second one is the MPLS static King for static Ellis fees this again undergone a yang dr. review "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:31:49",
    "text": "and the author\u0027s did address all of the comments there are no outstanding issues and we\u0027re going to go ahead with the working group last call as a next step now next we have this MPLS LDP hang craft this draft we version seven of it it\u0027s currently a non version seven and we did go ahead completed its it\u0027s working group last call and we did submit it to iesg but part of that process because of the first yang doctor review happened in 22nd 2017 on an older revision we were asked to review it again and that happened and there were comments that came back off the from the last review that happened so the authors my understanding are looking into the comments and they will they will look to address them there are also more comments that came from town patch about the draft so we did we do encourage you the author\u0027s to look into them as I mentioned the currently the draft is in iesg so we want as next steps we want to address the comments and give a go-ahead so that the ad does the proper next steps come run you want a comment on this yeah says discussed offline yes we\u0027ll be working on this and addressing all the comments from yarn doctors and any pending comments from our D review and we\u0027ll be submitting a draft post idea okay thank you so the next draft is actually a sister draft of the first one it\u0027s not it\u0027s not in the it\u0027s not submitted to IES yet and but we understand it\u0027s close to being complete but just like the first one the one I did mention on the previous slide it has undergone a young doctor review and back in 2017 so most likely we will go through another round of review and they will trigger comments so we we do encourage the authors to proactively respond so that we can progress faster on this one have a draft for LSP pingyang and it has a config next to it although we were discussing it it covers state and config so the the config there is questionable the current status it\u0027s at the the revision 6 at the moment and we did complete a working group at option Paul there were several comments that came back as part of that process there was no traction from the authors to address those comments "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:34:52",
    "text": "currently the the draft is an expired state as next steps we we want to hear from the authors if there is still interest in driving this draft forward we want to refresh the idea if so and we move ahead with adopting the document if any one of the authors is present and wants the comment feel free ok and that was it these are the yang models that we\u0027re driving in the in this working group and you know let us know if you have any questions good evening I\u0027m talking on behalf of my co-authors about EP om fake definition so there\u0027s nothing new here it\u0027s you know traditional MPLS om there are new labels and we are defining facts for those new labels so that\u0027s the background you have presented it multiple times and I wouldn\u0027t spend more time here and just find a little bit time on the updates in this revision so we did a few editorial changes and TLB structure optimisation for considering ipv4 and ipv6 addresses so we we jump on to peer nodes it because peer adjacency said it\u0027s the same and there is no change from last revision so peer node said has changed a little bit from last revision so we had a address family there instead we thought that it\u0027s better to have number of ipv4 interface pairs and number of ipv6 interface pairs this is because the there can be two interfaces on which the peer load side wants to load balance the traffic on one is ipv4 and as ipv4 address and neither has ipv6 address and we you should be able to accommodate that and when so so the TLB structure has been updated when there are both ipv4 and ipv6 addresses the IPV force will be ipv6 will be followed after the ipv4 address pairs so that\u0027s the update in this "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:37:52",
    "text": "revision similarly Pierce X it the same update so instead of having an address family we have number of ipv4 interface pairs and number of ipv6 interface pairs in the TLB definition we request for review and comments and we also ask for working group adoption it\u0027s being presented multiple times this is the third time we presenting it and we believe that this should have been done when the EPE sits were defined so so as to just avoid you know having situation when EPE is deployed and we don\u0027t have oh I am photos so I think this is the really the work needed to be done quickly yes uh friendly so I have the same common can you go back to one slide see the thing is this that this is getting much more complex we need to get simplification this information the amount of information that\u0027s going is button one ingress button on egress you try to get information to validate essentially the forwarding behavior so what we will be willing to work with again the document that I presented and we spoke offline is to work with to find an easier ground this is we started this router as well and we realized that this is this is way too complex and then how long it\u0027ll chase a sit type of asset type to define a new fact ID and we\u0027re going to be in dissipation forever so I what I would say that we were willing to work with the authors of this draft to try to find and simplify it ground and and and and we believe it can be achieved it can be achieved by using either the the siddell locator ID or it could be achieved by the interface addresses on which the packet should be received it should be done so that it is not bound to the egress pe will not bound to the BGP it can be used for federal agencies of any type with the IEP EPE some other type that would be my recommendation yeah so if you want a robust or mechanism that people are used to for so many years with the MPLS I think you have to leave with coming up you know preparing this this kind of effect and then validating them on the egress if you want a very generic mechanism I think it\u0027s not going to be that robust it may not it might falsely defect it might falsely detect something and sometimes it may not even detect I think that was discussed in the last presentation like in wha in which cases it it can break no I come back it\u0027s like "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:40:54",
    "text": "presentation if you use the assignor ide then you solve the problem the comment that was there actually if you add the assignor ID this problem is solved and it\u0027s all false it so here what do we gain by maybe that if the graph is updated probably we can read in yeah josh is updated and and and but but the point is not the point is that we local information remote information locally s number remote es number Medina said I think what we should look for is some simplification that can we apply across the board not for the EP u only but for the IDP we can simplify there as well and and will be completely willing to work on that front but so I have a question sort of I guess safar commented on like simplifying even the IGP versions which are already defined and what is it 8287 I mean those are you know implemented interoperability tested deployed I I mean I would strongly object to anything that says we\u0027re going to define a second version of those four to what purpose I see no no reason to do that for the iGPS okay even if you don\u0027t do that this information if they\u0027re too much and could be simplified and we can I mean we try to do go that route and we can simplify and I think we should discuss that a bit more I don\u0027t think in the current form it is it is the information it would be to buy difficult for both ingress and egress is over-engineered [Music] so this draft is about inter ASO a.m. for Assad networks we presented it last time in Montreal and we be presenting updates to this draft in the new version so we have new co-authors nagi indras afar and Carlos so we go back to updates "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:43:58",
    "text": "from last revision so we received a comment that so we had labels in the reverse path TLB and so you received a comment that they should be segments instead of labels so we took that comment and updated this so that so there is a reverse path sub TLV which reverse path TLV which is under MPLS OEM IANA registry and then there are segments up TLV so each six segments of TLV looks very similar to what is defined in SR policy lists sub tier V and it could have either labels or it could have IP v4 address and optional set and ipv6 said enough or optional sent so right now this draft is referring to the IANA registry of SR policy Lee sub tier V because this this this Ayana code points is a sub TLV so right now we\u0027re directly referring to it I wasn\u0027t too sure if this is the that is the right way or we should define a new registry for this and looking for inputs from the working group so this this looks the segment sub T always look exactly same as what is defined in SF policy sub T Elvis so we have three types we have taken type one which is a label MPLS label type 3 which is ipv4 node address and optional said and type for ipv6 address and the optional set so we have covered SR MPLS SR MPLS for v6 and as our v6 has been moved out of scope of this document and as per discussion from last meeting we will be moving it to MPLS working group and renaming the draft so we also have another new section added so this is for dynamically building the reverse path so in this example our one may not have the capability to figure out what the reverse path is for when it\u0027s pinging from r1 to r4 so we have a mechanism how this can be done and the reverse path dynamically built as the MPLS trace route mechanism progresses so this is applicable for only place road procedure so when when ASB r3 receives or trace around MPLS traced or packet it finds out that this packet is received on an interesting and so it knows that it has to build the reverse path and the way it builds it is it takes its own node set and EPE said in the reverse direction that is SB r3 to SBR one and then update puts this this information in the reverse path segment TLV in the DD empty and and so ingress uses it for the next "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:47:02",
    "text": "so the next trace route when when the packet has to visit r3 so this is a simple solution for inter assr OEM and request MPLS working group to accept it as a working group document it\u0027s great quote I have a kind of admin question yeah if you look at the two drafts the EP and the entry yes which one do you think is closest to working group last call also working group adoption yeah talk to Mike so epi is very straightforward and I would expect that the this this draft is also kind of quite stable in the sense functionally there has not been much big change and probably we should accept both as working group documents okay Gregg mercy City so you introduced what can be characterized as a 3ds of SIDS and POS ipv4 ipv6 so do you envision that in the return path more than one family will be used there is so-so more than one family in the sense one ipv4 and one IP v6 yes or MPLS and v6 yeah so I need to think more about more about that why if somebody would do that but I definitely think that you know the ipv4 address and thus it is a very valid use case because if the sRGB czar different just signing the labels doesn\u0027t work yeah because again if that\u0027s the case I think that there some illustration when it will be will be helpful yeah otherwise what seems that introduction of sub TVs creates an overhead without good reason sure I will I\u0027d the explanation to that okay thank you thank you "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:50:07",
    "text": "hi Anoosh and this graph basically talks about an interoffice UV so in a recent customer site okay so this is the topology that was used and here all the nodes are LD P and a GP n LD P enabled let\u0027s consider the following LD P LS piece to prefix e at node B so node B we have a primary LSP PR e which takes the be a path that is IJ P primary path and the backup LSP follows the BCD AE path the next two slides describe the sequence of events that we so in this particular topology so at time T 0 the link between node a and node B was brought down at t1 node B receives LDP shutdown notification from PR a the shutdown notification can make it through over the TCP session as long as some reach ability access from A to B at time t2 noed beter stone the allah pls peace to prefix see both the primary LSP PRI and the backup which is tied to this primary as a result of this any l2 VPN and VPN services or node B which use LD pls p2 e they see complete traffic laws till the LSPD converges that is at time T for at t3 B receives the link down event for be a physical link and maybe here I mean LDP on B IP for maybe I could try I want to clarify something on is this some like remote LFA so is there a target LDP session involved here that may occur or now the session between the NB a direct link LD position right right but for the backup path they decided "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:53:11",
    "text": "looking okay but is that one of the sessions you\u0027re worried about going down or just the primary neighbor session okay I just wanted to make sure that that was the targeted LTP wasn\u0027t involved before Ali pls P P really converges over the BCD AE but and traffic resumes the question now on Joseph you better understand so a detects the ring going down so a sending an LSP taking into account it\u0027s a SAS or OSPF and visa are ESPYs flooded to be be is recovering yeah but at the same time if the link is going down there is also an IP message sent by a yeah it\u0027s cool it could but when you say bearish when you say to freebie receives link down event is it it\u0027s local detection of detection of su reception of the LSP from a no no it\u0027s a local detection and yeah before it may have received DSP from a but that\u0027s also a possibility you don\u0027t have to wait for be to detect locally the link if if it be received via recipe from a you can also a convert because you don\u0027t have anymore fee to way connectivity okay just to clarify here when I talk about bi actually mean LVP at B so these are so the events from t1 to t4 are basically what is seen by LEP okay and when you say B remove your SP do you assume that B is running out of control of LD P or independent Goatwhore be runs okay does it remove the ALM or just via via rewrite structure when you say VSP is just very right structure or is it really i am so the boat boat LSPs as well as yeah but if so you are assuming that it\u0027s running order control LDP yeah it is ordered control if there "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:56:22",
    "text": "is any question you can so these are the possible solutions or clarifications that is being suggested so one needs to relax the requirement of immediately flashing labels when we receive a shutdown notification shutdown notification is basically a fatal error and the other possible thing is here LDP needn\u0027t research session to neighbor immediately under saving on detecting allentown event that is when physical connectivity to pier goes down it may be reasonable to wait for LDP hello adjacency to timeout and now question can i common actually common is a Cisco system so I look at your draft you haven\u0027t mentioned it here but I think that draft talks about these all this problem statement in the context of gr RFC 2478 is this correct assumption understanding yes so what we basically trying to say if the if LD P has a shed and and the bottom line was that it gets a shutdown message and you remove the label bindings and because of that you know and you want it to basically a wide shutdown message so from your draft it is reading what are you odd that you wanted to avoid your relax sending of the shutdown message and that\u0027s why your dog is also recommending update of 50:26 so one come and I will have it if this is G in within the context of a gr I think it should be the gr procedure that should be upgraded updated rather than LD PBS procedures from 50:36 second coming I will have it rather than rather than you know blocking sending of the shutdown message if you look at look at ldpr SC 50 36 when you send a shutdown message you can also send an extended status TLV that\u0027s good point that can give extra information to the receiver so you can always basically send an extended status you let receiver know that you know you know shutting down but this is a gr case you know you you may wanna do whatever you want to do so instead of shedding you know blocking shutdown message you should extend the shutdown message and use some eternity away after discussions so now we are not recommending blocking of shutdown but I\u0027m open to suggestions so whatever you suggested then the draft I read is different totally different then it\u0027s a gr and all this that\u0027s what ya know dr is still you know but yeah I agree with your comments but if ye are specific I think it should be the gia procedure that should be upgraded northerly BBS procedures okay so we cut the queue after tarik so tarik with juniper we had conversation over the mailing list and I think one of your "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:59:25",
    "text": "one of the possible solutions you\u0027re presenting is wait until the hello it\u0027s timed out on their JCC and then react and flush the labels remote labels that you know B will get from a so if you go back to your drawing you delay flushing the labels on B until the hello times out there are those times out is that correct is that one of the possible solutions you have okay let\u0027s say hello times out and when you tear down the session but you haven\u0027t received any shadown message yet so you won\u0027t flush the label mappings if the air is enabled so you are concerned about two cases one is reacting on link down and one another one is they\u0027re reacting on a shut message yes right yes okay so if you delay the action until the hello times out for your solution you\u0027re okay with that right yes if it is but I don\u0027t think I see that\u0027s what how okay that\u0027s what I\u0027m gonna say next is I thought RFC 5036 does mention that so we might want to reread that text and and see if they\u0027re recommending waiting for the hellos to timeout before taking action okay so this was actually seen in a customer side and our reading was while it suggests that it\u0027s a criteria of bringing down session it keeps options open to the implementation but here we can discuss more if okay thank you so the next step Serbia we welcome reviews questions suggestions and possibly working group adoption after discussion okay thanks so that was the last presentation and we closed MPLS for society F meeting see you all in Vancouver "
  }
]