[
  {
    "startTime": "00:00:47",
    "text": "[Music] [Music] [Music] [Laughter] it comes down to behind it doesn\u0027t go down and even on the captain troubles doing a river yeah I know I was on the right "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:04:03",
    "text": "[Music] [Music] [Music] once a mother okay we\u0027re gonna go ahead and get started did you get escribe Anna do we have a jabber scribe excellent okay so we have a note-taker he jumped on jabber scribe so we wouldn\u0027t ask him to be a note-taker all right we do we have a "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:07:04",
    "text": "note-taker please going once going twice note-taker notetaker wonder if I can get the Hank to do it since he\u0027s uh appears to be too distracted to say now note-taker you have to it okay note-taker anyone anyone really people way I could do that but I\u0027m looking at the room and I\u0027m sensing that that might mean we just don\u0027t have the meeting Chris you\u0027re gonna take notes yep so I guess one of our chairs has generously agreed to take notes and I will note that that is not me so apologies for getting started late note to self kick the side meeting out in a timely manner loose sheet going around now okay I do believe we are now ready to get started apologies for the delay this is the second working group in the IHF we have a jabber scribe and we have a note-taker and the blue sheets are about to begin so this is the note well when you register for the meeting you will have agreed to this this is a reminder that these conditions still apply in this meeting this is the agenda that we have for today we\u0027re going to rejigger it slightly to allow a couple folks that need at least one person that needs to leave to leave so the first thing we\u0027re going to cover real briefly is the status of the coast word document and the early document which have both completed working group last call and then at that point we will proceed with the agenda as it is so any other agenda bashing agenda and is that an item for the term another document is it still expired at the moment it is expired yeah but I keep putting it on the agenda for an update so that you will tell us what we\u0027re gonna do with it this is called passive-aggressive pressure no so I "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:10:04",
    "text": "can\u0027t join this too cheap because then we are that\u0027s not okay we you can you repeat that please I have to go to cheap at some point okay so we\u0027ll do terminology third yeah yeah okay thank you women today or so perhaps we\u0027ll cover this in working group status way ahead I would like to bash milestones and verses documents and yes you are the milestone ad all right so Steven do you want to give a really quick update on really okay so the role a software descriptor document has gone through working group last call and has received a decent amount of review and feedback that feedback has been integrated into the most recent version of the document it\u0027s been updated and I believe that the document is now ready to move forward through the shepherding process if the chairs are ready for that as well I believe we are so great great okay that\u0027s all yeah excellent thank you so that that document is done and ready for shepherding coast wood good morning Dave altameyer so we we\u0027ve completed it feels like a few working group last calls on on coast wit at this point we\u0027ve gotten a ton of feedback on the document and that\u0027s all been addressed the the most recent feedback we\u0027ve gotten was from Kathleen and she fixed a bunch of typographic or she pointed out a bunch of typographic editorial issues that were fixed in the latest draft that was posted she did raise a couple of issues which we\u0027ve there\u0027s been some back-and-forth on the on the list about I wanted to raise those I\u0027m in the room just just for awareness so the first one was she was suggesting that that we had support for using cosy web tokens as a way to support signing in the coast would draft I suggested that it was pretty late in in the hour as far as you know work on the on the draft that we were looking to send it forward I suggested that maybe if there\u0027s interest in pursuing that kind of solution that we look at maybe writing a second draft to describe how one would do that we could do abyss as well I personally like to see you know more implementers raise their you know their opinions as far as what kind of assigning approach that we would like to see in the draft so um hi this is hang from the Mike but it might look very "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:13:05",
    "text": "obvious to do that I I\u0027m using CW a lot for a lot of things and and unfortunately it was not ready at the Palmeri started the reasons why haven\u0027t done that but now it\u0027s a small lift certificate format it\u0027s a total format so they\u0027re issuers and subjects and issue a date and this is this is redundant semantics to coast with so so I\u0027m I have no way of breaking semantic a strict division of semantics when we include and we have to include them the optional items that are issue are and other claims from from CWT also we would swamp the CWT registry with roughly 80 to 100 new items and I think that trendy in there right now so we dominate that place suddenly I don\u0027t I know it could be done and if there is a good use case for it I\u0027m all for guiding everybody through the process because I\u0027m I\u0027m not sure it\u0027s in the solving an actual problem right and I think from that perspective there\u0027s a lot to talk about and something you know that that conversation is going to take you know a number of months probably to conclude you know which we\u0027ll just further push back the publication of coasted and but I think I think what I\u0027m proposing as a way forward maybe is that we you know we published coast wit as is and and that if there\u0027s interest in and looking at a CWT based signing solution that we have that as a separate conversation Kathleen on the Java has mentioned that she will help she also mentioned that she is going to read the really document from before I miss that comics I was up here talking about it so uh sorry Kathleen put in chat here potentially removed the method specified and do it in a separate draft I mean given given that they\u0027re given that there are integrity security considerations you know relating to a coast wid and I I think the the responsible thing is to provide at least a signing solution at least an integrity mechanism as part of the draft to you know to provide for that integrity I think if we were to pull that out we would be providing only a partial solution you know which you know given that there\u0027s already interest in using you know cozy I don\u0027t it doesn\u0027t seem like we wish we should have to do that at this at this point in time this "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:16:08",
    "text": "is Steven as Steven yeah I think I agree with Dave that signing is pretty important I mean if we look at some of the interest around a Swit itself signing is a pretty important use case in a lot of places and it\u0027s important to how people are in - and are currently using Swit yeah and I think if you want to fully support Swit in Khost wid then signing something that\u0027s gonna need to get done and I mention the kathleen that you know cozy as a as a signing container is is roughly parallel to xml d sake from the persuade tags it\u0027s a similar kind of approach and also we need signing because otherwise we cannot do the appraisal policy reference value known good value stuff from the servers and the draft is basically done and we have to do a reference to the RFC and that is very important so if you can\u0027t sign it today and wait for the next iteration a lot of people will be kind of mad yeah right so I guess we\u0027re looking to the chairs as far as guidance on you know how to how to pursue this so I feel like if the conversation just happened so managing too many things at once as chair there was a room says we should figure out how to do signing do you think we should delay for adding signing to the draft because that part wasn\u0027t exactly clear to me and then humming something like a full Rios cozy you will there is a there\u0027s appendix how to sign that and about to hit a few to use bear and venden why it is in the box okay so it wasn\u0027t clear to me you wanted to add another mechanism I think on the conversation I think it\u0027s worth discussing other mechanisms but I believe that there should probably at it as the editors extensions to well I mean there\u0027s this CWT suggestions sure I just wanted to make sure that Kathleen had a couple responses and I want to make sure that her opinion got voiced here as well she agrees that signing is important but that multiple methods are confusing maybe waiting a little bit makes sense she\u0027s worried about adoption not just getting the draft out the door yes sorry this is think my last comment was not on the mic CWT uses cozy as dust cold sweat it is the same method so if we would have a biz or an additional document it would basically say we now use the seven CWT claims also and I do I think that\u0027s the "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:19:09",
    "text": "only difference NEC Tabuchi res it registry and swamp that so that basically that is the only addition we would make and I\u0027m not sure if you\u0027re breaking anything before or after because we will literally use the same signing mechanism where there\u0027s a cozy envelope both of them use them I think so please collect me if I\u0027m wrong but a British it\u0027s also anything because lien wants to do this is other document we are happy to help with that that is not a problem I don\u0027t think that the signing is breaking it something today because it\u0027s the same thing so I think I understand the you know the room I want to take it to the list but sounds like we have nominally a way for it I just want to have a finish off the discussion on the list to be sure and if if the case is that there\u0027s general consensus that the signing that\u0027s present now is sufficient we\u0027ll move it forward okay all right then that sounds good and then there\u0027s there was one other issue raised by Kathleen\u0027s review so currently for identifying hash algorithms we used the name hash algorithms registry in Khost wid she was suggesting maybe that we align that with the cose algorithms registry which uses a slightly different identifier space for the four similar algorithms I think the challenge that we have is one of algorithm agility the the nice thing about using the named hash algorithms registry is it\u0027s it\u0027s just hash algorithms if we were to point to the Cosi algorithms registry we would need some way of pointing only of selecting out of that registry only the hash algorithms because those are the only algorithms that actually makes sense to be used and in in this context but there isn\u0027t really a mechanism to do that because the hash algorithms and the cosy registry are are not identified in any different way from you know signature algorithms and yeah there\u0027s a good reason for that because Jim shot refused to do simple hashing and cosy for years and and only a few months ago he kind of accepted to try this so there is now a hash ID in cozy but again this we started this work like years ago and there was nothing and Jim said no we\u0027re not going to do this here this is something that could be visibility to include another valid registry for hashing but it is literally not necessary because the AI an unnamed information registry is the general one so if we use algorithms there and you want to assign Jason for example that "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:22:10",
    "text": "works very better then we are going to use the cozy specific one again but this is something we can discuss the next iteration of this document I assume it is not a blocker today and because the other document is not done also is actually cool yeah okay Kathleen hi um I guess there\u0027s there\u0027s a few things I\u0027m here for Eames a little low it\u0027s hard to hear you in the room okay sorry I\u0027ll do my best the cozy working group is open so things can get fixed right now you know as as Hank mentioned hashing was added that\u0027s actually something I had conversations with Jim and backchannels is one of the people that was helping to motivate it and yeah and back on the CW T I\u0027m really afraid of having multiple methods and then just something that\u0027s only used for coast wit and not used elsewhere you\u0027re gonna have random developers who are going to be implementing this and if they\u0027re using something that\u0027s familiar you know CW T which is yes very similar it also does signing but it has claims as well and is in a registry then I\u0027m just I I think we\u0027d get better adoption and adoption is important that\u0027s actually before Kathleen gets out of the quick can you just say something again Kathleen because the me deco guys were working on volume you can just say hello again oh hello that\u0027s a bit better not much okay all right sorry I can grab a headset actually I do have one here it\u0027s in the room man yeah it\u0027s not you it\u0027s it\u0027s us here okay you were clear it was just just as you ended speaking he asked if it was better now and I was just wanted you to continue for another half second see if it was okay you need me to repeat anything of what I\u0027ve said no you\u0027re good yeah it was hired as a thing again it was at the level that everybody\u0027s really silent and not typing we heard you and I think here so hi again what benefit will the CWT claims provide that is my only extra concern because they conflict the semantics here so and this is gonna be a one-off right how many other things we\u0027ll just use the signing or the hash function in this way by programmers I\u0027m "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:25:10",
    "text": "not talking about the cozy part I\u0027m talking about the CWT part that had brings its own claims familiarity just that it\u0027s going to be a common thing used right it might be a little bit overkill because the the claims in there as well but you might have additional claims on top of that I\u0027m a software package that you\u0027ve done testing on or whatnot or things that maybe aren\u0027t quite covered you know there might be other things that you want to attest that you might want to do some of the functionality that\u0027s being baked into and eat where you have the nested claims and just following that same structure so if you have dependent libraries you might want to reference them within your larger CWT you actually provided comments to eat to do it like hosts of it so there now as the structures not sooner we already have nested claim sets for years now and innovate them and and for the positive side I think there already is basically the same we\u0027re just not adding the CW needs egg in order to prohibit people to sprinkle in CW TV claims that do not belong into the thing because if you are CW t people are allowed to use the claim there and that\u0027s the only thing we wanted to prohibit the rest is actually I think today identical you can even using a CW t positive powers coach read at home okay alright so I mean I read the document I understands cozy I was the ad for it um so you know I I get how all of this works my concern is developers reading this and you know someone sing oh that\u0027s just a CW T so I just use this package and and just get it done as opposed to how its described now which is very specific and into the weeds oh thanks care some developers which might sound silly but if adoptions the endgame then you make things as easy as you can yeah I mean my biggest concern right now is just you know as late in the game as we are as far as working on this draft I it\u0027s a barrier to adoption and I get the draft out there so I know there\u0027s a bunch of other standards organizations that want to make use of of this draft once it\u0027s it\u0027s published I\u0027m trying to balance the interests of you know of the the sort of initial use that we have and the in the community around coasts wid as well as addressing some of these other use cases and I like to find the path forward that will allow us to you know to to to Shepherd the draft forward while we work to solves you know some of these larger integration question as a chair so if they can already be if it can already be parsed as with CWT can we add a bit of text that prefixes the discussion of of "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:28:14",
    "text": "the cose signing that kind of a lays the yeah you could use the CWT machinery and make this happen but then keep most of the signing text in place that would be great oh you\u0027re much clearer now would you be willing to submit some text for that purpose Kathleen yeah I can I or one of the authors I mean sounds like Hank has this in mind already so I don\u0027t know if he\u0027s the right person to do that or if I should go ahead I think I think Hank do you have an ID a sense of alright so so what I heard was um we want to add some text to the draft to to discuss how CWT use may fit into coast width without defining the specifics of that Toni nedelin so I agree with Kathleen I mean this could just be a if all you\u0027re all it\u0027s all it\u0027s happening is the claims are different they\u0027re not in the same namespace the IANA registry then it\u0027s just a profile on top of on top of CWT which you\u0027re allowed to do so you can add these you know you can do the extension of your claims but you\u0027re actually using CWT with these extension claims that are there well we don\u0027t have any specific claims to find seven why you\u0027re not using CWT at all if you if you don\u0027t have any additional claims defined because we have a support act defined and then and mime content-type and all of that because we just want to have simple pausing at the very first bites if you call the CWT you do not have that right so that could be a problem with the parsers with the CW or is it it is that yeah not actually that\u0027s why there\u0027s no problem but but you can write it could change it could become a very potentially a problem in that because people also its issues that have CWT libraries out there okay today so there has to be some I see a point some but could could be prohibit the use of the seven CWT claims is that allow to have a profile for CWT that says you\u0027re not allowed to use the CWT crimes they would like pollute the content base clean I know I know that is I did we had there for a half and a half year at CWT as the basis in the document and then we realized oh is is breaking it and we throw them out and and so there\u0027s a possible solution here and if you can look into that that would be "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:31:14",
    "text": "awesome because then my concerns would be basically gone and we can use the whole idea but I did see some interoperability problems with GWT parsers out there today potential problems so there was a so this is saying finalizing this there was a good reason that we\u0027ve created a own SIBO tech registry for this because we wanted to have there\u0027s a lot of claims in there and if you have a general CWT pasa you create a lot of confusion overhead until you are finally understand what this is because they are not safety finding safety driving in this case you have to parse the whole thing and now hyoma knew all I would advise your group to do is if we\u0027re gonna do something in a slightly non-standard way that we explicitly document that design decision so it\u0027s in the document and we don\u0027t reopen it up when it gets ITF last caller during the is it\u0027s not exactly that we\u0027re doing it in a non-standard way though we\u0027re just trying to decide what standards to pick from I\u0027m sure sorry I\u0027d my my words were imprecise I think it would be valuing documenting the design choice okay so so we have an action to do that and I just wanted to finish the conversation about the hash identifier registry so my emails the Cosi working group this morning I\u0027m asking for advice on what to what to do as if if it will be possible to add some sort of label to the cosy algorithms registry that would allow us to you know just point to the you know to the hash algorithms you know to seek their advice on on what to do and based on that then we can have a conversation a technical conversation about whether we make the switch or whether we stick with the the named hash algorithm registry that we currently use so hopefully that\u0027s something that we can clear up on the list you know very very quickly after this meeting but those are basically the the only two outstanding issues that haven\u0027t been addressed everything else is more or less ready to go and and the you know the core of the specification hasn\u0027t really changed and like three four meetings now so just to get it wrapped up maybe a little bit on the on the frosting pardon that is kind of hard so bright this is why I\u0027m here again Chanukah at my could we have some deadlines for this so like three weeks for this done and three for this done and really be done at the time frame because if you don\u0027t get this out this year we might get in another vicious cycle yeah I don\u0027t have sufficient expertise in CWT to write this text so I\u0027m gonna need some help with that no there you\u0027re either from hanker you know from Kathleen or someone I mean but "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:34:15",
    "text": "I come to chime in because just make a micro this thingy and then you write X or something so I mean with within a week of receiving that text and getting some consensus within a working group I could produce an updated draft here to address that so I would like to know when the text would be coming that\u0027s the deadline I would like if we we had something that went to working group last call it got finalized and now we\u0027re gonna make another change so we\u0027re gonna make that change soon okay okay cuz on so I make a solution proposal here just proposal Kathleen you couldn\u0027t make a concise write-up of the requirements not the solution we can start from there I can incubate that here the ietf and have this already on Friday that is okay Friday would be perfect but that would lower my level of angst yeah yeah I really want to have done this like very very soon but I need something tangible that is the kind of checklist like okay dun dun dun dun dun solution then I can create solutions very fast I\u0027ve either just amorphous idea my head is very hard for me through creditors okay so Kathleen says in the chat that she can try and get something done by the by normal hours tomorrow thank you so if Kathleen gets something done by tomorrow you think you can get something by the end of the week excellent yeah and I\u0027m also hoping to unlist at least to close out the hash I identify our yeah question as well um this week if I can get the necessary feedback so if you if we get the feedback done this week then next week is Thanksgiving so maybe by the end of the first week at December you could have a Rev that would be great yeah yeah that would be really nice it would be really nice to hit the publish on this before the end of the year yeah excellent okay I think that\u0027s that\u0027s it all right thanks okay so this is the this is the torch er document editor bhaiyya requiring him to do an update when there hasn\u0027t been an update yeah the current terminology doctor\u0027s expired unfortunately Adam and Bill are not here on site today oh I am Hank becuase by the way sorry I didn\u0027t introduce me and say I have no slides I so so the thing is that we have not agreed on five core concepts in the architecture and then reviving the terminology Dolph is just shining words around without any real target if I would have chimed in the arc in in the architecture document again which is literally at no time for sorry and rets "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:37:15",
    "text": "covered up way more time in the last two months and I anticipated so I couldn\u0027t do it so yes I\u0027m partially to be at fault here and I\u0027m sorry to the group that there is no open document Adam and I are in discussion about this and he really wants to finish the architectural core concepts and if that is done it makes sense to pull it all into the terminology again rollin hi I\u0027ve now I guess lost the bubble we still want the terminal terminology document we need the terminology document we need to terminology document because the architecture has to close at some point and it has to be near future so and then we have the other complimentary solutions and they will have slight modification to the terms that the architecture cannot take into account today unfortunately okay I will we ask those same questions when we bring up the architecture yeah is there going to attract that chance yeah they\u0027re on the agenda and they have some slides so we will be talking about the architecture document no right yeah actually you see EPA PCP is that do undo architecture first yeah we\u0027re gonna put Jes first all right so we will revisit terminology and architecture and now we\u0027re going to Jess so I think we\u0027re going to do the slides and you\u0027re going to get in the remote cue and chat if you can okay Jess can you get in the queue are you I guess I should look at chat and see if she\u0027s answering me it\u0027s not letting her in the queue why is it not letting her in the queue let Kathleen in the queue did you choose anything that go she\u0027s not in the queue just hit the red button just to see nope okay right so the slides are self-explanatory yeah actually uh I\u0027ve "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:40:18",
    "text": "had better luck with this in the Chrome browser I don\u0027t know if you have a Chrome browser oh she is using Chrome okay oatmeal echo this is where we were really supposed to arrange you as a remote participant presenter and we did not do that okay so you\u0027re a participant another second or to meet echo is on the case just go ahead and show the people the slides okay oh this will be fun I apologize in advance yes all right so there was an update and and and the name finally changed the update was what late October is that right Jesse you can correct me on that relatively recent captures all the feedback from everyone thank you for the feedback right here\u0027s here\u0027s the updates right so I\u0027m gonna go in reverse order so clarified okay Jeske try again okay did something here anyway okay further clarify the use of MAC addresses as an endpoint identifier added support for the coast web in the swam extension and then updated the diagram posture manager and make the endpoint the focal point so those are all pretty straightforward changes oh wow there\u0027s a lot Jess I curse you right now emphasize the need to consider privacy regulations when collecting and storing data these are all pretty self-explanatory has let me ask the quick question of how many folks have read the update Hank has to the to this previous update to this last update that happened who\u0027s who\u0027s read buggies yeah who\u0027s read the very latest version yeah relatively recently okay so and as Kathleen\u0027s commenting on jabber so she has comments still outstanding so this is this is kind of a pretty "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:43:18",
    "text": "comprehensive set of changes that have been made from feedback based on all of those folks and you can read through this make clear protocols and interfaces other than the NIA and that cough may be supported you know provisions with a machine certificate all right so any other required changes so I think that there Kathleen just commented she doesn\u0027t have anything outstanding the says I would really like to get some final read-throughs even if it\u0027s just getting through the diff of the last version Hanks Hank volunteer just now okay Hank did Kathleen has volunteered can I at least get one more yeah and Steven thank you Jeff anything do you want me to Mike Roman didn\u0027t know I had a quick question about the type of document this is so this was tad BCP and I\u0027ve forgotten did we discuss BCP versus standards track versus a proposed standard so if I\u0027m not mistaken that\u0027s not even BCP isn\u0027t this informational when I looked just did you change it and when I looked at it it was BCP and I wanted to talk about that yeah it says BCP and it was standard to track and moved off from standard so this is Steven channeling Jess we did discuss that in version 4 and decided BCP I remember having the conversation I do remember that I don\u0027t remember choosing BCP versus informational but that\u0027s probably a note somewhere let me go look at the discussion and I\u0027ll come back if I need you thank you so own ever my I was wondering if Jessica put in the chat if she remembers what the rationale was I\u0027m seeing nothing I was I think "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:46:27",
    "text": "game B CPC was harder than getting information that\u0027s right isn\u0027t it yeah you only read justice coming to the mic first she said at the time informational drafts were not being widely accepted if that has changed we can reconsider yeah I\u0027ll make a context-free statement I have not read whatever was the discussion we had if I read and I apologize I\u0027d forgotten I mean it part of it is it seems like it\u0027s a profile so we\u0027re doing all sorts of normative language to describe behavior on other kind of PSS and other stuff outside and so kind of we\u0027re doing BCP would be great to certainly talk about the basis of all of that experience it it would seem weird to be information yeah I I was looking for a technical reason not it\u0027s an easier to publish one way or the other and I just I personally don\u0027t remember what it was again I mean I\u0027m gonna have to do an ad review on this kind of you might only find actually the conversation as I recall it since you just said that was there\u0027s a lot of shoulds musts and others in an informational document that seems a little fishy and I believe that\u0027s why we chose BCP standards would we thought was going to be hard since this specifies a bunch of things that aren\u0027t necessarily under our normative control okay let me again let me find the discussion and I\u0027ll come back if we need to talk about it more okay any other questions on draft okay I think what we need to do then is to set a time window for those additional reviews that we requested and then based on that make a call on mailing list about moving it forward I mean we should we\u0027re going to move it forward unless something I can\u0027t say anything coming up that would cause us not to move it forward so what\u0027s a reasonable time frame for getting those reviews how long is the document I thought it was like 60 something that I could be wrong and close to being able to tell you but not quite no momento 41 yes you were closer what do you want pages Stephen it\u0027s a very long flight home okay so so I\u0027m gonna be the first week in December okay so our comments first week in December "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:49:35",
    "text": "all right so I think next up is architecture okay I think we\u0027re gonna do a demeanor variable oh look at that okay Adam speak yes we can hear you now good okay so architecture updates I\u0027ll be honest with you bill is having technical difficulties and he was actually supposed to be the person presenting so instead he did see me so good morning all right cool so we pushed an update on the 29th as the slide says I\u0027ve covered a bunch of issues in the draft that were up in github I don\u0027t think we have to go through necessarily all of those can we go to the next slide as we write so we did add a really super simple architectural overview diagram that basically starts with producer to integration service to consumer find a diagram all the subsequent diagrams are now referenced as role based diagrams instead of component diagrams ago that we\u0027ve had discussions about being more rural focused rather than component focused to try to clarify that all of these things can be composite depending on how a vendor might implement to rather might package them so next slide cool right other updates we did we organized it so I think you might want to take a look at it we were hoping to get some feedback from you but as you mentioned earlier you didn\u0027t have the time so we just went ahead and took a stab at it again we have updated sections for collections of architecture and evaluations of architecture and bill actually templated sections for each security domain workflow we ended up spending a lot of time on the configuration assessment one for obvious reasons I think but it just happens to be the one we know the best it would be cool to get some help for some of the others next site yep what\u0027s next more drastic updates we hope right there are a few issues remaining in github one that I think is what that we\u0027ll definitely need some help on I think Kathleen is presently attached to "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:52:36",
    "text": "adding a section or subsection somewhere on a test station and then there\u0027s a few other things that we need to figure out like do we remove the XMPP specific information and start putting that into its own draft you know things like that so I think that\u0027s it next slide is there another side nope that\u0027s him okay I\u0027m curious I think you said something earlier actually about five outstanding issues with the architecture draft related to the terminology I was curious as to what those are is the reorganization like for the orchestrator the role and the interfaces before they were interfaces they\u0027re not interfaces anymore all this is now I think three of them the at least addressed by the issue tracker at least they\u0027re reviewable now and then two more open ones I sent you a list of the five items I don\u0027t know months ago probably it\u0027s somewhere I can find it again so we have to just cross-check that these are all consistent now because if I change two of them and then the other ones change and we change everything it\u0027s all the churn it\u0027s like like module run and so I would like to have them stable and if they\u0027re stable we can move on to the next phase and then sync it with the other text and that should be easy because you\u0027re familiar with the other text so we can do it in concert that\u0027d be even faster okay there can you resend that and then we should connect on it so that we can rather be clear I\u0027m also curious how many people might have read the update I mean it\u0027s been out for a while now actually a couple weeks three weeks something like that so how many people read the draft that\u0027s - Hank and Chris okay more ISIL be good hi this is women ginger so this is kind of a supporting document for us how I\u0027m trying to kind of figure out how to as we advance this how we frame and kind of this so as far as I can see this document isn\u0027t actually referenced by any of the PS work that we\u0027re doing any of the what work is right so one would think that this is a supporting document to help the standards that the stuff on the kind of the proposed standards and this isn\u0027t actually reference by any of the PS the proposed standards were taught we have in the working odd to me it\u0027s a great observation it is you know I I don\u0027t know why that is to be honest and maybe that\u0027s because "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:55:36",
    "text": "this document it\u0027s taken a while I mean this is really the second incarnation of an architecture drafting this and it\u0027s working very possibly or third I\u0027m this is Hank on the mic one of the reasons is that the new architectural layout has this conveyance bus in the center of it and which is the biggest difference to the endpoint posture compliance profile which it does not have this bus in the middle of it and XMP peak but when to Maya and that right basic assumption for this bus could also be diva\u0027s or it could be a iff or whatever it\u0027s multiple solutions for this we have a lot of hackathons where this works but the primary solution that we wanted to pull in is an RFC now so that is hard for that RFC to reference that\u0027s Arsenal anymore right so I think also the the PCP draft that solution I think this architecture draft and Bill you can correct me in the chat if I\u0027m wrong is a collection architecture with relative to this draft it\u0027s like a sub architecture if you will sorry I\u0027m so I guess the question I have again is just I\u0027m maybe I don\u0027t yet clearly understand if this is an architecture driving or kind of work what is the interrelationship between that I mean I think some of this is a historical artifact of the problems the working group had early on so they tried to do an architecture document well we tried to do an architecture document we got all tied up in that and I said we said let\u0027s take a step back and and and do some of the pieces and we tabled the architecture document and then we thought well maybe we can come back and do an architecture document that pulls it all together the other thing I\u0027d like to point out to our jabber scribe who is not actually Deborah scribing Cathleen actually did say in the a chat that an architecture document can come at the end and serve as a document to pull all the existing ones together she did sorry I didn\u0027t see that last sentence I was reading it earlier so I think that\u0027s an important point though I whether you agree with that or not I think would be a question for you but yeah I mean I\u0027m preparing for the conversation as we advance this document forward there is certainly some reticence in other parts of the I use you to publish kind of supporting documents we typically say supporting documents helped us drive kind of other things and I\u0027m just I\u0027m struggling kinda with the asymmetry of being able to articulate what this is helping us drive or decide or document even frankly because there really is new dependencies as we can see between the "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:58:38",
    "text": "kind of the the other standards work in this document we can of course take this offline okay any other questions so this is Hank I was reviewing the epc Peterson I\u0027m not actually mistaken I\u0027m pretty sure it references it but maybe the reference is a little problem so therefore doesn\u0027t show up in the reference by link I think I could check that because it takes away okay I think we\u0027ll get to this and we do - they get to next steps the other question I wanted to ask about this document was we had in lieu of having virtual interim we had had a design meeting and whether that was effective and whether that you know the one of those are not I know we had talked about doing one between the first one you did and this meeting and sort of as a chair failure we didn\u0027t get that scheduled for you so um is that I do I know if you want to talk about that in the context of way forward or either one yeah I mean I I thought it went well I think those who participated I mean they participated right we had a handful of people actually talking about it and getting it getting some things resolved collecting issues we addressed quite a few those issues and I think just if we continue doing that it could be helpful okay I think what what I think would be useful for would be for you or bill to drive those meanings like we can provide facilities if you made them but sure maybe if you can drive the scheduling of them that would be great got it bill to drive all design the homes chair / note-taker wrote down arch authors this is Ron I just kind of want to make sure we don\u0027t end on a noon I mean if the one who wants to publish this because they think they will pull it this will pull it all together when we\u0027re done the work and I\u0027m happy to kind of advance it it\u0027s just I think we need to be prepared means you\u0027re kind of prepared to have to be able to kind of answer that question and you know be cognizant all of us we\u0027re making kind of the other documents that we frame those other documents as solving problems that we outlined in the architecture right agree so it one last comment on that and in the slides I think we did talk about "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:01:39",
    "text": "potentially taking the solution II kind of parts of the draft that are in there I think they\u0027re stuffed back in appendix at this point taking those out and submitting that there\u0027s another draft so maybe in the XMPP grid-based specific you know solution to this architecture that could be viewed as work that\u0027s being driven by this document in some in some way right okay anything else on this document I guess we can get Adam out of the queue here thank you I\u0027m gonna actually make Rome a little bit happy in his reference to the documents and document references but not in something you can search and say yes to you okay so information model so I haven\u0027t really made a lot of progress on what what\u0027s in the information model so it\u0027s really hard to do because I there\u0027s not enough implementation to try and make sense of how to make a minimal viable set of information elements that make us able to go forward but for Hank as to the you know ask in one of the design meetings it is actually on github so there\u0027s the link Hank and feel free to send issues anyone else can too but I know Hank loves that so feel free to send those there\u0027s no real updates in it but it\u0027s there it\u0027s really minimal so you know it\u0027ll take you all the 15 minutes to read all right so why so little progress I commented on this a little bit already all right just a moment ago right so trying to understand the combination of the architecture draft and implementation for sockem and it\u0027s not concrete enough so I\u0027ve started to do some more kind of implementation experience here so I\u0027m internally at my place we\u0027re working to build a prototype of an XMPP grid implementation for sockem I\u0027m trying to use that to drive forward this I\u0027ve had some off list conversations with Bill and Adam as to capture some of the work that was done in previous hackathons as to what needs to be done in extensions those extensions to you know kind of command sets etc for XMPP grid would really Drive what the understanding of what the minimum viable information model needs to be so at long-term or medium-term "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:04:40",
    "text": "some some term that isn\u0027t in the next week is that there would actually be interoperable XMPP grid implementations that can do something novel with regards to sockem so I did put like the sketch of a draft so Adam bill I know that we exchanged all of like three emails but and I know that this would include some of the information that\u0027s currently in the appendix of architecture but we need I need to like kind of the next set of details as in you know what are the actual commands we\u0027d be exchanging how do we do discovery and I\u0027d like to put that in that kind of draft so there\u0027s another URL for a draft there I and I\u0027m happy to collaborate with anyone else who wants to start to kind of work on some implementation because I think I need that to inform kind of the next set of stuff all right so I kind of covered this somewhat but this is kind of my near-term what do I want to actually build and do a test on so the template in the architecture draft is there and so Roman - your kind of comments about you know things don\u0027t reference this will definitely reference as we go forward to capture kind of oval evaluation results one of the things that we do at my place is a lot of IP fix work so the thing that I\u0027ve been trying to figure out how to add is how do I add IP fix observations to compare against oval observations already in there and frankly I don\u0027t know how to implement it because it\u0027s not documented enough to implement and so these are the kind of the the mini goals I want to be able to put those two sets of information in there and then query from implementations either direction to find what those set of results were and some kind of mechanism that would allow us to do comparisons against network observations against hosts evaluation results so and and as we talked in the last design meeting you one of the concerns was we\u0027re very desktop focused so if I can get those two things working the next step for me is how do I get something that isn\u0027t a desktop computer involved so I don\u0027t know what that is yeah but that\u0027s a to be determined and I\u0027m happy to have that conversation in help on the list or in one of the design meetings so all of this would let me drive to what the minimum basic information elements are two kind of enable this set of functionality and how that interoperates between the architecture and an actual implementation and that\u0027s the goal so I\u0027d like to in combination with architecture I don\u0027t know if that would be a standard or a document we throw away to your point room and about are these is that a publishable document it is a nom I don\u0027t know yet I\u0027m not I\u0027m "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:07:41",
    "text": "not far enough along in thinking about if writing down kind of this is how we actually implemented in I in in XMPP grid is a document destined for publication or not it very well may be but I cross that bridge when we get there and the documents a real document and we can have that conversation that\u0027s it any questions any discussion is anybody awake had had to run it good now I\u0027m struggling with joining two other the information model I think does not have to be standard strike but it has to be very defined information information elements in it that can be instantiated in solution so yes XMPP grid and the terminology draft are basically circling that one there are some are all interconnected and therefore I think that while moving on with the centerpiece of the architecture and getting that done we basically have to start terminology information but at the same time to accommodate that again and I think that goes hand-in-hand because they cannot be redundant you are about the extra information and the document is about the things that move the information and the architecture tells you how and and I think this should be very aligned and maybe we collect some of them I don\u0027t ignore to that in the end actually and people think less documents are easier to ISG as a gateway function that is probably true unfortunately they are not on the same track maybe so I don\u0027t know yeah I think as we I think one of the things that we haven\u0027t done well is work on actual implementations that we can interoperate so that\u0027s kind of a push that I want to make and I want to align those interoperable implementations against kind of information model architecture etc and I will I don\u0027t want to predispose the answer of what track things are on until we know what what documents shakeout what way so what documents really need to be a standard such that this would give you enough information to have workable solutions in the long run this is Steven "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:10:41",
    "text": "channeling Adam Montville on Jabbar he notes that he is still interested in continuing these conversations so he these discussions so in response to your earlier question about is anyone still interested Adam says yes yeah so I I will say that Adam bill I mean you guys did respond and tell me what the what timeline I should expect your responses and you guys aren\u0027t you know out of the bounds of whatever so so the to the extent that we bring it back to some design meetings I think would be useful for everybody and bill didn\u0027t prepend this with Mike but I think this is relevant bill says he is still working on getting more XMPP specific information into its own draft and over to you for your folks okay response to your great okay okay all right so this is actually the way ahead portion but we don\u0027t have a slide that says way ahead in my head we did but apparently in reality we do not so you wanted to talk about milestones I wanted to talk about meetings so why don\u0027t we go to milestones first yeah my indelicate question about milestones is actually unrelated to the dates to the things we have existing documents on but we have milestones to do things that I don\u0027t even see individual unadopted things for in the queue and I just want to ask the question we\u0027re still holding a marker to do that work or do I just not understand the purpose of other documents that we do have in the queue so specifically I\u0027m talking about yang push yeah you CPU transfer so go ahead so I think that there\u0027s as we move forward implementation yang push could "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:13:41",
    "text": "very well come back I did have a hallway conversation with with Nancy and she\u0027d be willing to interoperate Cisco\u0027s XMPP and which they did built some some yang capability I don\u0027t know if that\u0027s its own document at this point but as far as a marker for a possible thing I\u0027m okay with that and Hank might have some comments on yang push as a document but I don\u0027t believe and unless I don\u0027t know if jess is still on it if jess has some thoughts on on transfer she should be just should be asleep now okay so this is woman speaking again okay I guess I\u0027m just a little confused because we said we would be done a year and a half ago are we still sure we want to do this I guess is the question let\u0027s talk so when you came on board in July is that when you came on board we updated the milestones that we had drafts for and the others I just left alone because I\u0027m not aware of drafts that are coming in so they\u0027re in our charter those are the original published milestones from the Charter and you\u0027re right we don\u0027t currently have any drafts for that so so so does the think yang push was blocked and blocked and pushed back and blocked as arbitrary reasons for three years that is a reason why we did not proceed over that because it was churned so hard the people and he\u0027s back and forth that the primary authors actually said okay we are abandoning this and giving the igf so fortunately at the last turn they made it so that is a good thing back when there was not so much turn we\u0027ve provided at the hackathon a proof of concept at yank wash and XMPP quite literally with running code already could exists but all the people that were involved in that were demotivated by the prospect process in areas and are gone that we that\u0027s that is a reason why this process has stalled right so but so there was the ancient history which was all of the pushback and churn and then there was the hackathon /re chartering activity and at that point we were like is this something we still want to do or not all of that pushback had happened all of that history existed and then at that point in time we said yes we do want to do this yes but there\u0027s no draft on the table I\u0027m not gonna write it so yeah and I cannot write it at the moment because I\u0027m overloaded and the people that would like to have written that jump ship and said we will not come back again so at this point it\u0027s the draft were to come onto the table it would come from you is that what you\u0027re "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:16:41",
    "text": "saying right now that you are still I\u0027m more inclined to convince some of the people to come back because I cannot do it everything that I said I cannot write all every draft as a lead author I\u0027d like to be awful but I cannot be I guess my point is the point at which we had the conversation about rewriting about reach our Turing we had the conversation about the history mm-hmm and we knew what the history was at that point in time and we still said yes this is something still worth doing so if we think at this point in time it\u0027s still worth doing then we should leave it here and we should update the date that makes more sense we can also change the scope a little bit because I\u0027m focusing on concise yang to the Metro right now and that\u0027s basically also using push but it\u0027s always in binary and I have no support on that route that comes yesterday confirmed that is rough by them you want to do that and therefore I think there is a slight change of term and civilization but this concept will be stay the same I\u0027m okay putting a new gate on this if we change the direction as you were saying again we should get feedback from the working group that that\u0027s the thing we want to do so really quick I will say that if a yang push document came here I would certainly be interested in providing review support writing it I\u0027m not going to be the one that writes it and brings it here by any means but it is here I\u0027d be interested look at it okay but that\u0027s very helpful Steven thank you so since the mile is actually an initial draft do you want to say six months or do you are you as ad comfortable with us leaving as 2018 if more discussion needs to happen to figure out what the plan for it is I\u0027m perfectly comfortable about it maybe part of it is I wanted to hear that the milestone is even something that we want to do yeah typically again it\u0027s just I\u0027m observing an abnormal physics typically we have a milestone and the challenge we have is that there are competing individual things and we don\u0027t know kind of what to do with it and there is just the even the absence of anything as the starting point and we said we wanted to do it a long time ago so if it\u0027s still the thing we want to do and we just need to figure out the timeline you get there I\u0027m perfectly okay so we\u0027ll leave the date for now and we\u0027ll figure out a timeline going forward so the second one was the ECP over transfer mechanism I have no idea on that no clue anybody hey guys you missed me "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:19:47",
    "text": "right we did i I don\u0027t know I see value in if I\u0027m understanding what you see P over transfer mechanism is I think it\u0027s no PC P over transfer mechanism and I mentioned earlier that the PCP is work the sacrum architecture basically views as a collection some architecture if you will or collection architecture that and and I think that e PCP over transfer really intends to get the information that that collection architecture is grabbing into the integration service for further downstream use so I think it\u0027s still valuable at some point yeah so we\u0027ll see how that turns out and somebody in the room has a different memory different recollection of what that is you know who\u0027s correctly so if we think we still want to do that I just want to ask the question who is gonna do that good question as a follow-up question to that whose was this in the first place like why - to put that there cuz I don\u0027t like I mean I guess what it means if you add them right I mean I can kind of kind of figure it out but I have no idea what that even means I mean I think it\u0027s a ghost milestone I mean was I mean jess is not here is it possible that this is something that jess was I want to make sure that we don\u0027t take it off and it\u0027s something that she cares about so I but I don\u0027t know what it is yeah you know also again I\u0027m generally I would be concerned that we don\u0027t even understand what the milestone is and then kind of the question is we all think it\u0027s a good idea but is does someone want to work on it and we can think it\u0027s a good idea but no one\u0027s working on it it\u0027s not clear we should but we can take it to the list of sorts sort that out if we need to do the archaeology I know that Adam was the Adam and I were the co-chairs at the time that we did the reach are during discussion and everything that was in the chartering discussion was something that somebody was advocating for yeah and so I just don\u0027t remember what it was okay so we will look into that one a little bit more the really descriptor one I know we\u0027ve had a conversation on this go ahead Steven configuration yeah the configuration checklist um yeah it\u0027s kind of been in a holding pattern for a long time it still is in a holding pattern at this time so I think at this point it makes sense to not represent it as a hard milestone but as work that might get done and if it does it would be proper to do it in this working group but at this point it doesn\u0027t seem and I "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:22:48",
    "text": "may be on this understanding milestones Roman and you can you can tell me but I don\u0027t know if it\u0027s a hard objective that we need to meet in order to be successful but it\u0027s I it was almost done at some point and why did we put it into a hole well it reached 90% done which means we\u0027re about 50% done with the work and getting that last 50% slowed down for a couple reasons I mean that\u0027s that\u0027s what I\u0027ll say about it is it\u0027s not a hard objective for the working group I don\u0027t think it means it doesn\u0027t need to get done to meet things it\u0027s something that I\u0027d like to see get done at some point I mean it wasn\u0027t something that was controversial it was just something that we sort of ran out of time and energy on I\u0027m sure that\u0027s actually right yeah I think I\u0027m still on right sorry Steven yes I think at some point we were actually on the hook to to write that that draft and you know we were overcome by events essentially which I know it might be a cop-out to send people but it does happen and then I think you had offered to kind of take it over but then obviously you\u0027ve been busy with all the other things as well so you know some of these graphs I think are subject to you know simple capacity constraints at this point this happens to be one of them I think that ECP over transfer is another one because it at some point in the future once the architecture is baked enough and we have more time creepiness there I think it would be useful to have that draft and that would be something that I think CIS would consider contributing to you know I can\u0027t say for sure but I think that\u0027s I don\u0027t know that\u0027s what I see so I\u0027m thinking about it more I think that it\u0027s something that I could get back on the table get the because that we do have 90% of the draft done so I could resurrect that text get the draft unexpired and back up in our in our draft so that at least we can start talking about it during meetings and start soliciting feedback and seeing what people have to think about it and Adam and Bill I know you guys are busy so if it\u0027s here and sockem at least during the meetings we can talk about it and get some feedback and kind of hear some of the important stuff is with that\u0027d be useful if it was a alive draft that we could talk about at the next meeting yes okay seesee enough me so yeah that works for me rhyme didn\u0027t you I just wanted to explain so you know the question was asked about what\u0027s the magic of milestones there\u0027s no magic two milestones generally working groups have a fixed scope and with that scope we understand what it takes to be done where groups are you\u0027ve been you know for an indefinite period of time and so I\u0027ve been using the milestones better to understand what it takes to be done and "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:25:49",
    "text": "I just find again confusion as I kind of said where we have things in the distant past we\u0027re not sure what they are and we don\u0027t have I I haven\u0027t heard a plan I mean we tried fairly hard and when we wrote when we did the reach are during to put like I said milestones that people were committed to doing and that was the only thing that we put on there and not the aspirational things that people were saying we should do but the things that people wanted to do and that\u0027s why yeah some of the documents that had originally started in this were taken off the table so at least at a point two years ago people said they wanted to do these thank you so that brings us to the end of the milestone review the only last thing was is there any other business people want to bring up okay and then the last thing I had was a plan for between now and the next meeting for for better or for worse this is a working group that seems to drive to milestones drive to you like dates meeting dates and things like that so we\u0027ve already discussed doing design team meetings driven by the authors of the architecture document would we like to have a virtual interim between now and then in addition to whatever the design team meetings into is that helpful Adam is nodding yes okay well why don\u0027t we target a virtual interim sometime in mid-january and we will do a doodle poll and see what we end up with with that all right excellent so with that thank you everybody and have a good rest of the day good night to those of you joining late in the evening and thank you for joining cool have fun guys hi girls see ya "
  }
]