[
  {
    "startTime": "00:00:07",
    "text": "Alright. Alright. We will wait another couple of minutes, I think, Claire, because people are trickling in, and this room is not a usual one, so people will probably work to find it a little bit. I was about to suggest the same. I can't see too many people arriving just yet."
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:03:07",
    "text": "Okay. I think if we kick off, we've got quite a few people attending remotely. So fairly good attendance so far. So welcome. To, working group SOTP. Thank you for those that have been before and welcome to those that haven't been already. Please participate is much as possible. A brief note while introduction you can see that clearly. Just a reminder of the IT policies that are in place. And that make sure that we're all following their correct policies and, processes. Was this our resident expert on those. So I'm sure he will remind if anyone needs it. Again, with the the note well, anyone's got any questions about the note where law policies and procedures before we get cracking now is probably a good time to start. And, Remember of the code of conduct?"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:04:03",
    "text": "We treat each other with respect. We'll speak slowly and try and avoid the use of slang. We use reasoned argument and logic to dispute ideas. We use our best judgment we'll look for the best solution especially in our case where we are network agnostic, for the whole internet, and we contribute to the ongoing work work of the group. A reminder again, this session is being recorded. There will be minutes and notes ready to circulate after the event as well. But just be aware that you are being recorded. Again, links to the the working group information and the drafts, which I'm hoping most did not all of you have have done a preread. This is is not to to discuss the the prereads so we're expecting everyone to come with a fairly good knowledge of the drafts already there. And a brief reminder of our scope, sowing. Fairly new working group in with with all things being considered. We have 3 internet drafts. That either answer the the problem solved here in the yellow or support, or or or give further definition of the potential use case So that's just a brief reminder that it's a one way transfer of any digital asset to be defined, between networks, it's agnostic to both the technology of the networks and to the nature of the asset. So it is the communication between 2, what we've called gateways. Not gateways themselves and all the networks themselves. Which we will obviously go through in more detail. Thomas I think is is going to be speaking on the on the current draft agenda and the architecture. Speaking of the agenda, what have we got lined up for you today? This introduction and the process reminders, which we've just done, moving into, swiftly on to, Thomas Rafael's got an update for us on the recovery draft and the Rockham Communication. We have, a speaker demoing. So Victor, he's going to be demoing the NF use cases,"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:06:01",
    "text": "we're going to have a report from the, network identification design team, who've been running, I think biweekly on the side. So thank you very much for all of your hard work. And then Dennis is going to to to ring, his work on the asset profile definition. And then as always, any other business, If people have suggestions for any other business, if you can pop it in the chat, we'll make sure things are prioritized and covered as as needed. So without further ado, or before I kick off any further and hand over has anyone got any questions or comments they'd like to make at the start? Bye. Actually clear, we'd do need to find a notetaker. Is there anybody calling me? I said before. So can I have a volunteer for a note taker, please? Worst. Is anyone in the attendee like, a handy little notetaker, what you can say. I'm staring at a room full of downturned faces, which are really good for, you know, people There was even a joke about that at last night back at Kutcher, Oh, brilliant. That's Are you able to Yeah. Uh-oh. So somebody's not gonna be here the whole time. Anybody else willing to Alright. Okay. Willing, again, you know, it's actually an online note taking tool. It's fairly easy to use and multiple people can actually help. It's a very helpful Can see the online participant that's being mute among this subject. Yeah. Thomas often helps, but he has to present Yes. He can't do both. Why don't we go forward? I'll I'll see what I can do"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:08:01",
    "text": "If you're wanting to show though, Claire. Yeah. I am. I am. So I'm There's there's enough switching between things going on over here. So I am going to turn off my camera and we'll surely check my mic. And I'm going to share Thomas, I'll share slides for you unless you wanna have a go yourself. Can you hear me, Claire? Be better Absolutely. Not a problem. if you if you've moved the sides totally, please. Up on the screen, if you just give me the nod whenever you want me to move aside. Thank you. Next slide. These So it's it's it's a pretty short, presentation, folks, but but, you know, I I think we wanna move the architecture draft forward, you know, whatever the process is, ways, you know, for for getting this into a working group last call. And that is why I send that message a couple of weeks back, and and it's been good. Thank you, David, and thank you Rama, for the feedback, but if people could read through. And if you think there's things missing, you think there are typos, if you think there are things that are not clear, you know, we would be very appreciative if you could just even, like, send a one liner to the mailing list just to to let us know if you have, you know, some more deeper questions, you could use the GitHub issues the way, Yaron Sheffer did last time, the last IETF. And if you're interested, just look at what you know, the the things that yaron asked and and also see if I have answered his concerns sufficiently, and, you know, and, if you have any more questions yet. Pilot on the issues list. I I think, next slide Claire? I think that's it. I think that's that this is the this is a request that here we go. Request"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:10:00",
    "text": "question. Wes, maybe you could give a quick And, thanks, Thomas, one what what is the process? Yeah. So that the As a reminder of the process overall, right? We have gone through the steps of getting the document into an IETF working group, you know, documents so it's properly. Like, that when the authors believe that you have finished and it is ready for working group last call that, you know, you don't expect any more changes generally the chairs can start that process. I will say I I have started reviewing it, and the the chairs should certainly review it too. And maybe, Claire and I should discuss on the side whether we wanna submit a bunch of comments to you before take it to last call because if if there's a lot of changes after last call, we won't advance it. We will you know, bring it back to to have it be redone. And then maybe we do a a separate last call later. A lot of times we make them first one fairly long, and then we make you know, that if there's revisions, we'll make the the next one 2 weeks instead of 4 or something like that. I will note that in my initial pass through the document There are elements of the document that go beyond our chartered scope so where will I have to be careful about that particular you talked the API between you know, inside the network, which is which is again outside the scope of what we're able to define so we can reference that it's needed but we'll So I haven't finished my review, but I suspect that there's there may be a few other places like that as well that that sort of talks about you know, what it might look like but we shouldn't prescribe what the internals of those networks are gonna look like if that's outside our scope. That makes sense. Yep. Yep. Thank you. Any, any, any review and, you know, any comments folks would be, appreciated Yeah. So, certainly, it would be good if the working group could review it and last calls ideally should not"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:12:02",
    "text": "be overwhelming with comments. That usually means the discussion wasn't running so, it would be good. Anybody does wanna do detailed review now's the time. And my guess is and I'm run this by Claire. So I'll just throw it out a randomly. Why don't we give the chairs a couple of weeks to review and see if we think it's ready and then And if it if we think it is, then we'll we'll issue a last call for 2. Otherwise, you can do a minor revamp to take it to 3 first. Yep. And and a special a special request for for new folks, new to working group, I've I've never read the document. This is a good test for us because if if, you know, newcomers in the future reading you know, the document, that, like, this there's enough there for you to understand, like, the scope and and the intent And and for people that wanna make use of set p related technologies in the future, You wanna make sure that this architecture stands up to your eventual use case. So it's a good time to look at it and go you know, it's incompatible or compatible with my existing work. So note that when we do get to a last call, and that there's a formal mechanism in the data tracker for doing it. We, you know, put it in last call and and it'll be listed that way and we'll we'll the the chairs will collect comments for things that need to be addressed And I forget where I was going. It's been me the long week. I'm gonna apologize now for all of my tiredness. And if I, if I may, where's this possibly a question more than a a comment. Thomas mentioned about adding comments to GitHub. My understanding is that all comments and questions should preferably be circulated using the, the mailing list. Good question. Yes. Not necessarily, as long as they're well documented somewhere, in the end, it'll it will create an update"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:14:02",
    "text": "the the important things that if you're gonna use GitHub and create shoes or suggested changes in in GitHub a, mention that on the mailing list that you're collecting in there. And, b, don't close them, you know, like, 5 minutes after somebody you know, creates 1 or something. Give time for discussion to take place so that you know, the the the process is open and transparent, but because GitHub issues and full requests you know, or archived It is a safe. There's actually a whole RFC on how to use GitHub for working groups and if you wanna go that route for discussions, make sure that you read that RFC and sort of try and follow its guidance on on the right way to do that, but there are many, many are working groups that are using GitHub exclusively for changes related discussions that aren't major major you know, editorial things like that. 6 that's just fine. Fact, if you look at the volume of mail and the mailing list, it's been, there was a note in the RASBAR G working group yesterday, research group showing a decline in mail on the ATF. And it's likely a result because of the increase in music GitHub Absolutely. And and Ram has had a great point in the the chat channel in the, If we could ask that important get part get that important to get up issues we reference on the mailing list. Just so people know to go and have a look at them, I think that would be a good practice to adopt or support that. Okay. Any any questions for Thomas regarding the the architecture draft at all. Nope. Well, thank you very much. And Thank you. Thomas, brilliant. Thank you very much. So back to the agenda then. Which I don't have open. Are we are we ready to move on as the next speaker ready? So"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:16:00",
    "text": "I I lost track with Rafael, not going to be here. Yeah. I think, you know, someone's speaking on behalf of Rafael. I I am again. He he's boarding a plane I see. Right. Okay. That's fine. So, I'll bring the crash recovery slides up, shall I? Yes, please. Yeah. And I believe, Rama, you you also have, Yeah. Okay. So let me let me go first from it, and you can jump in afterwards. Okay. So, Rafael says his apologies, looked at the wrong time zone and is literally boarding an airplane. So didn't wanna know, due to risk. Next slide, please. Clear. So for folks who who don't know, So the this is this is not on the the the crash recovery is not a part of the, you know, working group item a list for Sati, but this work had been has been going on, I think, since and a half years ago, 3 years ago. And we thought it would be useful to mention this because, there are some implementations out there that that's considering crash recovery, and I thought we'd you know, giving giving an update to everyone would be, useful So the first thing is, you know, porting this to markdown, I need to say thank you again to, so so yaron has been, helping Rafael, move move all of us, move the address to, a markdown and and do everything on on GitHub Thank you again, Yaron. So Rafael things to draft is, stable now, but it could also mean that maybe he's asking for people to review and and comment, and that's the link to the, location, on GitHub. By the way, this is this is this is if you notice IITF SatP is the new GitHub"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:18:00",
    "text": "in the, in the previous cycle, we had a, you have repo off one of the MIT servers, but I'm we're slowly moving everything over to this ITS had the you know, freebie GitHub account. Next slide. Least clear. So, actually, I don't know if I need to go through all of this, but, if you are interested in, submitting issues and so on or in the even managing drafts. Here's a quick you know, quick, sort of bullets that would you know, that would help you, could help you. Next slide, please. Okay. So these materials are all available on day track us. If anyone wants to come back and review, then they they are made available. Yep. And implementation, I believe, so there's a there's a paper there for for those who don't know, this is also an important part of Rafael's BHD work. So he's, he's got a whole bunch of papers that, that, you know, some of them, a very good And as usual, tech archive or archive is sort of the the the the depository for for preprints that many people use today. Next slide, please, Claire. I think that's the end. I wanna I wanna give, Rama as much time as possible. Okay. I'm I'm done. Okay. Any any questions for Thomas on that at all? Nope. Rama, I'll bring Rama, would you control the next set of slides, or you would need to do that for you. I can share. Let me try. Actually, I'm in the new client, and I where exactly the share but maybe it might be easier for you to do it. Sorry. Thank you."
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:20:00",
    "text": "Okay. So, I'm gonna talk about, an implementation effort that is ongoing. Actually, we've made lot of progress, we close to to the end of that project, of, Satico And to some extent, the crash recovery as described in the in the draft that Thomas was just talking about, and this project has been going on for about, 6 months now, due to end at the end of November. So, move to the next slide. Okay. I showed the slide at the end of, my use case presentation, I think, in the last ideas. So just wanted to bring it up here to to provide to, to connected to that. So what you see on the right is, vision of network of networks, which project called Hyperogy Cacti is designed to achieve. So this is a project that, consists of a family of tools, libraries, and protocols that enable different ledgers to talk to each other and carry out economic transactions with each other. Including including secure as a transfer. So, there's a this project has about think total of, 4 to 5 years worth of work has gone into it. And it's actually the result of a merger of to older code projects. So there's a lot of quite mature code code that's been used in production systems, you can see the link at the top right, and please go and visit the site, visit the GitHub repository to find out more about the project. For those who don't know, hyperledger is a foundation that was established in, 20 15 end of 2015, early 2016, as in, umbrella for different, technologies related to enterprise blockchain. And, not just blockchain generally distributed ledgers. And, as as a part of that, hyperledger, So there are several different projects on different aspects of blockchain and DAT technology."
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:22:03",
    "text": "One of those being interoperability. So Cacta is one of them. And what, the Hyperige Foundation does every year? Is it, funds, certain mentees for a mentorship project. Of an internship project for, people in the community to come work on hyperlogic acti, or sorry, different hyperlogic, hyperlogic project features and to make, contributions that way. So what specifically is being done in this project is you can see at the bottom left. There is a, a module called Relay within hyperology cacti, which, the system offers And this relay is, basically, it has the same function as a gateway as you've been talking about in SATIDrafts. In Cacti, the relay is a configurable configurable module that's running GRP services and it's bit on rust. Hence, the title of the presentation, which is the rest implementation of SAT. What you want to do is Given this relay, which already performs certain, cross chain functions for networks that can use that are that are augmented with Cactus abilities. We're going to be, or we are in the process of adding static abilities to this relay module. So the relay module can then serve as a so so we have code that serves as template for how you should go about adopting the draft specs and, moving assets from one network to another it also provides certain samples for particular DLTs. I'll come to that. The relay module itself is not built for any specific distributed ledger technology. It's supposed to be deacapitaldiagnostic. Yet compatible with any, DLT, network. Like, you can use this relay and connect it for an to an Ethereum network or to a Hyperledger fabric network or to, any other kind of network as you can imagine. All they really would need is a plug in that allows you to talk to that particular network. Because they're drivable. So can you move next slide?"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:24:05",
    "text": "Not going to go into the details of this, but this actually describes the architectural for Relay is built on microservices. And on the left side, you can see the part shaded yellow just following pharmacists color combination. That is a part that is DNA agnostic and also concerned with, Sati. On the right, what you see is really has particular, what you call, drivers or or protocol adapters that allow relate to talk to particular kinds of networks see some samples of the of the right the fabric network, coordinate work, or a material network, and, of course, those drivers use the that particular networks offer, client library to to interact with the to either to query the state of a ledger or submit a transaction to the shared database. At the bottom, you can see there are, the spec a link to the spec and also to the code for this particular module. Next slide, please. So this is how, this is exactly what we are trying to finally demo with the, project that's ongoing you can see 2 networks at either end and there are 2 relays in the middle. Relays, basically, or start to get this. And, one of the protocols that they can talk with each other is as a transfer or or Sati Sati core to be precise. What's going on behind, as you can see, either to the left or the to the right, really have particular drivers that allow them to talk to that particular network. In this case, this driver will be a of Hyperledger fabric driver. It's it's a plug in. Actually, it's implemented as a separate service, but it's something that the relay can be configured to talk to and, that has the that understands how to talk to this particular network type. So what you see here is the, in this particular project, we're building the features for SAT in the in the change part in the middle, So the relays are now augmented with"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:26:02",
    "text": "the various functions that they need to perform, for the various active functions, and, they'll have the ability to, both send and receive, sapi messages. According to the particular stage that the relay that the relay is in, and they also are going to be running the SAP machine so that they can store the appropriate information, log the appropriate messages and know how to recover from crashes. Again, going back to the left and the right, you see there are applications the top left and the top right, those are the trigger point, if you want in, somebody to issue an asset transfer instruction or a or a request and, you can have a the related to the left is going to be then negotiating with the relay to the right. That's sort of stage 0 and then stage 1. And then when they carry out an asset complete asset transfer, of course, that part of the asset transfers part of each particular step, for example, the locking part or the or the minting and issuing part, those will involve not just operations in the relay, but operations that the relay drives into the network. So it'll have to issue those instructions to the network via the driver wait for the response and then continue the the process. Next slide, please. So not going to go in details. This is just for reference. If you go to the if you visit the pull request at the bottom, you'll see this is currently, draft code request, and we're still, working on integrating it into the into the main branch. Just to suffice it at a high level. There are some additional features that were added to the relay, which is the GRP service. We we added another new service to the relay called the SAP service, and, we created new protocol structure consists of the service interface. And, we need some augmentations to existing rather simple hyperlogic fabric applications that sort of demonstrate the, burning of an asset in one leisure and the consequence issuing of the asset and other ledger pursuant to How's that be?"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:28:00",
    "text": "Next slide, please. So this is just a snapshot of the of the code. Just and the proof that, you know, this this was provided to me by Zach 1, who's the one who's implementing this. So you can see here the relay can see the rust code. And, if you look at the I just mapped a few of the messages from the SAP protocol on the right, to the to function that implemented within the SAP service, as you can see. Next slide, please. This is just the snapshot of the SAT ProDABO again, you can see the various functions that the relay is supposed to do according SAP protocol. Those are defined, defined here. The reason to the protocol is so that this is technology, agnostic. So you can take the same product off and maybe tomorrow somebody wants to write a a a different kind of relay with in a different kind of language, or, they want to communicate the relay with the driver that is built on some other, language like JavaScript, Java, go use the same protocol. You don't have to change this particular, interface. So this is just one sample function. So if you think of stage 1, step 1.1, we're doing a transfer proposal claims operation. So this is just next few. So I'll just point to the functions. We can jump from one side to another. Quite rapidly. So this is it's performing the, this is, right, it's performing a lock request. Actually, this is a mistake. This should not be staged on step 1.1. It's a it's a I should advantage of the different, number. Apologies for that. Next slide, please. So, this is just going through the the steps the there are particular function calls next slide. So, eventually, this, performed lock will go to a driver. So you can see the top right. Does it get driver client driver client means that the fabric driver is to relay is communicating with is going to get handed to the driver client, and then it's going to issue a lock request to the driver."
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:30:00",
    "text": "The driver in turn will then, invoke a lock on the on the network. Next slide, please. So this is a code from a a chain code. So chain code, for those who don't know, is the fab high quality fabric equivalent of a smart contract. Which is the piece of code that, ultimately manages assets on the ledger. So, we have some very basic sample chain codes implemented within cacti to serve as reference. One of these is just a simple asset management chain code. And that was augmented by Zach want to create a a chain code called SATPsimple asset. And there, we have a pointing to a particular function that ultimately will assign an asset to an, to the recipient. Whenever that operation happens. Next slide. So to support now what I showed you in the demo, we have support for or we build support for, 2 fabric networks to transfer as each other. So what do you need if you want to have a different kind of network or even a different kind of a database at the behind the relays. So the relate itself is really agnostic. So what work has gone on for, adding SAT support to the relay, that's that's, once and, you don't have to repeat it again. Hypologic cacti already supports connectivity to other kinds of VLTs, like Bezos permission to Ethereum, Choram, cord, hybrid, or 2, etcetera. What you need to do is to build a new, connector or driver for each. Some of them already exist in cacti. So you just need to augment those drivers to, talk the, to the Relay Safety Services, and you need to make some additions to the client libraries to trigger the asset transfer functions, and you need to augment the sample apps, which which are the smart contracts. So the distributed apps are offered for for those particular networks. So, some augmentations needed in in these, but Otherwise, the the core, SAP function relay that that is done once and does not need to repeat it again. X like."
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:32:02",
    "text": "Before we move ahead, there's a question. Sure. Terrific. Is this something that's relevant to this slide or or the presentation in general? Hi, it's Peter. Just a quick question. So here is that a relay is, DLT agnostic, the question is, is that, is it a version that diagnosed version of Yep. We're just off to jail team a little closer to the mic. The version of different DLTs. So maybe, like, when like different DLTs you are interoperable with, they might have different versions that, Right. I don't know if that will impact, on your, relay, whatever. Can can you go back to slide 3? I can talk I can respond to the question with that background. Yeah. Thank you. So you can see here the relay, which is the the part on the on the left, the the big box, forget the yellow part. So what the relay has is if you look at the part on the left, That is the data agnostic part. And if you look at the three boxes on the right, they are 3 protocol adapters. Right? So those are what we call the drivers. There's another term used in Cacti call also called the connector driver connector either either way it just needs it's a module that has the ability to get a relay to talk to that particular network type. So the part on the left that does not care that cares neither about the DLT nor about the DLT version. Part on the right, it does. So if a if a particular DLT, gets upgraded to new version, yeah, you will to either upgrade that particular driver on the driver model on the right you have to build a new new driver which compatible with the, upgrade deal. Okay. So the, the platform SD case, something that you have to manually, you know, program up, you know, state the programs are Okay. I Yeah. That I think that's some engineering or maintenance efforts."
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:34:01",
    "text": "Definitely. It will involve some maintenance effort. Yeah. So within character, you will have to in fact, we we constantly keep doing I mean, we have, if you look at the cacti issues and the PRs over a period of time, you'll see that we we are quite agile to DLT's getting upgraded, and also of course, just updates to JavaScript or go and and all those things. Yeah, we are sensitive to deities getting upgraded. So for example, Hyperledger fabric. It's, getting to the 3.2 version, but, it's recently, I think a 2.5 version was released. So, over period of time, people, have try to keep pace with the later versions of fabric, which may or may not be backward compatible with the all the versions of the fabric. Yeah, it is a constant maintenance stuff. That's that's something we cannot unfortunately, avoid. Because, the way you talk to a deal team is very specific to that particular deal team, and we the the way we are trying to engineer interoperability is we want to, keep the give admin's freedom to the DLTs to evolve in their own way. And, we feel that the responsibility of people who made building interoperability tools is to, use the DLT as it currently exists rather than demand something over DLT. Okay. It's just, when you were supporting more and more DLTs I think your workload to maintain this thing is, is is high. It's getting large and large and large and So if any way that could automate the process, you'll be Great. It's just a comment Thanks. Sure. No. That's the point very well taken that that's why it's in open source project and we really solve it, all the help you can get from the community. Thank you. Thank you. I have a a question not as a chair, though. Is there any intention or ambition to extend this beyond DLT? So standard to other sort of nascent networks that may exist within banking systems, for instance. Yes. Absolutely. It's just that,"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:36:01",
    "text": "we need people to work on it. We haven't had the bandwidth yet, but but absolutely. That is the noscope. Thank you. And then I think Mike was next. Yeah. Mike McBride, I think Claire asked the exact question I was gonna ask is that this this is great, by the way, but, doesn't necessarily have to be a DLT. It could be hyperledger to some other non DLT, more traditional database potentially. Correct? There's nothing magical about it being a DLT. No. Okay. And speaking briefly as a chair, that's part of the the scope of this is that it needs to be network headmaster outside of the DLT. I was just in particular implementation. So thank you again for expanding on that. And then, we have a another speaker in the queue, Zayna. Hi. So the first one I wanna ask is also this the the one that Claire has asked, and and I was showing that in the demo that when I come up with that is is also, a very good demonstration of needed, And then my second question, is that can you elaborate when it is. Right? The the first question is can extend to non DLTs, but one good thing about the DLT is that it usually, within the DLTs, the message are cryptogically verifiable, and the states are verify publicly verifiable as well. And so when they when some of them are DLTs. Can you elaborate in which step in the workflow and which component in the system that verifies the message, that let's say one asset is already main sort of burned, locked or unlocked in one of the network. And Yeah. Okay. So, larger point, I think the, communication of, proof that, a ledger is not double spend something are not actually transferring that across SATP. That's at least not part of the SATP scope right now. Though, there are other, I have a draft on views and view communication, which actually"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:38:01",
    "text": "does deal with that that issue. In in SAT right now, any operation where the relays hitting the driver, really asking the driver do something. That is actually going through that particular network consensus process because the driver is a client which had the it, identity for the network. Driver is not something that that can change the drive the networks or the legislature state or the database is state by on its own. So, the the driver, because it's, sort of part of the security domain of the relay it is kind of trusted to be, genuine client and not not a not a malicious agent. So, as long as the driver just has the ability to submit transaction. And as long as the we trust the that the ledger or the network itself has not suffered any a visiting failure. I think the that's, we can assume that the ledger internally has not there's no double spending there or or the integrated ledger's meeting. So Does that answer your question? Think at this point, any any operation that goes through the driver, that, we can be assured that it is maintaining the logistics integrity. Yeah, with with my chair hat back on, I'll remind everybody that the scope of this working group included how to transfer digital assets between multiple different types of networks some of which may be public ledgers, some of which may be private ledgers, some of which may be databases, And there is an expectation that there are agreements between these different works, you know, that that will use to service the basis. Right? There's no, legal framework that could be instantiated into a protocol to make it actually work. So the same way that routing happens over legal frameworks and things like that too. That that you have to believe the other side is doing what you expected. So it may be that you know, an asset is transferred from a public to a public ledger, and then you can verify that afterwards."
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:40:00",
    "text": "But it may be that an asset is transferred to a private bank or something and you know, the this the the protocol verification will ensure that the the original one was maybe burnt in public, but to to promised that it was not done differently in private requires the the agreement between the two networks to come into play at that point. Thanks, guys. I think this is good. CLDR, we were trying to generic with the protocol. Understood. I, I think of my, that that point is well taken And I just, want to ask with the is it within the scope? That, a component will be able to verify the credentials or the, any proofs that, attest it to the the facts that the other side has done what SDK asked them to do. And, any totally okay that it is not within the scope, but, we, I think, is I wonder if this question had been asked and if the decision has been made. Victor, just take a look at the, the 2 separate graphs which are not part of the scope right now. Views and view request. So they talk about this, communicating, communicating proofs and verifying proofs across networks. So we're happy to discuss that with you. Yes. Does ask a good question. Do you support that within your relay to the network module you know, within your network implementation on the network side of of set protocol Do you support verification in some API mechanism. Right? Is that Victor I think I'll I'll I'll follow-up on on reading that reference. Thank you. Yeah. So, one thing I've not gone into here, but you'll actually find this in the documentation answer your question with. So the relays were envisioned as a module that, serve either 1 or more of,"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:42:00",
    "text": "particular networks consume members. So, I think that particular trust that you're talking about is already inbuilt. And, we actually used it quite a stringent test model, which is more stringent than what that we currently have, which is that it does not matter if, which of the networks numbers, run that relay. The they cannot maliciously tamper with the network state. Thank you, Rama. We're just over time, I'll allocate it to this particular piece, there anything else rough. I think if you can just go past, I think there was just a a couple of slides on logging. It's why I wanted flash them. Yes. I think we went in to do just go, yeah, just go a couple of slides before. Before this. Okay. We're out we're out of time. So just if if you could Right. So this is just, for folks, this piece, take a look. This is how log logging was implemented. So if you can move further down, I think, 3 more slides, status also, you can take a look next slide, please. Just wanna quickly tell people about this. So these are, some feedback from, Zachorn implemented the the protocol, and, he had some because not everything was very straightforward to implement. So as you can see, I made a note of some of these, like, the second one that the interface between the gateway and the driver is not clear, he said. Which is true, but that's out of scope for that piece. Something that we have to do we have to bring someone around. So, we can maybe take these issues on the mailing list. Thank you. Thank very you much. My one question is Did you find the issues with the protocol and you did? So, yes, please do file those. Yep. Definitely. Fabulous. Thank you so much for that. I am gonna employ the, Wes just just reminded me there's a a new feature called a timer rather than me clock watching, we can we can have the time run for the next next speaker."
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:44:00",
    "text": "Any any further questions at all for for Rama's presentation? And thank you again very good summary. Nope. Okay. Thank you. So moving on then, I believe, we have Victor who has his, 5 minute demo. Are you comfortable sharing your own screen, or would you like me to or have is this something that's oh, you have requested shifts were in yeah. Let me see if I can share the screen. Yeah. Absolutely. Let me just I put it up. O, Here we go. And also does it play the, does it play the, the, the sound. That is a good is a very good question. It goes beyond my knowledge. So try it and and see, I think, is the answer. Okay. So, this is, a demo of, how we can, use NFT to represent ownership and change these when you, NFT change hands, they can change a control of the domain, and then it demonstrated need for a, a a protocol likes, SAP, to coordinate the complexity, within and between registrar's and and registries. So let's see if works out. Can you Can you hear me? Can you hear it? No. Oh, I can't hear. Okay. You can I can? Yeah. Okay. I'll I'll just narrates myself, So, basically, this is the, of a interface that we create, and then you can register sure the domain And by using, metadata to, sort of metamask to log in. And then you'll see that, if we have, our own tokens support, just like payment, payment, US dollars we can use it to register. This is very similar to how GoDaddy works except where"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:46:01",
    "text": "the payment this is on chain and also the NFT is on chain. And, as in a demo, we implement this and deploy it on Therium test network, and it's an op you can see the NFT on OpenC. So the first part demonstrate how to register and let me navigate to the second part, which is when how do you use, how to use it, you use it to, to control or use the NFT or to control the ownership and the ability to, manage the DNS record. And this is a typical DNS record management. For example, like, this, metallic dot tech is one that we want to, allow managing a different user. Right? And so, currently, it's the control of Alice. But then, if you log out and log in with another tester, which is Becker, Becca doesn't have that. Doesn't have that NFT and doesn't have then doesn't have the control of that domain name. So you will see when when when she logs in, there's no, domains, the metallic dot tech is not under her name, but when Alice, log in. And Alice trying to, send the NFT over to, to baker. So, Let's say, Alice will sign a transaction. And, send the NFT to, to to, to to Becca and waiting for the transaction to go through"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:48:00",
    "text": "So, basically, at point, we're sending, we're confirming that, Alice is sending the trans, the NFT to, to back up. And, everyone can hear 5, this is in in a in a test net of, of a CRM And once that's done, Once that's done, Alice no longer have the domain in her, dashboard. And when the account log in, It will show up on backhouse, dash foot. So this is, generally demonstrating NFT being used as the ownership control. Now I wanna, I wanted to show that I wanna say that this demonstration shows that the complexity in this process is that when, there is an NFT being minted. We know that's the control of of the domain now is in the hand of, of the, of the NFT, NFT owner, and then the, there should be a lock for the registrar to not send it out or to to avoid it. And that's one thing that needs to be coordinated. And then the other one is to a settlement, for example, when there's a payment or I don't know if it this is what asset exchange refer to here. When there's a payment involved, that only a payment is is sent and is is settled and a registration where a new renewal is done. On there's also a need of coordination in a protocol. So, I just wanna say that as a, implementer of this using VLT or using Ethereum as a way to control domain ownership to represent it. It shows a need for something like, sapped it's at, SAT,"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:50:01",
    "text": "Yeah. I'm done. Sorry, for a bit over time. Yeah. It's okay. I would say that was pretty pretty close to Tom's, so thank you very much for that. Is there any questions or comments on on that that demo at all? We're we're rating Victor that was helpful. I will in the working group that wants to consider whether this use case should go into the document or not. There's an thread, please go go comment with your opinion on yay or nay, so that decide whether goes into the official use case document I don't see anybody in the queues. I think we're good. Again, thank you, Victor. That's, really useful and to echo that if we could vote on include on the inclusion of them. Moving on then, I think we're just about on time for the report from the network identification design team, I think Thomas and share this. Again, would you like me to present Thomas please. Thank you, Claire. Over to you. Next slide, please. So so build background for those who who are new here. So this, discussion, I think, started the 2 months ago, and and the decision that 2 interim meetings ago was to create a subgroup that would know, go away and work on this and subgroup, has met, I think, three times being some more James, because it's just apparently, more complexity that we did not think about. But the problem is listed here. I've I've written as goals, but but but basically, you know, when you wanna do a a cross network transfer and you're creating a a transaction for the cross network, if the if the destination network has a fork in it there's a possibility that you might end up on the wrong fork. Right? And so that that that that problem means that when you create a destination address of a network"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:52:00",
    "text": "you you need to also include which for you know, if should there be a far, which side of the 4 could be multiple. It works. Which side of the fork, you know, you wanna you wanna get into the second thing, but but in doing so, it doesn't mean that a local transaction needs to care about the whole, network address, it it couldn't it it may not even be aware of the existence of a fork within its own network. Right? So this is And then thirdly, which is, I think, the the harder part, which is, you know, how do you legally say, you know, we own this address, you know, so so if good example is of if, you know, a bunch of, companies get together, and they wanna create their own private closed know, network. Know, and they say, well, this is, this is our network level address. How how do they declare that through the world. Now, I know WES WES is very, very knowledgeable about this, but I think if example of this is your AS number. And I think, you get that Is it Aaron? Where's that issues those, AS numbers for the ISPs. You get them It it gets through IANA, actually. I am the 1. Okay. Yeah. So so this equivalent does not exist for asset networks. So that's that's sort of the 3rd bullet. And and the the force of the requirement there is that, as we saw earlier, the the the gateways need to also understand maybe it's embedded part of semantics that that the system behind, the gateway is actually a a monolithic system, like a real bang grass element you know, the or to and that this makes it really complicated, but it needs to be backward compatible with some of the major networks are there. In particular with, Ethereum."
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:54:00",
    "text": "Next next slide please, Clear. Thank you. So so this is for those who who know what a TRV is, you can you can go this is just, sort of a quick you know, summary of of why we're looking at at TLVs. I know the mailing list, you'll see people saying, why don't you use seaborne and my point is, like, swap down about the format. Let's just let's just understand the the the need and one possible structure to represent this And so the group has been looking at you know, the idea of devoting 8 bits the first aid list identifying the type of network. And, type type 1 is gonna be public permissionless with a Genesis block. Type 2 is the same thing, but private close. Also with the Genesis block and type 3 type 3 are the monolithic system that RTGS systems and so on. That doesn't have a Genesis block. And the reason you'll see it later on is that the the the way, Drax Zhang has has of right now and the way it's is being used in, Ethereum, the Genesis block, is used to distinguish forks. So the, you know, if there is a 4, then one of them is gonna use the Genesis, but blocked the other fork is gonna use a hash of the block just before the branch. So it's very clear you know, the distinguished, you know, direction of of the 4 And, recently, I think, 2 weeks ago, probably even more recent, there was this question about l 2, a layer 2 blocking. So for folks who don't know, it's it's a see how do I say this slide? It's a pretty new thing, and there's there's no settlement I mean, there's no agreed meaning of, of layer 2, but, but in some networks, speed is a problem. And so the the general proposal is that some of these operations would be conducted"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:56:00",
    "text": "away from the network off chain stuff occurs. And when everybody's happy, it gets gets roll back into the main networks. They're called roll up. But there are multiple ways of doing this. And you're interested, you can see, the email that Wazia posted, I think, the last week, giving a summary for this meeting. And I I know he's supposed to join us today, but he said, you know, he may be late or may not even be able to make So in the next two slides, we're gonna look at the the Type 1 and type 2. Addresses with the Genesis block. Next, slide this clear. So so the, the subgroup decided, well, we, we kinda need the default mode, and it needs to be 32 bytes primarily because this is the 32 bytes that's being used for Ethereum. So the the reason of this is backward compatible the the some systems that only want 30 gigabytes and and no more And so, in the in the in current iteration drives young 0, there's 7 bytes being accorded being given to the reserve but the current, state of discussion is that we could reduce that 7 into 4 bytes, and be able to use one of the bytes as a check some. So in this particular style. This is the default notes. Only 32 bytes. Byte position 31 is actually not used. Right? And you'll see in the next slide, it will be used. But this is what it looks like. But the important thing about this one is that the second eight bits, which is the the length of the the l is all zeros. Because there's no there's no need to indicate the length because we know exactly what it is. It is, you know, from 2 to 31. And and this is, this is, I think, also explained on the mailing list"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:58:00",
    "text": "Now, and the Genesis block is the 16 bytes then, you know, 7 position 7th to, 2 to 17. Next slide, is clear. So, if if a particular network that has a Genesis block, needs more space than steady 2 bytes, then they will use the extended life blocked. In which case, the the l, you know, byte, is gonna gonna be it's gonna be used as usual. And it's gonna indicate the length in bytes. So it's gonna retain pretty much the same you know, by 7 to 31 is is you know, as as before, but now, by 31 is gonna be used as the check sum for the remainder all the way to buy positioned to 87. And so, you're given 266 byte's addition for, you know, specific, network identification you know, needed for this, type 2 network. Type 2 is private closed permission, but with a Genesis So that means that the Genesis bug is still going to be recorded invite 2 to buy 17. Is the 16 bytes. So it's, it's kind of the same format you know, basically with additional stuff at the end. And why why is this because there was discussion, that there might be networks who would like to use human readable characters in addition to you know, the the the machine readable address. And so the human readable portion would be by 32 onwards. Find a 266 characters, and I we think it's enough know, I think most of the networks today, you know, you know, you know, describing describing is is far less than 25 to 6 bytes."
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:00:02",
    "text": "Okay. Next slide. Please. So so this is what the current draft sharing 00 looks like. And so we're gonna reduce 4, 7 into 4, and that's just reserved for, you know, future needs next slide. And that's it. And, so we continue that's kinda just a report up to the to the group, will continue, discussions particularly about, about L2, but layer 2, Dennis, I don't know if you wanna add anything about this l 2 because this is this is, an interesting, problem that that it's it's worth for us in this subgroup to consider because I mean, my mind, we have to design this for 30 years out. And so you know, we would like to avoid know, having to redo everything in in 15 years, just because we didn't consider layer Dennis, you wanna you wanna say something about layer to me? too. Yeah. Yes. Yeah. Okay. Yeah. One of the issues of layer 2 as we're discussing is that it's perfectly impossible to understand in which, DLT layer 1 are anchoring the transactions. That's one issue here that we have to address. We might be pretending, for example, anchoring in Ethereum, but actually not doing it. So it is a whole discussion about how we will identify, l2networks I will make sure that, practically, it ends up having all the the checks and cryptographic guarantees that we need for layer 1. So this is still an option open subject. Alright. That's all I can say for the moment. Thank you. And we have was wanting to approach the mic Yeah. Big Lots of time. I met the mic,"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:02:00",
    "text": "Thank you, Thomas. That was that was useful, I guess, from a working group point of view, do you have an estimate on the time left needed to sort of wrap up your proposal. So we've scheduled 2 more subgroup meetings. I mean, I I feel the last three has been very productive. And and so if we got 2 more meetings, if if we could somehow have some kind of a scheme extension to address this crazy a layer 2 thing. I say crazy because when you talk to different people, they mean different things. And there's different technologies, how to merge, how to anchor the domain you know, network, but hopefully 2 more meetings. I think as I said at the interim meeting, it'll be if we could you know, write this up by the next ATF which is gonna be in in March, but that's gotta you know, our goal Okay? Follow on Well, one note to the entire working group rate. The design team is building a recommendation the working group gets to make the final call on whether it's the right solution or, you know, they're other things. So a it's just a deep enough dive into a subject that needs more thought that we created a design team for Yep. To the Anyone's welcome. If if anybody wants to, join in. Yeah. You know, I think we post the Zoom link on the, on the mailing list. For things to to to make sure that you think about. I think that you're no a second ago Thomas was spot on that you need to be thinking about what does it take 30 years from now for this whole system to keep working. So one thing I I'd consider is make sure that what you are coming up with is properly architected in such a way that it fits in the SAT protocol itself. Which, you know, uses JSON and types of encoding so that you know, you keep asking about bits and bytes, which is fine. But the reality is it's the way that that might be encoded final protocol may be in a slightly different"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:04:02",
    "text": "form. So I I would stick to a consistent terminology between the core protocol and what this looks like in terms of encoding. You know, good point. Thank you, Wes. Yeah. One other thought about if you're gonna end up creating a registry in the in IANA for the tags associated with this it's often very common to put in one private use value. So that 2 interoperating networks can actually agree to some format that is not necessarily a standard definition. So So do you consider that potentially, it's often allocated as the very last value in the range. So two for something 2b5. Okay. Cool. No. Thank you. That's good input. And there was another question. It went away, but I didn't see who it was. Oh, and we're over to Kate? No. I I think that was everything. Good. Okay. Any any questions, folks, otherwise, mailing list and and look at wages email from, like, I think, 3 days ago, 4 days ago. That provides a very sort of detailed summary Thank you, Thomas. Thank you, Claire. Just And then our last, scheduled speaker for today is Dennis Dennis, same question. Are you wanting to share your insights. Yes, please. If you can share. Yeah. I'll be in next absolutely. Perfect. So the whole discussion about the asset profiles, is about the the context in which the, SAT is is operate. So the the idea is to describe"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:06:02",
    "text": "as precisely as possible the assets being transferred because there is a part of negotiation before SatPay starts. On whether we could do you hear me? Yes. You're good. Yeah. Okay. Alright. Yeah. Yeah. Whether the transfer could be accepted one on on the other side. So as part of the whole discussion on the context of the transfer of SAP we're discussing about asset profiles. So there is also a proposal to change a bit the vocabulary to be more precise because when you're talking about profiles work, talking about the schema definition, so a high level type definition of what an is So our next slide, please, we set we can set the context here is, if as you see in the bottom is also the first slide that we saw. It is the SAP protocol transferring assets from one gateway to the other, which means that there there are the systems behind the gateways. Systems could be networks or monolithic. That hold the the asset instances. So the the important is here to define what is the the asset and how we can define it in a more generic way. So as we could see, the schema here, we have the the asset schemas that are defined, but specific authority, I mean, the legal entity that in a specific jurisdiction has the right to define what a asset on a specific domain is And then there are issuers, which are also legal entities, that instantiate the asset on a specific case on a specific industry. So if we can, switch to the next slide, here's the, vocabulary also very important is that we are having what"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:08:01",
    "text": "are aiming at the working group. To define a general definition of what asset schema is. And I'll show a bit the the different kind of attributes that we believe are important as part of this general definition. And then by specializing this asset schema, We can define pair industry specific cases. For example, in the, the example that we see the demo we saw about the DNS, transfer one type asset that we can think it the what is the definition of a tokenized DNS domain? Example. If we take the supply chain, a bill of lading, for example, could be an asset that has a schema that is defined with specific attributes and specific characteristics. Or if we take the in finance, the over the counter trading, for example, you can imagine that an asset could be a tokenized commodity, for example, like a gold, for example, So the idea here is to be able to specify most amountically, what an asset is, And during the negotiation between the transfer between 2 networks through their gateways, there is also the definition of the asset schemas that is, extend somehow. So the gateways can can decide whether they can go for it, transfer on the specific asset associated to a particular schema. So the two layers as we saw, it's the general definition there is the specific industry definition of assets. Now when it comes to networks, we instantiate these assets So it could be a bill of lading with a specific identifier or it could be at tokenized commodity being gold, for example, for a specific asset custodian, or there is a, tokenized domain for a specific Vitalic.tech, for example, in the example that we saw before, other instances that are managed by the networks. Networks,"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:10:01",
    "text": "Again, it could be monolithic systems or DLTs or or, you know, other technologies. So Having said that, what we are aiming is, of course, to move that to an RFC. That is part of the context of how Sati could work. And, we have defined in next slide, a set of components of what an asset schema, should contain first of all, it's very important to, identify the asset So there is a definition of a unique ID in this specific network. That is the on chain part, and there is definitely, enough off chain part as well because there might be assets that don't leave inside, the network, but there'll be also know, outside, in an off chain, world. So there is any sort of, off chain network identifier. That should also be part of the asset definition besides also the normal identification, because, for example, if we have easing codes. If we have financial instruments, then we have also, normative code definitions. So the kind of code that we're using and eventually any sort of description that be like a key information document. Like, prospectus of the asset. It's also part of the the identification now. The one very important next component of the asset schema is the of attributes. So, basically, the data, the data structure of the asset what kind of data the asset, contains with a specific structure. So definitely Jason Aldi is a good candidate. A precise definition of the basic data types that could be should be open. So any sort of schema definition should do to be from schema.org to other vocabularies."
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:12:03",
    "text": "So that's one important, component of the asset schema. Now the other part, it's also related to the capabilities that this the asset, has. For example, in which network we can transfer it over to which network. So typically, you can say that we have a, asset living in Polygon, can only be transferred to, EVM compatible network, for example, the, you know, either Israel or other, or even hypervisor, if it is a private network. So the the allows, networks to be transferred could be a capability as well as what we are also defining here as trade ability, which is against which, asset this asset could be traded with. For example, if it is a domain, I can allow only USD as a payment. And not ether, for example, So these are kind of constraints that could be part of the capabilities. The the tradability in the specific case case, So other things is also about the life cycle the the asset. So in some networks, if I take Hedera, for example, or, Ethereum or a to of Tesos, there'll be different, the basic, operations that could be applied So there might be, of course, meeting and burning, but there are the other things that may not be compatible. So the way to extinguish the asset is also part of the constraints the definition of the asset. We can make sure that when, the one is deleted on one network, it is created on the other network, so we don't have duplications, for example. No. Other things that are not necessarily very technical, but they are very important. It's whether the asset could be taxed, whether they have to be collateralized, or even confiscated by some, legal authorities and specific jurisdictions. So all of these things"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:14:00",
    "text": "could be part of the capabilities And if we move to the other sections that we foresee in the asset schemas, of course, any sort of ownership that could be from the creator, to processor, to distributor, I mean, processor, it's very also in the EU with a GDPR. The distributors, the custodians, the owners, should all have the specific identification. Now in terms of compliance, it's also the the fact that there may be that are audited. For example, in European Union, we have all the, the definition about the circularity, claims about the the assets that could be transferred over as supply chains, So the fact that we have, audits on the specific assets. It's something that be reflected in the schema. So who has audited the asset And, if there is evidence of the audit and eventually some, expiration dates of the, the validity of the asset, And, also, last part, the jurisdiction of of the assets. So defining, what kind of asset there might be, jurisdictions where the asset could be signals utility. Other words could be seen as as a different type of, kind of asset So the definition of jurisdiction and the, the way that that we can trade the asset in the specific jurisdictions is also important. Next slide. So when it comes to instantiating the asset in a specific network, there are definitely some requirements in terms of processing. So we should be able to identify the asset have a rest a reference to the schema of the assets. Being able to track the asset if it has been moved from one network to the other. So we know that this extinguished in the one network and moves in another one. And"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:16:01",
    "text": "there are other processing constraints also that we should be able to serialize the asset instance to persist it, And when we deserialize it from persistence to keep the same stable, has, for example, So all of these are, specific technicalities And there are also related RFCs for serializing for signing the assets, So these are all part of how we, we imagine the the processing of the assets on the specific networks and how this could interfere with the, the way that the gateway is also, managing the transfer. And, of course, I mean, as we're discussing about, more semantic, context here, a discovery of, of assets. It's also a service that we can contemplate as part of the overall definition of how they transfer. And the the directory facet and the discovery could could could take place. So that's it. Thank you very much. If you have questions, Thank you, Dennis. And just before we move into questions, if I may, a note from me on behalf of the chairs to say this is not currently inside. Existing scope, but is a is a proposal for potential future scope, which obviously, some fantastic work already done, and we have a question here from Rama. Hey, Dennis. Hey. Hey, Dennis. Yeah. Thanks. A quick question and a longer question. Quick referring to bullet number 3 on the slide. I was cons I was thinking about, trackability across networks. So it's a previous ID, that includes the network ID of the previous should include the network ID of the previous network. Right? Could be, yes, and and could be eventually a reference to the the previous asset instance, if for example, it is burned, but you can keep trace of what it was"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:18:03",
    "text": "Eventually, you can have a reference on the previous, as I'd say, the idea of asset in the previous network is this, and now we are there. So it could be more than the network. It could be also the, the former instance. The previous network, for example, Right. Right. No. No. I I totally agree. Should have the ID of asset in the previous instance, I of this thing that in addition, it should have the previous network ideas so that we can trace which network it belonged to before it came to the network. Right? Definitely. And and one question would be that whether in the definition of the asset ID, we include the network ID. So there'd be high probability that as part of the idea of the asset, we include, the idea of its network. That I think, yeah, that makes sense. That's, it's because and ID is unique only within that network's namespace. Right? So Sure. That's that's Sure. Sorry. A longer question, that I'm channeling that one. We implemented PM. This is an a point mentioned in the in the presentation I gave as well, so he had a concern about suppose gateway crashes and then recovers, And then it decodes that it cannot lock a particular asset because assets are already in the log state. Now we don't actually know just by the asset being logged, whether it was locked by this gateway before it crash, the words is locked by completely unrelated process. So, should we think have a augment the schema that you're discussing with some kind of a universal state exposure mechanism for a for an asset that tells her that that you know, allows gateway to query the state of an asset in the network and figures out, okay, if it is a if it is in the lot state, then Did my current SAP instance, lock it, or was it something else. Yeah. This is a very important one. This also has to do with the efficiency of of, of the transfer. For example, if you put the the lock"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:20:04",
    "text": "or at the asset, at the asset level or the asset instance level, it means that there is you have a kind of pessimistic locking. So there is one gateway locking that specific asset instance. And if something goes wrong, you have to recover. And but the asset is kind of reserved for the specific transfer. So that's one way of implementing is, you know, the pessimistic looking, it may be straightforward the other thing could be that you can have gateways and that because you can have multiple gateways, having access to the in the network on the specific instance, competing for the transfer of the asset. So this is kind of the more optimistic looking way of implementing things. Where you could say, I mean, the first that completes takes the asset instance and the others actually fail because the the instance has been already transferred. Now whether we can allow more parallelism in the processing or we allow for us specific logging and pessimistic locking, it's something that has to do also with the efficiency of the implementing self pay. Can go both ways. But if we put the lockdown of the asset instance, then we definitely decided to go on a pessimistic locking approach. That my eventually allow less parallelism Right. No. I take the point about the performance. I think, but there's an ambiguity in the sense that, if if I if I have the gateway I recover, from a crash. Mhmm. And then it discovered that the asset is logged I think if the asset has been locked by some other SAT instance, and not by the fact that I am now in the middle of then I should just back off. Right? But if if it is, this, if it was me who logged it, before crashing, then I'm duty bound to continue the SATP protocol. How do I distinguish these 2 states? That's the There is, yeah, there is a part. I don't remember which exact number in the flow, but there is a roll forward mechanism. So from the moment that you know that"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:22:01",
    "text": "you cross a specific step in the SAT protocol, which is the 3rd part of the confirmation of the commit I believe that there, you cannot do anything else, waiting for the gateways to recover. But in all the previous steps, yeah, 3.6. Thanks Thomas. And so in the, For all the previous steps, we could eventually assign the asset instance to a different transfer, And then it will just you know, be not a successful commit, that it will be a rollback on the specific, asset instance, and that's fine. That's normal. On the specific transfer. I mean, Okay. Thanks, and thanks, Thomas, for pointing the step. Brilliant. Thank you very much. Unless there's any more questions for Dennis today, And So there is a question about crash recovery and the reorgs of the network. So this this specific question is not, of course, it's not part of the asset definition because the asset lives inside the network. So it's more like on the on the resilience and the recovery of the protocol I would say, I don't know if, but I would like to complement on that. So if an asset is, configured, transferred out and, it was the idea on from the losing network. And, now that losing network if, block recovery in DLT or block reorg in DOT, or let's say if we spend it to general different type of, measures or database based lushers. They, somehow come up with a state that is inconsistent with what, the sapped, as ATP already, instance, already recorded. How do we Is that considered a part of a kind of crash because the SAT instance is not crashed, but state could It shows, and it's a consistent be Yeah."
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:24:00",
    "text": "And let's say, or in some jurisdictions, right, there is a there's is not a reward, but it's a sea seizure. Right, you know, by by the dress authority. How do we reflect that in in in our protocol? So I think this is a fantastic discussion, and I hate to cut it off, but we're running short on time. Can we take that discussion of the list? It looks like, an excellent thing to work out maybe in one of our interim meetings, which I think, Claire was supposed to talk about absolute next election. I think Peter still got his hand up, but unless it's something that that's different. I suggest we we take that to the mailing list just in the that that that that the consensus of time. Or as, I said, in the interim meetings, So, as a group, we've been having interim meetings on the 1st Tuesday of every month. At 3:30 my time, GMT. Is that still something that people feel would be valuable having? Obviously, we'll we'll put a a a request on the mailing list to confirm this, but do people still feel that having an interim meeting on the 1st Tuesday of every month at 3:30 PM e PMT is is suitable. Is it that the interim meetings might need a new time or date? Do we feel that we do still want to have them monthly? Is a general question. Anybody have opinions? Chat says, intune is useful. Monthly is good. Plus one on that. Is there, any and I'll put a mailing list note out, but is there any kind improvement on on time or date for anyone, or does the current setup work Claire, I would suggest that considering people rotate through the working group that that that we might wanna send out a doodle or something to figure out a generic one to figure out the best time of day. And week. Yep. Absolutely. Yep. I will do that. Thank you Alright. So we are still in"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:26:00",
    "text": "Any other business, cert certainly forward progress on how we're gonna work? I I would I guess one of the other questions is, we're certainly not gonna meet in November because it's already passed. Do we wanna skip December and go to January as another question and take a month off from the interim meetings, or are we good to go and and wanna keep going. Yeah, please. Give it a second. It's it's probably rebooting Try now. Okay. Now it's working. It's Peter here is just a quick comment. I last IETF I, discussed with, Rama Belson. Interesting use cases. And, regarding using setp for practicing you know, complex, some financial instruments, something like, an option and also other use cases like pay as you watch and find that kind of interesting. And, I already have that use case origin, but, not ready for discussion before this IETF. So maybe after the IETF, I'll send it to the mailing list for discussion. Yeah. Please. Exactly. I would I would send that 66 text blocks that you think should go into the use case document. And then the working group can decide if it looks, cool. Pro work on And and for working group participants, please do comment when you see something you'd like just because you you like it, doesn't mean don't write. You need to you need to say you you wanna support something as well that you you support its inclusion because it's a good use case. true for Victor's DNS proposal too. That's Thanks. Well, it's great for me. Route. Alright. Say that again, Claire, you were echo y."
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:28:03",
    "text": "I was diagnosed with this week because it's yeah, they're they're twiddling with all the audio at the moment. I think though we are concluded as where you were likely going. And so thank you everybody for coming. Will end right on time. And, I think that this working group is making good progress and, port to the ASG later that, you know, this this group has been plugging along monthly and getting a lot done and possibly getting a draft ready for left call 1 year after starting the group is is actually not common. So well done on everybody's part. Thank you very much everybody for coming."
  }
]
