[
  {
    "startTime": "00:00:09",
    "text": "okay I guess it's time so let's start this is the uh my Navy working group interim virtual meeting um there were a few more people who are responded to the doodle for determining the dates that I don't see yet but on the other hand we have Kirsten and Michael in the audience which is always good welcome um this interview was basically scheduled because during itf-117 we sort of overrend the hour that we had and with the discussion on work items for a new Charter still left on the agenda and so as suggested by uh Alvaro who was in the audience at the time um we have organized this this into a meeting and hopefully we can at least start some discussion here which uh of course will have to be continued on the mailing list but I'll get to that first of all this is a in in Virtual intermitting but it's still an IDF meeting so I think we're governed by the novel I think that all the seasoned IDF participants in the audience are aware of its contents um the nurses denote really well be polite and constructive if you feel uh"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:02:02",
    "text": "uh mistreated in any way you can turn to the homeless persons and they will take appropriate action resources for resetting for this session are listed here with your foundation so I think um that's a bit redundant at that stage um but not always done we have an agenda um with only a few items because the opposition is on discussing no work items or work items for a new Charter I should say um if there's any time left and anybody has uh something uh interesting urgent or otherwise relevant you can edit at the end we have one we have an hour and a half but it doesn't uh it isn't a big problem if we end some other does anybody want to change the agenda no one in the queue so maybe not um Donald Eastlake uh has prepared a presentation that will go into how payroll is supposed to be"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:04:00",
    "text": "assimilated it's his terms choice of words um into uh of a working group and therefore I would like to give to and I gave the four to uh Donald because it will also set the stage for some of the later discussions I will share this slide dick s do you want me to Advance the slides I don't hear you I've needed myself briefly there now you can hear me I hope yes now again all right okay sure I was just saying you can advance the slides it's easier um so actually maybe this the name of the presentation and the YouTube thing I linked here aren't completely conformant to the harassment policy but anyway Technologies uh next slide uh so I I think I presented on people at the last ITF meeting with us to go over briefly here it's uh distance Vector algorithm uh also known as distributed development Ford so essentially similar to uh to rip but it does have additional mechanisms uh these uh avoid Loops so you don't have the count to infinity or comp some finite number you've picked out of thin air and uh of course the loop avoidance mechanism under certain circumstances could lead to there being no roots there's a starvation avoidance"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:06:00",
    "text": "mechanism so as long as you got a route you should be able to get to it um so it also reacts faster to topology changes and things like that it's been shown to be very effective at uh networks that have mixtures of uh low and high quality links uh such as Wireless or hybrid Wireless uh wired networks does has done well in the battle mesh competitions in Europe and so forth there are multiple open source implementations and there's a little old but there's a much more in-depth technical uh discussion there of uh how the Babel rotting protocol works next slide so the bevel working group has cranked out rfcs that were an earlier set of experimental rfcs they've been replaced by these the bold face entries here are all standards uh proposed standards and the key one is 8966 it is the payable routing protocol the next two 67 and 68 are security uh macus provides an authentication and integrity and uh the a68 8 provides uh encryption also using datagram TLS uh and it has been extended from that uh there is a source specific routing um and uh there's a somewhat interesting uh rc9229 the last one there you can route using uh you can route IPv6 sorry rpv4 traffic through uh they will Network even though the router is uh and the package I mean the routers all have just IPv6 addresses so uh there have been proposals for other things but the Bible working group has been very careful to really only do technical development in areas where there was a demonstrated demand I say"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:08:00",
    "text": "people really want to use it for example there is a draft that was never adopted by the working group on having a type of service specific routing so you might have different routing for different types of service and that was uh there wasn't didn't seem to be enough demonstrated need for that that wasn't adopted or progressed on the other hand Source specific routing uh 9079 was adopted and progressed and um is used and it in fact was required by uh HomeNet uh for and Babel is in fact the mandatory to implement routing protocol for home net next slide please so there are three drafts in the working group oh sorry well they have working group names there are three graphs that haven't made an RFC yet should we say um one of them is the Yang model which has been hung up for quite a while on a misref it's basically there's a I believe it's a security related uh Yang component whatever that uh many drafts are holed up on so that's really all uh been through the process and through the isg and everything and as soon as uh this other Yang draft gets out of the way it'll uh progress uh there is the um back available Mac relax the first one there uh is in worth 48 uh for a bit I need to Ping the author on that uh that is because under certain circumstances uh you have uh unicast and multicast Frames uh reordered this can happen inside an 802.11 Wi-Fi chipset so that you really have those software control over it and uh basically be able to understand certain that it uses a sequence numbering and uh therefore you need to"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:10:03",
    "text": "maintain separate counters for unicast and multicast or in some other way account for that without getting uh false indications of uh drops when the problem is not the droplet is the reordering so uh that's all through the process and is it it's about uh we'll pop out as an RFC shortly after uh the final RFC editor things were resolved the last one there uh is currently NAD review is uh the round trip time extension uh it turns out that there's a way to calculate a metric for links that the link is based on the delay router play and you of course immediately say well but that'll lead to feedback and oscillation and so on and so forth but in fact methods to deal with that problem have been found and this particular metric is widely used in the field very successfully so when this draft explains that and hopefully that will progress there are uh other than those there are no Babel working group drafts so all the working group graphs that existed haven't been published are the three listed on this page and they're all uh in process as shown so it seems like a good time and so the idea is when the the particularly the last one progresses a bit further I assume then the available working group will be shut down and the idea is to transfer maintenance work to the many working group Next slide please so what things are in the Babel Charter that the Babel hasn't done the only not completed item described in the charter uh was multicast and this is the charter language or extract from the charter language uh wasn't considered a high priority but"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:12:00",
    "text": "as a non-primary focus to could do multicast and it lists here various uh things that should be taken into taken into account uh probably using Pim SM but it's not uh I don't think that would have actually been necessary to use that there have been presentations to Babel concerning the possibility of using beer for multicast and stuff like that um so that's so you can see there and it uh there has been in fact for a little work on multigast in Babel next slide please so what would you need to do to the man a charter to move uh Babel maintenance over it's really pretty trivial uh the most of them in a charter is uh I read as I read it fairly General I can accommodate a wide variety of things uh the last two paragraphs uh one says currently says that Monet will consult with the Babel work Group which will be difficult to do after it doesn't exist now the mailing list will probably remain and lastly uh there's a list of things which many work group is responsible for the maintenance thereof and uh Babel would be added to that so it's really just a minor wording tweak at the end there to transfer available maintenance to Benet next slide so you might also want to do things with Monet Milestones you could add a milestone to Monet related to multicast extensions for Babel and uh recently um partly in my agitation there has been a discussion of uh adapting Mabel for use in uh electrically a 211 Wi-Fi mesh so uh this uh I give a presentation at 117 and there's the pointer to the full presentation on that including uh"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:14:02",
    "text": "pointer to that presentation includes a pointer to the liaison from 80 to 11 explicitly saying that they're fine if the ietf wants to do this um so that's basically it I think in the next slide I think is the end slide so if anybody has any questions related to any of these I'd be happy to Endeavor to answer them thank you Donald any one any questions yeah just a clarification of um what we should do with the mailing list um you mentioned the Babel mailing list uh continuing if if all new Babel work goes to many should we just uh somehow merge the mailing list uh that's possible I'm not sure what's been done previously with uh protocols whose work was transferred to many um the bigger working group mailing list is not particularly active currently I think that the people who are really interested in Monet could adapt to moving the traffic to the met a list so that seems like a perfectly reasonable thing to do I think I will I can inquire on the Bible working mailing list as to whether people see anything problematic with that yes that makes sense all right okay um I'll bring up my chair slides again"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:16:03",
    "text": "um so um following on from our bubble will become part of the money working group in the new Charter and in our the general uh work items for the new Charter discussion um I have prepared some slides but feel free to interrupt me at any time if you have any comments or suggestions we need to retort in order to be able to take on the work and actually also to share some items from the charter that will never materialize we think the gears think uh and also to to formalize this uh so-called assimilation of people um we just start the discussion now uh it really has been my intention to already start the discussion on the Merit list but uh yeah it did not happen because uh other activities got the better of me um what I am doing in the next slide to throw out a whole long list of potential items and hopefully we can just eliminate a few already and reduce it significantly um in any case for this maybe the most important Criterion for for taking on the work if is that there's actually somebody in the"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:18:01",
    "text": "work group that's willing to uh to put effort in this because otherwise we will again end up with a a charter with a number of debt items so to so to speak so um the current uh Charter we had the development uh of uh of dealer and that has been at least very successful the previous Charter the current Charter was established in 2016. uh the work on d-lap was already well underway then but it is it was finished I think in summer 2017 um at least RC 80.75 was and then a number of extensions to develop have immersed since then um we're still trying to get um the credit based the flow control um extensions out the door and in the meantime there has been a simpler flow control scheme devised and that may lead to RC status 8651 um the idea to use dealt extensions for reporting statistics was never picked up the work on the credit based flow control was let's say modularized in such a way that there's a different thrust for terrific"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:20:00",
    "text": "classification that could in theory Also Serve other purposes than flow control it could be a basis for instance for this Statistics reporting but my impression is that there's not much interest in doing this anymore so I would I would suggest to drop this and not let this come back on the new charger but uh if anybody uh I think it's otherwise then I'd like to uh to hear that um there was an intention to more work on on multicast specifically on the way that uh shape Room 5 North Coast forwarding was was implemented as an experimental RFC and maybe like a slightly different approach I never really understood um what the protocol action would be here because in my view developing this multicast forwarding information base is is a local implementation thing but uh again if if somebody has a different film I'd like to hear that but not much as has happened since 2016 when this was presented at the Berlin meeting uh by Justin Dean former chair it's a it's a good presentation a word reviewing if you have time but uh nothing really materialized so"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:22:01",
    "text": "um I do want to keep uh multicast as an item on the no Charter but I'm coming today and um Donald is also alluded to uh potential multiple support by people so we have to see how we can reconcile that with some of the other ideas and then there was this work item about documenting best practices and yeah that also never happened and I don't think it's going to happen the the best practices for deploying and managing managed and I think these are very specific and uh those who operate manes are not necessarily prepared to come forward with the details about how they are doing it so again I think this is one we are not going to see um the new Charter but also again ratio voice if you disagree no long on them Mac line yet um there's an implicit work item and maybe this should be extended with uh suggested um but I think we will keep this uh always rv2 is a major product or of this working group it was completed in 2014."
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:24:00",
    "text": "um there is one well to announce there's one current open source implementation out there uh but once was one from near Gata University in Japan I'm not sure if this is still maintained um any Roger from crownover and his colleagues who did the arrows rv2 uh Source are now working on a new implementation in go language it looks like that's not going to be open source but there's still development going on in any case and I think this is something that should reappear as a work item in a new charger and then animation maybe some things that uh some some further work that can be done for instance there was a discussion uh on the mailing list in the summer of 2022 Christopher doylelov was involved in the discussion Christopher welcome also um on potential problems by restarting a single node of a mobile network or in all those rv2 and then death notes being unable to join the network again there is the directional airtime metric that has been that that's an experimental Roc but it's being it has been used uh it's part of the front offer open source implementation it has seen use and the question is uh"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:26:02",
    "text": "is there any incentives to bring the two proposed standard status and then there is the multi-topology extension um somebody came to well Donald just mentioned for those based routing in table which was not pursued but uh um they spoke to topology extension is if I remember correctly also as also experimental status and question is um should we also bring that to proposed Central status and has anybody actually ever used it um I don't know if Christopher wants to say something about that not then something else came to mind just during uh Donald yes can you hear me I can hear you yes um I wouldn't say we haven't used the multiplier extension osrv2 when I was employed by ba systems we certainly implemented it and it was part of the da systems implementation which unfortunately is neither open source nor still nor still available to me um I made one attempt to try and get access to it but that didn't succeed um bureaucracy um so that's the states there as from my position okay thank you um I know that uh there is interested from certain users for this work um in environments where there are some pretty low capacity links"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:28:04",
    "text": "basically to eliminate those links from the topology for um application traffic that couldn't make usually useless of this of these low capacity links anyway don't try to send video traffic over a very low capacity link let's let's sort of idea Beyond this so uh moving on during Donald's presentation is mentioned something about the source specific routing and payable um during I don't know I don't remember the IDF number but um the one day that we had in Prague in 2015 um somebody was proving any Robina and saying why doesn't uh all those rfv2 have a source specific planting support and uh he actually added this to his implementation during the ITF week and it has been used I will I will talk to him to ask whether um that could become an internet raft ERS any protocol action that this is to bring this to bring this to realityf so that could be another V2 extension and another reason why in my view we should get this on on the charger"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:30:02",
    "text": "there can I just say that when I was recently looking at LSR V2 there is a small tweak that might be of interest if people were ever running it in a slow mode only only respond to changes action to permit sending remote to your fees when you notice someone who's joined to the network that's um a possible possible um sort of 7466 style minor tweak adding permissions that don't actually affect interoperability um and that could take the form of an informative RFC or uh I'm not sure what states RFC that would be I'd have to think about that um yeah could you perhaps write a few lines on the mailing list on this ID I will do that yeah thank you very much um okay um as I said one of the successes of the last years as I viewed in this working group I think we should keep maintenance and extensions uh on the charter in fact you still have running or should have just concluded uh working group adoption call for for 3D extensions um interestingly there was a support expressed by one radio offender I was really hoping for uh some more support from partition puts known participants of this working group but on the other end I'm myself"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:32:01",
    "text": "guilty of not expressing support with my chair at off I will still do that because I do support adoption of these three growths by adding um variable maintenance and extension also seems like a no-brainer to me whether we uh worded as a specific work item or we edit this to the stanza about Ozark maintenance in a way that the Donald has already suggested is only minor item of discussion I think then there was this uh Babel for IEEE 802.11 uh potential item that was presented by Donald at IDF 117 there was a fair bit of discussion uh whether or not that was within the realm of the ITF and of this working group um Donald's any views from your side this is sure so actually uh Judaism is on the other technical people in available uh have some enthusiasm for this and actually Julius I think said he thought he might be able to get some funding but uh the one question is they need uh is there a convenient platform on which to actually develop this so that it could be uh implementations and I I think there are some some platforms that are uh cheap and easily available that that do you know Wi-Fi and have Wi-Fi interfaces and so forth and uh I I'm not familiar as I should be with"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:34:02",
    "text": "some of this stuff but there are um there's software like I guess open wrt and things like that which on which uh this could uh the Wi-Fi mesh and use of what could be uh built so um I I think I see a path to up to people who actually want to do that I think as you might also uh mention and apologize for that I didn't uh push this meeting on the Bible mailing list uh but I will specifically uh report about it there and hopefully they'll be uh participants available who can uh participate in the any mailing list discussion of these various uh Charter items for MNA so I will be good I think the more discussion the better but um I am personally a chair of both a post to uh to doing this and I have no real uh uh qualms about whether this is IDF or not um as long as there are people that are willing to put in the effort to make it happen that's fine with me um then there was the other presentation at iitf 117 um about this sturp uh protocol which was supposed to do or be an energy efficient way of routing in in more let's say home oriented manage I think that was at least the internet application there's been a fair bit of discussion and critical discussion on the main English about that but"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:36:01",
    "text": "the authors seem to have gone silent recently um I can at least promote the main entour to uh to find out whether he wants to continue working on this and if we go so uh I think we should say so on the main event Don yeah um on this one I mean wouldn't it I I suppose something on um Arnold's light oh um like class of servants or uh um service specific routing or something like that wouldn't this be rather than having a new protocol to do this wouldn't it be an addition to you know if this thing or something like that yeah that was at least to me never quite clear whether they wanted to have a whole new protocol or would they would want to make modifications to an existing protocol or a video for instance and I think others have also pointed these out on the uh on the mailing list that the they were not decided on that as far as I know good makeup foreign something can make it all to uh the new charger at least there are people willing to do work and we should we should ask them and then of course we can"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:38:02",
    "text": "if it ever gets adopted by the working group and owned by the working group then uh yeah we can see and what form it takes and how it should be brought in line with the perhaps an existing protocol without without completely disrupting that anyway it's the first step is to know whether they want to continue with this um next on the list is something to do with management um I need to go reread the latest version of the TTM management architecture which used to be called the asynchronous management architecture which I like better as a name um which is at the dtn work group at the moment or just past the working group The Last Call I must admit that I haven't looked at it uh in the last few months uh so I would have to reassess its potential suitability in a Monet environment um then we have to write in the past in the working group to um specify a on-demand or reactive routing protocol which was first aldv which became an experimental or she then it was called daimo and it was intended to be standards correct and then time war was really into aov V2 um lots of discussions uh"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:40:02",
    "text": "let's say the first half of the Year previous decade um and finally uh the version big technical issues with course this thing to be abandoned first it was proposed that it would be experimental again uh Christopher that was that was also a spin-off load NG which is essentially a simplified aodv version too which is semi-standardized as an Alex to an itu standard ah I didn't know that um at the time I think um I had the vv2 and load NG were completing Head to Head they were but they are both essentially developments of iotv yes and um and without wanting to out to uh list any rocks let's just say that the problems weren't entirely technical um right yes I also would love to reopen that uh that kind of worms but uh um yes so so love NG was eventually standardized in some form that happened outside the ITF yeah and it was it was at the time it was the adg AE decision that um this working group should continue with uh the V2 which then unfortunately uh was was halted a few years later oh um one uh long time ITF over working group participant uh Abdul Shalom I"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:42:00",
    "text": "really mispronouncing his name apologies for that um recently suggested also a hybrid protocol on the mailing list um there have been just a few presentations in the distant past on this there was always a lot of pushback against this idea um or maybe not to the idea as such but to be proposed specifications at the time so that never happened and again I would say if there's nobody willing to take this up then we can just forget about it just apart from uh how many technical merits I I have done theoretical work on on borrowing the rack our rep mechanism from iotv into OLS rv2 which is a and even generalizing it to a sort of policy based approach to whether to what you're prepared to what note what routers are prepared to do that makes them reactive or proactive and if I am I'm not in a position to be somebody who's a major driver in in writing taking that work I'd be prepared to contribute in a secondary role the ideas that have been had but you need someone who's actually prepared to drive it understood that's clear um so unless uh such a person uh emerges uh soon uh I think we will kick this of the node Charter that's at least my assessment I keep asking for people to disagree with me um and then there's a any other"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:44:01",
    "text": "topics that uh that people uh might want to bring up so basically we have the uh the maintenance of what was developed in the past always our E2 now also available give up I personally would like to would want to commit to doing some work on multicast this is my last slide anyway these numbers sorry um so uh yeah I have some idea that was inspired by by beer on doing that the best thing based version but I have still really stressed it out a bit further but it's not even a uh an intimate for us in the making at the moment uh I would really like to do a bit of implementation and see if it could actually work before printing that um but I still think that uh multicast in general should be uh an item on the new uh Charter um another thing is that uh what I come across in my uh in my work environment is the the need to have um manage the different Origins from different Origins some of those proprietary talk to them to each other and therefore their sort of a need of a way to Federate"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:46:01",
    "text": "information that that's true for both unicost and multicast um interestingly in experimenting with the sort of overlay protocols over distinct manage I often use the variable protocol as one of the routing protocols just to have something different from osr and then see if we could make them could make a Babel domain talk to an all of our domain by by using some some kind of overlay um and this is I think really all I have on on slides and I really like to hear from some of the petitioners if they think that I'm completely insane or or I have overlooked things or um yeah so I'm sort of opening the floor to uh to others to uh to pay for opinions yes Jim so um so I think a lot of this obviously needs to be discussed on the mailing list but my my concern is that you know my observation since becoming ad is that there's a severe lack of enthusiasm to essentially work on anything um and I I what I really want to see is number one the documents that are already working group documents actually make some progress and number two I you know we need to see"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:48:02",
    "text": "people that stand up and say yes this is important to me that yes this is something that we want to work on because if if there's only one person that's prepared to do any work on a particular area then you know getting that recharted is really not what we want to be looking to do we need we need to get participation um and enthusiasm on this new work because otherwise we're just going through an exercise and um there really is not helpful to anybody so so that's really my input I I think number one it need there needs to be discussion on the mailing list showing support for items that you want to add to the charter number two you need to flesh out that chart or on the mailing list and then number three we make a decision as to what we do with the working group based on on the outputs from those two things yes you're right um apart from the uh the the documents that have been working for far too long I need need to be progressed yeah in the queue right now which yeah but there are some uh some particular problems with uh for instance some of the authors not being reachable anymore and uh missing IPR statements technicalities that that is maybe should discuss at some other time how to how to deal with it yeah yeah yeah um yes you're right we can only work if there are people willing to do that work"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:50:00",
    "text": "um I personally right and I think one of one of the issues I saw was you know that that uh um there was a presentation at the at the last ietf by basically one individual that wants to work on one particular thing and there was no enthusiasm from anybody else that I could see in the working group and you know I'm not going to keep a working group open uh you know so somebody can One Singular person can work on their pet project I mean that doesn't that doesn't serve anybody well so I think we really need to focus in on what is it that's left to do in Manet that we need to get completed um and then number two is there actually anything that the community has the enthusiasm to work on that's important that will get implemented and if the answer to that is no then we need to have a discussion on um you know where where do we move forward because re-chartering is not gonna um solve that fundamental issue that is true um um now that Babel has become or is going to be if he and Babel is going to become part of the working group yeah maybe maybe um some work will be coming from that if I don't know whether with this single person uh you know we're referring to uh to Donald uh with British uh I don't know there was another presentation there was another one I forget what it was now it was about this this uh this step yes yes and and that had uh both of them but four authors but all from the same company right yours um"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:52:00",
    "text": "yeah and that's not a good you know Frank Frankly you know that that's not something that I'm gonna support I I I certainly want to see the working group have enthusiasm to well number one think that that's something that that should be worked on and number two have the enthusiasm to actually do any work on it otherwise it becomes a you know one company rubber stamp and I'm not in that business no but uh I mean there is a hurdle uh first there would have to be a working group uh adoption of the work and uh right that means that uh more people than the authors alone need to express support for this work so so correct I think the process is there to prevent that sort of thing yeah I think uh don't well I mean the other option is we put in it that a work group is closing down right I mean if we don't if we don't have new material I think the obvious thing has to be said is that the work could be shutting down right right right and then maybe uh in the the roofing area working groups some work could still be done right for the maintenance and stuff but that's something that I'd need to think about and talk to my other IDs about but but I think you know that that's not what I'm pushing for here what I'm pushing for is you know if there really is some new work that needs to be done then obviously we need to recharter to uh allow for that but um we we need to see uh and and I and I need to see that on the mailing list people in support of that new work and actually willing to do it because otherwise we're going to end up with a recharger um and years of you know not much"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:54:00",
    "text": "getting produced because of lack of enthusiasm and I I don't want to do that so um so really my ask is let's get this to the let's get this discussion onto the mailing list let's get people give them the opportunity to look through the the work items that that you've listed here and actually um have some discussion in terms of support and willingness to work on it on the mailing list um because I think without that we're really not going to go anywhere can't say I disagreement Donald right uh I basically agree with all the above but I just wanted to make sure one thing wasn't lost which was there has been some discussion mention of uh satellite routing as I say orbital you know things and I did look in looking at the charter I actually thought about whether there was anything in the charter which would need to be adjusted for that and I didn't actually see anything it's in the chart the current HR is General enough that it could Encompass uh routing between satellites so I just wanted to mention that make sure it wasn't lost yeah um I thought they were going to come to us but uh the pickled pepper should he go out and uh and ask them or it seems like a ping is reasonable yeah Don you wanted to say something yep you're in the queue just uh the strategy for for these like you you suggest like"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:56:00",
    "text": "um an email per topic like you know a poll for interest in this and uh or what would you because I I fear if we put out a big email that says here's what we talked about people might not engage in that so um I I mean personally I think you can bullet point it to say the these are the areas um that we see for possible new work items in a in a revised Charter without too much detail and then you know see what see what response we get I mean if if there's really no response to this then you know that kind of gives us our answer right there and I I think you also need to give the the working group the option to introduce new things that perhaps aren't on that that list that you know we haven't thought about that they would like to work on and then that might generate some some interest as well but um yeah I think that's what I would do at this point right okay so one one list yeah without too much detail because otherwise people just won't read it as Dan said of course the uh the last bullet would also be on there I mean I haven't I I mean aside from the chairs on myself is the ad I mean that there's three participants on this call I mean do you have any input to this or uh do you agree essentially the the enthusiasm has kind of waned I'd really like to get some input from from from you folks Christopher go ahead go ahead please"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:58:01",
    "text": "well I'm now retired officially so my interest in this is basically interest um I don't have a customer I don't have anyone doing anything so um so I might be prepared to support things and in the one tweak area I might take a tweak area that I mentioned earlier I might take a lead in but uh but I'm not a driving force I'm not somebody who's going to be up as intro this shows there's interest right right go ahead yeah I think I I'm not sure anybody else is going to say anything So yeah so so let's I I think we can probably end it here let's get that uh email out to the working group uh mailing list and let's see where where it goes from from there have I I think the discussion on there is going to be very telling in terms of what we do from here and and then we can have a discussion based on on those outputs I think it would also make sense to uh to let fatalities on the uh variable mailing list Wireless still exists yep um because you know they're not part of us so yeah let's assume that that's the case well there will be if it gets recharged yeah yeah if not I need to think about what's going to happen with that but probably you know I I I I'm I am reluctant to move maintenance stuff into rtgwg because there's enough stuff in there as as it is so you know that's something that I need to talk to my other ads about but what I'm not going to do is re-charter a working group just to do maintenance on right um on the protocol that doesn't make"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:00:00",
    "text": "sense so but let's let's see uh let's see where the the email conversation goes on on the mailing list and and then we can go from there right yeah okay um then uh unless somebody has uh anything else uh under the agenda item of any other business um I think we can uh close this meeting um uh by the way um Julius Grover check sent an email that he uh was not able to uh participate in this meeting because he was teaching so the time was just so uh we posted that I'm sure he would have wanted to say something about some of these things yes I think so too um so yeah thanks anyway you guys for everybody all participated uh Jim yep that's it thank you okay okay thank you bye everybody bye foreign"
  }
]
