[
  {
    "startTime": "00:00:23",
    "text": "hello we are at the start time of our session i am lou berger with me is my co-chair uh pavan and birum we also have luis contras in the room uh our secretary and uh i think we have enough people here that we can manage uh the session but uh if you experience any problems please just feel free to put it in the chat it's probably the best way to get attention um i don't know if i said this but welcome to teas at one ietf 113 we are obviously hybrid we're the middle of the week so everyone is really uh used to that being the middle of the week we're also familiar with our note well if you are not familiar with it basically we have rules governing our participation uh these the ones here are mainly related to uh intellectual property um and basically anything you say here it becomes part of our permanent record this session is being recorded um everything you contribute at the iepf whether by email comment um even uh well everything's up private conversations um uh come under the rules published here if you're not familiar with it please go to that link similarly we have a code of conduct which basically says please treat everyone with respect and be professional in your interactions"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:02:04",
    "text": "we're midweek so i think the folks in the room are probably really familiar with how to handle the in-room participation there is the meat echo tool for the mic cue it does help us out if you use it but if you don't luis is in the room and he'll help us manage the queue uh remote participants um you know we're we're experts at doing remote meetings at this point given the last couple of years uh uh the blue sheets are fairly automatic um although there is uh a requirement for everyone in the room to sign the blue sheet through the meat echo tool please do that uh for our note taking we are continuing to use our collaborative uh tools and please join us there i did drop the link in the chat so that it's easy to just go click on um it's also there's also links in the upper right hand corner of your screen for those on uh echo we have a pretty tight agenda um i'm not sure we need to go through anything this is published uh i don't believe there's been any recent changes on it so uh all the material is uploaded uh thanks to drew for pointing out that i uploaded the wrong slide somehow but that's all been fixed so we have no new rfcs since the last meeting or nothing in the queue we do have one document with our a.d and we have a a recent adoption poll and there were some comments and we're going to move towards publishing that once the issues are"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:04:02",
    "text": "addressed and either directly addressed or captured in that document we had one liaison that came in um i think it was just last week yeah and um it's interesting um the uh it's from uh the etsy nfv group um that's interesting there is they think that there's some gaps there's a document that points to those gaps gaps in work that we've done there's an expectation that as i read it they are planning individuals are planning to come participate uh here as well as there and contribute here that's great um one question or comment to our aed because this came in via email versus the formal liaison process and i don't know if that makes this a communication or a liaison or how to handle that but just wanted to give you a heads up that this uh seemed to come outside the process uh i did check and we do have a liaison relationship with etsy um not sure why uh john yeah do you know offhand who our liaison manager is um anyway we should find out who it is and check in with them i think i believe i looked that up uh but i don't remember i'm sorry okay let's uh yeah we'll we'll check in with them once we figure out who it is yeah it didn't seem all that critical because the information got here they're not asking for any specific action it just seemed a little bit out of process uh and i'm not sure if the i i don't really understand the etsy organization well enough to say that you know maybe it had to do with the subgroup that it was a subgroup and not the main group"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:06:01",
    "text": "all right well thank you robin uh yes okay hello uh in fact this uh in fact atl has another formal liaison with etsi so i think this how to response this liaison can communicate with the ib liaison coordinator yeah because you are according to this rules if there's another formal liaison there's another responsibility to respond this liaison that's my some understanding okay i thought i checked and i thought there was a liaison relationship um but either way you know we're okay because number one they're not asking for a response number two they're saying they're gonna come to say here which is good and we've talked listed this under liaison and communications to cover just the case where people don't have formal relationships but thank you for that uh uh this is just a reminder that if you would like to schedule a virtual interim to contact the chairs i don't think that we are looking for anything um uh right now between now and the next itf we don't i don't think we have anything on our uh planning for uh virtual interim but if you uh participants which one please just contact the chairs um yeah we we this new step is pretty old at this point um there's just a reminder about our ipr process i think everyone is really familiar with it at this point all right i'm going to uh if there's not any questions we're gonna move to the next one"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:08:04",
    "text": "okay let me start the list you should have the slides as well as slide control okay um i'm pawan biram your other co-chair uh next on the agenda is the working group document status there are 22 working group documents that are listed here um three of those the ones in blue or on the agenda today uh we have one document uh the signaling extensions jar for smp which is with with the ad so that leaves us with 18 documents the status for each of these 18 documents is covered in this deck like in previous meetings i will not be walking through each and every one of those here i will however double click on a select view that uh the others believe are either ready or close to ready for working with last call and dwell on them a little bit more for the rest of them you can use uh your own pace go through the slides and the reports that are sent out to the list and ask questions if any um so let me jump to slide seven uh this is the enhanced vpn framework document a new revision for this was published earlier this month and the authors are saying that the document is almost ready for last call and are requesting further review from the working group the latest revision has more details on the applicability of service data models to enhance vpn and also it has some text clarifying the relationship between vtn and nrp so please do go through it and discuss on the list if this needs more clarification uh i do hear a q i don't know if it's just me but um can you everybody else here okay"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:10:00",
    "text": "or do you see here yeah i'm getting a little echo do i assume that it's just coming back from the room okay so any questions on this so let me jump to slide nine uh this is the pcc use cases document the authors have completed the pending items and now looking to the working group decides fate as stated in the previous meetings the chairs have decided to take this to last call so the ask for the working group is to review this in anticipation of last call so let me go to slide 10. uh this is 3272 best document uh we have had a couple of revisions published since the last meeting and there seems to be one more update uh covering aqm that's ready to be published uh the editors is saying that he has no more changes to make and we should consider taking this to last call this is a fairly large document and uh it could definitely use some thorough reviews from the working group so please do review it uh in anticipation of last call the other document that's ready uh is on slide 15 okay um this is the young path computation model rev 17 was published early in the month rev18 just got published yesterday the authors believe they are ready for last call so please do add it to your list of drafts to be reviewed uh in anticipation of uh working with last call so those are the drafts that are close to lc and that we wanted to draw your attention to in this deck are there any questions on the status of these or any other working group document i don't see anybody rushing to the mic okay that's that's all we have for this slide deck we can move on to the next"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:12:00",
    "text": "presentation i believe it's done yes yes hi i will wake up which is worrying because it's the middle of the day here um hi hi everyone so this is a relatively quick update on the actn applicability to rpoi so just a reminder we had some fairly simple use cases these are sort of functional components uh across a specific topology here of sort of packet over optical networks in the document or if you've looked at the latest dot document the the main diffs really are some um reordering of the sections and the subsections aligning some of the content specifically to agreed scope regarding uh segment routing t end to end uh more on that a little bit later we also added some sort of technical details around insta link discovery as part of um the poi function and we are now um sort of putting substantive text into our conclusion section which is really um the one of the major outcomes from the document is is what are the gaps uh if any um certainly we've had a number of uh uh new pieces of work that have been sort of initiated uh from this process so that's um that's just making sure we've kind of captured those requirements uh spun out new documents rare required what we will see"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:14:01",
    "text": "in the conclusion document really sorry in the conclusion section in the document is discussion on um the uh uh the poi capabilities for sort of discovering topology setting up the links whether it's single domain or inter domain providing capability from sort of the underlay to the overlay network we've also um as mentioned sort of spun out some new work that included the inventory model uh some specific uh requirements for the path computation across particular technologies as well as some of the discovery capabilities that required sort of to provide automation when setting up ipf optical services and the sort of the the latest section or subsection in the conclusion summary of the document is really related to uh segment routing sort of more on that a little bit later so um where are we then with um our segment routing discussion well there's been sort of various uh email discussions but but a lot of this discussions happened on our poi call and we will um we've had a break on those but we'll resume those after ietf113 and the dates and times for those are at the end of the presentation what we're trying to kind of discuss and establish is how the binding between the l3bn and the srt path can be configured there's a number of options that are open here those are summarized on this slide what we don't want to do of course is come to conclusions uh offline document them and then sort of bring them to the working group so we're really trying to"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:16:00",
    "text": "sort of keep the working group involved with these discussions we've also uh brought as mentioned we've kind of discussed this with various uh spring folks we were considering sort of presenting these in the spring uh working group session later this week but the agenda was extremely busy already so that there really wasn't um sort of an opportunity to kind of do that in in any great detail so we need to kind of handle that uh probably uh continuing that through email and then maybe inviting some of those folks to attend our poi core but but as mentioned these are sort of ongoing discussions another area that that's really sort of had a a significant amount of discussion is regarding sort of our inter-domain link setups so this is not just sort of horizontal but it's it's kind of um vertical as well so this slide here really shows you almost a process although it's it makes sense to look at the figure when you're reading the documents a little bit more difficult if this is the first time you've seen this figure but essentially the mdsc receives a request to set up uh either an l2 or l3 vpn service uh so the ndse will look at the requirements and then decide uh what needs to be done uh and specifically the order of that to fulfill the service request that it received so that may require setting up a new optical tunnel itself that would then support um an ip link or a series of ip links so then the mdse will have to send the request to the relevant optical pncs going back to that sort of earlier figure that we had of the topology um in order to uh request that optical tunnel once the optical tunnel uh has been set up then the mdsc will wait for confirmation before it then um"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:18:00",
    "text": "sends a request to the pnc for uh an optical link on multiple optical links and and this is all relatively well described in detail in the document so you can kind of walk through that process where there's kind of a requirement either for sort of static or manually configured information or an option to have a a more dynamic method so this may be things like once the optical tunnel's been set up the pnc the physical pnc uh would then potentially be able to automatically discover um that this optical tunnel has been established through a sort of an adjacency mechanism uh and that would be discovered you're potentially through something like lldp and therefore you know the new ip link is configured automatically so these are kind of the things that we've been uh document uh documenting um in the draft and that that's been the intention i i guess what we wanted to do was show how all of these kind of yang models for um actn the optical pnc the the the packet pnc uh which optical models would use for the service for the optical tunnel for the ip link and so on and so forth how are they combined and what mechanisms mechanisms are available for automation so the big area that kind of needs uh further documentation at this point is once the ip link has been set up by the the packet pnc um how do we then set up the srte path or if this is already an existing service that needs to be sort of optimized or we optimized off to some kind of failure or protection switching how do we reroute an existing srt path um through um a different uh ip link and that's that's kind of working progress at the moment"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:20:01",
    "text": "so uh next steps for the document well those are sort of the two big areas really i think that we need to continue so the srt discussion as well as some of the um multi-layer link ip setup these are documented via various issues in our github and in fact we've got several issues i mean more than several probably sort of actively around 20 issues most of those are relatively minor editorial updates um figure adaptions etc but uh the list of issues that you see on on on the slide here um 83 81 80 78 etc those are kind of the main issues and as mentioned you know we will continue to highlight these to the working group and also engage with some of the spring folks we will resume our attn poi calls from march 29th i believe uh we've had to have two calls uh as as we've kind of uh mentioned previously because we've got quite a number of authors and contributors that spread across the various sort of continents around the world so there's two slots so hopefully one of those will suit a time zone for you we would like to finish the document of course um there's there's been some feature creep granted since we started the work that was to be expected uh we tried to limit that of course if we if we keep the document alive long enough we've got clever people who are always going to raise additional requirements um or or use cases so we you know we've tried to at this point just sort of draw a line under the document itself and i think once we finish um these two sort of major areas of discussion uh we'll be ready to kind of stabilize"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:22:01",
    "text": "the document maybe go through a um sort of text reduction exercise make sure that we try to keep the document as succinct as possible then look for uh working group um uh last call probably certainly sometime before ietf114 okay uh i think that's the final slide i had any questions looks like we might have some people in queue uh or as was in the chat john asked that we make sure to say our names before we say anything of course i just violated that this is um so first thank you please go ahead no i i i think that was just um essentially the requirement that we had from some of the authors um and we could look to expand on that it just hasn't been a specific requirement from other people we haven't seen it from the working group so we just wanted to kind of limit the scope of sort of the use case and the scenarios that we were looking at yeah i do i do take your point um it's just that even by saying that slt as an example there is still a lot of sort of"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:24:00",
    "text": "detail minutiae that needs to be described um you've so we're dealing with a lot of potential options even by just saying that srt is the use case that we're using here but i'll try to all the authors will try to um just highlight that this isn't the only technology that's supported sort of at the higher layer but it's the example that we've used yeah i think that's a really good comment one that matches uh how um the stat the level uh srte played in the when we adopted the document you know srte was listed literally once it wasn't the focus the document so that's that readjustment um it would be really good so thank you uh moving on in the cube thanks this is daniel a question to to do is your concern related to the fact that we are just dealing with the t technologies and we should should cover also known te or uh the the concern is more related to to say segment routing itself no a concern is like even if rsvpt is available that should be fine right we should not limit that in ctn poi is only with srt okay yep so understood uh on that drew danielle and lou yeah and just adding a little color to that comment um when the document was adopted i believe srte was mentioned once as was rsvp mentioned once uh now uh i think srte i just did a quick search shows up 94 times and rsvp is still one so um yeah a detailed example is great but it's uh i think i think the comment is spot on uh group's comment"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:26:02",
    "text": "uh moving on in the cube yeah the problem with we face with this document is that there are many options when you start looking at multi-domain vpn there are many options to do them and then you do multi-layer there are many options to multi-layer and we were a little bit afraid that we are going to explode on the the set of cases that we need to analyze so we said no all the other cases are not excluded but we decided we we we said that it's better to focus only on one case which is srt if people is interested to have other cases we can they can be analyzed either in a new document or otherwise we can expand the scope of this document but take into account that the more options we put the bigger the document becomes uh ideal the ideal scenario is that you discuss everything in a path controlled technology agnostic manner and then expand on examples where they are specific to that particular path control technology so take that into account and see if you can uh uh address the rules comment the generic example and not on the specific yeah okay okay okay uh i think you're done dan right thanks guys yeah thank you [Music] okay adrian you should have the slides you were here briefly you seem to have disappeared"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:28:00",
    "text": "um all right you should have slide control and voice adrian we are not hearing you it says you're muted adrian we can't hear you maybe try entering the queue see if that helps you don't by any chance have the uh lower right lower local mute button you can just try shouting really really loud and hopefully i'll hear you i'm going to try taking away your slide privileges and then maybe we can restart the whole process and then if we're not we'll ask you to rejoin and then you know move to the next one and ask you to join so let's i'm going to revoke slides from you let's try to try it again adrian i think you should re-enter maybe you know hit reload on your browser uh we'll give him like uh half a minute and if it doesn't work we will move on to well we'll skip him and come back to him"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:30:03",
    "text": "we were ahead of the schedule by a couple of minutes i guess this is helping this is just trying to get us get rid of it all right adrian we see you back but we don't see you unmuted yeah now i'm on right what happened was when you um i'd requested uh share slides and you granted share slides and my mic disappeared interesting um that's really bizarre uh i certainly write for asking i shouldn't ever ask right hello you should have slide control and we can hear you so please proceed thank you right so uh network slicing framework um the thing to start is this note well um i there used to be eight front page authors uh all the way through this document uh and we ran into a bug in the itf draft submission tool where having precisely eight authors caused the date field to get scribbled on and sent the submission failed uh so the solution there was to arbitrarily remove uh eric from the authors and move him to the contributors please note this in no way reflects on eric's very considerable input and advice that happened as this document was being created uh right recent vision uh revisions uh since we held an interim uh in teas in october and devoted quite a lot of time to discussion i will not go through all these bullets but they've been three um revisions that were basically picking up and clearing out the points that were raised and discussed at the interim"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:32:02",
    "text": "uh and getting so that zero eight completed all of that um and included a fairly detailed editorial read through by john drake and me fixing a lot of knits and duplication that we found some of the old text was still kicking around from the very first revision and that needed tidying up so uh there is a zero nine in the buffer um for submission soon and i i plan that this week it includes a short section on realization of slices um with respect to service function chaining which is a a special case uh and uh uses uh ancillary uh service demarcation points uh service delivery points rather uh that text comes from med and um we'll sit down uh with the other realization examples and it's brief uh also going is section 5.4 um the various prunings and tidings up made this a really small section and it only says what is already in other places in the document so we'll take that out and i don't think we lose anything uh thanks to john uh again for finding even more knits uh it seems to be no end to the number of nits uh it's probably because i can't type and previously i'd forgot to acknowledge kristoff so that goes in 0-9 if you um look uh in the"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:34:00",
    "text": "um hedge dock i've got some additional material that was not on the sides because it's happened to um too recently there's a further change there planned for 09 which was discussed on the the mailing list uh it's an extra sentence going into 4.1.2 on sles to mention the realization um or how the operator realizes a slice may itself be an sle and this is especially uh because of the case of multicast uh where apparently customers like to tell the operator how to deliver the multicast um of course the customer may have no way to know whether this is actually done there was some text sort of about this in uh zero seven uh and it got lost in the editorial tidy up so uh that's going back in okay that's zero nine then um we've had some recent discussions on the list uh which i think are resolved um one of them was how is hub and spoke reflected in the service and the realization this text was in and then out and so it's now going back in um a provider may use hub and spoke to realize a slice if they like and a customer that wants to control the hub may build a hub and spoke themselves out of p2p and p2mp connectivity constructs where the hub is actually a customer's device or they could use a real or ancillary service demarcation point as the hub"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:36:00",
    "text": "okay there was another discussion should this draft be limited to the requirements and applicability arising from 5g i don't want to be accused of calling consensus but it seems that the overwhelming view on the list was that the scope must include any use of network slicing but of course take advice from the 5g use case because it's important uh our related issue was should this draft be limited to slicing only ipmpls networks again i don't want to call consensus but what i think i heard was that the service should be technology agnostic and totally generic and we are interested in mapping the service to any ietf network the realities and discussions of how to slice uh sub-ip networks then belong in other places and their realization questions rather than um framework or service questions so related to those two points there may be some specific questions the sea camp chairs want to raise uh but these are the these i think are the questions to tease and not to the editor of the document and i see danielle in the queue so perhaps uh now it's good time to take it thanks again yeah actually i mean uh two of the specific questions and finally i don't hear danielle oh is it only you before it worked it's only adrian it's only adrian you sound good okay so continue how can we"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:38:00",
    "text": "telegen what we're seeing adrian can you hear us well this this really sucks um i see that um yes lou has just typed at me my audio is broken and funnily enough yes it is because um i can see who's talking but not here um i don't know if it's worth continuing um uh i i can take the comment and then the typo you type it on the chat for adrian after uh so the thing is that uh uh we identified some some questions uh uh from c camper to teaser uh probably the two most relevants are the ones that they didn't just described on uh 5g and limiting uh slicing it to apm pls networks these these are questions that popped up while discussing uh slicing at other questions were brought to the mailing list by igor so i don't know if you want we can do a summary of those questions but i would say that they have already been discussed uh pretty pretty extensively so up to you if you prefer us to send a a new email summarizing the questions we will do that otherwise i think we are satisfied with the the answers that we received so far yeah i'd say if you're satisfied with the answers there's not much to discuss so we don't have to discuss it again okay um in terms of the it sounds like there's answers you're not happy with by the way i'm getting great after that"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:40:02",
    "text": "uh if there's answers you're not the question you're not happy with the answers with which ones are those are the ones on the slides here for something else the most relevant ones are these two and we are we are happy with those with the answer you are or not i'm sorry and i'll point out even though he doesn't hear us so it's good that he doesn't hear that he has this power it is the job of the editor to capture what they believe is the consensus of the working group in that document so he's done uh just fine here from our our standpoint and um we appreciate that i'm gonna tell him that he should uh continue going and uh and then at the end we'll figure out how to deal with his audio right most peculiar way of communicating i hope that that um that was an interesting conversation that you had and i will listen to the recording afterwards to find out what it was about um all right there was a question uh about whether we should include worked examples this question has been around for a while but nobody actually coughed up any text and apart from med who pointed me at some text from 8969 that could be useful two questions really arise here one is does anyone think that the draft will fail without examples and the other is is anyone volunteering to write text for examples luis go ahead"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:42:04",
    "text": "yeah this is from telefonica i would like just to comment that the can you speak can you get a little closer to the mic please sorry yeah i would like just to comment that there are some other documents starting to to describe some potential examples uh in my case i will present later on one of how to map in three bps places to be it's called idf is less sorry so probably that word could be or either integrated or keep it apart but there will be some documents discovering that i think i have to say that was so low i couldn't really catch it i'm hoping um did you catch it yeah he said that he there are other documents where examples are being specified one of those documents is being presented later on today uh so i guess his preference is not to i mean i guess he's leaving it to the working group to decide if it needs to be discussed separately or somehow roll it into an app index into this document but yeah the point is making is it's been discussed in some other documents examples are being discussed in the world okay oh sorry can you hear me now yes yeah so i was i wanted to volunteer to write the example but if it is covered elsewhere that's fine and i also wanted to make a comment that there are too many things in the framework documents so maybe one example won't be sufficient we may need to have two or three different instances of how to show this framework in works"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:44:00",
    "text": "thanks the first question is whether or not it's helpful to have examples answered in my opinion is yes and i can volunteer to write down something about 5g because there are lots of discussion about 5g and i felt that it is good to have a good example of 5g at least to have the same context for everyone because people talking about that but the context might be different so i volunteered to do that one and i talked to adrian about it thank you reza appreciate you willing your willingness to help i think we don't have anyone else in excuse yeah okay um yes so please please uh yeah so so please um reza and uh kieran and lewis um drop me a mail and we can talk about what type of example we're looking at and whether the how to map 5g um is uh is a good or a bad uh solution uh right at this point i just want to draw your attention to um the uh five extra threads that have come up in the last couple of days on the mailing list i've put those uh summary of those into hedgedock as well um the first of them is um just to re-highlight that a service is not a realization of the service and this is my usual rant uh about um the fact that l3 vpn has"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:46:01",
    "text": "confused the service delivered to the customer with the technology used to realize the service um and since his point keeps coming up we should perhaps include a brief piece of text on the subject in the draft right just to help make it clear there was a point about sdp and sap where sap is a generic concept in the ops area working group and there's also a mention of an sep in other documents i don't believe that there's a need for us to make any change in what we've got but i'd be happy to hear otherwise there's a really active thread on receiver slos uh and i don't believe that we've reached a point where we can um draw a conclusion from that so please contribute to that discussion um and that may lead on to the idea of a group slo whether it's an slo that applies um to these to a set of connectivity constructs and then most recently there's a start of a thread on multiplexing and i need to push on that a bit more because i'm not quite sure which bit of multiplexing um what and where in the network that applies so uh watch out for emails on all of these which takes me then to my last slide which says um i will be posting 0.9 um we're probably not quite done yet because there are those five issues to be pushed through but at that point i think we might be ready for last call and i will now stop talking"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:48:00",
    "text": "okay uh thank you adrian uh please go ahead yeah swim hendrix from nokia i raised the point on this multiplexing and mapping i see we had a bit of a threat it's related to the realization to a certain extent but not the real realization so it's actually in the middle so you have i think the document right now the framework describes let's say the upper level of what the slicing is for itf i believe and i'm not sure whether i probably it's not this document but that is in my view a need to describe the realization aspect in an abstract way without going into the technology as such because there is a layer in between that is important that i does what i call multiplexing and mapping maybe there is a better technology but i believe that's important now the question is how would that be in a separate document that is detached from it but associated with it before we go into the specific technology implementations that's why i raised this point yeah to just answer your question we might reply to your email so i think that idea in my opinion is valid but we can discuss that one since you are here we can discuss that if you want okay so we can go to the next uh draft hello everyone uh my name is cui i'm from siena on behalf of my co-authors bo drew and trek and tarek and uh luian i'm going to present you the young model for the ita network slice services next slide please just remind the just a reminder what we try to do here is if we consider the itf network slice service controller"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:50:00",
    "text": "there is a northbound which is a technology agnostic it receives a request to create an itf network a slice service with a specific characteristic as adrian mentioned in the previous draft and we have a southbound which is a technology specific we want to implement it on an ip or mpls or optics or other technology this document is going to talk about the former the northbound interface that we have and we had the really the one you will see here that what are the main changes that happen i assume you already read the first draft or the this draft you already know what the context here is what is the structure of the draft trying to say one thing that we did is we aligned the network slice connection with the definition of the connectivity construct that we had the whole idea of these changes are we want to make sure that we adhere and follow the framework suggestion whatever framework is discussing in terms of the structure in terms of the terminology we are going to reflect it here and these changes that you you see here is basically the reflection of that fact we also introduced the context of the network connection network slice connection groups the whole idea of the grouping some connection which have the same characteristic in terms of the slo and sle this is introduced and the as you see here the network slice type and ep roll these are removed but the one thing that we didn't do that one in this draft is changing the network uh slice endpoint to stp that right now that term is used we are going to do"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:52:01",
    "text": "that one in the next list as you see here all my references i call it nsa your network slice endpoint but just make sure that you understand this is an sdp the framework suggested and we are going to change it the next bullet is as network as slice tag nstack we introduced that one and this is in our uh our opinion is a good uh tool to address lots of the discussion that we had in the mailing list for example there was some question that how we can introduce some aspect of the for example customer name for some application like 5g how i can specify the network slice id which is coming down if there is a big if here that if we want to somehow the higher layer knows about some type of the realization that we want to do in the network it knows that we want to use layer 2 or layer 3. we can use this stack to just reflect that fact this stack is optional if you don't want to use it don't use it and this is a network slash controller's job to address all those but this is a very good extensible approach that in the future if you want to add anything else we can just do that one and we design the yang model which is extensible and there is no need for augmentation of any sort and last but not least we add some action about the accessport access connection between c and pe and you can go through the detail of that something was added here and these are basically the reflection the overall reflection of the changes that has been done in release one next please as the scene here the idea of the network construct modeling there are three type of the connection is described in the framework point to point point to"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:54:00",
    "text": "multipoint and any to any but and this is basically the reflection of those things as you see here the network connection that we are referring here is depicted here as mentioned before nse is basically the sdp the access port that the the connectivity between the any two nses and there are one direction as you see some of them then for example point to point if i want to have that bi-directional connectivity i have to define both and why we did it this way because in some example for example the the donor stream and upstream uh traffic they have the different sla and slo from that earthquake it's a very right approach to make the that one and if you want to have both of them same as slow and slowly it should be also possible to do next please this is another example of uh for whatever adrian mentioned before that if we want to have some example to a concrete example to show what we want to do the overall picture shows that i have a network of slice 1 and s1 which contains three group of connections connection blue red green and think of color as the slo and sle that that connection wants whatever it is so the whole idea here is each connection that we have here it has a type and it has an slo that basically carries and from that aspect you can extend this one to any number of the connection that you want to do whether or not it is applicable to any specific use case it depends on the use case for some of the use case it doesn't make sense we have to have only one of them but from the modeling perspective we should allow that and this is exactly what has been done next please"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:56:00",
    "text": "there are few issues that it still is in progress i will go through that one slight pair issue that we have one was the network slice group as i mentioned the whole idea of the grouping the network is licensed you know we want to see some other the type of harvard spoke adrian talked about that as well you want to see if it should be added there and also adding connectivity type at the network layer as a connection layer for example in the previous example if the green is point to point there is no need to specify the type for each connection you can specify green is point to point and everybody will inherit that those type of things we want to add and this was some suggestion from the mailing list that we thought it uh it is valid and it's going to be added to the next uh release next please the second one is a four-wall uh import of rfc 9181 which is uh the discussion about the common young model the we want to use that one and the proposal here is that if you want to regroup that and having basically the same structure of that yang in our model right now our model is the one layer and that whether or not it is good to separate it and have same consistency that rfc 9181 has so he is still doing a discussion and this is another topic that i think is important to be addressed going to the next issue [Music] adding a statistical parameter for example for the slo as you see here the the current slot that we have is clearly you see here and the whole idea here is as the framework uh"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:58:02",
    "text": "goes to the next the version and if there is anything will be added the proposal has that we are going to add it into the framework and in most cases the yang model is defined in such a way that is extensible there is no need really to do the augmentation we have it there and there are a very nice way to you know extend the model but this is a valid point and as the framework goes and add more and we are going to add that one to the next release of the yang model and i think that one if you go to the next one concludes the discussion that we have here if i summarize for us the nexus service at least address these three issues that i mentioned to you and uh including the i didn't mention that sdp to nse now one of those but that one should be also part of that and there are two uh that the last two it was uh mentioned by tariq a few days ago that we want to align the terminology for the access port with the document that we already have and clarify the concept of the access point node id because there was something that we use at two eyes and for the multi-homing how it's going to be others so longer story show three issues plus a couple of them that i mentioned here you know at most four or five issues will be addressed and we feel that at that point we reach to a level that we address all the the question on the mega list so i think we are doing well for the timing if there's any question i'd say the critique please hit okay hello hi this is kiriti um so there are several points you made one is you call it the vpn type for the access"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:00:04",
    "text": "and i like that it's there but i i would prefer that you said something like the layer of the access layer one layer two layer three as opposed to vpn type because um if there's a layer two for example you might just say it's a vlan or it might be a vpls or it might be evpn so i don't want to get to the specifics of the especially in the northbound model just say i'm connecting at layer 2 i'm connecting in layer 3 or maybe i'm connecting at layer 1. that's just a suggestion in the southbound you might say oh i would like to make this vpls but in the northbound from a higher level point of view just i want a layer 2 connection yeah that one makes sense it's exactly i guess adrian also mentioned previously that it's better to make it a technology agnostic as much as we can and this is a good suggestion okay thank you and then um for your issue number two can you go back to [Music] using that common yang model i like the idea but i think it was written so that it's common between the two vp and l2 vpn and lcvpn you may you know if it works great if it doesn't work you might want to extend it and say this is a common model to you know to be across different types of things but from what i remember this is primarily to make sure that the l2 and l3 vpn the network models have these in common so if you can reuse it great but you might have to extend it sure that is a valid point and there was another that along the same discussion the drew also mentioned that if we can if we can for example not able to use that we can in our model separate we have the same concept of putting"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:02:00",
    "text": "two young models maybe in one file but the two one is common one is a specific and in the future people can use that common model that we have that is also another way that we want to see if it is possible but your point is uh is valid is taken and we consider that great and then you have that diagram with three types of connections all in the same uh slice maybe red green and blue or red this this one so i was wondering when i saw this if there are common things can you sort of abstract the common things for example they all have the same bandwidth and not bandwidth they have the same latency requirements but they have different bandwidth requirements or things like that and then i saw your connection group and so maybe can those two work together basically in this example we have three connection groups blue red green so this is a connection group i think if you want to go that in my opinion it might be possible but we make the model very complex we want to make sure that when we say blue blue is blue whether or not if they are the same way you have three of them just put everything into one so the whole idea is from implementation perspective we don't want to be they try to go through all detail of a specific slo one vibram and so these are the same let's put it somewhere if as a operator you decide to make connection three of them you do it and they are sort of independent from the modeling perspective and i think it's very simple and at the same time very clean design instead of rather to put very complex logic to put some a specific you know together so from that last week i think it's better to keep it this way okay okay uh it was just a question the last point is in all of the slos i've seen it's been you know latency delay variations on"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:04:00",
    "text": "is it not interesting to say my connection is protected is i mean because if a customer comes forget slicing they come to you and say i want a vpn from you and i want you to resolve the vpn over lsps that have protection so then you don't put it over a regular lsp make sure it's rsvp with protection is that not an interesting slo requirement from a network slicing point of view it might be but this is mainly the question for adrian for framework not this one we are just importing whatever is defined whether or not this is the case might be not slo but sla service level expectation is exactly those thing that you cannot necessarily measure them it's like security isolation those type of things this might be another one they say i need some sort of protection and again depends under what we want to put the frame or it it's a valid point yes it is valid but it's not relevant to this document if they are defining something we will import it and we add it to the to the model okay all right like 50 milliseconds yeah okay yeah so we have one more uh question in the queue where over time we should take that question and then uh stop and take our break because we're going to get cut off at some point greg go ahead um i'm much appreciated that you read the uh pointing to their protection i have somewhat different view i think this is how something can be realized and let's discuss it on a mailing list in a separate thread details but i think that their protection is"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:06:01",
    "text": "something that operator can uh use whether redundancy or control plane uh service restoration and uh not necessarily needs to be exposed uh to their uh client thank you okay no problem yeah we can discuss it on the mailing list okay thanks everyone thank you all we will see you in less than half an hour um looking forward to continuing the good discussion you"
  }
]
