[
  {
    "startTime": "00:00:05",
    "text": "Near us for a week. Both in apple and in orange."
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:02:35",
    "text": "That's fine, man. It was yeah. My wife cats, cats, cats, cats, cats, more elaborative she can have would was part of that. Is this and say if if you go to the share thing, shear slides, It's a Okay. If you go to the shared app, Yeah. I thought there was a way on that thing to resync it. It's somewhere else because I know they you can manually Yeah."
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:04:03",
    "text": "It"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:06:08",
    "text": "every get started in a minute. Just come in and get your lunch and sit down. Yes."
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:08:13",
    "text": "Greg. Greg Wood. And product has been Yeah. I just didn't I wanted your slides. It's my affair."
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:10:01",
    "text": "I'll see. And Okay. So we're gonna go ahead and get started. If we could, quiet down a tiny bit. Hello? Hello? Okay, folks. Time to start the meeting. It'll be pretty brief. You can chat at the end. How's that Okay. So welcome to the Working Group Shares Forum, IETF Tane, As You all are well aware. This is an official IETF meeting, and here's the note well. It's folks could contribute to notes on the notes page. That would be fantastic. I haven't specifically request to describe, so that would be great. Yeah. We have a super short agenda. Oh, wait. Oops. Sorry. Skip this one. Here's just some general notes. Draft minutes are on the online tool. Please contribute and ensure accuracy and completeness. Use the Q tool, be clear, concise, and respectful, and please act according to the IETF code of conduct. So the agenda is very short today. I sent out, might have seen an email I sent yesterday."
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:12:00",
    "text": "If this had been like a regular working group meeting and we got to, like, a week or 2 before the IETF, We might have canceled this session because we didn't have any real strong agenda items, but, since lunch is being served, we did not do that. So, we have an opportunity for, a fair amount of open mic and AOB at the end. But we have only one solid agenda item for today. And with that, Greg, do you wanna come everybody. Can you hear me okay? Yeah. Thank you. My name is Greg Wood. I'm with the IETF Administration LLC. Oh, Surdia, and I wanted to just give a little update on the chairs training that we done, the last few weeks. Just as background in case folks are new or, maybe you haven't caught it. We started, online chairs training, 3 years ago now. So this is sort of our 3rd edition. And the goal of the training is to provide chairs with with with with set of skills they can use in managing, their groups, either working groups or research groups. And so we developed a curriculum over the last 3 years, we've evolved it and improved it based on experience. To cover, contribution, dealing with promoting contribution, dealing with resolving conflict, and then, reaching consensus. So generally you know, hitting the not the detail level how to process parts of how a group works, but sort of the high higher level, how how to, encourage participants to work effectively together, as a chair. What you're seeing on the screen now is the,"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:14:04",
    "text": "high level dashboard from the, the training sessions we held this year. And the the 3 classes had 2 2 sessions each, to accommodate time zones. And after each class, we ask participants to complete a short, short survey. I think four questions. To rate various aspects, the, of the, of the class, I will say just as the top level, the, feedback we got from this, latest edition of the, of the training was the best that we've ever had, and so I find that really encouraging. We've as you can see, we use this, metric called Net Promoter Score, which is basically how likely would you be recommend this, to your friends, or or to your colleagues. And, you know, there's some detail about how it's calculated, but basically anything over 50 is considered very, very good so you can see that we are very, very positive overall. 73 is a is an excellent result. And you can see that we, have overall, and we have it by cohort because the as you see on the next slide, the, composition of the two sessions was a little bit different, and so we wanted to count for that. Thanks. Next slide. So while the while the feedback we got from there was just one other note on the feedback that I if I could go back to the slide, this gives us sort of the raw number score, but we also had qualitative feedback And one of the main points about the qualitative feedback I'd like to share with this group is that the the sessions were designed to be very, very, interactive. So it wasn't just people, people, people, people, people, people, people, people, people, people, people, people, you know, like an instructor presenting material. It was structured so that the material set up among the participants. And one of the"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:16:00",
    "text": "one of the areas that we got the best, or the most positive feedback about was the conversations that resulted, and the, that dynamic that I could being able to talk to each other about their experiences and what worked and didn't work for them in various aspects was a very, very positive part of the training and something that, we might look at, taking forward another other, ways. So not just it within formal training, but somehow to create opportunities for that kind of, conversations going forward yeah. Barry, please. Barry, Lima. Do you have any sense of why there's such a great difference between the two times. No. I haven't looked into that. Yeah. And the thing I'll say is that, that the training, wrapped up, 2 weeks ago. And between sort of finishing that off and getting her in for this meeting, we haven't at diving into the haven't had a chance to dive into the data or or feedback, but that's definitely something that, we'll look at as well as some other whether, other aspects. The, the final thing I want to say about this edition of the training different from previous editions is that we explicitly opened it up to people who weren't yeah, chairs. Maybe, or maybe we're chair curious. So, folks who would maybe consider being chairs, but and, but hadn't yet actually had the opportunity to be a chair. And the idea there is that the, the goal is to provide, as sort of a little sneak preview into people, for people what sharing entails and what it's about. And maybe increase their comfort level with being for being considered as a chair. Yeah. So, it sort of sort of grow the pool of potential chairs, people who would be interested in doing that. Thanks. Next slide. And I'm happy to take questions as as good, and I can't see the queue. So"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:18:02",
    "text": "please please interrupt if something comes up. So this these charts are very high level, and this just goes to various point. A little bit, is that the participation, also different between the session. So on the left graph, you'll see that These are the registrations, so people who actually signed up for the sessions. And on the right is the, people who a number of people who showed up for each session. So you can see there's quite a bit of difference. We need to explore why that was in addition to the, different satisfaction ratings, you can see the different. I mean, the main difference between the sessions were, time zones. So that might be the the trick is the the earlier session covered sort of work was convenient and easy for sort of East Coast and, year and the later session was more convenient for West Coast and and other, geographies for the west. So that's definitely something that we're gonna look into is why the difference. But I will say the main, question that I have and need to look into is why didn't we get more, people, showing interest in this. It may be participating so there are a number of questions you'd like to ask, for example, of the people who registered, but didn't show up. I'd like to would love to have feedback from anybody in this room or, online, about if you were, you know, had some idea of being interested in the training but then didn't actually sign up. Be great to know, why that was. And any suggestions for how we can actually encourage people to participating in this kind of training would be also also super welcome. The last thing I'll do here, I see anybody running to the queue is to make a plug for the on demand versions of this training."
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:20:01",
    "text": "If you were interested in this, these topics, even if you've been running a a, a, group for a long time. But you don't want to brush up on the skills or just maybe get some new thinking we have on demand, version to the training, which in after the session, I'll send a a link around with the summary of this and, link to the on demand versions as well, to the looking to be chairs list. Pete. Hi. It's Pete So I went to one of these sessions which was fabulous. And I'm not saying that just because some of it was on the consensus stuff that I've written and they turned it the the crap that I've written about into something that's actually useful But I I think a couple of things I think ADs and chairs should attend these things just so they get their head around stuff. In a form that they can actually present to new folks. Some of this is just structured really nicely. The other thing I would say is even if you're an experienced chair, and you're completely wonderful and know all this stuff and you have great experience and don't need any of this information showing up for these sessions to participate in the discussion with other people so that you can grant your wonderful wisdom to them is still valuable Side note, you'll probably learn something anyway shock of all shocks. But I know ADs don't have a tremendous amount of time. None of us do. But show up for these things and give your chairs a kit go do it it's very worth it. And you guys have done a really good job on on the the material. It was really well presented. Thanks. Thanks, Pete. Did you wanna say something here? Yeah. Braun Ah, braun. Okay. Yeah."
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:22:00",
    "text": "Duct down for this thing. I didn't do this round. I did a previous time. I'm involved in other things. I teach gym classes them, I'm required to have first aid certificate every year updated. I'm also required to do ongoing education. I think that's important. For everyone to reflect on the fact that your skills do need to keep being updated. Cicle has been sharing for a long time. It's easy to fall into a rush. These these are really valuable sessions. I wish I'd I'd the chance to get to it this time as well. I will join it again when happens next time. And likewise, I found the conversations I did a really valuable and talking with other chairs, you know, situation, we're not just running the session. Will help you be a better chair Yeah. Thanks. Thanks, Brian. Hi, Dhruv here. Just to, add to Braun one thing which also was very useful usually sometimes happens is chairs talk to other chairs only within their area. And sometimes areas have long running practices, and they think that that's all the tools that they are available. It was actually conversation with Braun and other people as an experienced chair as well. Being in the training and brainstorming that what has worked in other areas and what are the tools available was very useful And in fact, we also hope that we could come up with material, such as this is more focused on the consensus and the running, but even data tracker and how to make it easier for everyone to run their meetings, move the documents, having those documented somewhere, and easy for us to point to. Would be really helpful and let's work towards making it easier to get new working group chairs in this meeting as well. Yeah. Thank you. It, Pete's comment reminded me that, really these trainings developing the curriculum for the streams would not have been possible without the guidance and advice, from a lot of folks, including Pete Jim Fenton, and I'm forgetting some of the names. Barry Lieba."
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:24:02",
    "text": "So I really, this is material that developed by people from the community. This isn't you know, an outside consultant coming in and they're really just wrapping things together to help it, be easier to get because there's a lot of, wisdom that's captured within the community that, is hard to access if you're if you're a new chair. So, Spencer? Yeah. Thank you. I just wanted I just wanted to say, thank you for opening up to, chair curious folks. Long, long time ago. We did the IETF did chair training on Monday at lunch of the first IETF meeting when you were chair. Which is about as long as you can wait to do chair training. And we opened that up when we were still doing, We we opened that up to training for work group chairs and for document editor training on Sunday afternoons. So what you're doing now is very consistent with what we do. You know, that the direction we took then And, I I really applaud it. The only, so after saying Thank you. I did wanna also say, it would be it could be helpful for chairs to, take a look at people in their working groups who they think would be a good chair some place at some point and make sure that those folks know about, know about chair training. I think you know, my experience was in both directions was that having chairs and having area directors, pitch you, to become more involved"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:26:00",
    "text": "was much better than, and bush will likely to get a re you know, a positive response for piss participation than just say, you know, they're just saying, you know, there's this training and it was an some place. So that is definitely something that chairs and even area directors can do, that would that would be helpful. Thank you. Okay. Before you go, Greg, there was a comment in the chat about new training planned because it suggests that the current one is in the past, but you have any do you have any We don't have any more more live training plans? live training plans right now, but we're we are considering plans for the coming year. We wanna fully digest all the learnings that we have and impact input that we get, based on the, training that we've delivered this year. That's how we've improved it every year, and we'd look to do that again. And look at also, I mean, we realized that, you know, live, training is just one modality. For getting, getting what we want. Out of it. So we'd look at other options. So people shouldn't just think about this as oh, another set a curriculum delivered in the same way. It can be there can be other options that that, are you know, maybe better for other people. So, okay. The one other thing, because I had originally thought that you know, we should provide links to the live training. And then I noticed it's in the the big green box at the top of the chairs dot itf.org. So at the top, there's a big green box, and it talks about training, and it has all the previous years. So, if you haven't done the training, I suggest you go look at it. And And perhaps if you're pointing it to other people, that would be helpful. Also, if there's topics that you think are missing, that would be helpful. Yeah. Plug for chairs.itf.org. Yeah. Good. Yeah. It is your resource. Yeah. Big green box. Top. Yep. Thanks. So,"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:28:01",
    "text": "think that's it. Unless there are questions, The only thing I'll say is that, I I I see very much this kind of training. It's, it's hard to fit in and, with the other priorities. But it's very much a capital investment. So it pays off in the long run. When you when you, serve hone your skills on these kinds of things. That's how I look at it. So Yep. Thanks so much. Okay. So as I said, we only had the one agenda item this time. I have, spoken to a few people. I've gotten some suggested possible AOB topics. So, I'm not gonna go through each of these, but if there's anything you would like to bring in the open mic or AOB, please, proceed to the queue. Well, you, well, you can go behind the gentleman who did click himself. Justin, I'm just I'll be brief. I just noticed yesterday that, We have a lot of people around that do not know that do not know the history of blue sheets anymore because we haven't been doing them for so long that they are now people that have been around for a year and a half, but haven't ever seen a blue sheet So let's just be aware of that. When we say that used to be the blue sheet is now on Right. The there are the clipboards with the blue sheets on them just to do it nod to history. With the So to speak, I I will not dive into the full controversy of it because I don't think it's worth doing here. But I thought an important point of what happened in gen area, which you may wanna go look at the porting of, is that shares are not as aware of procedures that happened within the ISG and around document approval is they might meberebereberebereberebereberebereberebereberebereberebereme And in particular, the topic came up. That you should be aware"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:30:04",
    "text": "of when you need to push back and how you need to push back as chair. So that if An AD has a discuss and it's goofy in your opinion or something is wrong, and it's going on forever. It is part of your responsibility as chair to do some pushing back. And to have that discussion with the AD. And to Get things on stock. And If it comes down to it, maybe file an appeal or help your documents editor or another working group member file an appeal. And we are relatively chicken about doing this. And I think we really need to start having discussions among the chairs about how this works, and, what you need to do and what your responsibilities are and they're not just to sit there and let the consensus wash over you and then pass the document off and you're done. Happy to have more of that discussion in this room. This is Barry Lieba. I'll I'll add to what Pete said that that really thing I've been pushing for a long time is, using shepherds for this kind of thing. That, We often have chairs being work being document shepherds, but we often have non chairs being document shepherds And I believe that's really the purview of the shepherd. As the first line on that. Keep the discussion of the document moving, keep the document from stalling do the interfaces that are needed And if you need to go back to the chairs and say chairs, I need your support for something. The thing to do But, being a shepherd isn't just doing the shepherd right up and then disappearing. Hello? I'm have a different topic."
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:32:01",
    "text": "I know some workgroups utilize GitHub and their and work, And I was wondering, much much much much I'm interested to learn more about those from people that have experienced doing this with their work group. Is there. Like, is there a potentially at inviting somebody that has that experience to talk to us about this and their experience of use utilizing it up in addition to the mailing list and, stuff like this. Right? Say it again? That there is a Yeah. Yeah. Like, I think Martin Thompson Yep. So if I microson So there are a couple of experts in the area. We could ask, Mark Nottingham was one of the first to use it with HTTP and quick. There was a GitHub Working Group I think Chris Woods was one of the co chairs. There's a set of tooling that Martin Thompson uses. He's kinda, otherwise occupied with Lambda on this time, but Yes. I think it makes sense that we could have someone come in and Right. I'm I'm interested more in learning from their experience. Yeah. What what what worked, what didn't work, what what what How how does that work with the mailing list? Like, Okay. Just learn more from their escape. Gotcha. Yeah. Continuing on, to the past discussion, I think maybe you know, Chase, page, we could have a little bit more chase.itm.org. This GitHub part a little bit because there are few links but they are very high level. And, especially as a chair who wanna just quickly do it, sometimes it's not as easy and that you people I've seen people start and then give up. Oh, there is no"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:34:01",
    "text": "interest right now. Maybe an authors will come in and when they push us, we'll do it. Otherwise, that the the working groups are going on fine. We have to just make it a little bit easier that might help. Like, I started using with not so much documents but with our charter, which was pretty useful, at least, some proof this is happening. But my working group still prefers not to do actual document work. On GitHub, and that's fine. Like, we have to let authors do the real work. That's more important. One thing I also wanted to add where I would like to hear some opinion is. Is the best way to coordinate between working groups? We know that we do it a lot, and every set of working groups have their own sort of a way. Some some people, like, I know the chairs have direct call, some people have maintaining a wiki where the coordination I thought was very needed in where I'm facing the issue is the same sort of protocols Like, some protocols have same requirement. You are implementing this in BGP, which is used in some basis, implemented in PISA. It's using some places, requirements are almost similar but authors tend to do it in totally different ways because the work is being developed. In 2 different working groups, Sometimes there's a history in how you solve this. In one protocol. So that overwrites but some kind of coordination between yeah, same set of requirements being implemented in different ways. Can we at least make sure that the 2 set of authors are looking at each other, coordinating it We know we have history of doing things in OSPF ISS. But I don't know what was the best way to coordinate between these working groups that have been followed in the past. So any ideas would be really nice. Garson Carson, Customer Woman. Really like this format of the regular chess suite. I can't hear you. I really like this format of the workgrouptransmeeting. Little pieces of tips and tricks for chairs. And I think we should to calculate this a little bit. On on the GitHub thing, just"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:36:00",
    "text": "quickly should quickly mention there is more than one way to do it. And, different groups have developed different ways of using that gets up, and maybe it would be time to get together again and then look at these different ways. And and see whether we can learn something. So the really GitHub intensive approach that that the HTTP cluster working groups have is different from how other people use GitHub and so it depends on the percentage of software developers in in your working group very But while we are at, tips and tricks for ring group chairs, I've had to endure two and a half days of, working meetings already, and and people are using meet echo. And yeah. May maybe we should have, little tips and tricks for using mid echo. And my contribution for today would be if you're actually sharing slides, on the, bottom right corner, There is a nice button you can press for changing the deck You don't have to leave your deck and start a new deck. And so you can just change you the by pressing on the bottom right icon, which is, two pages stacked on top of each other. And then you can choose 1. Why people can still see the old, thing and and it's so much quicker and it most moves Malorie. In the spirit of pity, some tips, but also, requests for tips. I I've been meaning to in the re in in my research group because we do often have a lot of newcomers rewriting our our GitHub, read me file. But then also maybe hosting, a session or 2, see printedly, for folks who might be interested in"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:38:01",
    "text": "authoring or reviewing or other just like general IETF things. So so that's a request if folks have done that, or if they have tips for doing that. I think we could probably figure that out. Document editing is 1. 666 big deal. For folks. I know, the template thing is smoother than it used to be with GitHub and Martin Thompson's template, but still not perfect. I remember I'm I'm gonna conjure Aubrey. Aubrey is standing next to me right now. Aubrey always wanted a way to export a Google doc. Into an Internet draft format. And I I know that sounds silly, but, actually, it would be so helpful to, especially some of the folks that come to my group. So you know, I don't know that we're gonna get there. But it could definitely be a little bit easier. And then the last thing I'll share to thank the team so much for this very small feature that I requested that works amazingly. When you go to a message in the archives of any mailing lists you can get a link to that direct message. We all know you can also download the full dot email file. Which is fantastic. If you don't wanna subscribe to an email list, in order to reply in threat, So you can download the doteml you can open it in your client. It has all the headers. It has the message. If you reply to that, then your message lands in without having to always be archiving the entire mailing list for something you don't closely follow. So, anyway, I just wanna thank Robert and his team for doing that. Really great for newcomers as well, so they don't have thousands of emails every day. Right. Right. One thing before Jim when we're talking about GitHub, Wait. I was thinking about this on Sunday when we were doing the new participants training is that we we keep telling them that you But a lot of times, if we have a working group that heavily uses GitHub, All of the action is over in GitHub. And and I think we still have that problem. I'm not sure what the perfect solution is to it."
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:40:01",
    "text": "But I think we're mislating the new participants a tiny bit for some of the New Worth House. Go ahead, Jim. Thanks, Jim Fenton. Good lead into what I was gonna say because, one of the working groups at Ico chair this is really the first one that I've co chair that has had a lot going on in in GitHub and We've had a number of people that normal IETF participants aren't usual IETF participants that have been participating on GitHub. I've I've had a number of concerns about that. One is making sure that they understand the, note well rules and things like that. But, the the bigger issues are things like how do we avoid having the conversation fragment between the mailing list and the GitHub issues. You know, we've I I kind of resorted to kind of posting in both places. Hey. Look at the other place. But we're also, you know, I don't know how much concern we have about having a living record, or and after the fact record of what happened in the working group on our in our mailing list archives and I'm I'm concerned that that, having a lot of the interaction the substantive interaction, not just the editorial things happen in GitHub, causes us to lose some of that history if we need to go back and look at it later. So so basically I'm looking for for guidance about, how, working group chairs should coach the working group on use of GitHub in that in that respect. One thing that I've seen used is, I mean, for some groups that are, like, all in, then they just do everything and the mailing list just for confirmation or formal amounts. That's right. Not for everybody, certainly."
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:42:02",
    "text": "Sometimes it's divided by document. So some documents do a lot of their GitHub Burry as Steven likes to call it. On, you know, and others are all on the mailing list. There are tools, to gateway the weekly summaries of GitHub traffic, into the mailing list, and that can be useful Mark Nottingham has the tool, but if you ask NW chairs, people will point to the link and I got the other thing I was gonna Oh, I know. The the when we BIITF if you register your GitHub repository, in the data tracker, where you're either when we make archive copies, we also pull down all of the pull requests and comments and feedback and issues. So at least it's available there. Not not necessarily the best way to get it, but At least at least we have a way of getting to the history. So that's it's there. it's good. Thank you. Jane. Thanks. Jay Day Lee, ITEP Executive Director Yeah. I am. Trust me. So, just coming back to, Malorie's point about people being able to author, Internet drafts through using Google Docs or something. In the in the broader, in the broader case of authoring here, I think we're we're well aware that it requires, from the broader tool point of view on. I mean, aware that it requires a degree of, personal technical expertise to be able to author an internet draft at the moment. That, is something some parts of the community have, but is not, actually necessary attribute to participate within the community. And so that is a problem that needs to be resolved in many ways. So there are, thoughts and considerations of planning ahead."
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:44:01",
    "text": "As to how that might be, you know, a some form of simplified tool or something else might be able to be provided that would take away that pain so that the the overall friction of the process into the of know, actually, manually creating a draft is significantly reduced. So nothing yet to show or demonstrate, but that is certainly part of the strategy for this is Daniel Con Gilmore. So I wanted to respond to are some things that chairs can do? To facilitate, the use of GitHub and people say GitHub, I wanna point out you know, are working groups that are using GitLab, the IETF could run its own GitLab instance if we wanted to. Which would give you sort of native access to all of the I recognize that that would be a big lift for the dual team. I'm not asking folks to do that right now, but my point is These comments are, not just about GitHub, but about any web based get backed issue tracking system. So the advantage of using something like GitHub or GitLab is that who are developers who are used to using standard modern distributed revision control systems with issue trackers. I I don't know how much closer I can get. That's it. Okay. If you want implementers in your working group to be able to interact with you, this is their native format. And so it's important to make sure that you know, This is a way to facilitate implementers being active. I don't know if your working group if your working group has no implementers, maybe that's maybe that's a a separate issue But moving moving stuff to a development platform, which is where implementers are used to working, is an advantage. The second thing that you can do as a chair is you can model good behavior on the issue tracker. And on the at in Git. So for for example, you're proposing a change, which you can do as a chair,"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:46:01",
    "text": "You can propose it with very clear commit messages, you can ensure that when a commit gets merged, that there's a follow-up message sent to the mailing list that says Here's the summary of what we think we did. Here's a pointer to the issue or or where it was discussed, if it was not if it was only discussed on the web platform, but you can do all of those things. Even if you're not part of the discussion you can you can still follow-up when, when, when, when, when, when, when, when, when, when, when, when, when, when, when, when, when you notice people aren't doing it, you can follow-up and do that. Right? That's the facilitation role that the chair has. So I, I, I do encourage you to, to do that sort of thing the result is actually you know, Jim, you mentioned that your concern that we weren't gonna keep an archive of the discussions, The result is actually a much more heavily documented discussion then the classic, well, we'll send an email every now and then with a new version of the draft. You can get you know, change by change descriptions of why specific things happen, why certain sentences were modified. Thank you. So I just have to shout and not eat the mic. I know. Sorry. So with my experience, I I mix all the GitHub notifications and my, IETF email lists manually with my own Zeeves and and May physicists. So because, IETF lists sometimes our conversations and when I followed graphs as a share or as a contributor with other things. I get all the notifications. So what I personally do is I mix those into two folders. One of them is the original email list. And one is a subfolder that is all the GitHub conversation. And so I can see what's happening in that working group. And then there's this and someone said there's this weekly digest. That helps as an overview to the list itself. That's nice. But I think, personally, actually, when we wanna have this documentation of activity on"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:48:01",
    "text": "ID work, for example, archiving GitHub notification on the ID And, I don't know, sub list that is associated But I'm doing that. That might not be the best idea. Maybe there are better ideas. But this is how I keep track of all the things and the guy can see, like, in the middle of the night who's working. And that's great because then it has no or something like that. I don't know. So, so, yeah, that's my only comment that I'm I'm mixing both emailless types, types, One of them is literally just get up. And one of them is see the manual stuff, and I will not Do a GitHub click and then write that again on the list. I'm very too lazy for that. Or so tired or both that Spencer. Yeah. Thank you. Just want I just wanted to agree with what, he he was just saying, but just to go just to push a little harder, the, working group activities, report, weekly report, that basically, if you go to a working group and see on their mailing list of things that comes out usually on Sunday and says, these are the new issues that have been created these are the comment, you know, these these are the comments these, you know, these are the do pull requests, the comments on them and the pull requests and issues that are closed. If if if you're not sending that to your working group mailing list, then people who say but this this conversation wasn't visible on the mailing list. They kind of have a point and we keep saying that work happens on the mailing list. But if if you're send if you're sending that activity report,"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:50:01",
    "text": "weekly to the mailing list it makes it it makes it a lot easier for you to say, the working group did know about this. When, you know, when somebody says, what what why did this happen and how did this happen and what was the reasoning behind it and things like that. I don't see a lot of conversations that are derailing working groups these days. Like that, but, you know, you see some, where they're, you know, challenging a long conversation that wasn't reflected to the mailing list. And if but if you send the activity report, that's a that's a really trivial way to have a response to that And something I something I I try to if I if I start participating in a working group or there's a new work group and the chairs are not familiar with that. A lot of the times I've I've set that up for people just to you know, just to to make that happen. Thank you. Thanks. Macia. Hello. This is close enough. Yes. Going also on the GitHub issue, we're analyzing data from W3C, which has pretty much replaced, maybe it's with hiccups. So I'm wondering whether there are lessons learned that could be taken from there, we are analyzing the data. So maybe we'll have some interesting insights for the next idea Okay. Jonathan? John Lennox. I'm just curious. You said that the GitHub issues and everything were being archived somewhere. Where are those archives? And are they publicly visible? Yeah. There's a Brit well,"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:52:00",
    "text": "the archive tool creates a branch that pulls down JSON format of all the issues and discussions and I don't recall the details. But Robert probably knows. And So, Robert Sparks, some repos have been configured with a this action. That creates a back up inside the repo of all of the ancillary things like issues And discussions, so that you have a copy of them if you just clone the repo. Not all working group repos have this action. If The repo is registered to the data tracker We also In 10, It's not currently working correctly. But intends to have something that Keeps it's own synchronized copy of not just the big get part of the repository GitHub, but all of the the ancillary things in a store that's available to the IETs, should it need to be recovered. Those aren't exposed publicly. They're just back office backup kind of structures, So that should be working again reliably soon. It's currently not. But it is the it's the plan for having, a comprehensive backup. Right. Robert, before you walk away. I mean, you might not be the right person for this question, but is there any sort of a plan to move to a more standardized use of GitHub, or are we you know, we we've already said different working groups use it differently. I I heard chuckles, so I guess the answer to that is no."
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:54:01",
    "text": "No. I'm not the right person to ask. But we we're not aware of one at this stage. Alright. So with that, since there's nobody in the queue, we will, wrap up. Three things on my list of closing remarks. First of all, the secretariat has asked me to you all to please, please, please, please double check your, conflicts when you're scheduling your meetings, scheduling still remains difficult. So, please take a look at them and don't just import them from the last time. 2nd of all, Thank you all for being working group chairs. It's a tough job. And, also thank your ADs because it's also a tough job. This is part of my mission make us a nicer IOTF and now there's somebody in the queue, so I will stop. Yeah. Sorry. Just just just just just just before folks take off since we have a few minutes, I'd be curious just raise a hand to get a sense how many people here in the room are subscribed to working with chairs? And nothing Yeah. That's the second question. How many how many people actually read the message is on a regular Okay. Thank you. That's super useful. We're just trying to figure out. I was trying figure out how effective that might be and but if we need to about things Just a reminder for everyone to go give feedback to nomcom. Oh, yes. Yay. No. Since we are doing reminders, on Friday, we have a side meeting on EODIR stuff. If education and outreach is important to you, come join us at 8:30 on Friday. Yes. And with that, please take your garbage with you. So sorry. Please take your lunch garbage with you as you depart. Leaves the room clean for the next meeting. Yes. Yes. Peek leave Tiro alone."
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:56:11",
    "text": "Put Yeah. To do a lot of good. Yeah. Walk through this title Okay."
  }
]
