[
  {
    "startTime": "00:00:40",
    "text": "Oh, This is the last time I checked. Think Yes. 5555 You have to take care of attention to the sign outside the door. Yes. I was just Some reason I thought it was on the other side of the not before my time. Yeah. Okay. Want of that get them Really? 2 pineapple What's the"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:02:09",
    "text": "how do I do that? That's great. So So seen some Oh, yes. Yeah. Yeah. So This room has a staticologist in it. So, end of time, you walk over the floor and then touch the mic. If she happens. What else? Some my computer was talking back to me. Anyway, this is the medium man meeting, I think it's about time to get started. And Yep. We're Let's just go. First of all, Not well. The note well applies. Not well. Not really well. If you behave like an s, you're you're supposed to be called out on it. And if you're See, other behaving that I can ask, You have someone to talk to That's my short version of that slide. Can I call Yep? Meeting tips, if you're if you If you haven't signed in to me, you're not here. Whether you hear that? So case 2,"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:04:01",
    "text": "and they use it to size size the meeting room. So If we don't if we get a lot smaller meeting room than this, then Well, that's you might have might have problems, fitting all the people into the broom crosets. So Resources. Music in those Bumble Fudge entered the queue. Whatever that means. And as an as a nice thing that you don't have policing on usernames. So first point on the again, the agenda, Not well. Scribe. Oh, scribe. Do we have a volunteer for scribe? Everyone looks embarrassed. I can do it. Thank you. Does anyone wish to bash the again then? 1, going to That's cool. So State is still working with documents, and We have sent two documents to the ISG. Top level and haptics, One got approved. And the other one had discuss issues, which are the next topic of the agenda. We have a revised version of suffixes, and manu is attending remotely, and we'll give a short presentation of the of the current changes in an occurrence state? I hope we can be done with that one."
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:06:02",
    "text": "We had we adopted Mark Tatiana's standard trees. And we have an agreement from last time that we should Once we're done with it, with specifying all the little changes we want to make, we should to, This document of the registration procedures. Which is not spotted. So Any comments on that? See now, and let's get to work. Top little discuss items I found 5 issues worth of your filing. From the ISG discussion, And, thus, this red link actually links to the issues. So if anyone which is to follow the links. Go ahead. And we'll go through the Throw them 1 by 1, So This one I should have caught because Ayanna is not in a business of making decisions, and they're very strict on not making decisions, including you tell them to set up a registry, they will want to know exactly what's in it. So, Alexey, actually managed to get the new version published of the drafts Yesterday evening. Which was a surprise to a lot of people when was supposed to happen only on Monday morning, So people people could have read it instead of sleeping. And, anyway, he's got a table. And so I think this is This particular piece is solved. Comments on that. No comments. Yep."
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:08:03",
    "text": "No. Kelts. Hip. So, I got the I worry about rules that don't look like rules. Like, the more, like, considerations or things you should carefully consider. Well well well well well well well I think the rules look like rules, but, Some of the amount someone that aren't. And My proposed resolution is that we should copy the concrete rules, let's say you don't get, registry unless you've done this, in today and a consolidation section. And perhaps change the top level title to of the section 2, the considerations which, man, which Gwasantown and, in the 04 draft, but we can discuss this further on the list. So comments, So So an I enter consideration section and a iteration section. Swayana consolidations, Indiana consolidations That's what I'm that's what I Yeah. Oh, this this referred to section 2, not to section 5. Yeah. Yeah. That Yeah. Hiya. So I think this is, registry we should, look carefully at what I'm, Our editor has proposed and see what we can"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:10:01",
    "text": "make out of that. And I will remind the area director that even the area directors are supposed to see their main name when it comes to, like, I It's nice to nice to make an example of the higher apps instead of the newcomers. And its name is Murray. I So Seems We're okay with this. Fill We'll see if the If it's done on the note, A large egget had nests. They were a lot of them. Again, it proves that neither the chin or the reviewers were carefully enough in reviewing. I mean, leaving in a sentence like care. This needs further concentration. When sending it to the I ISG, No. You're not supposed to do that. So But it it's mostly editorial. So if there's things that need. Considering there, The way the fixers are not obvious. And we should, Should the take them to new issues? Murray. This is Marie. Mean, I also missed that. So, you know, some of me at Copa But, most of largest things are also flagged as, you know, you don't actually have to do I don't care what you do with these or just suggestions. So, like, not spend huge amount of time on them. Good buns. They they wear comments, not these guesses. At Number 11 was, this And"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:12:00",
    "text": "top level and sequestration trees, which I had real trouble parsing to discuss. Because the discuss seems to be saying that what's on the left hand the rules for for the left hand side of the slash should say something about what's on the right hand side of the fashion. That's now not how MIME types are structured. So My suggestion for this one was Let's make some more clarifications about what we're talking about. And, return to ISG for repeated reading. And Marie, if you want to comment on that one? We have had no response from the relevant idea about on on the responses to this discuss. I don't know what he will be thinking about it. Know if you need me to get him pro prod that person to review the new version after this. That's I can do that. Yep. We'll, If you can just review when we send it back to the HD, I think that's okay. Did, want me to start? I can't remember. Do you want me to start that conversation now, or do you want me to wait for another revision Alright. Either way is fine. I think. I think we'll wait. Wait. So and at least until I've started a new version in detail, haven't even gotten to the dish yet. So Man, We also got pointed out that, we did not reference, I had a registration policy from 81 to 26. This document, this, The descendant of the most cited RFC in all RCCs. There are more references to it to the IAN annexation us in that to any other any other RFC anyway, So"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:14:03",
    "text": "The easy fix here is that we should just say that this this is a standard action. And quote number. It's like, numb number and, and and, section of the job that terribly, So this is is addressed in the updated version. I think it's painfully obvious, what we should have done. The first place, So that's the end of the list of, of items I picked up from the from the ISG ballot. So if the So this is your last chance of, making comments on this in the meeting because otherwise, we'll just say and We'll read the cave carefully the diff for for all three and, and the care closed, what's fixed, and, work further on those that are not. I see thumbs up. Let's go for it. That and the next thing to do is multiple suffix Manu, are you there? Yes. I am. You can, do you mind just driving the slide deck? Can I can project the static? Thank you. Alright. Nice robot. Brought to us by artificial intelligence. Alright. Next slide, please. This is the suffix's draft. I was finally able to publish a dash 6 version yesterday. There's a diff more copy there. But the diffs have been available for at least a week, on the new version. I'm gonna summarize the changes, since the last time. So Harold, you had asked us to update the suffix registration templates,"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:16:00",
    "text": "that has been done now, and it's included, in the draft the major change here is to not allow free form text in the registry. And people have over the years just copy and paste did this free form text over and over and over again, in some cases, in other cases, they haven't. The update has basically been to require links to specifications in Ted, did an audit of the entire registry, and I believe that there are links to specifications for each one of those. Columns. So that's update suffix registration template. In there. The other thing that was requested by, Amanda, was that the that that we update the INA considerations from review to specification required. We have been operating for the last decade as if it's specification required when the registry said expert review, so we are instructing Ayana to fix that bug, in the registry, through the INA consideration action, Graham also requested that we don't say we're gonna remove that section we're just gonna leave it leave it in there. So that's update the on a consideration section. This third one was requested by Daryl, and and a number of other people, where you require that the change controller has to consent for base sorry, the change controller for the base sub types consents whenever somebody uses a structured suffix to modify the base, subtype in some way. These These slides are old, Harold sorry. I don't know what happened, but Me neither. I mean, I I I call the new version, but"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:18:00",
    "text": "somehow didn't take Yeah. I can share. Well, it ignore what's this. It's Let me try again Okay. Oh, that's the Go up. No. This is still No. It's still the old one. Yeah. Here. I'll try and share mine. So I have to stop the slideshow and then I have to where's where's the button for giving your slides? Can you I've requested Yeah. Let me see if Good Grant screen. Oh, that that is There we go. Accept in select. Where is Alright. This should be the updated one The last one here is require the change controller to consent. When a base subtype is, involved. So if you have someone that has registered an application food based subtype, and you want to register application FOOP plus BaaS. Or anything that uses that base subtype. The person registering has to get consent from the change controller for the base subtype and provide that to the designated experts 1 when registering the new subtype. This is due in sure something that, Mark Nottingham noted which is you would want some form of alignment when registrations like that happen. Job max. So just a slightly confused. Do you"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:20:02",
    "text": "said it's no longer expert review, but then you gave instructions to the expert. Specification required includes expert review, doesn't it? Okay. Yes. Yes. So specification requires a stick strictly higher in the hierarchy. Videos. Yep. Class experts I I do wonder if if because that's a fairly mechanical thing checking that that's something that you could have Ayanna do rather than having the expert do that The I think the re yes. I think that's a, a consideration I think the reason it's written this way is because there may be nuances that the expert might need to weigh in I mean, we could go either way if Ayana is like, no. It feels like Ayanna is not in a position to make a judge man call on the edge cases, whereas the expert might be. And that is why we wanna depend on the experts we we wanna reduce the amount of work that they do to almost nothing except in those rare cases where they're like, wait a second. This smells funny. I don't know if that that helped Mark. Yeah. I'm I'm just kinda playing through in my head, how it's gonna work, and I can imagine I I have seen in, unfortunately, instances where people bring something to know, a community and they say, look, these people are okay with it. And in fact, that's not really what's been said. And so I'm wondering if maybe the expert needs to go and check themselves. Rather than then then having proof prevent because what is proof? You know, it is, in the in the spec, right, it Well, actually, I don't know if the spec says this, but the the expectation was you need to point"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:22:00",
    "text": "to a public resource somewhere where the community is clearly sensing, and you need to provide that link to the expert reviewer. So that they can go and read it and see if they agree. Okay. That's his Yeah. That could work. Yep. Yep. Yep. Yep. Yeah. I, be in the spec really should say that. Well, you know, it's it's difficult to understand how prescriptive we need to be. I'm trying to provide some degree of leeway to the work because that they should have that leeway. But we're really trying to make the experts job easy where like, here's the link where they say it's totally okay to use this. You know, to extend the media type in this way. Any other questions on that before? Yeah. I just Alexi Malekov, I agree that Ayana is not doesn't have technical enough expertise to double check this. So, experts need be in the loop. I think this came about from that are all trying to minimize the amount of work we do in case, like, trying to read the base pack and figure out whether the new registration is related to it. Oh, here he is. However, playing playing psyche Devil's advocate. I'm a bit worried about situation where let's say there is a I don't know, SGO registered something. And then an independent group decided to do Jason version or, you know, XML version was registered and, you know, we just had JSON version of it. And it is in the best community interest to register it, and then the hold of the regional registrations says no. Like this, this becomes a bit oqueous. Do they get to veto it? You know, that's that's kind of an interesting question. It is. I think Mark had a good answer for that, which is if they create a conflict like that, you know, these, strings are cheap,"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:24:02",
    "text": "in the community will ride around them. Right? I mean, if if if they're and that's not a best case scenario. Clearly, like, we don't want that to happen. But if the change controller. The original change controller is pushing back for any reason and the other disagrees with them. They can choose to come up with a different I suppose we can always do application slash full 1. Plus parts and Yeah. Okay. Okay. That's fine. Speaking chair. The the if you have that kind of conflict, I don't think we want to register the type. Mhmm. Just because, That's not something that we can resolve at the expert to you and Ayanna level. We might put in this put in a paragraph saying that in case of conflict, you you can escalate to ISG. But, No. Experts shouldn't be able to shouldn't be put in a position of taking a position And Daryl Miller. Yeah. Pretty much just a plus one that I'm okay with these words. My concern was, people adding formats that change underlying semantics. And I think it's going to have to be a a collaboration between the change control and designated expert to or things like that don't happen. So I'm I'm good with the words. Here from the perspective of doesn't need the expert Janta. Oh, yeah. Jonathan Lenox. I mean, I'm not quite clear. Like, who is the who who do you contact for plus XML? W three c? It's not plesac smell. It's, what's come comes before the export. Okay. So the left hand side of the Oh, I see. us. Not not right. Oh, it's not it's not this isn't the extended suffixes. This is the Okay. Remind. I'm sorry. Yep. Alright. Next three items,"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:26:04",
    "text": "there was a a desire to clarify the processing order of structured suffixes. I believe Ori raised this that we weren't as clear as we could be. We selected left to right processing. So this is when you when you have multiple structure suffixes, what, you know, in what order do you process them? We're just starting, left to right, most specific, to least specific. We skip structured suffixes that are not registered. They're some combinations of structured suffixes that might not be registered. I'll give an example here of that in a in a little bit. And if you're processing multiple suffixes. If if your processor chooses to process multiple suffixes, we're saying you should stop processing on an in code or decode error. Like, if you hit a problem don't keep processing it with the more generalized, uh-uh thing just you know you know you know stop, what what we say should instead from us. Because there may be some cases where someone might wanna do that. Good morning. Ori Steele. I read the latest version. I think the language you added is Hey. Excellent. Thank you. Okay. Good. Alright. Next item. This one's we might wanna pay a bit of attention to this one. Allow registration of media type without all suffixes registered. We have a a real case coming up where we are probably don't know where he'd tell me if this is right or not, but we're probably gonna register something like application slash. Vcplusldplusjasonplusjot or something plus cozy or something's gonna go on the end of this. In before the text basically said you needed to register the plus ld Jason plus Jotintheplusjasonplusjot. Structure suffixes before the entire media type registration was gonna happen."
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:28:01",
    "text": "There may be combinations of structured suffixes on their own that don't make sense or that would put a lot of burden on the registrants. The current spec, basically says that you don't have to register every single combination of of these structured suffixes, to register your media type. It is possible for there to be a structured suffix where it's like it's not registered and there are no processing rules with it. And so there are no processing instructions associated with it. Let me pause there to see if people have any concern about that. Think that's the best we can do without creating a huge burden. On people registering structured suffixes. I'm sorry, Alex. I'm sorry. I haven't read the latest version, this sounds awful. What's the point of Having the sockets registry, if if if you have stuff there, which is not describeable. And then I just did. The the The point here is that line. And the question is, do we wanna make that registrant go out and write a specification, that they probably don't wanna go out and write, like plus LD plus Jason plus Jot, in plus Jason plus jot, especially because plus jason plus jot is kind of just the plus jot. Right? So what we're basically saying here is that if you hit a suffix, And it's the same is true today. If you hit a suffix that's not in the suffix as registry, then you don't process it. There are no rules associated with it. Let me stop there. Let's see. Look, There's a queue. I don't know. Just say no. So, so You you forgot to join the queue. And so I'm interrupting it. And so with"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:30:01",
    "text": "in some ways, this rather silly. To my mind, even people wanted, media type should really have been used in BCpluslddash Jason, JBT because the intermediate levels don't make sense. But, I mean, what's the use in trying to make make other people behave, and when it really doesn't matter. I don't Now, Alex, Alex says on the queue. And but let's let's let's go ahead, Mark. So, Manu, I remember the discussion that led to this, But earlier, you said that we've changed things so that you identify you you process from left to right. So in this case, you would process try to process this as an application VCLD. Lots of acronyms Are you sure there's not a registered trademark symbol allowed in here somewhere? Jason, JWT And if that doesn't work, you can process it as an LD, Jason, JWT. But if those aren't registered, what is that mean. The it's a good question. I think the the challenge that we have right now is the w three c verifiable credential working groups, core media type is application slash vcplusldplusjason full stop. Like, that's the that's the thing. That's the coal media type. Which you can also you know, cut off the application, VC, and process as plus LD plus Jason. Or you can process as plus Jason. Like, those are those are legitimate ways that you would de instruct this and potentially process it. The issue comes up when you then like, you know, use JOTS to secure it or use, CWT to curate. And then the question is, like, what exactly does the media type become? And that's what"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:32:04",
    "text": "That that's the that's the question in front of the group, right, is is do we Do we Well, yeah, that's that's the general question in front of the group is what do we do there? Do we you know, the it it seems like the logic would be you would just a plus and then your structured suffix to the end of it. If it fits, here's an instance of where it seems to fit, and you could make the whole thing, like, front. Well, you need to go and register the plus ldplusjasonplusjot suffix and write a spec for it. And you also need to go write a spec for the plus Jason plus jot suffix. And do that. But then it's like, know, the question that Harold raised, it's like, Why are we making people go to all that trouble when we don't know if people are gonna wanna do that. You know? Well, but but we shouldn't be responding too well. We think people wanna do something. I don't think that's the purpose of this work. I hope it's not the purpose of this I I think we have roughly 3 options. One is is that we require all suffixes as they appear to be registered. The other is is that if a suffix isn't registered, it's not to be processed. And the third is Yolo. And and if it's the 3rd, then we're not really providing interoperability. Can you can you, I don't know what you mean by yellow. I got the second I think the second one is what we're presenting here. I don't know what yellow is. You only live once. No. No. No. I know what Yolo means. I'm saying what what processing rules go along with Yolo. Rapid hand waving. Okay. So I don't think we're suggesting that. I think we're suggesting too here. And I don't know what the group feels about that. Jonathan Lennox. My concern is what happens if somebody comes along later? It says, I wanna write plus ldplusjasonlessjot do they have to get permission from the peep this media type? Does it change what this media type means?"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:34:03",
    "text": "It's an excellent question. I don't know if we're gonna be able to answer every single one of these corner cases. So I think so I think this is has to be They regard it as an open issue. That we don't seem to have a consensus on at the at this point in time. And we could do a poll to see see who likes it or not, but, I don't think it's clear enough. Sorry. Is that your close ups, or is that the new thing you say on the bike, or is Oh, it it appears that if I if I scratch my my feet against the floor and then touch the mic at banks. I will try not to touch it. Sorry. Alright. Worries Steel. So I I I I Mark, I think some version of what Mark said needs is is admit that that reality exists, and we seem to be in it. I guess the one comment I would make about Plus JWT in in particular is that the JWT, BCP exists. It makes this recommendation to use more specific media types, There's security considerations associated with the idea of recommending more specific media types. And, media types show up in several places in Hosey and Cozy. They show up as as the content type of payloads in Jose, they show up as the token type, of the entire envelope in hosey. There's symmetry of that in cozy. And then there's the cozy concept of content formats, which add this parameters. So if you're interested in all of the other places that this may touch in the future, those are the places should look to read more."
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:36:02",
    "text": "Sorry. That's not more helpful. I'm just sort of elaborating on the space, or the connection points that that I'm experienced with respect to this work. And then, you know, final comment is, I think If it hasn't been shared on the list already, we should share the draft registration request from W3C to Ayanna for these particular requested registration so that folks within this group Can, take another look because they have changed and they have updated since the last IETF. That's are listening to you. Trying to be loud and upset and hearing. My my takeaway from that is that This is potentially dangerous. Like, it matters. Is that kinda but there's been good So the, I'm gonna repeat the question for anyone who's remote Mark essentially asked this seems to matter a lot. It could be potentially dangerous I think media types, when not processed correctly can lead to challenges. You know, in particular, when you have content and you're attempting to deserialize it because of some hint you got from a media type, It could and and Manu has added, language in the latest version that does address some of those details. So I encourage folks to read the latest version because I I gave him I gave feedback on the list. I think he did his best to address it. And the concrete place that we we were seeing this come up, like, specifically VC plus LD plus Jason. That is a requested registered media type from W3C, representing digital credentials, which have a wide range of use cases, and you can consider them to be a kind of attribute certificate in some sense. So, I'm happy this is way off topic for what this is. Working group is about, but if you have more questions about this, I'm I'm here, and I'm supportive of us in resolving"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:38:00",
    "text": "assist you, and I'm happy to answer them now. In it. In greater detail while not taking up this working group's time of with the details. Thanks. Okay. I have so many comments. Is this already being in the use? That's my first question. No. Or can they change it? It's like, you know, It could be changed. It's not in use. It hasn't been registered. K. I mean, the place fix is, you know, all the place various pluses with dashes and and just be done with it. No. Because because the it's group. Gave us very clear when when l when Jason LD was first created, this group was very clear about it needs to be a plus LD plus Jason. Right? And because of that, then it it kicked off this whole suffixes thing. Right? And so the the way you can solve this problem and it is just add dashes and and just be, you know, super specific about the media type, but clear that people are not doing you know, suffixes to to media types. I guess the question is, you know, where where would you want to add a dash here? The the sorry. There are two ways to solve this problem. One of them is At a dash, the other one is require full suffixes registrations. So Or or or beat make it so that it's fine to ignore suffixes that don't exist in the registry. Mean, registering plus JSON plus JWT is much easier task. Right? And people You need a spec find what that is. People probably can help with this. Oh, sure. Yeah. Yeah. I mean, so so again, I'm trying to I'm trying to not make Ori's life a a hell for the next, like, 6 to 8 months"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:40:03",
    "text": "because he's the one that probably is going to have to go and define this stuff. If we say that you have to register all the suffixes, I don't I can't see where he's faced. He's probably sad right now. He is he is probably going to be on your fault, or No. It's not Rory's fault. I'm trying to, you know, it's it's like This is the thing that exists now because we're entertaining multiple suffixes. So I'm closing the queue in the interest of, getting to the last points So, Continue. Alexi. And are you Alexey and Hori are next speaker. Okay. So my other, you know, my other part of the brain is, like, What if instead of plus VC plus LD, it was another slash instead of plus. This is syntactic error. Through to the assistant active care according to the current document. Reject. You know, I'm I'm Obviously, I'm not being very helpful here, but, I'm enjoying it just for a second. You know, that that that was something that we had there huge discussion about the 99 1991. I honestly think if this is to be registered that, should proper register the suffixes and, maybe people can help and if we cannot, produce a description that That actually works. That's a good reason not to register in the first place. So or steel. So for the specific example that you can see on the slide here, location VC plus LD plus Jason plus Jot, trivial solution within the W3C just replace all the plus signs with dashes and make that the Except for the last one. And make that the registration request from the W3C. That that"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:42:01",
    "text": "would work for one of the documents of which I'm an editor and man is correct this is causing pain. The other document, however, will still Jason. And so even without the plus JWT, there would still need to be, some resolution for that document, and that document could take the same approach then that would violate the guidance for, Jason LD. As I understand it, I was not here at the time at which the plus LD plus Jason dialogue had happened. So apologies for not having that context. Happy to make whatever changes, to whatever document I need to make changes to within the W3C. Thanks. I think we have to con continue this discussion online enough in person and So, Hopefully, you can resolve this because It's, It's one outstanding issue. Manu, are you done with the presentation now? There were final editorial updates made across the whole spec. There are no remaining issues except for this thing anything else. Question to the group, is is there anything else that's not on the issue tracker? We've got you know, multiple people reviewed it. Not as many reviewed this version as previous versions. So we more review would be nice. And then there's a question on working group last call, That's it. I think we have You have to resolve this this one issue before we can go to work group last call, but Do we see any other blockers? I need to review the document. I it it was just published We need to have to look at it. I mean, then no one nobody can no nobody can have have a real finished opinion on something that came out yesterday."
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:44:00",
    "text": "But, At the moment, we don't know of any other blockers. We have to resolve the register old suffixes or register or allow allow jumps And, Yep. Yep. Think I think we're done with this one. And my back to my share slides. And that says that it's, I think it says that it's mock time. I didn't get any spots. No. That's what I commendory. Yep. You you just get to talk. You have a draft. Yeah. I I we have a draft. It was adopted. We had a lot of discussion before and not much sense I haven't had much feedback. I I think people are reasonably happy with it. I know that there are some editorial, you know, when we integrated it into the master revision, we're going to have to, you know, figure out where a little bit go and stuff like that. But but but overall, So, do you think we should publish this as a standalone RFC? I I was hoping that we would, Good working group last call. And then we have the main, you know, revision of or, obviously, whatever that how it is. And So you don't you don't see any big hurry in switching to the Well, if I recall, so this came up in, HTTP API today. As I recall, last time we had this discussion, we thought that we could squint just right and see a loophole where someone could do a community registration before this was an RFC if they needed to."
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:46:05",
    "text": "And so if there's a a a a a burning need to, we we could try that. I don't think that, you know, HTV API is gonna go ahead and publish its RFCs. Do you use the traditional route? So in that sense, I think, yeah, we can wait as long as this revision of the main document doesn't take you know, years, but I maybe that's something that the work group should discuss as to what the parameters of that are. If if if it's really just open it up, shove these couple of the documents into it and shut it back down, with maybe a light editorial pass than That should be fine. Yeah. We would hope so. Would really hope so. Yeah. Probably stay here. So, I have read the documents. I'm Yes. I'd be happy with this one. So, Any other comments to content? Quite a friendly gesture. Used to make. Sure. So are you suggesting that we park the document? Or I suggested with the working group last call, I agree that it's it's stable, but just don't publish. Don't send it to SG. Is it? Is right. But this, we're going to do that. Revision of the main document. Instead. And incorporated into that. Rather than publishing a separate RFC. That updates the current one. I mean, I guess we could publish this in RFC that updates the current one and then publish they're envisioning the main document that obsolete this one and the previous one, but that seems needlessly elaborate if you ask me. What I what what I might suggest while I was It's gonna find a case where it's met. Can just choose What what we might do is, because, I mean, this is a little speculative. We're setting up a relatively new process that has a bunch of criteria, and it might be that we might benefit from running it a little bit before we bake it into RFC."
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:48:00",
    "text": "And so if we could get a little license from the ISG to say, yes. You have a little bit of workaround. Let's put this in place and see what happens. That might be that might give us information to be more confident when we finally get to that RFC them. Yep. So that sounds like The make a working group last call on this one after suitable time has passed for facing issues, and then we are then then we ask the ISP whether that's And possible procedure. I think that's a reasonable experiment to run. I'd I'd I would happily put it forward. The history of why we do that community registration sorry, the SDR registration thing has been interesting because there's two things there. I didn't know why we did that for a long time and finally found out. And then the other part is there's no criteria anywhere for what what do we consider an STO? So, It's a list, but what to get right. So that's kinda like I ESG. So, tidying up that space is that's a nice idea. To be clear, this draft does not address that problem. It's a step in the right direction, I think. Got it. So, okay, we have a plan. Now I have a blank saying, action items follow-up. So My understanding is that we have a set of fixes to up level. We'll, Everyone's encouraged to review and send in at least a note to the list saying I reviewed this and found it good or I'll review this and I think that you should fix these five points before It's nothing. And then we get hand it back to the ISP and says Can can you please approve this now? For the plus sign, We have to settle the issue of,"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:50:00",
    "text": "of, whether whether we can skip levels in the regulation and take that one to the list, Anna Gitter. And, I hope you can resolve it, before Bylon, and definitely before the next meeting. And for, the last one The plan is to go go for a a, let some time pass on and and go for a working group last call and a request for an experiment from the ISG Okay. With that, I think we're done. Can I just add a question to back to the community formats Yeah? We recently had a request to register a media type for the mermaid diagramming format and it was, requested under VND dotmermaid. And I suddenly thought, I wonder if this makes sense for community formats but there is a note that says the specification is not tied or heavily associated with one implementation So I just want confirmation that even though the implementation is an open source community run project. Yeah. This community specification is not intended for those kind of efforts because it is a currently a single implementation doesn't mean that they couldn't have other implementations, it's open source. That's a fascinating example because, the currently written spec does give the expert the discretion to ignore some of the criteria. In in exceptional circumstances. And,"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:52:03",
    "text": "mermaid diagrams as I understand it. Yes. There's one implementation there, but I think are other implementations that kind of they, that, you know, it it may not be that the specification is under control of other implementations, but I I You'd have to do some research, I think. Okay. There's rental room. Oh, yeah. Do we have the right amount of wiggle room? Let's wiggle. Thank you. Yeah. Okay. That one, give you Oh, Johnson wants to take up the remaining 8 minutes. Yes. So this is Jonathan Mannix. This is, issue that came up in the ABT core group. I don't know if familiar people are with RTPILO formats, but they are also registered in the media types tree. Which might have been a poor decision, but it was a decision a while ago. And it's also supposed to be another IHANA registry also registers. This one is also available as an RDP palo format, but those have been fairly poorly maintained. Oh, we're trying to figure out what we wanna do about I feel like, you know, since this is, you know, one possibility is to I mean, I mean, abandon the RDP Hello formats registry because people aren't maintaining it. Apparently, nobody cares. But then we want to add a flag in the text registry says this is also an RGP payload format, which might be more than we wanna do. So I don't know if anybody has paid attention to this. You could find the emails on the abtcoreorabet@itf history but Harold has actually put attention to that. I don't know if anyone else has I mean, have you seen it? I don't know if they've changed it. I'm painfully aware of this. Okay. So, because you're the fur I think you're you're the first have actually in your day job discovered this is a problem. Yes. Snow is I I think it was, my coach here. Discover that."
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:54:01",
    "text": "Some of the most important video types, some Somehow, we aren't registered. And Because either register them or declare the like, that's regulation closed. I mean, I guess the question, I mean, probably need to raise this in ABT, obviously, but our do people think that I mean, How how of certain people be here about adding a flag to the main media type registry saying This is not gonna be valid format. Okay. I will just give you an example, in in another email working groups with Ryan add, flag to header fields registry, which is email specific. So I think it's okay. Basic I got too scared from one then I yeah. No. I I don't think, I know it's kind of a bit awkward to have flags specific to kind of subset of registrations, but I think I think it's okay. We kind of crossing this bridge now. So I No. Yeah. I don't think I That is my least preferred way. So that's, that There's some interesting inconsistencies between those to registration procedures too. I mean, among other things, the the art 4855. So that's the the change control is always the ABT core working group. It seems a bit odd, especially when you're registering vendor types. Of which we have none. No. Yeah, Thomas, even though many RTP failed for are things that would be"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:56:01",
    "text": "I think pretty clearly vendor types. So you've never registered a vendor type in artificial bill of formats. So So I I I I discovered where I where I filed a bug for this one. Basically, you know, people people come to ABT core saying I want, you know, my want an RTPLA format for my proprietary codec, and we say, sure. Give just give it whatever name you want. And never has a vendor type on Well, we we have seen certain times when the procedure is slightly more difficult than that. Like, taking a couple of years. Okay. So that one I I just projected the bug. Please Please comment on the bug. It's that. Anyway, No. I can try again. With 4 minutes commending, Let's let's declare this meeting closed. Thank you. Thank you. Corinne, plan on earth is. It's supposed to go on the end the Yeah. I'd love to hear the answer to this So, I mean, if if if if it's placed in Thomas, you've kind of want Jason to go at the end. So anything that falls is not true. It's an odd shaver. It's not cheese. So but in in, hosey, protected header. They're to places where content type can be discovered. First, it's called the CTY, the content type the It's pretty normal."
  }
]
