[
  {
    "startTime": "00:00:28",
    "text": "so it\u0027s actually 9:30 should I wait think the Dave\u0027s gonna ride in the next okay yeah we\u0027re just gonna wait a few more minutes for some missing folks that we think are yeah show up so I can "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:04:42",
    "text": "okay welcome to the SACU meeting if you weren\u0027t intending to be at sockem you should find the correct room so sockem 100 IQ have 100 singapore note well everybody should be really familiar with this at this point go find it online if you can\u0027t read this fast we have note takers in jabber scribes all right working group status I\u0027m gonna let you start the stat you\u0027re gonna care and starts it now now out of your starting status and then you\u0027re gonna hand over so on I like to bash the agenda a little bit or is it good time alright yeah so on this agenda doesn\u0027t look packed so I wonder whether it\u0027s possible at the end to spend a few minutes to kind of talk about the terminology yeah the second technology thank you well bash the agenda and we\u0027ll add a discussion about terminology after the hackathon report and before the way forward conversation good all right so uh status you guys can hear me okay I can\u0027t tell if it\u0027s going over or not status this is the status I don\u0027t even know what the status is at this point but the recharter yeah yeah we\u0027ve got that moon forward thanks to things good morning so I\u0027m sorry clearly your chairs have not had enough caffeine or something this morning so this is the second working group of as we\u0027ve already indicated first of all we are three chairs today because Adam is departing and Chris is coming in so first of all we would like to thank Adam for his leadership over the years and the recharter is with the iesg we have some comments on that that I believe have been copied to the list as well as to the chairs so we will be "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:07:43",
    "text": "submitting some updates to that and beyond that the rest of it we will discuss in the way forward when we talk about what our next documents are so that is all we have for wayforward Steven you ready hi Dave Walter Mayer one quick question before before Steven were you planning on covering draft status as part of now or the the status partner at the end maybe for next steps draft status draft status we\u0027re gonna cover under work way forward next steps okay but we didn\u0027t properly coordinate there are now well coordinated okay no problem okay I\u0027m Steven Bankart with NIST I\u0027m gonna be providing a little bit of a cross working group update first and then using that as a lead-in to the sockem draft here that relates to that so I\u0027m gonna be talking about the Rolie girafft that\u0027s in Mile resource-oriented lightweight information exchange this is just a really brief update on its current status so that everyone here is aware of that says it does impact a couple of the drafts here in Sakon so next slide please that\u0027s all the slides now off to summersault before they exit okay so the Rolly draft in Mile is currently an IAS G review we were navigating a few remaining issues that were blocking the discusses of that draft as of just a couple days ago we have resolved those primary issues and we are now fully expecting those discusses to be cleared as soon as we post a new version of the draft in the next couple of days so the current version that is in mile is version of 13 once we post 14 that will be the one clearing the remaining issues and hopefully with any luck that is the final version we\u0027ve had really great review so far from iesg ad last call all of those steps we\u0027ve had a great number of editorial changes a lot of great review and a small number of minor and normative changes and I\u0027ll cover some of those briefly I think on my next slide go there I didn\u0027t so I\u0027ll go over it really quick the primary change that we did to clear the discusses on that row leak or draft was removed the Ayana "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:10:44",
    "text": "registrations for the dot well-known URL location this instead is going to be moved into a new Rolly service discovery draft there\u0027s going to be a new document that describes how one might actually locate the Rolly repository and if you want to hear more about that I\u0027m going to be talking about that draft and talking about the changes in detail and mile which I leave is on Thursday yes Thursday afternoon smile so if you\u0027re interested in hearing more about those changes you can come there so onto this draft the back one sorry I didn\u0027t actually make it to that slide I went on a tangent this is the software descriptor extension this is the draft that is actually here in sockem this is an extension to Rolly that we\u0027ve been working on here that covers the Rolly capabilities of carrying around software descriptor information this is information like the ISOs wid format although it is not confined to that format by any stretch of the imagination so this draft was since IETF 99 Prague adopted as a working group draft so it\u0027s official title is now draft IETF sockem Roly software descriptor 0 0 we\u0027ve continued to work on it made some editorial changes to the text but most importantly we\u0027ve updated the extension to a new format this is a standardized format that we\u0027re going to be using for all Rolly extensions so the primary change in this version is we\u0027ve changed the organization of the document so we\u0027d really appreciate it if people can come and look at the new version of the document that was posted and just let us know if you think the organization and the flow of the document is something that makes sense to you and as always we\u0027re we\u0027re welcoming editorial stuffs well can I ask how many people have read this document the the most recent version is from October 1 ok - ok ok if we could get some more people to read over it it\u0027s actually very short I know it\u0027s way less it\u0027s like in terms of actual content it\u0027s like 4 or 5 pages or something like that if we could get some additional reviews this is really a quick and light one that would be spectacular all right the review would primarily be organizational Dave Dave Walter Mayer just add to that I think at this point we feel like this draft is we\u0027ve done most of what we can do with this draft so we feel it\u0027s it\u0027s a pretty solid draft at this point so if that helps folks as far as reviewing the document we really don\u0027t feel like we can do much more until we start to get more feedback on the document going for it so this is just some encouragement for for more feedback I read it Whitney only I found a few "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:13:46",
    "text": "knits primarily so yeah it\u0027s you know it\u0027s a short read take a look Thanks okay next slide another brief cross working group update the Caesar extension was also updated to the new format so again if you\u0027re making comments on the organization of software descriptor that\u0027s super useful because that is the organization format for all these different extensions we\u0027re looking for more review of this document as well as always review everything it\u0027s really helpful for the for the authors of those okay next slide is that it no way forward right so just as we were talking about a second ago we really feel like software descriptor is currently in a pretty good place it\u0027s a technical description of this new information type it covers all the necessary registrations as far as we think it does and it really kind of describes the extension so at this point we as the author\u0027s feel that this document has reached kind of technical maturity and we\u0027re just looking for review so that we can really kind of start to move it forward and find out if there\u0027s anything we need to change so if Chris you said you found some knits that would be great if we could you know get those start making some changes get an o1 version out and and continue to work on that be extremely helpful so I think that that more or less covers my presentation topics as far as roli goes it\u0027s a brief update here if there\u0027s any questions I\u0027d be happy to field them I think I have a lot of extra time for this segment but if there\u0027s no questions then that is all I have to give okay thank you so Kathleen Moriarty walking in at the end of that not having full context this is for Roli that\u0027s already beyond iest review just or something else I gave a brief overview on that rolling in the beginning this is different this in particular is for an extension that we\u0027re working on here in Sandin Sakon this is uh okay alright thank you cuz I was gonna ask well what are you setting for a few times but it doesn\u0027t matter yep yep it was just adopted as a working group draft so we\u0027re just looking for more review on it Frank data in control plane security baselines how do I write French ah good morning okay so yes it\u0027s mine yes okay and I\u0027d like to introduce some of our "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:16:48",
    "text": "starting work about the network security stages or poster collection of the some networking first in network infrastructure devices such as the uterus which I think this is maybe uh maybe a natural extension of current a second walk in the future so we proposed here and hope to get your suggestions okay so so okay let\u0027s start from the motivation okay so we don\u0027t know that in last idea meeting we have some discussion about the panic the poster assessments through network information collection and from our understanding it\u0027s it\u0027s we can we can use our current Ciccone architecture and the protocol to two more things to help the network operators to monitor and evaluate their network infrastructure security so that\u0027s our an idea and we try to do something here so here we the network infrastructure vices we mean that you know the uterus which firewalls those devices okay and the the goal is to collect the security posture to do the assessment of the devices as a software vulnerabilities in the configuration it\u0027s totally the same as previous same second work for the enterprise devices right okay and and I think it\u0027s also aligned to the second we try to work its cover data collection and the mess during part of the new work okay so the the overview of this draft is first today we want to mention why we need this kind of mechanism for the network infrastructure devices because we all know that country for the for the security circumstances of the network devices is serious because there are a lot of unsafe a sex channel exists here so how can we protect them such as a telnet SNMP the previous version and we all know that tcp/ip is a very open network protocol and it\u0027s a bring us a quantity but also it opens a lot of attack in attacking the face for network devices so can we protect our what us is more okay and then the network and the device is becoming more and more complex so that\u0027s another program that we make our security become more harder and the another key point is that the Coverity the traffic processing capability "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:19:48",
    "text": "mismatch between the date the data plan and the control end of the device so based on these readings we see that if we have some kind of automatic monitoring and posture assessment and mechanism for the network devices that will be good so so the objective of the mechanism is to identify the stress and the vulnerabilities of device such as unnecessary services and the instacart in insecure or configuration and abnormal status and then we can enforce security high during measurements on them we can update our software patterning and modify the security configuration and to a lot of things to harden the network security device so do I saw security sorry and nice lights are there Frank oh sorry just a good question actually maybe not a quick question ok in the panic mailing list there was a what is the boundaries of that what\u0027s panic is doing and what\u0027s going on with the the egg push that was one of the last messages is there anything you can talk about with yang push the other thing this plays into to sort of the stir stir Hank and Nancy a bit is the idea of athis station and is there any talk about how panic in ER relates with any attestation as well as a device push so I\u0027m just trying to get the idea of of where that\u0027s going because the panic list seems to have gone fairly quiet recently yes I think yeah that\u0027s a good comment and I think that\u0027s all the question we need to consider later together because right now we we just from our vendors perspective that we think that we needed those information to be collected and evaluated to to access our network device security but today and how to do it I think young push is a very good me Canada and we can paste on that\u0027s one of my mind that\u0027s one point and the secondary I think I also agreeing that with you that attestation is very important for the whole work because if we if we just provide the information but we can not count in that information is integrated and it has a trusted base so that we\u0027re influenced the the the operators charter that they this information is useful so yes we need to consider all these program as a whole and yeah yes okay next slide okay and from from our forest prospective way we divided the the network devices security posture or security baseline into into this architecture foster day we have three layer the the foster wines "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:22:48",
    "text": "application layer which means that we need to assume the security of the network devices application layer such as those web application security and the the the how encrypted the data sensitive data in devices and how to do the privacy protection and a lot of singing application there and another important in the party is a network layer okay so this layer are just to consider how to protect the network resources and their service so we can use the second the second we can attend to collect it in and then based on the collective attacked we can hire in the configuration in the studio\u0027s connection so for this layer we have three controllers three plan controller and Italy and the manatee plane they all cover their respective features security related features awared use later ok and the last one is the infrastructure layer this is more about the device itself and the operating system running on the network you Isis so we also care about their security so these are the from all understanding that we should appear about we should we should study on this work ok next slide ok so so yes I think this I think is this page adjuster can answer some of the questions we want this work based on some existing technologies such as we use that we think that the young push and notifications a sub pop mechanism is very useful so here to help us to to flexible and inhale you the way to collect those information and then we also want to because this work is finally used by the Saku Saku architecture so how to matching or how to translate the network poster information to the secona information motor so we need a broad i think Hank as tom has already a good start on this direction he has a already has a draft on edge so we can work together with his draft to to deal with this program so and another very important thing that we need to do is that because these are all related to the network devices information order with information on information security information by using the young Loder so we need to identify the existing young mother in you know United there are a lot of young motoring for for different part of network devices so we do not need to reinvent the same thing so we researches "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:25:48",
    "text": "a young category log and all the ITF young drafts to try to avoid do the same thing as then so the way we have introduced our finding in next page ok please so in general there were good news and the bad news for us know for Socko okay so possibly for the date plane hit play and young mother young okay Ted play and security posture young mother and with such the other existing your mother any place we don\u0027t find the existing and about this part so so right now in order after we leave the some awful point that we think is important for the networking devices security they are the air to protection so how to to the Mac limit how to suppress the Burin traffic and the up protection okay it\u0027s related to upper abs preferring and apps flooding and you are PF and the DHCP snooping and how to protect the devices control plane how to do something in data plan to avoid flooding or the DDoS attack to the device and how to detector the MM fragment or Martha on the packets and to just that if cut it in and that\u0027s just from a very initial idea of wrong or perspective I think that we think that is not complete and maybe it\u0027s some mmm it\u0027s just very beginning stage so we hope that later we can refine them and we can simplify or add more useful information here next page okay and about to the date plan we also write our also write our control and story control in security post bit align your model but for this drafter we ran way after our search of the current existing chapter we find that most of them are already covered in the in several charts for example the PGP is already covered OSPF is MPs kitchen DTS and all this Mohammedan are covered in existing draft but we also identify some some some missing content in those draft so I think for us our strategy is that we can contribute to to those exceed those existing jobs so that\u0027s our current idea okay so the next steps we counted we want to we think we can to further work to simplify the current data motor because "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:28:52",
    "text": "a lot of details may be not needed for it and also we can we should consider how to combine where with current young push and the notification mechanism and how to work together with us working in the scope of sockem so based on the stock confirmation modal and maybe we think that is incomplete information so there are other essential part of the security baseline can be added later so so we\u0027re coming for we well yeah will become any more comments and Makoto\u0027s to work together on this direction yeah that\u0027s all any questions how many have read the draft about six seven hi Steven Bank are just a quick question so I I have read the draft I was just looking over it again and I just wanted to ask a quick clarifying question about maybe if you could state but what exactly are the goals of this draft are you attempting to just register new yang modules or is this trying to do something more than that I mean what\u0027s the what\u0027s the goal of this yes okay I yeah that\u0027s a good question um I think our ultimate goal is that we want to based on the current Sock\u0027em architecture to collector the security posture of the network devices because from our long-standing current ii work only covers how to collectors enterprise devices security posture but how to extend their they can fit the existing work to the network scope so that\u0027s what we want to do because this is just a zero zero version of charge oh we can only say that Calgary we provided some raw materials here and we think that this information is useful to help us to assessment at the network status of the security studios of network device but how to use them and how to collect and how to evaluate it then how to do the smart filtering of them I think there are a lot of work need to do and they own in the scope of Sock\u0027em right so that we need to do okay good so in the document there\u0027s all these defined modules right so is it is it fair then to say that what you\u0027re doing in these drafts is defining yang modules that line up with the sacrum information model is that what you\u0027re trying to do I think so yes yes because if you see my last page your "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:31:54",
    "text": "next steps I need to do the alignment to the calendar second information motor so that kind of information of the provider a lot of good structure of the endpoint attributes and the poor in the statement I think that we\u0027re that\u0027s a very good lie a pitch line that we can pass on it and the to define our more for week we are reference it yes yeah I just think Kathleen\u0027s comment that was put up on the slide as a good one is that there\u0027s a lot of yang modules out there yeah remember everything right you just want to make sure that whatever you\u0027re doing is not just doing that again and maybe hey yeah yeah I will avoid it yes okay yeah good morning yeah I think the term baseline is just a little bit confusing at this point here so this is this is about security posture either this is the attend I get from this presentation that is not about baseline security it is about the crying specific security posture from network devices that you know yeah right and that you want to input into the second security automation domain yes and the yang modules are supposed to be the interface for this additional information that is probably or maybe not yet covered in the information model of second today or unfortunately as you put it this is the bad side is already covered and other yang modules have to strip it out so next steps are is that is making basically order in the draft and find out what is redundant and safe from that and find all viruses distinctly new and if that is missing from the information model make sure I met you there yes this is what I get and yeah this is my questions yeah don\u0027t stand in totally correct okay you\u0027re either at um expert is thank you for correcting me maybe my my English aerofoil posture okay yes thank you cristinaw co-chair hat off so looking at the draft you had a lot of yang data elements listed in your draft and it was more type information than it necessarily included what I would consider kind of a baseline so you didn\u0027t give guidance on any of those elements to be set in a range you know turned off turned on etc if we move kind of the yang type definition materials out internet comm where it belongs do you anticipate kind of building guidance about what those values should be ye no no I I\u0027m not sure right now because I think the most important work ago for this work is that we just want "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:34:55",
    "text": "to collector or want to specify what information we need but it\u0027s very hard to define you know the what value we anticipated something maybe some some part of them we can we can provide so if we open or if it\u0027s turn on off in certain off but there\u0027s some some some some counter or something cannot be give our only value to evaluate right so I think it\u0027s is half of your requirement we can do some some very some very concrete where do we can we can give that part some of them which is not okay hello Jessica from Huawei I\u0027m going to present as a security baseline for network device management plain and this is a part of the previous presidential security baseline walk as we all know that Sakuni neck network devices is a Chinese a and a crucial work for both organizations and the operators so our purpose of this world craze true defines security baseline for network devices and we want this work can be fostered used in the security posture assessment and this document will focus on the multiplying security and we provide a data model one and we want to include in incorporate the best practices from the industry and that you provide a minimal set of Security\u0027s features for naturalize management plain and as we all know that they are already many work about llamado see in IDF so we will reduce the exists in your models and provide additional models under groupings for the missing parts next slide please so this picture is the overall structure of our of this document change can be divided into four parts user authentication and authorization system management security lock security and foul security and at the bottom of this page will list the existing Llamados there are two RFC\u0027s that has already published it about the security met about system management and we can you reduce the security parts of these young "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:37:56",
    "text": "models and the zerah also several drops led working on TOS ssh net account syslog anja is a el llamado next slide please so so this is our this is a brief young tree about the user authentication and authorization pathway divided it into three sections the first section is about user interface security releases three ways that are commonly used when we when we try to log into the network device we can login to network device by council vty and the web for each type of the user interface the authentication mode and the privilege level of the user should be defined to make to make access control and also authentication and the flow vty user interface and the web user phase we reduced the the existing groupings has that are already defined such as ACL rules and the SSH groupings and the chiaroscuro means patch such as already defined SSH and ETS groupings many folks and their specific configurations there are some configurations are lost such as a saucepot configuration so we we added is a miss impact of configuration and monitoring the second section is about authentication and authorization for users away meaning folk sounds configuration of readers and taxes servers and as a secure communication between client and the server and the last part is the user profile it meaning about the user credential configuration and the password complexity check next slide please as for the security and for the system management security because they are already defined the young models which has to reuse the reduce the security parts of this young models next slide please for lock security and the file security were many folks out to a specters of the security on the log and the files that stored locally and another is the remote transportation so so for lock security "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:40:59",
    "text": "remaining focus sounds the local the local log access control and is a remote remote security we focus on the syslog security this pad has been already defined so adjuster reduce each and full file security we we focus on the security check for different types of files such as Apaches packages and the configuration files and foremost for the remote transfer where folks about the FTP SFTP asleep she and the FTPS so next slide please so this is a whole picture as this document chanda our next step is to try to refine the data model and we want to incorporate use of faster practices from the industry so please review and give us comments about this and now we will also try to combine this work with second frame work and to to to meet our goals to access the network security posture and we also try to combine wins the existing young push push and the sub pop mechanisms so so that\u0027s our work and please review and comment thank you hi this is Hank again so the first thing that after reading most of it I would say that the arm with both work groups ii and itunes f start to develop young modules to report about the state of the endpoints and security functions and this seems to become kinda really redundant because this draft here for example is has a lot of overlap with the new data model for monitoring and i to NSF and i think that\u0027s not gonna be a problem for long because this afternoon everyone will meet in one room and try to work on the yang modules fun from IG or NSF and yeah i think probably you will be there I don\u0027t know if not because I can give you the point in time you can see if this works out and yeah we have to make sure maybe just create one reporting yang module that can be used for subscribe notifications and use them both workgroups probably because seriously some of the stomach\u0027s identical so that would be a good way to move forward I think at least that men and I second that "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:44:00",
    "text": "one other thing it\u0027s really good to see is a couple attempts ago we talked about the use of yang push and I\u0027m glad that sacrum is listening and and adding it we\u0027re trying to take yang push to towards working group last call and a lot of the impetus for this is going to be the users of this whether it be sockem I to NSF DTN and so if there\u0027s anybody who would like to see and usually I can push and get it to the last call to be great if you could come to Netcom tomorrow to be able to say bring it to last call so that we have users saying that they they\u0027re ready to go so coming home when you when you want so Dave altameyer so I\u0027m definitely not an expert in yang models or you know what\u0027s what\u0027s out there but in reading this the one thing that I think is missing that may be useful to inform some of this conflict resolution discussion is is around you know it seems like this is motivated by the fact that there\u0027s some missing stuff and and what\u0027s currently out there as far as the a models and and so I would like to see more analysis around you know what\u0027s what\u0027s missing and you know why there\u0027s a need for more work in this in this space I think that would actually be helpful to inform and maybe engage other other folks within the yang community on you know what well what\u0027s needed to really fill the gaps that you\u0027re you\u0027re trying to it to address so maybe would be worth writing a draft that instead focuses on instead of focusing on new work would focus on you know where where where\u0027s their missing pieces and an existing work that needs to be filled in just an idea and thank you I have a brief analysis in my draft and thank you for advice I will and add more analysis about our work to make it more clear okay just add some clarification to that question I think this manager plan and Java is the Aruban motion actually we noticed this program that we country what we are doing it\u0027s already exist in some some young related attracts so we do the brief analysis just like Choshu said and then I think we should the two mode of this work to give an overall picture of what is missing in current existing young model that\u0027s that part of the work but that\u0027s not all of the work I think for the core of our work we want to do this working second because that we think that stuck on is a very good place to to the the end-to-end and network security post your collection and assessment so that doesn\u0027t mean that the doesn\u0027t mean only the content we what we\u0027ve content we need so but "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:47:01",
    "text": "also covers the mechanism how to how to process this message this information so how to collect and how to evaluate then I think there are still a lot of work related to to these Network Devices how to how to manage isn\u0027t so it\u0027s not I mean that you\u0027re right we need to do the old analysis but we also want to give our complete solution for the network device security posture yeah yes hanck Europe chairs say this is what happens when you don\u0027t submit swine thank you for slides this is very appreciated next slide please this is the entire deck so I\u0027m Hank Adam and I were the champions of the second the combined that come second hackathon project of the ITF 100 and last time for a quick recap we for the first time combined the yang push technology with the XMPP quit broker draft technology that is incubated in Maya and so what we did there was a static combination we had two participants of vendors it was for y from the People\u0027s Republic of China and Cisco from the States of America and both provided how we are in their own locations so we were basically live connecting across the globe and aggregating that information we are subscribed notifications here they\u0027re in Prague and fed that into the second domain for the post process man that is defined by the at the moment expired architecture this time we addressed the new items that are defined for the we chartered for the new charter of second which are if I remember correctly messaging variation and collection and so most of it is about collection "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:50:04",
    "text": "orchestration but this which is the messaging all of them include the term orchestration which is like a meta all of that so this time we are focusing on discovery of target endpoints this is done assuming that we are addressing network equipment primarily and that network commitment is supposed to have yang interfaces active and those are then again yang push capable so the way forward was to have a route network device and then crawl through the network by discovering the capability that a network device can find its own neighbors in the layout who broadcast domain we are lldp and CDP or CDP and has a corresponding module yang module capability we then query that so subscribe to that we have new other slides now I\u0027m surprised okay I mean knowing that and and yeah therefore we can define new management plane interfaces for other devices again we have a capability given and subscribe to appropriate modules and therefore discover the complete technology if it is enabled with CD Pol ADP that is one step the other step is that we orchestrate the collection so we provided or created our first second repository the second phone which is the imperative guidance repository in this database basic key value store we find device type device model and potentially even the IP address which is easiest thing to do at first and then find out by a manually configured value which capabilities are interesting or defaults to subscribe to in this device type device model combination so probably you\u0027re interested in something else when it is a just a purely a to switch then if it\u0027s a full-fledged carrier-grade router so again that this is guidance what\u0027s to collect from a specific type mother and yeah these are our two basic accomplishments I think we focus on orchestration or on static configuration and we created offers repository for our guidance in this case imperative guidance and yeah big I think we want a tailored price that is targeted at CrossFit group collaboration and considering that we now create the days and our third binding to yang that is not net current and not restaurants we hope that we can even show feasibility for the comai binding of yang crush even "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:53:06",
    "text": "next year in London I think yes oh there\u0027s my crowd report on the hackathon second kind of combined hackathon project and the first question Rob engineer you seem you it\u0027s less about the hackathon perhaps I\u0027m not tracking the documents enough the term impair imperative guidance has been used a bunch of times how is that different than normal guidance read the terminology please and now I will answer the question and imperative guides is telling you what to do it is for example it can be a subset is typically configuration on the management plane it is how a device also behave it is making a device change its behavior in this case it makes the collector do specific collection operations on specific device types and models the contrast to that is imperative sorry declarative guidance this is um guidance that tells you how it should be so if the temperature for example is as a threshold of 50 and it\u0027s always at 60 you\u0027re violating declarative Gardens so therefore it could be that for example the term policy which is like overloaded and burnt term here and the ITF is declarative guidance also you can define the courage of guidance via description logic languages and if John stressed nervou would not be here he would be basically at the mic and tell us how this is done but there are existing solutions to do very sophisticated ways of defining imperative guidance declarative guidance and intend it is a third category but here starts just stops my expert knowledge as a John says never be the one to ask at this point hey Dave Walt Meyers you mentioned that there are existing solutions in their space what what draft should reread that relate to to this work could you please specify in this space he said there were there was existing workaround imperative and declarative guidance which which draft should we read I\u0027m actually not sure how much of that went into drafts already again I would contact John stressed not offline I try to send him to you and Stephen yesterday I\u0027m not sure that of successful because he was writing slides all the time is that he has was working on actual solutions in all three areas so um I guess we should go and ask him I mean this is sockem though so it would be useful if we could actually get some of this work you know submitted as drafts here maybe there is there is a draft called something-something capabilities in the I to NSF the ECA the event condition "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:56:08",
    "text": "action model is described in detail there and it includes some of the variations of the intent and declarative guidance language so I would read that draft first and order to get a little bit familiar with the ECA model is used to aggregate hierarchies offer event refinement or notification refinement and I to NSF yeah so could you could you post something to the list maybe sure running out these drafts um yeah I think it would also be useful for those of us that are not I to NSF experts to understand how that more closely relates to the work here in sockem would be maybe a couple of ideas on how could happen would be posting a quick summary to the list talking about how the work relates or you know or writing a draft talking about how okay yeah I will not have the time to write a draft for that but I would recommend everybody to join us at Butterworth at 5:00 p.m. today although it is a small room and maybe I should not invite anymore I reckon he said it\u0027s a small room we are already a lot of people there but I would again start reading existing drafts and I to NSF which are always so I\u0027ve done that I mean there\u0027s just a ton there\u0027s just a ton of words there and it\u0027s not clear how how that work you know directly relates to the Charter here and and Sock\u0027em so I guess what I\u0027m looking for some help to better understand that maybe from the top of her head and please correct me if I\u0027m wrong I heard the target of goal in second and the second working group to create an evaluation language are to adapt an existing one is that correct I think that\u0027s what we intended here yes exactly and exactly that point the ECA model comes into play and I would focus on specifically that sections in the capability draft of I to aniseh okay and you\u0027re gonna send an email pointing I will just type an email to my keyboard thank you Alex come just one edition action top of that there\u0027s actually discussion in MRG currently actually is also similar to that busy regarding how how intent of policy how service models how all those things actually relate there was like a big discussion on Monday regarding this and there\u0027s also actually a draft on this perhaps the imperative and declarative the guidance are some things to do also after the discussion month anyway I just wanted to find out that there is this after also going on and actually when you go to the intimately page view see you will find a draft yeah the the problem here is I think to build a general solution without a very specific problem domain failed twice here in the ITF and now nobody is doing that anymore so every working group no starts its own version of it and now people find out hey this somehow always "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:59:09",
    "text": "sucks in looks similar which is a conundrum so basically really know this and finding out that our problems are similar helps us to create an actual lightweight combined solution the hips every working group may be an extensible one that is enabling every working group to achieve its a detailed gold rules and so yeah I think it\u0027s very very good advice maybe you also could point through the pointer of that and sure okay here so um that\u0027s it maybe I should these slides I\u0027m not sure okay thank you so our seriously didn\u0027t episode at the time yard you want to do terminology bash thank you you can go find another mic because I\u0027m sure you\u0027re gonna get up so since Prague I don\u0027t think we have done any work in the terminology area for second and maybe due to a couple of reasons one is we talked about you know the working group is recharging and you know there are new drafts coming out and we\u0027re spending more time in hackathon and cashing out some ideas and you know what works and and what not so given that you know there are interactions and in the interest and and or humilation ship with I to NSF group and the second and they also have you know overlapping concept which kind of a similar and I just like to sort of get some guidance or suggestions as how we should move forward in terms of you know second technology whether you know we should combine or mean to me at the moment I think it still makes sense to have a separate terminology draft for a second and we can revisit that decision later if you know if we want to move it you know merge it with some other drafts we you know that doesn\u0027t preclude that and I think we should online things with it--when and that\u0027s a half working group when appropriate and we should avoid to have conflicts there so you know I just "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:02:13",
    "text": "want to see whether people have such as streams for us moving forward Hank did you hi this is Hank yes and also I think that we cannot merge the terminology draft at the moment with any draft because there is none all of the relevant drafts are and expired I think the architectures are expired and the information models expired so I\u0027m happy that the terminology is not expired this is due to as we are working on refactoring a version of the architecture but it is simply accumulating too much work on my side I cannot were also the hackathon was more important to find out and through a future feasibility from okay this makes absolutely no sense and that really helped follow us through iterations now and it will have a very good effect on I think both the x-pyr drafts and the terminology that\u0027s the only thing I can add here otherwise I would fully agree with Jared\u0027s hi this is Nancy so I just want to say the terminal terminology draft is important I don\u0027t have any strong opinions about convergence merging but just as an FYI as I am working with now a new co-author on the XMPP grid which admittedly is a mile we found it helpful to reference the terminology that is currently in sockem to help clarify the intent that what we\u0027re trying to do okay so at the highest level is what I\u0027m hearing is this document is important and it\u0027s not moving forward and Hank is focused on the hackathon which is great is is there anybody who would like to be editor so okay shamefully I\u0027m an author in that too so I guess I need to go back and see what the open issues are because I didn\u0027t think there were that many things that we needed to address so I should look and pull my weight I think we also have a volunteer for help for the record "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:05:15",
    "text": "Caron was pointing at Adam who looked very very happy so yes it is moving forward it is just not moving as fast as it did due to the reasons Jared just said it is not intended to stall all is basically effectively not finished yet and I think that the alignment work in the data models that we are now aiming at will also consolidated the terminology more also it helps that John Cessna and I are off of the iPhone is F terminology I think the trapped is supposed to be an evolving sort of jobs as we call and even within different drafts with unit ii including the we chartered the new charter in references terms like imperative guidance and things like that and is actually defined it there so that sort of a says that you know we need a reference yeah so and this is just an observation absolutely do not and this is literally want to point as all this is not trying to state an opinion just a question maybe are an observation and i think it\u0027s i don\u0027t know the extra charm out here there are non-essential drafts like i don\u0027t know like a problem statement or so that it should never be pushed to is gb because i forgot the term i\u0027m sorry they\u0027re supported supportive draft support rafts and those should never be pushed to the is she because it is a gateway function they are overloaded by that and just would see the context and combine drafts and i try to understand and read the definition of support raft and it seems the terminology is not covered by it so Kathleen weary one clarifying point the word never was not part of the statement it is up to the working group to justify why something might need to be published and there are split views amongst the iesg and of course with a turnover in March I don\u0027t know where that split will move to right it\u0027s been on our trends of disliking support documents more and more it could swing back or it could swing even further to disliking them it\u0027s just encouraged to have them the wiki based so terminology we don\u0027t see these too often coming through it\u0027s fine if the working group wants to publish it you know I will happily support that and and move that through but it\u0027s up to the the working group we often see them combined with other documents so I have sort of two questions about that one I know that the the the concept of the "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:08:18",
    "text": "wiki based document is is something I\u0027ve struggled with because I feel like we put it up on the wiki and then nobody ever looks at it nobody knows to find it I don\u0027t know which wiki documents have actually proven to be effective for starters yeah I would rather a dead draft than a wiki document frankly right right so you might use your sockem wiki to point to expired drafts or if you want to if you think it\u0027s important to have them published so that the broader community using these specifications coming forward really need them then just make that clear and myself or subsequent ad will fight for that right because we are we are here to support the working group all right so that the second question then well another question that popped into my head actually it popped into the ears behind these two of them can you reference a wiki or expired drafts in a published RFC no of course not okay you can owe expired drafts yes expired drafts you can but a wiki you cannot write right and it would be an informative reference but it is it\u0027s because it is stable okay right we archive forever wiki\u0027s are not stable so what I had asked at the last meeting was that we at least keep at the last meeting there was a conversation around you know the terms that were in the terminology document were not you know weave those terms have evolved somewhat in the conversations with the I to NSF and this group that were working on terminology but that wasn\u0027t getting rolled back into the draft and yeah that\u0027s fine I would I would prefer to see if it\u0027s a living document that we\u0027re not quite ready to publish I\u0027d prefer to see it have regular updates yeah and not to you it\u0027s to Hank or whoever ends up editing yeah and when you feel it\u0027s the right time to publish that I would advise something like a terminology document is coupled with a core working group document so that the iesg is reviewing them on the same tell a chat so at least there\u0027s some coupling and yeah that makes a lot of sense actually thank you yeah I have to breed a lot of these things so yeah I mean I I like terminology documents if they if they don\u0027t become like a pit of despair in the development process right now I shed exercise all right thank you did this answer your questions just one last comment there\u0027s a strong opinion about the terminology draft at night when SF so everybody\u0027s arguing about this I think I train myself is using it differently I think they they want to "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:11:19",
    "text": "have a stable before moving other drafts forward and and I think we are doing a interfacing with institutions and between developing solutions so it will at least become stable I hope and we have a finer working Lascaux call for the architecture because then we\u0027re stuck with that and then most of it will not change any more then there if there are actually additional terms defined those can go into the specific very specific solution drafts apparently because they are not in the general terminology so I think if they\u0027re coupling it my first gut feeling will be coupling it with the architecture draft right so this goes back to my pit of despair comment I think sometimes done is better than perfect and so I think we need to not I mean you can change things you can publish updated RFC\u0027s but if we wait forever what is the problem with coupling it with the architecture waiting forever what does it mean I tell you what in my opinion the problem with coupling up with the architecture is I\u0027ve been hearing rumors of an updated architecture document for a while and it hasn\u0027t actually appeared so there is no architecture document to couple it with right now well I will not reiterate the history of how we dealt with the architecture it was not best way to do it so on the other hand I think it is not a pit of despair it is that shining beacon of hope so I\u0027m not varied about it at all okay well I\u0027m okay in all honesty I\u0027m not worried about it I just I think we you know we need to get an 80% solution out the door and yeah but the solution is the architecture in this case the terminology is to make sure everybody is consistent the architecture is the pit of despair sorry and I\u0027m but we\u0027re getting ready to talk about way forward and we can talk about the architecture at that point okay means again yeah I mean as the author of the architecture draft pitted despair true I actually stopped working on it because I sensed and not sense I got feedback that questioning whether it was useful or agreement so if there\u0027s belief that there\u0027s use to it I\u0027m more than happy to bring it back and move it forward right and actually as a working group we decided to park it right um oh sorry okay I kind of said it softer so the "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:14:19",
    "text": "girl decided to park it which is why I stopped working well I just started this whole conversation by using the term pit of despair that I have immediately regretted but great that\u0027s fabulous so let me rephrase it I\u0027m more than willing to continue to move the architecture forward if the group believes we can now unpark it how\u0027s that yeah let\u0027s let\u0027s get to that so our next portion of the agenda was to talk about our way forward right so the way forward in in my mind at least was to go quickly over our current drafts and then to talk about the Charter and then to talk about our definition of milestones so is that your way forward so so here are the current active drafts in the working group none of these and someone can tell me I\u0027m wrong or in last call so we\u0027re do we so Hank you have Co swayed you have the pen all right Dave\u0027s already getting up hi this is Hank yeah I made a big updates with the Kosovo draw that is visible at the editorial version unfortunately time moves on when you work so I was twenty seconds late at the submission deadline and then two days later I got a review comment from my co-authors one of my co-authors including 112 comments and 50 changes and then I thought maybe I just postpone submitting it a little bit and then incorporate those first so luckily I did not commit because the other next commit would be another bigger change also I need to work with Dave on this but I think we have a work session directly after this so um yeah it is making very good progress and it is a viable solution for suit also Satine any additional help or you guys have it under control it\u0027s just a matter of time and fingers two keyboards it was my form of getting in soon again we had a lot of things on the plate in the last iteration Dave and I and we soon spiced so I think we can be better than this and this this is not the problem that "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:17:21",
    "text": "the content is actually quite clear and quite understandable and going forward and it is about just doing it now I mean if you compare the editors version with the submitted version on the github and you see the significant additions that are already in I haven\u0027t looked at the github version but okay I can you you said you pushed update and missed the deadline can you just go ahead and push it publish it oh never mind de vuelta mire so yeah I\u0027d like to get this curse word document done me as far as milestones it would be great if we could aim for a working group last call on the draft by the next meeting because we\u0027ve been working on it for awhile and I think we\u0027re getting to the point where you might be addressing new use cases around curse web but we can do those and an additional drafts I think it\u0027s important to pull the trigger and get the core done as soon as possible so does the update still in code include using Co app and ah the one that\u0027s on there has has co-op as transport no that\u0027s all gone oh ah document definition has nothing to do with transfer and transport in you think you\u0027re confusing things here at the moment the term Co app does not mentioned once maybe you\u0027re looking at the wrong graph maybe but I\u0027ll check again the document yeah no worries um Hank I know perhaps I was looking down or something but you have changes to make did you give us a time frame for when you if those changes would be done I\u0027m really sorry I was listening I promise okay with a little bit of grease and good work we can do this in the next two hours after lunch oh and then submit it no perfect I think it\u0027s possible I have fun it\u0027s Mike I have one comment to make we use a lot of attributes that align with the ISIL standard and some of those are not as well defined or useful at some points make sense as it should be making so my current thinking is we will diverge from some of these definitions and make them better I\u0027m actually more useful so but this "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:20:23",
    "text": "stuff that I have to line with Dave who was also involved in creating the ISO standard and we have to prune everything that\u0027s actually we can prune or maybe we can have to live with some definitions that are just there because they are commonly accepted my biggest problem was that the current of Weber schema definition from ISO makes absolutely no sense it is broken in so many ways that you can define switch that are basically no sweats and so we want to concise with definition that doesn\u0027t have that problem and I think also there are some implicit definitions somewhere in the text or somewhere in the XD that I never explicitly defined and I think gave us our best expert on-site in this domain I think I really have to swim with him in order to make a decision and so yeah I think we can do this today probably I will give a 79 percent guarantee okay so how about we\u0027d say end of the week after today I cannot work under any more my time schedule is so full that I have read litigated every lunch to me immediately sorry I suggested it\u0027s maybe going out to the folks on Jabbar does anybody have updates on ECP hey I can talk about that a little bit so UCP i think is ready to be updated we\u0027re going to i think the authors are debating what kind of diagram they want to include in it if I understand correctly so it\u0027s something that can happen on lists which is why it wasn\u0027t a presentation about it today that makes any sense so danny has posted to the Jabbar in response he says Jess is still making updates to uplevel the draft and make updates based on changes to Schwimmer I think the plan is that we will take some open issues and bring them to the list we are updating the diagrams to okay for the swimmin document it went to working group last call it has the working group last call has concluded I believe according to the authors that all of the comments received have been addressed and so our plan is to send it to the isg that\u0027s all Raleigh\u0027s software descriptors although I think you kind of already touched on this so I don\u0027t really have anything "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:23:25",
    "text": "extra beyond basically what I said at the end of the thing just waiting for review for people to look at it I\u0027ll probably go over it with a microscope and see if I can get some editorial changes to make before the next IETF posted zero one so if things continue as they do now I\u0027ll probably ask for a last call at London at or before I I\u0027m thinking at but yeah Dave so so given that we feel like we\u0027ve done pretty much all that we can this is Dave altameyer given that we\u0027ve done as much as we feel like we can do on this draft unless we get comments from the group we don\u0027t expect to make any additional changes really except for maybe a few minor editorial things so would it be worthwhile to do a working group last call on this document as a way to stimulate more review um yeah if the authors don\u0027t believe there\u0027s any substantive changes coming they don\u0027t have a list of issues they\u0027re trying to address and that would indicate the document is mature from your standpoint and what we need are more comments I do not believe that there\u0027s any technical changes that will come from the authors barring any review so okay is and so you said no technical changes are there any editorial changes you want to do before we do a working group less call none that I want to do right now no I I have looked at the document I have no editorial changes okay so apparently there are some knits that okay that Kris plans to send to you if you could so we\u0027ll do the knits if you can update the document then we can issue a working group last call for folks in the room or how many people have been reading this document or following this document any version of it any version of it hmm okay I did overhear the count I heard overheard a comment last night at the social which was no comments on the mailing list is worse than negative comments and so I would strongly encourage people to comment on the working group last calls you could be mean to me I can take it that\u0027s one review all right so we have a way forward with that one excellent that terminology is the other one that\u0027s still a working group draft and I think we\u0027ve already beaten that horse so I\u0027m not going to go there again and I think that brings us up to I\u0027m not gonna go over expired drafts because I\u0027d rather "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:26:27",
    "text": "talk about where we stand with charter so we submitted the recharter has I know a lot of people participated in in working on the language that\u0027s in the Charter what I don\u0027t I don\u0027t actually know how to frame the conversation so all of the so the Charter has gone to the iesg we\u0027ve gotten some comments back the some of them have to do with we aren\u0027t quite clear enough in some of our language so Chris and I worked for a while yesterday on editing a little bits of it this is not making any substantive technical changes to it it\u0027s just trying to be a little bit clearer in the language the one thing that we did get feedback on was that they would like to see some milestones the milestones are not actually part of the Charter they\u0027re actually separate but we do need a concise set of milestones so I guess what I would like to see is a discussion about what our milestones are because the list of things that we work on well primarily the feedback was boy that list of things that you\u0027re going to work on is pretty abstract and wouldn\u0027t it be nice if it were more concrete so there\u0027s a couple different ways we could do this one way we could do it would be to go through that list of work items will include from the Charter and discuss which specific documents might map to those that people are planning on or are currently in the process I\u0027m open to suggestions on how to do this without getting into a lengthy architecture not not specific not sockem architecture but a lengthy conversation around it so thoughts okay can you just bring up the draft then yeah that\u0027s it right there I just want to yeah I just want to go down to they go down down down down so specific war at work items may include the following that sounds vaguely like milestones we need actual milestones to map to this well you were doing that one thought crossed my mind based on what you had this is Dave altameyer based on what you had up on the on the screen I think it would be useful maybe to descend coast wid and really software descriptor at the same time because the software descriptor references coast wid and and "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:29:27",
    "text": "you know since they\u0027re related and concept it might make sense to tie those milestones together alright so swimmer now coast wit and Raleigh descriptor when the two of them are ready to go and okay so looking at the Charter the first work item to find a way to provide three types of imperative guidance to the correct sacrum collectors milestones for that I yes or a draft or is this something we\u0027re going to have we have these work items and so what I want to know is what specific documents I mean the milestones can evolve and change over time but it seems to me that we ought to have an idea right now of what these drafts are going to be and some of our drafts already map into this but or do portions of this but so this is Hank hi first of all without a stable architecture this is impossible to do second of all I think that the yang push what we do is in the orchestration of filter expressions for young push and subscribe notifications is a wait who orchestrated structions so yeah that will be a draft become a draft but I don\u0027t know exactly when it depends on I think that yang the essential yang push stuff is in working last call so I would everybody who is interested in this line here with the yang expressions should be maybe visiting that Kwan and comes from I think was the expression okay go ahead Dave so I was I was just gonna respond to the first first point about providing different types of guidance so we we have Roli as a general purpose method of allowing any kind of guidance to be retrieved for use and we\u0027ve been working on information types with "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:32:29",
    "text": "enrollee to define specific types of security automation guidance that can be you know sent to a collector so an example draft of that would be the configuration descriptor draft which is a current personal draft there\u0027s also the software descriptor which I think speaks more to like what to collect from Target endpoints which is I guess number two which target endpoints to collect from sounds to me like it\u0027s some kind of command that needs to be orchestrated and number three how quickly after an attribute change needs to be collected sounds like a policy around around collection those are things that that could be also provided using using roli we haven\u0027t specifically been thinking about what that would look like yet go ahead so as the observation seems to be that there\u0027s a lot of work going on with kind of yang malls coast wood etc that to me feels like mechanisms to enable collection which I would kind of think of you know if I look at some kind of vertical stack of operation those are methods that are at the very bottom and then I look at Raleigh and I think boy that\u0027s kind of at the top it\u0027s a method of kind of sharing and distributing that the middle seems really really fuzzy still and it\u0027s not clear to me that and I think the hackathons have helped a lot but it\u0027s not clear to me that where we\u0027re coming from on top and where we\u0027re working at from bottom actually know that they\u0027re going to a single spot I think we\u0027re in I think we\u0027ve gotten to the point via hackathons that were that we\u0027re going to the same neighborhood at least that that\u0027s positive I\u0027d like to end up in the same house and you know feel free to disagree with me on that but that\u0027s kind of my impression at this point now okay Adam go at a Montville contributor I guess at this point right so yeah I kind of feel like the collection we\u0027ve we\u0027ve got so to me like the second line here define extension of IETF Nia to collect to deliver information you know from from that thing that\u0027s actual collection how we "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:35:29",
    "text": "express the guidance for that I don\u0027t think we have anything really set even if we have Roley to deliver it we don\u0027t have anything set for that yet right so so we are going to need a way to express that I think Dave you mentioned I can\u0027t remember exactly what you mentioned you mentioned like a configuration try would you called it thank you Dave altameyer so this text says to find a way to provide three types of guidance and so that\u0027s why I was speaking to two Rolly I think I think it\u0027s your point that we we do need to get to and this is maybe where the squishy middle that Chris was talking about comes into play we do need to get to defining what that guidance it looks like at some point but until we get to that point it doesn\u0027t necessarily have to stop us from working on the mechanism that can provide that guidance and and in fact you know there are existing proprietary forms of guidance out there already that can be provided using a standardized and ISM like Roly so I think there\u0027s value and and focusing on more of those kind of information exchange mechanisms without yet standardizing the specifics of the information that will be exchanged I\u0027m okay with that so so now let\u0027s pivot that back into milestones so to me it sounds like you know it\u0027s gonna be really hard to write guidance until we know what the middle looks like we can make some version of progress on collection and understand we have a bunch of different mechanisms that look like they\u0027re moving forward on collection we have some mechanisms that look like they\u0027re moving forward kind of on sharing we can potentially in my mind set some reasonable targets around that and then there\u0027s the hard work that needs to be done to be able to define how we\u0027re going to talk about after we do those collections in different formats how we create guidance and repository to be able to work on that middle part does that sound reasonable to people yeah yeah Adam yeah that sounds reasonable I mean let\u0027s put a stake in the ground go that way and we need to change we change alright so so we have so Hank you\u0027re doing your comment was that you know if we\u0027re gonna do the yank election we need to really have yang push get to last call so if that comes up for last call this meeting then you know presumably we can have something a little firm for whatever that means by next meeting on on yank "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:38:29",
    "text": "election does that that you know the firm but well so firm means that if you have working group last call on Yang push then a lot of the ambiguity comes out of what you can write for your yang push collection and that means that say bye at least by London we can have something that we can really argue about and that by Montreal we could potentially anticipate last call does that seem does that timeline seem crazy I we could write apart that this architectural and defines a control plane procedures of how to orchestrate as that specific part yes it would be a portion of a solution that is adhering to a non existing architecture yes can we cut collection from orchestration to some extent yeah that is two sentence draft use en coche Touche a question about attestation would that be scope to include that in this chatter or we just wait for or is it part of something else to collect attestation data of all the collection things that is being proposed in this charter under that I have a good answer but folks who want to stand up Dave Hank anybody just add to that I think attestation is very interesting and if you\u0027re trying to do continuous monitoring knowing that you\u0027re monitoring something that isn\u0027t hacked is a plus Eric it was hard to hear you but um so sorry Nancy I think the answer is yes from the standpoint of our Charter is talking about posture guidance collection assessment and so from that perspective the type of information whether it\u0027s a testable or not I would think is in scope but that\u0027s the NZ\u0027s opinion I would think so I\u0027m jumping in line Hank I would think you yeah attestation is in scope I think there\u0027s a nuance between "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:41:29",
    "text": "when you collect data that\u0027s attestation versus just data collection attestation comes with some kind of you know kind of security bound you know ability to assert the the level of trust in that data and it\u0027s not clear to me that the goal isn\u0027t to be able to collect both and put them side-by-side hi this is Hank and this is my IOT director and TCG there is a head on it happens to be that I\u0027m kind of familiar with attestation and I think today the rats email list will start it\u0027s a non-work email list of about remote attestation which for example is I think they\u0027re talking about here and not at the station and I think the important things for second are the conveyance of evidence and not attestation you can do attestation with that but I think what we and second can do is create security posture that is evidence or collected but we are not in charge of creating it and we are not in charge of appraising it we are solely in charge of producing a thing that is producer processing it because evidence appraisal by a verifier in a remote attestation procedure is super complex and it would be I think half of a complexity we already created in second already and just saying yeah we\u0027re going to also do that is a huge scope creep so but be very careful how we how much verification that\u0027s or appraisal we are very thick verify we include here so Dave Walter my rat so I don\u0027t think we\u0027re actually working on attestation here at least in its entirety but it seems to me like we\u0027re building some of the building blocks that could be used as part of an attestation solution and and right and so so in my mind some of those building blocks that we\u0027re working on here is a method of collection which is um you know something like yank push I\u0027m along with the yang models that you know we\u0027re collecting data for and it may be useful to create some guidance around what yang models to use to collect from what devices I think that\u0027s kind of what Frank and company are are trying to do I think another thing that we\u0027re trying to do here is define a method of evaluation so when you\u0027ve collected data you want to be able to figure out if that matches some expectation some expectation and we we have some ideas on how to do that that evaluation how to make a statement of what\u0027s expected and had to compare that "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:44:31",
    "text": "against what has been collected and then I think we\u0027re also talking about you know providing data-driven guidance we like to use terms like imperative and declarative and and and and and all of that but what I think we\u0027re trying to do is where we\u0027re trying to both describe and provide the the data that is necessary to have a data-driven approach to to collecting the posture to performing the evaluation and and so those are the pieces that I think we\u0027re talking about here in very simple terms is there agreement around that I don\u0027t know if I want to chair hat off I don\u0027t know if I want to define a method to do to do evaluation more than I want to provide infrastructure that lets people develop evaluations to a method that allows people to develop guidance hi this is Hank I think here we could maybe used to actually use it from baseline so maybe second provides a set of baseline evaluation capabilities and then you can build on that okay I heard a lot of ie no no no here next to me neutral parties and just the thought just a comment also I don\u0027t know really know what data-driven means so meaning that we we we don\u0027t want to heart code into tooling what is collected and what is evaluated we want to allow a policy or you know some other form of expression to be delivered to the tool that that will then drive the tool to perform different types of collections different types of evaluations we want to make that more more dynamic I think that\u0027s been an ongoing thread in our SATCOM conversations we we don\u0027t we don\u0027t want to pin the two down there yeah content-driven is what is what I\u0027m saying I can totally understand content-driven if you define information types and content types enumerate them and then somehow tell you how they\u0027re related and should be and compared for example I\u0027m absolutely fine with that this gives structure to the process but "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:47:34",
    "text": "but just saying yeah you should be free to do compare everything with everything is like doing nothing yeah exactly there\u0027s a problem we are trying to solve so if you have a list of information types and content types critics economy maybe with that and then say this type of information typically requires this in this type of information order to be evaluated then you can have an abstraction with content type definitions and then see what fits and that makes total sense if there is data driven i\u0027m hind that yes that\u0027s what i mean so the clarification is data driven is really content driven Karen can I tie that back to the love for you to talk that\u0027s exactly what I\u0027m looking for here actually so when we\u0027re talking about providing guidance I think it\u0027s where we\u0027re talking about providing that content you know that that can be used to drive collection that that can be used to drive the evaluation and we\u0027re talking about you know developing the mechanisms that are used to provide that content so when we say to find a way to provide three types of guidance what we\u0027re saying is we\u0027re talking about the mechanism that provides content right and so we Adam just said we need we need to define what that content what that content is right so I mean put yourself in my shoes I need to enter milestones and so I\u0027m looking for a document that says this because that\u0027s what milestones are in the IETF right so so what I was saying before I was proposing that we that we can use Rolly as a method of providing that that content and that we work on drafts to describe information types which are you know classes of content that that can be provided over Roley and that may be at some point in the future we\u0027ll get to defining the form of of those specific kinds of content but that\u0027s not a that doesn\u0027t necessarily have to be a priority right now so okay so what we\u0027ve said if we let\u0027s let\u0027s look at those milestones right so so Coast wid early 18 Rolly software early 18 right I put down a place marker for ECP in mid 18 okay the the types of collection we\u0027ve "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:50:35",
    "text": "talked about gathering so far in the working group include PT absolute so right - so ECP is is the you know posture attribute near posture attributes right we have yang data models we have swig we\u0027ve talked about you know separately like WMI is actually in the Charter and what was the other one oval so that gives me five different raw data formats coming in for collection given the history of sockem and the religious war that breaks out when we try and pick one of those I\u0027d like to put a place marker down where we talked about how to not pick one of those and how to only do the minimum amount we need to do to be able to walk across them and define the metadata necessary to go from one to the next to the next sounds great that would be something to connect I think that is the the information type content type of correlation we just were talking about this seems to be the metadata you just mean meant yeah but there has to be things to connect in order to draw a line and I would I am here and that the mic I wanted to highlight and maybe I didn\u0027t push it to the list because I was tired I pushed the first yang module force which submitted it before the submission event actually no it\u0027s an individual document at the moment but I will push it to the list because I\u0027ve actually forgot that that just became to me that there is a yang module for self identification now I but I forgot to tell you about it all right so Nancy you wanted to say something yeah so I was just going to add we\u0027ve been talking about the different data models that could connect for that content driven either guidance or collection so I can bring back so Roley is one way to Express pieces of the transfer the other way to do it from okay don\u0027t kill me in a synchronous way publish/subscribe mechanism is to "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:53:37",
    "text": "either do it through yank push or from a collection and brokering I can bring back the XMPP grid so in this list what we\u0027re missing is some of the transfer protocols I\u0027m just saying XMPP grid would be one of them Roley could potentially be one of them as well right so Kerri and I\u0027m just trying to answer your questions of what\u0027s the work that we need to define right for an adjuster I I don\u0027t I\u0027m not very familiar with so many existing mentor connection mentoring second volley or other thing but adjustable as I want to see that for for for our Wender network device when the country we we we use widely used young you know young Tatum odor and the net company can even to push you to collect our security the configuration information so yeah that\u0027s our current condition and and another content you know what raft is all implemented in audio isaacs so I think that\u0027s a very we\u0027re major thing that we can standard so that\u0027s yeah they will take it okay good I don\u0027t know how to say it I want to say like we need some kind of like wouldn\u0027t want it we talked about the different transfer mechanisms right like what I think the ECP I think okay there\u0027s you know we\u0027re collecting some stuff it gets sent up to a server and then ECP I think actually talks about storing into a repository right what if XMPP good is part of that then do we need to expect an interface actually like to that repository so that then there could be the point-to-point connection or there could be the that through XMPP grid way you know what I mean like to me it seems like we need to expect some interfaces so yeah Nancy and I were just actually having a brief sidebar about wanting to do something like that so maybe that is something we could do it so we\u0027re writing it down 18 or fall say there again what is that mid 18 or fall of 18 fall fall of 1918 this "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:56:38",
    "text": "is Dave again one of the things that I think we need to come to terms with in in this draft is I think there\u0027s a role for guidance to be exchanged between organizations as well as within an organization and the the transports that we may want to use may may vary based on on those those needs as well as the discovery mechanisms the the ways of you know initially determining where to go to get those versus tracking changes that are occurring within repositories so one of the things that I\u0027ve thought about over the longer term is you know roley\u0027s really great for discovering sort of an initial set of content that an organization may provide but it\u0027s not great for identifying changes that are occurring as they occur you know within within that repository and so maybe there\u0027s a way also to sort of connect together Adam pub for syndication and XMPP for notification as part of that I think Peter st. Andre had done a an early Adam pub draft that was talking about using XMPP so that could be maybe work that we could resurrect but I think the Adams point we first need to kind of define the ecosystem I think more in a more useful way sure you\u0027re volunteering Adam I just want to agree with all that inter intra organization kind of thing yeah I I think I\u0027d like to tackle like the simplest cases first I don\u0027t know if that\u0027s like a Captain Obvious kind of save it or what but you know what I mean like I don\u0027t want to think too hard about the edge cases I\u0027d rather get something working on a simple case and then iterate over that so chair hat on I\u0027d like to continue that the hackathons provide some you know drivable moments for us to actually resolve issues and make tangible progress that informs kind of you know draft writing you know and what we can build so I kind of agree with Adams keep it simple stupid and then we\u0027ll add on the complexity later yeah I think we\u0027ve I think we\u0027ve sort of taken this conversation as far as we can take it I I still find it a tiny bit frustrating that were unable to identify concrete milestones and spaces but I I "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:59:41",
    "text": "think we can get to that this is Dave I think we can get to that soon and I think we actually do have some that we that we can continue to work on like like the configuration descriptor work like the you know like some of the ongoing you know Roley work that work that we\u0027re already doing i-i-i think we should also maybe add some calendar milestones for doing things as far as more more hackathon work I\u0027d like to see us I\u0027d like to see us get better though about about getting knowledge out of the hackathon work and I don\u0027t mean to take us from The Shining Tower to the pit of despair here but you know we we\u0027re doing a lot of interesting things in the hackathon but I don\u0027t think we\u0027re doing a good job at communicating all of this integration work that we\u0027re doing across all of these different groups you know to in a way that that folks that are not intimately involved in the hackathon can actually understand we didn\u0027t have any slides at this meeting to talk about the work that we did at the hackathon and that would have been a really great way to actually brief people about you know this is what we did and these were the successes that we had and these were the problems that we found and these are the things that we think should be worked on and I think that\u0027s a missed opportunity I think we should we should find ways to do more of that so I agree with your your comments about it would be nice to get more out of the hackathon and I think that there\u0027s a fair amount of good work going on but if I were to take myself outside of this working group and look at the Charter that we\u0027ve submitted with these high-level work items and we can\u0027t define milestones that map to those work items that just that to me is a logic disconnect now maybe we can get it resolved shortly but I to be honest I thought this would be like a five minute exercise and we would go down through those work items we\u0027re like okay this maps to this this maps to this this map so this may be done and now we\u0027re twenty or thirty minutes into this and we\u0027re not done that\u0027s kind of it shouldn\u0027t be this hard Kathleen Moriarty ad thank you yeah that\u0027s a concern and it will be for the isg reviewing this I have this slated to be reviewed on Friday but it sounds like you need more time well that was I mean I would prefer to have it reviewed and done on Friday I mean we it\u0027s been floating around now for months can we go but if we as a working group can\u0027t define you know five to ten I mean it Chris is busy over here typing so maybe so I mean if we can get the milestones to me by Thursday night "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "02:02:42",
    "text": "right match back to the Charter and it\u0027s it\u0027s real clear that you and Chris work I think that\u0027s going to help the rest of the IETF understand what sacrum does write the comments you\u0027re seeing from the IAS G is it\u0027s a little nebulous they don\u0027t quite get it all right and it\u0027s because it\u0027s a space none of them have worked in so I think it\u0027s our job to make it clear to them the importance of this work and showing the concrete deliverables I only got up to talk about timeline and really you know you guiding me as to when this should go before the iesg again right because I had slated for Friday but I can push it out I mean I would like to see us I would like it to remain on the agenda for Friday I\u0027m not willing to give up on that quite yet great and I\u0027m not saying that the milestones that we have to define have to fully flesh out every one of those work items but there needs to be a clear mapping between these abstract work items that we\u0027ve defined and concrete milestones right may I\u0027m not all of them but at least a good portion of them right and the milestones can involve they don\u0027t have to be tied to a charter review so if you get some main core ones that you know where the current go forward that\u0027s fine you can add more right but you know as part of the Charter I mean it was clear I think it was Benoit said where are your milestones I will and I think taking heed to Benoit\u0027s advice from the interim call you know in terms of reuse of existing technologies and making that very clear is going to be very important to him right so showing that in the milestones I think you\u0027re really careful to make sure that\u0027s done Thank You Hank hi this is Hank yeah just connecting to the requested from Benoit I think that it\u0027s kind of easy because this is the work I think we have the most concrete progress made in and Eric I think you would agree with that so this is very visible and then addressing Dave\u0027s comment first of all i we have hackathon slides we could have just pulled them up second of all I was at the LCF meeting on Friday ended a PR interrelationship presentation of en coche in our work in second year we have slides net conf that highlight the hackathon output we have slides and core that elaborate on how this will be done in kamae we have slides in this interesting research group identify know um the visibility is high at the moment higher than ever and Hank I don\u0027t think this is a point worth dwelling on a lot I think Dave\u0027s point was it would have been nice to have just a slides here that\u0027s fine we don\u0027t we didn\u0027t have them we\u0027ll move "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "02:05:43",
    "text": "on no need to Gus it any further it\u0027s not on and it\u0027s not only on you Hank yeah Adam is up here accepting responsibility so you\u0027re not gonna talk about slides right no no excellent I\u0027m talking about milestones so this is Dave we we actually have don\u0027t we have milestones for some of the existing work that we haven\u0027t yet yet completed so we we have probably three or four drafts for which we already have milestones right right but we\u0027re putting in a draft charter with eight or nine work items and no milestones associated with sure or a few while stones associated with them right that\u0027s my only point I mean if we reach our during we ought to be able to list what our milestones are for our recharter okay all right so so I think we\u0027ve had a fair conversation on this I think we need to continue it on the list Chris is busy over here typing up a list of potential milestones and I\u0027m sure he will email it to all of us shortly and we can discuss on the list but I mean they don\u0027t have to be specific draft names but they need to be a you know like four or five or six words it says we\u0027re going to do something we\u0027re going to do a document that addresses this all right any last comments on what\u0027s on the screen oh this is Nancy so just a nitpick not clear to me that ITF does api\u0027s so when you say data interchange API is I think you mean interfaces gssapi okay so any other last-minute comments excellent thank you all and please please contribute to the milestone conversation on the mailing list thank you thank you Adam "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "02:11:13",
    "text": "yeah you "
  }
]