[
  {
    "startTime": "00:00:16",
    "text": "okay welcome to the second debt net session thank you for making it back after the break since this is a independent session we\u0027re gonna remind folks of a few administrative things first is the note well this is the same as what we talked about the last session please recall that everything you say here is governed by our contribution rules and anything you say becomes part of our permanent record if you\u0027re not familiar with our note well it\u0027s the end of the week right you should know that by this point but please take a look at the URL sorry I have to I have to remember to eat the mic sorry about that so we are streaming audio and video as well as recording please speak your name at the mic when you have a comment also join in our joint minute taking the URL is here it\u0027s also ascent to the list so it can be easy to click on we are doing jabber I\u0027m on jabber we do have remote participants and they should feel free to join the mic the mic line if they have comments and we do have one remote speaker the agenda is slightly modified from what we talked about before specifically that item number seven we\u0027ve already covered in a previous session also number ten is a late addition so I\u0027m not going to go over the rest of the typical administrative things we did that in last session I think we\u0027re just going to jump right in so I think Andy is next oh no I\u0027m sorry Mach is gonna present for this topic so Andy is a co-author and here buddies please fill in the blue sheets note that we have new blue sheets for this second session okay hello everyone my name is marcin so I\u0027m representing all sir to present this Dannette controller plan framework so here\u0027s a background of this document so as we know that to date the working group many in focus on the data plan and become modules so I think it\u0027s time to consider about this control plane protocol aspect as we know that as we know that the current architectural document has already discussed some control and controller plan aspects in the section and 404 mmm "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:03:17",
    "text": "font - as according to the definition in RC 17 for 2026 the controller plan include actually includes a control and the management plans so this document try to cover two it\u0027s two parts and we do not there are some error detonate then yet that better plan Ted clone document already talked about some requirement today actually to the control plan so the purpose of the draft is were straightforward we try to compile all then the controller plan requirement in this document and then we can provide an overview of possible control plan put solutions based on those requirements for example how to the fun particle different extensions in the case of distribute distributed control plan and a relevant signaling protocol or you know for the central centralized scenario or in elaborate hybrid means there there may be some centralized and the digital solution used in a in in a scenario so this statement also discussed other control plan issues that dedicated to dead net for example how to support explicit paths and how to do the source a reservation to support pre-health functions and how to you know to and also talk about how to integration with existing protocols for example the lung I sir am furious long is our IP and also can how to apply this to the I\u0027m here Sunday service six so this document also to describe some aspect about the management plan issue that is eunuch eight unique to the net I\u0027ve example how to provision in the prayer of auction and how to do then there are aliens so this document many major to know together to document the gaps are you know in the existing control and solutions of the document tests test document that does not intend to you know to define some specific solution this the solutions will be you know document in dedicate document for example if we want to extension the RC BT protocol then we be sterilized us in the case working group so here\u0027s a next step our about this work so I think this "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:06:18",
    "text": "work has already discuss in a society of meeting so based on current charter there are the same sacrament that this work is within the current charter so the author believed that the current draft is a you know good ship and for locking up adoption and Wednesday\u0027s work adopted I can under a we can continue to improve a document and also it can start a relevant solution work in relevant working groups can I have a comment on the previous slide I understand it\u0027s the long-term plan and no comments on that but when you say that that integration existing control planes there is a sorry six and we will hear about it soon but that\u0027s a new data plane so for the rest actually we have data plane already and we first should have maybe data plane before having control plane when it comes to us every six a category I think yeah I think great based on the consensus optic on the group two years also following up on at this is from Jabbar from Bernard sales second routing is normally only having routing protocol extensions and no signaling protocol at all so that\u0027s comment actually yeah I think yes Signori has had its own protocol a single protocol but in our if we want to leverage it\u0027s a grout intercept l10 net there may be some additional work need to be done yeah I think I think this person is focusing on thinking that controller plane has to be signaled and one of the things the reason we\u0027re using controller plane versus the older term of control plane is is that it may be fully centralized and that you can you could for example do resource management with sr without having to signal it just from a controller yeah I think this document does not to any potential solutions you just leave straight option here I can distribute i can4t centralized I can have great just discuss some potential solution for the control plan after Daniel Annette yeah but resource management or resource allocation reservation for segment routing is an unsolved problem not there is no solution so there is no solution no standard for right so right now we do have an issue this was going to come up later that we don\u0027t have a definition of "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:09:18",
    "text": "what what traffic engineering 4sr means this is an issue that we\u0027ve been talking with let\u0027s the spring chair as well as the 80s and will continue to work between now and the next meeting but I think that that\u0027s consistent with the point beyond or say let\u0027s not let\u0027s not focus on SR to start yeah and and get there as we do work out these other topics yeah another comment from two comments from jabber bernard sales says but centralized is yang right and andy malice response is centralized is not necessarily yang although that is an option and then the response back is okay but in general it is both think votes right yeah so so that was a little bit of it at like commerce and that was a little bit of a nap mic conversation and keeping in mind that Andy is one of the co-authors of this yes all right yeah I think yeah I think yeah okay so we previously looked at this document and got tried to get a feel for the room I\u0027ll do it again how many have actually I\u0027m gonna ask the other question first how many people think that we should be working on this topic in the working group so controller plain work debt net okay that\u0027s a that\u0027s a reasonable number how many think we should not be working on this and keeping in mind this is a gap analysis this is not a solution document so I had someone who looked like they\u0027re gonna come to the like but I\u0027ve and I made that caveat I think I said they sat back down right so they I think the objection there would be is is if we start talking about solutions there are other working groups that own the solution space and we shouldn\u0027t jump on their activity and that\u0027s absolutely correct so we\u0027ve we\u0027ve said that there was a good number who thinks we should be working on this there were no objections how many think that this is a reasonable foundation for our work in this area in other words we should adopt how many think we should adopt this document as a starting point that\u0027s very that\u0027s that that\u0027s much less who then think that we should work in this area that\u0027s a little bit of a surprising result maybe I phrased it in a way but no matter what yeah yeah how many have read the document it\u0027s alright that was a good question because it\u0027s about the same number raise their hand "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:12:19",
    "text": "yeah so this is something we\u0027re going to confirm number one that for our ad that this is something that we can be working on assuming that the ad says that it\u0027s okay we will be taking this the list okay thank you I think he\u0027s ready to draft and Cummins right okay thank you great thank you very much next next up we have a one of two SR v6 talks it\u0027s really weird that this says flexi here be careful when you have a presentation and have a title when you steal it from something else it shows up positional and I will present our work about as I was six Valdez net here is actually why doesn\u0027t that from the first place excuse me I just unfortunately I was talking at the mic Andy is saying hand up hand up hand up repeatedly it\u0027s the danger of being chair of cherry and also being jabber scribe Andy did you want to make a comment or you just hands up agreeing oh he was just agreeing sorry about that [Music] why we need an ax from first place there are some new applications and bring some new requirements for network so perhaps we need some new technologies rather than the traditional ones so when you detonate and I think people in the room may be very familiar with these three features often at the resource allocation to avoid congestion and the service protection to provide a redundant transport to to avoid the failure of the flow and also explicit a routine so this work we try to implement that netting yeah yeah SR SR v6 domain so why is r6 first as a v6 in sauce routine and as r6 could steer the packet flows through the network according to an explicit past with allocated resources and second network programming a server six can support the the functions that will be needed in Internet and also metadata a services could carry the information that will be needed in that\u0027s net for example the flow identification and sequence number so why not here is the architecture for a Sophists "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:15:23",
    "text": "six for ten answers protection because there are three features seen that\u0027s not and in this stage we just cover the service protection first and the first days the data plan basically the packet will goes through the ingress node and in the ingress node it will be inserted the SR v6 policy that will steer the packet from the ingress to the relay node and also the fluid application a sink with number will also be counting in the SRH and a general they know the one packet of replication happens and after the replication the payload and the ipv6 header with the SRH a binding to different as our basics policies which steer the packets through different paths and the in the elimination note the redundant packet will be eliminated and the the survival will transmitted through relay know to go to the egress node and in the control plan we consider and we considering that to the first we there should be an a past commutation request from the edge node to the controller to see that the the TANF law won\u0027t Service protection pass in order to have auto reliability and the after the computation a controller will send pass to the add node and also the replication and elimination notes and so I finish it first or you yes and after the after the controller configure the action or the it should also configure the relay node and the replication living node should be configured to identify that then then I flow spy flow identifications after application or elimination the explicit passed you next relay should also be required through some control plan extensions so I\u0027m trying to affinity Stewart you\u0027re clearly describing doing pre off in this but pre off requires sequence numbers how do the sequence numbers get carried uh it will be describing in the next slide okay yes Dave Allen Erickson the statement binds a new SRV six policy to the survival packet does this involve inserting information you mean searching for what kind of omission and for this yes it\u0027s it\u0027s basically abiding said actually after "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:18:23",
    "text": "the after the elimination it is it\u0027s a binding cid that was not part of the information inserted at the back at r1 right you mean the information of flow identification and the resource number the sequence number well there\u0027s the part where you use do the sequin you proceed to replicate it and put the sequence number and I understand that\u0027s done with a tunnel because yes I think so because you\u0027re discussing D capsule aiding the odor of ipv6 header yes and I\u0027m assuming that\u0027s not a manipulating the segment routed list but the insertion or the binding a new s rv6 policy to me sounds like you\u0027re inserting new information into the ipv6 packet and into the segment list actually there is an example about how to do this I think this will answer your question perfectly yeah maybe you can give more comments after that I will wait thank you thank you and here is the what do we need when we do a survey six space that than that first we need a manner to identify the 10 L payload type and also a suitable explicitly routine you deliver the Dynaflow which will be supported by the segment at least and yes RH and also we should have a method of indicating the packet processing such as the functions required in the service protection for example packet replication uttering and elimination also we need a method of identifying the denna flow and carrying the 10 a sequence number actually carries queuing in the forwarding indication will also be considered but it is not in the current version of the draft here we bring some options to do this first we can to carry the flow identification and the sequence number the first option is we we carry this in the SRH TLV and the second option is two arguments in the see the for relay node and the third one is a 10s in assignment at least and the option 4 is 10 and s RHD insert inside the s rh because the limited time I just will introduce the we think the most reasonable one which is the option one we carry the flu identification and sequence flow identification sequence number in the optional TLV and we designed how to how to link holding them in the s rh and here is that we design new functions for test net which is replication and elimination use that that is basically an extension of the "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:21:23",
    "text": "current binding set it means that after replication it will binding new new segment at least to the package and also this one is after the elimination to abiding a new segment least to the packet and here is the example how to do this basically in the ipv6 header there is the source address and the destination address we in this picture it shows as the end station 1 and station 2 and again the ingress node we will insert as our age that currents that the east source address is ingress node and the next the destination address is transit 1 and in the SRH the seminar list shows the relay node 1 and the transient not one and the in transit not 1 the destination address in the outer ipv6 header will will will change to relay not one and again relay know the one we said we see that after the peculiar application there will be new alter ipv6 header for two replicated packets and each SRV each each SRH header in the outer ipv6 header will indicate the packets goes through different paths and one of them will go through transit node 2 and one of them will go through transcend l3 and in the relay node 2 their packet elimination happens and after the elimination the alter ipv6 header will change and we will bind another as out her as ipv6 header with a new SRH indicate the packet goes through transient node 4 and in the egress note the outer ipv6 header will be d capsulated and the packet will go to the N station to finally so that is the simple example of how to do this I think this maybe can\u0027t answer the question of the previous comment thanks Tulse Eckert you know I think it would be good for for for understanding by people to have a compare in between you know just native ipv6 data plane where we would also need on a per hop basis the appropriate shaper for the latency control that we needed at net and then compare that natively six data plane with the SR v6 solution and then you know explain what the benefits "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:24:24",
    "text": "would be right because I think that that is hard to vet just from looking at this solution obviously the interesting part is the transit not the stuff on the edge with the duplication duplication I think that part would be certainly the same modular garrison so my question would be for clarification first so is it a new data plane yes but it is focusing only to a single function to the pre off function but you have described so far and for the data plane we need what the dotnet service sub-layer and also the dotnet forwarding sub-layer yes actually yeah actually in the in a draft I described this part because in the previous design you know I\u0027m PRS data plan solution there is we can find the service sub layer and forwarding sub layer obviously because it\u0027s label stack right but in sr6 it is cannot be separate very obviously which part is forwarding sub layer and which party is service a bigger sub layer because the the metadata that is needed by the server sub layer is carrying inside the SRH so although there is no sub layer seams in the data data encapsulation but inside the process the device process it will be serviceable there and forwarding sub layer and each sub layer will do their own job but they will find the corresponding information inside the SRH from different part but but it is not seems like the I\u0027m sure as data plan but I think this is what is my major problem here that if you are looking here to the transport node and I think this is but previous commander or circum entities that in the transport nodes or transit notes you need that net forwarding sub-layer how to recognize the flows if it is within your s r v6 header which by definition should not be touched by the transit nodes actually if more functions will be needed for their transit node I think the transient node should has a seat to indicate that because there it needs some special processing or functions that is reasonable but in this case I have already said that in this case the only service protection is included because "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:27:26",
    "text": "replication and the elimination is the main focus in the current draft and the perhaps after this part of work is accepted or people think of this that is reasonable and we can go further to the other functions about maybe the transcend out what should transcend all should do yeah but this definition seems to prohibit to do the not really sublet actually I think I have a picture for that afterwards in this picture I show that for service protection is it part of the document not really okay it\u0027s a whole picture we have considered this question actually explained can you then provide the answer inside the draft no okay I will in this picture it shows that a Service protection Needham Ella metadata of flow identification a six number right so we put in the option one we put these two information into the optional TLV SRH and in service protection we also provide some special functions to do this including replication elimination and ordering so we will extend the current functions of sr6 programming we need new functions for that we have already discussed this before and also in the left we see that we also need some resource allocation in this resource allocation maybe we need new functions for scheduling or resource reservation if so we will also do the extensions to the functions and if there is new metadata needed and maybe we will end more data into the seed as arguments or inside function that will be a lot of implementations yes that is my answer yeah but that is my question and that was my issue that in the SR v6 fields this is something but is not considered by the transit nodes oh you are not looking to the US a v6 header fields in a transit node you will just check it at the next destination this transient node is not the same concept in the SR v6 this transit node is just that not ransom note that transit node means that it doesn\u0027t handle the problem of replication elimination it is not exactly the transient Nodine sr6 okay so then you are defining new type of SR v6 capabilities of nodes yes actually that is what we are doing we try to define the designated corresponding functions in ice our v6 to implement does not okay "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:30:28",
    "text": "so what about compatibility with the existing as our v6 definitions it\u0027s an extension to it so maybe that is the reason why you say that we should put it in spring first to see what as a v6 people think about this okay because I think if we intend to consider it as a as a data plan for that net then we should see all the aspects that bought some layers the service sub layer and the forwarding sub layers the functions we have defined so far they are possible to do with this data plane and that is a very reasonable and because you are you have been working on the user plan the date opponent definition for a long time so I think your comments will be very valuable for us to to move this forward what should be done what should be considered more thank you okay a clarifying question do you mind going back to that slide the first version can you highlight where whoops yeah thank you can you highlight where in this picture you you see that there are new sr functions needed in the relay node and the elimination node in the replication on an elimination node and in this picture that is the relay know the one r1 and really know the two are to the arch r1 will do the replication and that is a new function that is that function is an extension of the current abiding function of the sr6 network programming and also in r2 elimination will be done so there is a new function for elimination and after the elimination they were there will a new as sorry as are H abiding into the packet okay thank you so it\u0027s David Allen again my generalized question is is for example does r1 or r2 modified the segment list multi fine no no because they just change the alter ipv6 header so you you add an encapsulation with its own segment list yes because that is a yes I think you\u0027ll stay - right right so at our - you remove the outer IBP six header entirely yes then where does four okay I\u0027m just trying to figure out how that\u0027s so at the the in router and at the Egret so the in router insert is is there two layers of tunneling here oh actually there is only one layer because from the "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:33:31",
    "text": "beginning to the end there is only one altar a pv6 header in an in a relay node and the to relay notes which do the replication and elimination we change the outer aqua basics header okay yes it\u0027s just that at the ingress node getting to the egress doesn\u0027t appear to be there so there actually there is no IP basic SRH to indicate the packet from the ingress to the egress in the first part is just in the steer the packet from the ingress to r1 that is the first part of the pass and the in the second second part is steer the packet from the r1 to r2 right and that\u0027s where you push an additional header because you\u0027re going to have to separate segment lists and then it r2 you pop it yes then where does the information to get to the egress exists in all of this actually here there are some description in the function design we we use we use some funk we use some information bringing from the previous as Irish header which in this picture in this slide we can show that we bring the sequence number and flow and education in the optional TLV in the first SRH right and hinder after the replication we will get this part of the you get this part of information and put that into a new SRH in new SRH optional tlvs to make the the information of the flow transit from from the the first part of the past to second parts of the past okay I have to admit I\u0027m not understanding this but I think that\u0027s my problem I will have to review this and take it online thank you please read the drops and a comment on the Middle East so we\u0027ve done a good job of filling up time so we\u0027re why we were ahead we\u0027re now right on right on time so I\u0027d like to ask the folks in line to try to keep it brief and I\u0027ll also give a preview of what what the chairs are gonna say on this is any new functionality new sr v6 function like this version we have to take to that the working group group yes and you know talk to them about it so okay I have to do that so that\u0027s just a heads up that that\u0027s coming and yes so total Secord again I mean my understanding is that there is an SR architecture right and would you really be good to say that what how are we doing debt net NSR with the ability support both SRS MPLS and SR v6 the gaps for both of them may be different in terms of forwarding plane features but the architecture should and could be the same right so I kind of hate the idea of saying oh today we think SR v6 is hip "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:36:33",
    "text": "and leaf you know the the SR MPLS solution behind and then you know I don\u0027t know next year maybe there is more sales being made with SR MPLS and everything shifts backside like if we\u0027re saying SR let\u0027s start with SR and then go down into you know the gaps for both solutions thank you Tony\u0027s for a comment brief respond I I haven\u0027t considered this problem from the view of the sales actually it is said in the previous data plan solution strapped that the if we use as our MPs it is supported naturally by the current MPs data plan solutions so there\u0027s there is no more job as our MPs I\u0027m not sure if that\u0027s actually true for the hop-by-hop q so common that to the the other older sis not my fault so please could you clarify it I didn\u0027t properly understand it we can within here Stewart is there only ever one segment routing header on the front of this packet yes and that it\u0027s completely removed and replaced by another one when you go through any stage of the pre-op yes you know current design that is true sorry when you split we will actually don\u0027t you don\u0027t necessarily / - the architecture allows arbitrary splits and arbitrary merges and I was just trying to understand making sure that you weren\u0027t making an assumption of one single replication going on on a on a path so if you go back to your bigger yes that\u0027s that one there so first off our one in the general architecture is allowed to be replicated have multiple replications there and then t3 could be our 3 so we I\u0027m just going to understand whether your design will cope with the generality or whether it\u0027s assuming a very simple two way splits and merges actually I think it is a very valuable comment and we consider this problem from beginning we design it this way because if we replicate it again yeah replicate pass it will makes the things more complex you know because we allows this case this is just the simplest one if we do the replication again in one of the paths and we merge in that path it will makes the there will be header and header and header so that will makes the case really complex so we designed this way but if you think there are other reasonable design I think it\u0027s welcome well well what I think we need to write what we need to do in the next version what you need to know I think is to take some of the arbitrary replication P or function the designs that we have in the framework document and demonstrate how you would solve those because this is easy to solve and we just need to make "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:39:34",
    "text": "sure we can solve the general case or put the limitations in please contribute thank you thank you Elijah a variation in the document in the prayer of section in section for the tree you are speaking about point-to-multipoint two point parts and just thinking about that we intend to to work also on some some controller paint stuff so I don\u0027t understand that term so please clarify what does it mean because I think as Stewart also referenced that that you can do any number of replication elimination during the path so but does it mean that point move the point to point maybe this word is a little confusing I can explain it or remove it but you might in my understanding it just means that it\u0027s just it is not the P 2 and P it after the replication the elimination exists that is what I mean from the first place but it makes you a little confusing I can we can talk talk about more how to describe this case I think that is very confusing especially because you are using practically point-to-point way over at this point can we certainly have some procedural stuff we have to work out here and then we\u0027ll continue to work with the SR spring chairs good afternoon everyone my name is David I\u0027m from cyber home see ICT and if the traveling is impaired innate that TSN negative I truly 8 or 231 years and over as our v6 little to the look of the structure of the peers and over detonate and either similar to that he has an over as our MPs and the left part and the right part is autumn TSN TSN network and mid parties there is our v6 to me and that c1 and it will sense the critical patriotism to p1 and p1 and the "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:42:35",
    "text": "AG ed notable as I said as our v6 and we are performed the factions of mapping and the publication and the elimination and send it to the P to another p2 then at the traffic of Theoden will be recovered to send it to see - that was the pedicle structure of Tiran over to the net now that we take a look at mr. lewin of taking cover seriously relation structure of tears over as our v6 we have occurred several options for encapsulation of tears and over as our v6 the further wines just repackaging packet and there\u0027s second wine is inserted a trading to tear at our v6 packet will together with some control innovations and the third one is just this speaker because we think about them as are a cheater overhead of authorities elite hole a turn so I think we here in order to save their overhead and we should a salute the payload of the TSN and the insult of the payload Bay loaded into them as ihe just follow the as IH and two days are 56 where I did note martyr support the following kids in Cumberland the fourth one is Oh Becca nice gentle flows including the stream identifications and a second for fr yard user inside the Teton domain and the third one is forever our yard when the note is she hasn\u0027t replication or elimination parade and it is the capitulation structure for anxiety for TSN we have a just unique Lydia minor change for the si D and with the bank world combat mobility with the authority definely Intel in another entrust next page will give a teacher Union detail interaction photo anxiety we have a defenders SI te didn\u0027t area is ideal similar like this that\u0027s a curvy and with the 64 bits long employee identifications and there are secret secret number and the other piece are reserved for the future functions an ability family of new to new and as a v6 programming functions that the entropy prevarication Terran lsit and an appeal elimination force for the pantry elimination function and this is just till corruption stopped and in the future maybe we need to discussing and then elaborated to functions and the "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:45:37",
    "text": "moment I would have I would like to take a example over the NEP replication for the Terran anxiety and the talented node we will present a original packet and a generator to duplicated packet patron Terra i ib v6 @ IH that\u0027s a ipv6 si a g1 and ipv6 as IG - and then we will send it there ever the duplicated thank you duplicated packet and original angular 2 that you ran the pass now on the decision to give a summary for the data plan considerations then the two aspects the third one is written in intaglio replication and elimination order functions and the second is the aging order processing and to the management and control information summary we included the first vegas for exit of elimination here that\u0027s at the third why the TSN screen identification that here\u0027s an art rank information and the second is IP v 6 for the trait and third an attorney is the idea is to the revi 6 destination address and therefore it\u0027s the ipv6 traffic or class and and to the next date and further although we will solicit it a comment for this is dropped and secondly we want to elaborate the first and the second certainly we want to other brands and they improve their implementation for this suggestions that though about the truck thank you any comment actually I have to ask what is the difference between this work and our work you need the tablet you have it right now right that draft is published about one year ago and the contents of the draft is very very similar of this one if you haven\u0027t read it I recommend you read it this first and because the it is too similar with each other I I have to say I prefer you put this part of work as and contribution or comment on the mailing list because I cannot see a lot of more work in this draft compared to our previous one we have a 32-foot their website for the similar department we have got five similar part related to this one but ice from my site those five "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:48:39",
    "text": "was thought you\u0027ve read from this one and your table is forgotten to turn it over as our v6 right and it did why you focus on here then override obviously misunderstanding about the what we want to do when we say about i sorry 6 / - yes maybe ok can I make a point on this yes all related one so these are individual contributions not adopted by working group maybe what one way for what could be the two teams contributor teams come together and work together very welcome but my point is after we have done the work you you you change it a little and publish a new draft I think that is a not a very welcomed method should do the contribution yeah idea I think so i I think I should repeat and neither of them are adopted by the working group neither this working group or Spain we keep saying we don\u0027t know where it goes so these are so far individual contributions not working so I thought it may be you me and my colleague our will change their cut in the website if they had this identical we will always do it even if they are event I don\u0027t know the continue are did it our can research it independently and then my suggestion and and from my side then you your father is ethically is it even front with what what can I say thank you generally if you have some comments on an existing document it\u0027s good just to say send the comments to the list so we are okay perfect thank you apparently this is a nice is group document the same problem it in these tablets as eius eius and since we are talking about it the very last slide says be a resilience we\u0027re gonna move on to the next presentation so thank you grandma I\u0027m changing from titi my presentation today is the detonator ques cure s the drafter has been presented in ITF 103 and we got little feedback so this meeting we hope to get more feedback out after mainly applying existing ques work under that let less quick let\u0027s do a quick recap of "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:51:41",
    "text": "the ITF cues ITF cues model has been proposed and adopted by the RTE gwg working group it mainly includes policy a classifier action and the target and it many user if they wish deficiency 80 the surface is diffserv for short under the tip short tips a piece of architecture is defined in our press 824 and 75 and and real MP else ifs of is also defined and in there ITI RFC third 3270 so there are there are many there is marshal work has been done and stable for ITF cues so we summarize the delayed kills requirements in RFC 8655 so they are the ester follow shown a telnet and long dead flood flows could coexist with existing class of service and the death net flows must be differentiated from law that traffic not attract traffic cannot destroy destructor there Detlef flows and the net flows can be shaped and schedule their aggregation of the led flows must be supported and must others more others can be provided so their death netquest draft we many applying officiate different safety the surface that it serve and recuse moto in that land and the definer that--let tips of mechanism including the that IP and mpls encapsulation maybe as rob6 encapsulation later there we also define a young late better model for the electives of queues includes including Atlit accused tree structure under the lac use module so this is a data narratives of model we the tips of model includes their classifiers yes if he traffic conditioners PHP and queen so we extended the tips of model for that land we define that latter class virus we may use their behavior aggregate the be a classifier order marty field EMF classifier which is defined before we we are used we may be used to be a and MF classifiers in that net we also add aloo "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:54:44",
    "text": "that latter and classifier it means it named that\u0027s not flow it is DF for short it may be used as label in death lat MPs encapsulation and maybe user flow and edification in as always six encapsulation may be in later and so we are used with field to class find that net and the low dense net flow second we defined that last dscp includes the lat IP DSP and that amperes DSP the sector value we haven\u0027t defined we will want to discuss with others in the mailing list and their define a value second third we define death net traffic conditioners including meter maid marker shaper dropper in the way at a low action their scheduler we will define or definite profile to to do the meter of action and to see why if they\u0027re death knell flow is meat meat eater mr. kettle and fire a provirus requirement so men we that define our death natural / hot behavior that PHP we define a veterinary field should be and defined er T and service class then there are death not Queen we as we one known tur this so far we provide their time schedules Queen and it is specified in other drugs so this is the tips of model for that land then based on so at the last time we presented this there was a question of what is a debt net dscp and it sounds to me as I hear it and as I read it is you\u0027re defining a new PHP for debt net yeah in debt net we have per flow resources and it\u0027s a little hard to understand how a what a debt net PHP is relative to per flow resources could you talk about how those two things relate this was the same question from 103 and I don\u0027t think it was been addressed from the last time I was presented I can\u0027t remember what meeting it was that it was presented but yeah as I understand as in my opinion per flow there and schedule the queen is "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:57:44",
    "text": "mesma Caledon duralumon thing has provided the mechanisms including their per flow and the per class so I think we use their surf model we mainly use the per class per class queen mcElhatton belong to so the only allocation you know the only assurances you can provide to when using this is a class based allocation based okay I\u0027m not sure how that fits in with the hold that net architecture but the DA the queens mechanism has not been conferred we we were used per class or poor flow it\u0027s worth it\u0027s it has been not been conferred you know maybe I didn\u0027t I still don\u0027t understand how this relates to the rest of the debt that architecture and maybe I\u0027m the only one who has that issue but it\u0027s I don\u0027t find it clear maybe if it\u0027s just me I\u0027ll work offline and try to understand okay how this works okay and so there the work we have much work to perfectly to perfect it so there are DSP and the PHP we we need much work to fear it and perfect it but so I welcome welcome people people to join us and relief are suggestions so it\u0027s not good to me but anyway yeah I think that\u0027s the challenges is the figure you think about how to communicate how this fits in to the rest of the architecture because in order for it to move forward will have to be clear there let\u0027s see what the working group thinks how many people have read this work very few who how many people would like to hear more about it in the future or maybe with some clarifications of how it ties together with the rest of the the net architecture alright is anyone interested in hearing more about this topic that\u0027s that\u0027s not good there\u0027s no one who seems interested in this work I think you have to do a much better job of seeing of communicating how it relates to the rest of the working group activity try doing that on the list but yeah maybe take a step back and come out at a different way because people aren\u0027t understand I think the way I read it is people aren\u0027t understanding how this "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:00:44",
    "text": "relates to the working group okay thank you all right thank you appreciate it last stop it we\u0027re almost at a time where this will be very quick yeah so why Louis the idea was that we would have time to talk about it and it was a year ago when we had the workshop and we are proposing another one so just a quick update I\u0027m speaking as an individual as usual and this is this is grouping of TSN standards and projects in in three categories based technology configuration solutions and profiles a timeline is given compared to the last ITF in Bangkok where we discussed list of I\u0027m just - I like that if you are puzzled on the TSN technology that we have so many standards and projects you are not the only one that\u0027s why we have profiles for dedicated for particular verticals to select tools out of the toolkit and specify their use the color code here is that the darker shade is more progress to work the lighter is a less progressed in the profiles the ongoing ones are the IEC I Triple E six way to to join project foreign in the industrial automation vertical we have an extension to the front hope of Fire CMD and there are new ones automotive in vehicle and one for service provider networks how to use TSN for these this is again there are some highlights compared to the previous Bangkok presentation I would like to highlight two items here the really good news out of last week is that the times in our time synchronization standard the 802 da20 as general as precision time protocol profile of the 1588 PTP has been approved by the AIT Plato to itself and sent to I typically standard Association revision committee approval hopefully early next year so we are practically speaking done with the long-awaited new time sync revision and there are some new work items here in the resource configuration part of the TSM pillars I would like to highlight here that work is ongoing to specify a new reservation protocols the brace protocol being a so-called link local registration protocol on its own it\u0027s not really useful but we need an application on top and the ongoing work is the resource allocation protocol for that this is a new project compared to one year ago and the two together will provide "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:03:45",
    "text": "the new resource allocation and this work has been started to me the industry automation needs based on all the discussions with the key contributors they consider it applicable for death as well and I\u0027ve been encouraging them to contribute to that not so a heads up these contributions may show up here another new project is the allowed IP version 2 which was largely triggered by the lsv our work going on in IETF and summarize article 802 is on individual contributions individual participation just like ITF you are welcome to contribute participate any last questions all right thank you very much appreciate you contributing to our work we\u0027ve produced a good set of documents that we will see in better post last call and hope to see RFC soon and see you in that cover thank you you know "
  }
]