[
  {
    "startTime": "00:00:00",
    "text": "recommended this register, but apparently checking with the mythical eyes. Yeah is getting this, so he recommended this register, but apparently checking with the mythical eyes, so he needs to be Thank you think the sound I was a song that's name Fatai Mm-hmm the vehicle well we made but that that's one yeah they never paid okay never paid oh okay that's good yeah uh-huh okay i would in my never paid oh okay that's good yeah uh-huh okay thank you thank you very much for taking you're welcome you're welcome welcome Excuse me? Louis, can you? Yes, yes, I can you? Yeah, can you? can you keep? Who is the lady? in the room, page? you keep her? can you keep her yeah actually uh yeah she's from the secretariat we were checking the registration from from fatai but it seems that it was not completely at all. Yeah but can you leave an email address? We can forward the payment to her because it's already paid and it's really weird. We don't see him, his name on the list. I got a PDF version for the registration from Fatai Fatai Okay. Yeah, thanks I will share the contact"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:02:00",
    "text": "so. Yeah, I see Fatah also, yeah, I the email to you, so maybe you can show the page. Yeah, please help Okay, I will do, but let's start because we are excited all the time, okay? Okay, thanks thanks are actually now the time, okay? Okay, thanks. It's like maybe they chose to a later date that we never actually got thanks to do all right thank you very much thank you You're welcome. So welcome everybody to this new edition of the this meeting here in ITA120 in Vancouver so as you know well, the session will be recorded, so I will go through the administrative slides and then checking the agenda and start with the meeting normally. Good so the note well as a reminder any participant in IETF should be aware of the rules for running the meetings in IETF all the processes and policies so it in IETF should be aware of the rules for running the meetings in IETF, all the processes and policies. So any of the contributions that you provide to IETF is covered by patterns. You need to disclose that intellectual property. As an attorney, also you agree on that the whatever is right and recorded or any photographic record or whatever or whatever can be made public so be able of that and yeah basically you agree on following the rules from IETF. There are a number of best common practices that you can check so to get familiar with all these rules So regarding the IETF conduct guidelines, the IETF participants should behave with courtesy and respect to other colleagues. We have here technical discussions. So basically, staying at the technicalities and not going beyond that And yeah, we great if you are prepared to contribute to and then going on"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:04:00",
    "text": "ongoing group or working work or the working group but also propose new ideas and new topics So the session will be recorded as I just mentioned we use for that the Miteco tool For those that are not familiar with Miteco tools, there are some guidelines as well on the usage Please keep your camera and your microphone off up to the point that you need to, I mean, you join the queue for expressing your your opinions or you have to please So these are the guidelines for the usage of Miteko It would be great if any here anyone here in the room can help on taking notes Haumean or secretary will take notes, but it's a remote in this case. So it would be wonderful if someone else can help us here locally Please register to the Miteko since this is the way of tracking as well the attendance to the meeting so there is no further need of signing blusheets but by joining Miteco we will have a wonderful track of who is participating in the meeting. I will comment on the IPR later on. So the session is clear today, Georgia A, room We will have two hours for this session and for this session we have a very very packed agenda so we will try to keep track of the time the time that any of you employ on the presentation so please be respectful with the other so keep be conscious on the time that you consume so that others can also present without press time pressure in the meeting As a reminder, please use the mailing list. The mailing list is the place where we get consensus So use the mailing list as much as you can for providing any kind of summary. We have a number of weekly calls"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:06:01",
    "text": "and a number of groups of groups working in CCAM so use the mainly list for providing updates on that for any other open issue for introducing new draft or for any other potential new working group topic So it's the place I said where we get consensus and where we have an archive register of all the discussions in the working group The future meeting time, or in the as chairs is to schedule and dedicate time for those topics that had been discussed previously in the mailing list So yeah, please use it Regarding the IPR process in the procedure of adoption a document, all there is the mandate of polling all the draft authors and contributors this is important as well, so everyone that is listed in the document is providing content will be pulled and will be request to express your knowledge of any kind of intellectual property in respect to the draft. So be sure that every one of this country will be request to express knowledge of any kind of intellectual property in respect to the to the draft so be sure that everyone is contributing is in the in the possibility and capability of answer this IPR because otherwise the progress of the document will be impacted So I will go now through the status of the working group, unfortunately neither Danieli nor Fatai nor Homiang could be here with us. So I will cover also these slides. And yeah so let's go for that regarding the status of the documents in the working group, we don't have any recent RFC we have a up to three drafts, three documents in the edit RFC editor's Q, layer one types, microwave, topology and Lyre 1 CSM, Young And we have another document being processed by the IESG There are four other documents that are on the agenda, so we will"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:08:00",
    "text": "have a live update of them and where they are and the situation of this document. So we will keep for the discussion later on. And regarding the other documents, adopted documents that are not in the agenda. So we have the document for the OTPen slicing, there is an update on this document recently basically updating to the reference of the area 9543, which has been finally released as, I mean, the framework the slicing frame of the document that has been finally released as an RSC, as open issue here we have to resolve the dependency or with the IETF, sorry, where is the that has been finally released as an ERC. As an open issue here, we have to resolve the dependency with the IETF, sorry, the draft about transport network lines to Apollo the customer topology intent, and this would be kind of next step. For the OTM path computation Jan, there were minimal updates after pass IETF, just for keeping life alive the document For the internet client, T. Toppojang, a minimal update as well. The next step would be to align with packet T topology with other topology models that support multilayer single-istence topology, and complete the model description then there are other documents with further update like the DWDM interface LMP Similar thing we felt OTM tunnel model, and the client signature jam mode. All of them, well, the ADS to continue working on all of them and continue progressing those documents And hopefully we'll be presented in the following IETF or at least that they will be provided to the list By the way, we don't have any major update for some other documents adopted in the working group These five that you can see here, the Flexi Jammo model, optical path computation, TSB mode signaling the interface topo-jan and the bandwidth topology jan"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:10:01",
    "text": "the last two has been spires so yeah need to check what is the status with the authors on this if they expect to keep progressing on that or somehow are, yeah abandoned In regards the liaison statements, we noted a liaison statement related to CCAMP from the ITUT The liaison, the deadline of this liaison passed so it's not clear if there is any action we can take now and we should take now So if anyone in the working group has any concerns on this please let us know and yeah will check as well i see a squad in the in the queue so scott please Hi, can you hear me all right? Yes Yeah, the JCA just has its meeting last week. And so there will probably be another liaison coming that you could reply to out of Dublin It's really up to the group to determine if there's any anything to share in relation to them that goes on between in the IET and CC camp related to IMT 2020 and beyond. So it's about the non-radio aspect of transport. So thanks Okay, thank you, noted It's good. Thank you. Thank you very much So just a reminder as well, we working group, we have a bunch of people working in different calls during weekly or biweekly. We have calls about FlexiGree grid, microwave, OTN slicing optical plugables service path computation, optical impairment topology, and transport envy This somehow showed the vitality of the working grid and also the activity between IT admitting so this is great and wonderful but again let me remind, please, send time to time some updates to the mailing list so that the people that are not actively participating in the calls can also keep track"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:12:01",
    "text": "on the advances here and with that we have finished the administrative slides i'm not sure daniele do you want to comment something? Okay, maybe not. No, no absolutely. We are doing great Okay, thank you. So let's move then to the first presentation Okay Okay, so Sergio please Should it should work? Good morning. My name is sergio belotti from Nokia I'm going to present the status and update of two drafts One is optical impairment Apology Young Model and the other one is RFC 1993 BIS I'm going to present on the behalf of co-artors and contributors. So optical impairment model, well, is a stable for a while in the period after ATF 190 we made a very good work and we closed all the remaining issue Here are the details if you want to know more about what was the work i don't spend time to go on to the details. So, but we close any of the issue that was remaining So the point"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:14:01",
    "text": "now is that the status of the draft is stable we may some work on the text as promised during the last IETF and we think that the model and the draft is ready for a working group last call but we think also that due to the dependency on RFC 9 1993 that is also in a good state the good things would be to go to the last working group last call together. Then there is the detail about the hour call that is taking any Tuesday and everybody is welcome to attend Any questions? No? I go. Yes, please okay for RFC, 1993, B for RFC 1990s we also made a good job and we close practically all the issue, a part one one The one that is remaining is a topic related to layer zero layer one boundary the real the things is that the respondent that is essential part of our work in layer 0 present not only layer 0 zero functionality, but also layer one and there is a let me say, a great region between the layer the specific layer one function that is not part of our working layer in layer zero, like climate mapping and multiplexing and the one that like inverse multiplexion the fact coding are in the middle between the layers"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:16:01",
    "text": "0, layer 1, and that there is no model that at the moment are taking into account of this functionality Basically what we want to have is that the layer zero application code defined in ITUT clearly defined the photonic signal so is a correctly represented that and the multiplexing schema that defined in foreign layers one and Ethernet are also very clear. But there is a set of functions in the middle that are not described in any model. The focus is try to find some attributes that can describe and provide in the model to describe this part of functionality Because the target, what is the target? is avoiding consistency at the on point So you can have, for a example, optical signal that is properly transferred between the TX and the RAX but the modulated digital stream cannot be interpreted because, for example, the is different multiplexing scheme at the end point In our work, that is already started about this issue we identify basically two use cases. Next the first one use cases in basically related to the transponder and mousponder in this case we have an optical tunnel that fully support an end-to-end service that can be I don't know, like, 100 gigabyte by four with multiplexers in case of multiple ponder or a simple"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:18:01",
    "text": "100 gigabit Ethernet map into the QN and then with only one OTSI add the output. In this case the optical tunnel support the entry end-to-end client signal service. They client signal we have The client signal, we have already the client signal model that is able to configure the client signal interface and providing the correct identifying the core tunnel that supported the end-to-end service and in case the Muxponder, also provide a multiplexing layer label so basically what we have to do is to define and identify parameters that need to be configured in the tunnel model and then report it as a transport capability in the topology and basically maybe in the optical impact topology that can be one of the possible solution and the our work we have identified for the moment to basic parameters one is the client payload and the other is multiplex in a mapping scheme the other use cases is basic the pluggable. In this case, we have no tunnel that support a net a service very because there is no service. But the tunnel is supporting the hierarchical link between the end nodes what in this case they Tietanel provides the reference between the Tietanel and the hierarchical link and the RFCA85 can provide the bandwidth for the AERC hierarchical link with max-link bandwidth parameters"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:20:01",
    "text": "and also in this case we need to identify the correct parameters that can be confused in the Tanner reporting topology and again client payload and move multiplexia mapping schema are being identified as basic parameters so the work is not completed, is ongoing but we are optimistic to solve that in a good timeframe So next step as I said, we close the most of the remaining issue, a part one We think that we could be ready for working group last year most of the remaining issue, a part one. We think that we could be ready for working group last call, that considering that the issue could we also solve during as a last year comments There are two basic points so that, let me say, would prefer as co-authors to start a working group as school now because there are a other draft that is in queue that karen staley and ready for last call like optical impairment and flexible grid topology, and open working group last call for 1993 can progress can permit to progress also the other two draft towards the working group plus goal goal okay any comments question any comment for Sergio? Just to, okay, I was in the queue Maybe the question is for chairs. Yes, I would comment right now after that. Thank you. Yeah, just though I was in the queue. Maybe the question is for chairs. Yes, I will comment right now. Thank you. Yeah, just a quick support for consideration the working group last call because we have multiple documents there"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:22:01",
    "text": "can progress as fast as it could thank you everyone so yeah in the discussions of the chairs, yeah, we our intention is to to go for the IPR polling for erosc 90 9093Bs and the optical impairment topology after the ITE meeting and then going to the work in the group last call. So we intend to do trigger this after the meeting So you need to be able to progress for the group last call yes yeah thank you Okay it's time for Daniel, I guess Gabriel, Gary is getting better to speak. No, Gabriel, sorry Next slide So here on the half of the co-authors guess. Gabrielle. gabriele galimberti speaking. Oh, Gabrielle. Sorry. Next slide. So here on the half of the quotas, we are presenting an update of the DWM interface document Basically, the DWM interface document is listing all the possible parameters that a generic DWM interface needs to be addressed No matter where the interface is located, this can be located either in a transponder or in a router or whatever and this document is actually following the same fate of the optical impairment topology and the 1993 Bs. Next slide, please What has been changed since last? version we have removed some redundant FEC"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:24:01",
    "text": "thresholds that were already present in the TCA list. We are formatted the TCA type without minimum margin FEC thresholds that were already present in the TCA list. We reformatted the TCA type without mean max and then is managed in the threshold definition and we are the threshold this theory in this in this definition also we have modified and let's say, realign all the parameter definition to the optical impairment topology giant and RFC 19903Bs we have fixed fixed EAM models, errors and so for the next time if I you want to thank you we have the possibility to submit to the Young Doctor Review so that we can have formally correct young models and then of course keep aligned with the late or last model modification on the optical impairment topology and the 99 Bs So that once we have done this this job together with the first two draft I think we could go in the last call and then complete also the interface definition I think that's all from my side Thanks a lot Gabriel, I have a question. Yes Can you please clarify for the working group? what is the relationship between these drafts and the platform?"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:26:01",
    "text": "and the plugables work? Well, the plugables work actually addressed all the management of the plugable into a router Actually, the parameter we define here can be reused as they are in the plugable work or can be in some way update if more parameters are needed and I think that is also presentation on the plugable work later from Reza We, let's say the same people attend that design team is attending also this draft editing so no problem to, let's say add anything we need to add Perfect. No, no, I just wanted you I just wanted you to share this with the working group So basically, the plug-able work will not replace any of the work being done on the optical impairment and or in the DWDM interface draft, but it will just cover the delta needed to manage the plug-up I just want to verify this Here, actually, we are focused on the optical impairments parameters right? And not where or the information needed to manage the interface for example, in a router instead of a max ponder instead of a transponder. So that is another story Here we are focused on the optical impairment young definition. And that is why we are heavily using the definitions from"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:28:01",
    "text": "19903 Brees and also we keep aligned to impairment topology angle Perfect. Thanks for the clarification Thank you for the question Thank you. And a further question for Gabriel? thank you gabriele so we thank you to you The next slide Now yes, I walk You have done good morning, everyone. This is Iowa and I'm presenting this draft that models a WDM tunnel to allow our user to create end-to-end WDM tunnel or tunnel segments which can support service client signal services end-to-end page so this is a brief summary of the zero two version updates so it contains updates for both the young model as well as the drafted text on the young model updates so we imported the latest change from their zero types and also aligned with the base T tunnel model which because the base T tunnel model has become really stable and we are now aligning with the stable version The other changes, so we use the transceiver ID as the key for describing the list of transceivers and also did some quick renaming from using lane ID into OTC carry ID to also align with the definition in layer types as well as optical impairment"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:30:00",
    "text": "The relationship between the TLSP, which is created after tunnel is is a WDM tunnel is per provisioned, and also the N2 end-to-end media channel. So we address this relationship by putting putting the media channel ID underneath TLSP TLSB And on the tunnel, we are now also reporting the bit radar rate and Q factor, with also timestamp information as to when the value that you get from the WDM tunnel on a transceiver object is valid And also we moved the GSNR constraint for configuration as well as the estimated value to under the transceiver. And so they are original under the global constraint in a WDA tunnel, which is probably inappropriate so we correlate this to the transceiver object So, yeah, so the updates on the text did a bit rewriting on the introduction section to add it some backgrounds regarding the use cases for the WDM tunnel and also the application added the description about the applicability of WDM tunnel for both integrated and and the pluggable scenarios So the target for this draft is to be used at the NBI of the SDN controller that can support both an end-to-end, the WDM tunnel, as well as the WTN tunnel segments in the case of plug-ables plug-ables"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:32:01",
    "text": "Okay, so yeah, so a bit illustration of the modeling changes. So the red ones are that updated parts So as you see, we moved the SNR constraints to the transceiver, to underneath the transceiver and change the keys on the right right Yeah. So also with respect to the modeling, of the relationship between the TLSP and optical media channel So we had a lot of discussion which is recorded on the issue 47. So the wouldn't go into details, but the conclusion is that there is no simple one-to-one mapping between an NSP ID and an end-to-end media channel path ID, because there are different variations whether you know depending on whether there's three R are involved in the, in a, in a, in a, in a, in a, in a, in a, in a, in a, or not the number of OTSIs and the number of media channel path IDs are different so so basically we agreed that the mapping can be modeled on each link hop of an LSP So basically one LSP link hop can be mapped to more than one end-to-end media channel path ID. So then So basically one LSP link hop can be mapped to more than one end-to-end media channel path ID. So, and then the Young model was updated accordingly to be augubed more than one end-to-end media channel path ID. So, and then the Yang model was updated accordingly to, to be augmented with, with an end-to-end at least of end-path IDs path IDs Okay. Some open issues. So still needs a bit"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:34:01",
    "text": "to clean up and enrichment of the draft text for example, to add this discussion about the steps for WDM tunnel provisioning and maintenance And also, there is an ongoing discussion about the layer zero layer one boundaries under the optical impairment and 993 bis PIS. So that may also impact how the WDM tunnel model is designed because we need to consider the provisioning of attributes like OTU, type of OTUs, and how the payload is mapped for the OTU and ODAUs And, right, so in so like I said at before for plug-ables, we are expecting that this model could be also applicable to both the integrated scenarios as well as the plug-able use case So the next step are to address the open issues and also there's another model which is the optical path computation and the authors are considering about aligning both the WDM tunnel with the optical path computation because they share the same groupings So, yeah, and then we're welcoming everyone to have a look of the draft and provide the feedback when needed Thank you. Thank you, everyone get a look of the draft and provide the feedback when needed. Thank you. Thank you, I, well. Any questions? Daniel? daniel king, just two quick questions"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:36:00",
    "text": "So for the WebEx meetings, are we meeting in August? or are we going to restart after the holidays? That's a good question. I think when you say holidays, like As in that Europe takes August off. Okay, okay, okay, yeah that we can certainly discuss. I don't think that there's a rush to start it right away Okay, just we'll need to update the calendar. And could you go back to that? title slide, please, Ira? Because for some people who are maybe not following the work this this away. Okay, we'll need to update the calendar. And could you go back to the title slide, please, Ira? Because for some people who are maybe not following the work, this may have been a bit of a surprise So essentially, that's a full list of the CCAMP working group there, it feels like. And the reason why there are so many authors and contributors is because if I remember correctly, the history of this work is actually emerging of multiple pieces of work. So we've just picked up several authors and then sort of segregated those into contributors based on the sort of the input that they provided to the document So I just wanted to kind of make that observation as well That's that's right. We have mentioned this last time as well because this draft is a combination of the two original working group document, WSam sound tunnel and the flex grid tunnel So as the first step, we are merging the WDM and flex grid together and and then also added work for for for for the plug-able and for the ophthalm impairments association etc so that that's why it's a very sophisticated model Okay, thank you Thanks a lot for squeezing it at the usual list of authors to five front page ones Appreciate that. Okay I would like to comment Iowa as well For those next steps that you are putting there, the last slide, so it will be great as long as you are advancing on those next steps you"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:38:01",
    "text": "can send a kind of summary to the mailing list. So you are asking for fear feedback? Yeah. So the best way of getting feedback is popular let's say the advances on the draft okay yeah, certainly. We have like weekly meetings and some uh notes forwarded to the many list Maybe weekly is too much, but time to time to refresh the status and see we are advancing in those directions would be great. Okay, thank you. Good Good So let's for the next presentation that is the one from Oscar, if I find correct Okay. Okay Okay, so now I'm going to present you the activity that we are doing on the use cases, the network scenarios, for the integration of coherent plug walls in Delta. So, just first of all, to mention also, this is the reason also having more contributors that this work is a merge of different drafts that we are having and that we are having an activity. So here, just a very quick recap on the motivation is that the coherent plagable technology for the routers is mature, not only the 400, but also 100 gig is coming now, so we expect also that this deployment come now in the operation Okay, so the goal that we have is to have the end-to-end SDN control and management of this type of plugables in the router. So here we're dealing now with multi-year devices including IP technology, this is the wood complicates a little bit. So here, the agreement that we have is to work in two directions in parallel One is create these scenarios, these use cases and another one is to have the modeling work so here in this particular draft we"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:40:00",
    "text": "have the scenarios and the use cases and then we provide solutions in the data the so we have weekly open calls okay this is mainly led by operators but they are open okay so anyone can participate and is welcome to come so here we have also a did have two to track issues And in the Asperneur contributors, also we have people for Telly and Stefan and Promethe and Dedebara that contributed and Gert also provided a region on the test, so maybe he can join also for them next version that he's providing also inputs. So I'm going to just start with the updates of the draft. So first of all, just some editorial review of the draft, and then the use case that we let's say, spend more cycles on is the first discovery. What happens? when you put the coherent palatable in the in the router so we have some discussions on what are the expected behavior, okay, once you start with the insertion. So the very first thing that we had is that there was the agreement is that there is not recommended to start the transmission until explicitly indicated, okay, so here what typically happens is wen lin the normal routers, when you put an SFP that's already transmitting But here just that goes to a dedicated function so there is no problem for that. But here, as this is going to go in some of the scenarios okay so in the optical measures, it might impact other signals So, recommendation is, okay, be careful with the pre-settings and just two to start that that way. There are also other scenarios where it's dedicated fiber so that there is no impact, but the recommendation is to have a consistent behavior so you don't need to have a different behavior in that also there was some discussions on the default values and here"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:42:01",
    "text": "Even you have presets, especially in CIMA, if you have the pluggable can come with several presets even you can have some factory different but the routers will always prevail over that one. So it is recommended that the parameters coming from the even the controller or in the router itself, they overwrite the difference. Here you have all the discussion that that we that we had on the on the It is all documented in that issue Also, there was some clarification for the the service provision in use case where in the procedure we mentioned that first you need a detail optical planning before going so okay it could clarify that it's typical, typically, not always okay in the in the first version which is always required but it is true that there are scenarios where it may be sort of distances point to point scenarios where you don't need such super detailed planning. That's more for the case of the we always were thinking in the more complex scenario, but there are other scenarios that do not require So some open issues. So I wanted to just to highlight those those open issues that the but there are other scenarios that do not require. So some open issues. So I wanted to just to highlight those open issues that have, let's say, more discussion. So the very first one is for the inventory, the hardware and pluggable inventory So the use case is okay, you're active and you want to know what's in your network. So here there was a proposal to differentiate between the inventories of, that is, what is in the name, what do you have and the capacity So that the capabilities would be, okay what the pluggable is capable of doing it's kind of covers this data sheet like information, so open question is, okay, do we need this capability database? Also, are we forcing that equipment is needing to report these capabilities or this capability database can be built? we can just have somewhere to retrieve it and can be built externally"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:44:01",
    "text": "Also an open question in this part of this type of capabilities It's related, but it's not the only one because capabilities can be more things one of them is the modes that are supported by the by the pluggable so here do we need to plug-able supports, for example, 20 modes? do we need to be reported all those 20 modes, or okay, as we know that the hardware of the router may limit some of these modes, maybe not all of them are compatible. So do we want also to be yet to be filtered? and just to whenever we present that to the operator, it's already filtered and say, hey, no, or to the controller, just this not just this combination is what you can use and it is limited then the other issue that we have still opened is which are the relationships? between the inventory of the plows and other entities Now in Ivy, we have already the relationship between the core model and the topology are those enough or do we need to cover something else, particular, for some of the data? plug-able to the associated to a termination point or not, or it's fine with what it has. So, Italy, you have a question yes, please it's a clarification on issue number 19 whether it is somehow, looks somehow related to the discussion. We are arriving in 1993 B about the layer one capability. So if I understand correctly what you say I have a plagable, which is able to do Ethernet and OTIR framing, but the router is only Ethernet framing Do I need to advertise the OTN application? code because there will be, even if I set up an OTN, type of optical signal there will be no no no no no no signal going in that's that's a point okay so maybe we can take this into account also in the 19903 weeks so this you Then the other thing that we need to do that is"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:46:00",
    "text": "to start with adding the security considerations, okay? So here also again, now we are putting more capabilities in the router so I mean, it's clear that we need to work on those also we had a review from Deborah that covered many different points that we will need to address in the next months. First of all, it's some operational concerns So we want to avoid the disfunction of the network, so that they're upgrading the upgrading the router is not impacting an optical transmission. This security levels of the different entities, but we will have people touching the IP, people touching the optical, we need to be clear Protection, we left it out at the very beginning, but I mean it's clear that we need will have people touching the IP, people touching the optical, we need to be clear. Protection, we left it out at the very beginning, but I mean it's clear that we maybe need to leave it just for further study The re-optimization is strategy to in the taking into account the the optical network measures to protect against network stabilization, grateful the lesson to prevent the relation of all layers. So what happened in the when we need to coordinate across layers and some arising interleisure relationships just not to overwin the controllers. Some of them might be common also to the CTMPOI work, so this is why we need to review them with care and maybe some will be taken to the draft. And finally, the other part that we have still open is the breakout use case. So we're all agreeing that it was not the highest priority now but it will be added there. So here, the next steps is on the one hand solve these open issues and the current reviews that are open and keep keeping ahead the next steps is on the one hand solve these open issues and the current reviews that are open and keep increasing. But on the other hand, we also think that the document now is stable enough and it has a good consensus, so I think it's could be a good base for the working group and to move in parallel with the end. And also to start working together"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:48:01",
    "text": "with the Young Solution document and work we had a meeting last last day and we agreed that it was take each of the use cases, start working each use case by use case with the solution and to start problems also solutions and say this document I don't expect much extra Thank you, Oscar. Any further comments? question? Yeah, Iowa So there is a incident management work that's to be discussed in and NMOP. Would you see it a feasible scenario? that can be incorporated into the use case? document? Because there are like performance along fort management, and then i think incident management could be of benefit to the I think so because one of the years were putting the planable, we have, we're combining two types of incidents now that could be detected also from the from the router that typically were detected outside the that were not detected in the router, so yes i think that that we would need to incorporate sorry another follow-up question is so the use cases that you are listed are in priority right? So the intention of this document is to say, for the pluggable scenario we make sure that those use cases are all addressed regardless of the priority, right? Yes, so to cover here, the intention is to cover here in the document here in this document the use cases go to a certain level of, let's say, depth in the but not the full depth and then in separate documents, work in the in the other documents okay but the status closed not leave this too much and close it soon Okay, let's each other for the Young Solution document discussion"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:50:01",
    "text": "I will suggest to reduce the effort we have done in CCMTI design team and also the use the, we use the data model we have worked in IETF right now okay okay but here this we are not talking about Jan here yeah we are just talking about the use cases and what needs to do so then that would be for the other trust to work with the young models here. Just your suggestion Yeah. So we are just documenting there Yeah yeah hi swami um One question. The famous architect options, is that going to be kind of given in this? use cases as a prescription preference? or it's going to be in the working group separate? addressed? That's separate and we deliver took it out to avoid the issues or we are just adhering to the generalist ACTN framework. So we assume that there are domain control herarchical controller. So if you have your domain controller integrated or separated that's and also that will be so solution documents, you might have different also solutions documents to cover both. But this covers just the use case which is independent on whether the controller is integrated or not. So here, we are definitely not covering very wise answer ozcarra thank you you so yeah we would like to to sense the what the working group things about the adoption of this draft. So I will start a polling for this You can please answer it"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:52:03",
    "text": "Okay Okay, it seems that there are no opposition at the beginning for sure we will take this to the mailing list. So this is just too have an initial view, what will be the acceptance of the document for the working group okay thank you so thank you Oscar now it's time for resa Okay, yeah morning, my name is Razor Rukui from Siena. On behalf of co-authors and contributor, I'm going to present the second portion of the pluggable activity that we do is related to modeling and gap analysis To just give you a framework of a thought why we have this one for some those people who are not following that, so there was two activity, one was the operator-driven Oscar was talking about that one, about the youth scale and this is mainly vendor driven activity, which is going in parallel trying to address the same problem statement of the plug-able and how we are using it in the context of the CCA. There are lots of details behind it If you are interested, you can go to the working group and see the history, but the idea here is we are not reinventing the wheel. Whatever is happening at IETF and others, we try to use that too go through the holistic view of the place plug-ables, how we are going to model it, and when we know that, we can address the use cases that Oscar was defining. So as from that perspective,"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:54:01",
    "text": "they are really related to each other To just give you a framework of the thought when we talk about the plug, this is trying to give you a context of the what plug-able is doing and how it works. From the high level, I have a IP link between two routers under the hood, the underlay connectivity between this router is through the optic transport and the photonics services, networks, is using max Maxponder or Transponder, and we have the optical line system which is connecting If I go one step further, remove the transport Max Fonder, I'm putting in a router, it becomes a plug-able From each of this scenario, from the router, perspective, from the IP link perspective, nothing happened They are exactly identical. There is an eye-pilling between two routers. And the whole idea here is how we can take this framework, the last picture of row on this picture if i have a plug well inside the router now i'm going to model it, do the gap analysis and everything around this So basically, this is the context that we are referring I have a router, plug-able, and plug-able, has two entities, two sites. One is a media site, which is mainly optical and photonics aware, and the other side which is the host connected to the router, is the electrical part which is basic, should be agreed upon between the router and plug-able from this picture it's mainly the obvious that the photonic optical side it's something that in most cases, router is not aware or should not be aware of the characteristic. I say in most cases, in some cases there is a need. And the other side, from the host side, both router and plugger should agree about characteristics of the electrical and so forth So from the high-level process,"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:56:01",
    "text": "photonic optical side characteristics are for example, modulation, fake forth. So from the high-level perspective, photonic optical side characteristics are, for example, modulation, thick, dispersion, and all those things, moderate and so forth. So from that aspect, as long as the router is concerned, those are detailed how to create the connectivity that router needs. So just keep that one in mind. And this is the high as long as the router is concerned, those are detailed how to create the connectivity that router needs. So just keep that one in mind and this is the highlight of this draft. This is draft zero before going further. There are some comments that we are going to address going forward, but this is the escalation of the draft and it shows as we go through this. Whatever you see is a major description of this one I don't go one by one, but general concept here is that we take the optical plug-able we go to values and this is the activity that we do every week. We go through the different SDOs a standardization body, whoever is designing and talk here about that, most likely, you know, these are IETF, open config and so forth. We focus on IT body, whoever is designing and talking about that, most likely, you know, these are IETF, open config and so forth. We focus on IETF, obviously, the group of draft that they've just mentioned this Sergio was talking about that one, impairment, 19903Bs, and so forth. But we don't stop there if we go through all other STOs and say how they are addressing that you have a weak limit meeting, we have the online sheet that we go through it and we try to address that and using that the whole intention of this traffic weekly meeting, we have the online sheet that we go through it and we try to address that. And using that, the whole intention of this draft is to go through those attributes to see what is needed what are the gap. Do we need any gap? Is there any gap in the existing models and from that aspect, we address that, we go through the use case and company life cycle. If I have a plug-able, I'll attribute, how I'm going to use it, who is going to use it? And you see here, these are very relevant to one whatever Oscar was mentioned. And just for the closer for the completeness, we had a side meeting and we decided that whatever we do,"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:58:00",
    "text": "we want to be practical. We want to do something with us Oscars, use cases, put them together going through the use cases very quickly and most likely we want to have a hackathon next time to go in 121 to go through this use cases. These are, we know it is important to have this on a timely manner. We don't want to wait for a long time. We want to be practical and at the same time, we want to be realistic as well. So this is the whole idea of this We have weekly meeting as mentioned before and uh i'm just giving you this background i know some people might not attend those meetings to just have it that background is helping to go through it. So these are the various area that we talked I will go through it. I don't need to go through this one by way background is helping to go through it. So these are the values area that we talked. I will go through it. I don't need to go through this one by one. So to give you a context, consider the black box on the right hand side the big one is a row router, is a host from one vendor and the plug is from the other vendor. Just a multi-vendor aspect of that. So this building blocks that you see here they are inside the router that are functional blocks so and the whole idea here is there are two characteristics, two idea of this one On the right hand side, these green boxes that you see one is from an IETF perspective we are looking at this one at the network layer, the whole country the right hand side, these green boxes that you see, one is from our IETF perspective, we are looking at this one at the network layer, the whole connectivity, how we can manage your life cycle from the planning to the provisioning, to the money monitoring, optimization and so forth And from OIF, they are looking at node lines how plot talks to the router itself You know, what is the characteristic? You heard about CEMIS protocol and those things is addressing that. So, and we feel that these two have relevant that I should work together to have a very close and a practical example. And this is the reason that one of the items that we do, how these two works together. This is a very important aspect There are distinct characteristics at the same time"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:00:01",
    "text": "They are relevant to each other. From the plug management, from the plug perspective this are the building blocks that we realize that the big box is plugged. These are the functional blocks from the right hand side is the photonic optical and all the way it goes to the electrical On the right-hand side, it's connected to the optical left-hand side connected to the router electrical And the idea here is how we can model these and we have started with the optical channel OTSI on the right-hand side is a more relevant one and this is the character of that box. So there are some capability of that log that support, and in most cases, that block support multiple characteristics, so-called support mode. It can support a bunch of things and the whole idea here is that we are characterizing that one inside a supported mode. Let's say plug-able support mode A-B-C are characterizing that one inside a supported mode. Let's say, plug-able supports mode A, B, C. And all those have a group of attribute, what is the modulation, what is the fake what's the boud rate, what is the dispersion, and all other All these attributes, we go through and through all the S attributes, what is the modulation, what is the fake, what's the boudreate, what is the dispersion, and all other. All these attributes, we go through and through all the SDO that I mentioned before, starting with I IETF, open config, ITU, T, OIF and so forth. How they are addressing that. We want to be complete, you know, we want to see if there is anything missing from the solution that we are providing. And the whole idea of this exercise here is capability are read-only characteristics of the plug-eval that they can support and this is the very important aspect. There was a discussion about this one, Oscar mentioned that there are database for capabilities. Basically these are the capabilities. These are something that you cannot change that characteristic of logables can support a specific modulation. You cannot change that. It's a physical aspect of that. You can configure which one you want to use from the example"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:02:01",
    "text": "I give if there are ABC. You can say, I use B. And that B means a group of attributes but all this and this is the whole idea of this activity and we I put a few IETF draft that on the bottom right that these are for example, some of these, the characteristic that we are saying is there, we are using all those characteristics attributes, plus other STO and this is something that we are doing it every week, and that we are getting very close to just finish the first round of that. We are getting to a very good agreement on this and the whole exercise is giving us the ability to go through it. This is a sample of that Google sheet that we have is online, everybody can attend if you are interested to see that you can attend that. We go through that one and as you see here on the very right-hand side the source of each other attribute, where it is coming from, and the characteristics we want to be complete we want to do this one And if there is something we don't want to implement, we want to have the reason not to do that one. And this is the whole idea of that work that we do So the next step of the character of the plug-able is the configuration. So we talk about capability read only. Now configuration In most cases, configuration are a few attributes like the central frequency. Some of those supported model or the operation mode that I mentioned, or power or so forth so these are other attributes, again, during the top we will go through at what should be there, what should not be there and why there are there The next level is threshold definition so for each of the state that we have there are a group of estate that plug"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:04:01",
    "text": "level is threshold definition. So for each of the state that we have, there are a group of estate that plug-able can give us. And we need it define a threshold. We want to have a mechanism to do that. We don't want to go, like, for example, other STOs to define threshold for each item one by one we want to have a logic threshold definition here for example. This is just an example Type 1, we are the looking at the mean max average instant value, and so forth, and we can define the threshold and we have a mean max and the idea here is how we can make this logic generic we don't want to do this one for each attribute one by one. If you go to the Google shit, you will see more about this one. But this is another activity. How we can define that as a generic approach and the is very important aspect that if we can have that mechanism it's helping us to go further Another idea, is about the manifest Oscar mentioned the capability should be in a database This is basically a solution that we have. Again, we will go through the discussion but the concept that we are proposing here, we should have a repository, wherever that repository is, GitHub, or somewhere else to address some of the characteristics of that we defining on the plug-able and why we are doing it, because those attributes that we are referring is used for the life cycle of the plug plug-able. From the planning side, to a viability to provisioning to assurance So there is a wide range of the youth for that and this is something that we put in the draft Again, there are some discussion we will go through that and it is important to make sure that we are addressing everything. Some of the use cases of that is from the network operator"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:06:01",
    "text": "They want to see the characteristics of loggerables, or from the SDN controller IP or optical or hierarchy, they want to use that phone into their platform and also the router or host platform itself it wants to use that so this is another if you are interested in more detail example please refer to the draft I'm running out of time here. This is some of the examples that I put for manifest and the idea of one thing that we try to do here, we try to be generic whether or not the attribute or operational the modes are defined by the STO or by a vendor, should be a generic approach For example, introduce an item in the attribute called organization ID That organization idea, as you see here, I have three examples Organization ID could be OIF, which is a standard or could be a vendor X and vendor what? And for the aspect, we make the solution generate Again, there are discussions. We can go through the details but this is the idea that we put forward and hopefully through the discussion fruIETFul this discussion that we have, we can, you know, come up with the revised version of that and the good results from that at that. And last, but not least, this is the lifecycle of plug-eval. And it is very important to consider that In most cases, if I see an example of plug-able, for example, people start with the fact that there is a plug-able inside the router is already configured, it's already, there is a service but the point of hold this exercise here, even if it is not there, how we are starting designing the network doing the planning, viability, optical services, you have to do the viability to make sure is practical to be in the network and from that, how provisioned the service and everything. So here again, there is a chapter about the many"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:08:01",
    "text": "lifecycle management and in summary we have a week meeting on the plugables. There are some activity that we want to do is not still in the draft about notification, about the plug-able and the gap analysis, and there are a group of the comments that we have to go through it. We think if we go through this one, we will be ready since we had this discussion for a while, we will be ready for the adoption, but this is something that we want to do it, hopefully before the next IETF, and we done that one I conclude that it seems that there are few people in the queue for the question, and I take the question for it now. Thank you. Thank you, Ressa. Dieter, please Thank you. Yeah, dieter beller, Nokia I'm actually an active participant of the weekly call and I would like to emphasize that some participants have actually posted comments on GitHub regarding the initial version of this draft and specifically there is a section about the manifest concept and I think this still needs to be discussed in the group because there is no agreement yet there are also a few other points but my major point is here that the manifest concept still needs to be this discussed and there has not been agreement to actually put that into the document Yeah, I mentioned that there is some activity, sure we will do that thank you thank you later homian please you. Thank you yeah i mentioned there is some activity sure we will do that thank thank you thank you just a follow up for data's comments i would like to agree. And my personal opinion is we need to be extremely careful on introduce such kind of manifest. You go back to page 12. It seems to me these examples are a kind of combination for a few parameters"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:10:01",
    "text": "and given the complexity of the plug-bo and wdm program a few parameters. And given the complexity of the plug-able and WDM parameters, we may have more manifest than the parameters. So I'm not sure whether it's really contributing Thanks. Thank you, Hohmann Dave, please. So dave sinicrope, Erickson Just a couple of questions, and I think the first one is related to the manifest comments that came before mine But it seems like you're creating one big unit model to rule them all. And you did mention that you're going to reach out to those other organizations for their models because it seems like you're duplicating their attributes, which would not be advisable And the intention is not to reinventive like you're duplicating their attributes, which would not be advisable. The intention is not to reinvent a will. We are trying to go through those to use. We just going through that to putting the attribute that fee at IETF feel that it should be there But through that process, we go through whatever is we agreed as a group When we go through those attributes and say, whether or not there is a gap analysis from the IT process. So you're putting the attributes from the other models into this model, which seems like a duplicate But anyway, my second question, was more pragmatic. I noticed on your authors and contributors list, there was not a single option component pluggable vendor on there Do you have any intent to actually reach out? to like coherent, lamental? Sumitom Electric, or any of those guys? Yeah, I would think that their opinions would be fundamental to the progress of this. Okay, good question So we're definitely that this is the intention to have from all different sectors but it's a very good comment. Go ahead Iowa. So also agree with the previous comments about the notion of"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:12:01",
    "text": "the manifest requires some additional discussions. So I mean you put this as like a public information, which in some cases, you know, if someone come up with a secret source, plugables, they may not want to publicize it or it needs to be, there needs to be a mechanism Yeah, exactly. So the idea is as you said there should be a mechanism what that mechanism should be, so we can discuss. Okay Any other questions? I see Nigel in the list, but we have closed the queue, Nigel sorry, apologies for that, but we need to to keep with the time of the meeting. It was only on the last comment Just we do have text on the properties that a vendor would want to keep private in the draft so it's actually explains how that might take place just to answer the point that was made there. I'll stop now. Thank you Thank you. Thank you okay so Dan your nest thank you Daniel, please. Thank you Hi, good morning, everyone, and this is a relatively quick update on the TNBI work. Essentially, that list there are the members of the TNBI team. So if you haven't been paying attention at the previous CCAM sessions, we have a transport MBA team that's essentially looking to discuss what the model requirements are for exposing underlying optical technology to higher layer entities In the context of CCAMP, that would be the MBI model requirements are for exposing underlying optical technology to higher layer entities. In the context of CCAMP, that would be the MDSC, so our northbound interface There's a GitHub which tracks the open issues It also has several branches of code. These are combinations of yangtragments and JSON. So it's"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:14:01",
    "text": "essentially over the wire, what it looks like when you extrapolate from the yang and pass it to something in all order to retrieve information or maybe set steps And we have a mailing list as well. And as Lewis kind of pointed out earlier, what we try to do is use the mailing list to have the general discussions, then try to whittle down some of the search space and when we've got some use the mailing list to have the general discussions, then try to whittle down some of the search space, and when we've got something substantive to say, we'll bring it back to CCAMP on the list and the CCAM sessions themselves. Oh, right so what have we been doing so we had an initial kickoff meeting around IATA 118 for the TMBI. We had several use cases that we were looking at, things like discovery configuration, multi- management, topology management inter-domain connectivity identification, fault management, performance management so on and so forth. It made sense to kind of focus on two initial use cases that would allow us to kind of build capability and look at applicable models for other use cases so the first two use cases were inventory management and multi-layer topology management. Now we have different layers that we could model. So they're not all of those potential models. Right now, sort of layer zero layer one, sort of out of scope. So it's really the WDN layer at this point. And then some potential layering on top or below will occur with a future use case discussion so how do we define the component? that we need to model and considering there are several activities that are ongoing with other standards organizations, it was really important that obviously the work is relevant to CCAMP, but we take into a account the view and some of the terminology from other organizations. So Nigel did a"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:16:01",
    "text": "great job of coming up with the potential layers that we would see in this network so effectively what the operational view would look like, the entities, the interface the different layers the functional components some are physical, some are virtual or at least are software-based and trying to harm some are virtual, or at least software-based, and trying to harmonize or synchronize the terminology was important as well So we have things like media channels service, tunnel So could we just sort of stay consistent with the use of language? And that actually proved to be not an insoluble problem, but it actually took time because there are sort of several documents from different SDOs that we had synchronized but it actually took time because there are sort of several documents from different SDOs that we that we had to synchronize but luckily we've got people in the team who who have contributed, if not, you know, are the editor of some of these documents So we very quickly kind of came up with a model and then a use of language that shows be understood by the tapy guys at the at the RNF, the OIF, certainly IT and IETF. So this is the model that we're using now when we look to apply the CCAMP model. So if you go back to the GitHub, you'll start seeing yang fragments that will be used to generate this topology and provide this view and the different sort of components and how we express those. And thanks to Italo, as well, we have generated the JSON Now this is mostly sort of done by hand at this point, but part of the remit or the charter of the team is to try to come up with some tooling that would sort of do this automatically as we increase the complexity and the layering"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:18:01",
    "text": "Great. So from an inventory perspective, which remember was one of the key initial use cases, we've got a couple of examples here. So the one on the left is multiple NE that occupy the same rack. So share the same sort of physical space and then how that is actually expressed, you can see in the GitHub with those examples. And then on the right, the difference there is multiple racks So we've got multiple NEs that then share sort of sorry, don't share that are actually configured and installed in separate racks so obviously that will look different in your code. When we're, sort of providing that inventory between entities, so it may be from a for instance, a physical network controller to an MDSC or some other sort of intelligence management system or EMS to some higher layer controller or even potentially an orchestrator or some in the future device or entity that's responsible for management functions maybe performance management or assets net management. This is what we will be exchanging. Now, this is hopefully really useful information for people that are looking to implement or understand how these models are being used. Often in the IET we get very excited by creating new models, augmenting, extending existing models, and it's not often clear how these models will be used in the wild So as you deploy in, if you're an operator, you're going to be encountering several issues which we found, by the way, and that's part of the responsibility of the design team is to provide guidance So as your sort of consuming the Yang models for particular"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:20:01",
    "text": "deployment scenarios, we're generating the JSON, and as we go through this process, we've identified your several issues and those aren't necessarily expressed in the Yang internet draft or or RFC so that's what we want to do is high several issues and those aren't necessarily expressed in the yang internet draft or or rFC so that's what we want to do is highlight where there are issues how you address them, and if necessary maybe we need to make changes to existing Yang models. Now we'll see one case here which is direct relevant to the OTN topology document, where if you use a case plus when, it actually starts duplicating information and we have guidelines in other documents to say you don't want to do that there are several reasons why So this is really important work now because we have a decision to make. And I think Hitalo sent an email to the chairs earlier this week and maybe, did we copy John? I suppose we copied John right our AD illustrious AD. So now do we have to bring the document back to the working group, or is it some AD illustrious AD so now do we do we have to bring the document back to the working group or is it something that we can adjust with sort of comments that we're going to receive from the IESG anyway? The thing is, the change is very much it's relatively straightforward but it is as change. So that's kind of an open issue that we have Okay. And so we are now at a point where we have the layering we have the topology we have inventory example and what we need to do is start publishing Now this really means writing how we use these different"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:22:01",
    "text": "models, where they apply, how we generated the JSON what tooling we've used, if any, and we will do that in the wiki on the GitHub. It's not going to be an internet draft. We also need to start thinking about what's next. We will continue to have our transport NBI discussions from September onwards because of the August holidays. We will need to think about which of those additional use cases are now relevant or important when we kicked the work off we sent out a poll You didn't have to necessarily be a member of the TMBI to respond to the poll, but it helps because you've going to be doing the work, essentially The potential use cases are kind of this second to last major bullet here. I'll put those on the poll and we'll do decide and kind of move forward i think that's thank you then any any question for then yeah Oscar please Oscar, just one question so should we for us about some point in time wanted also to add the new work on this? IPOVWDM, which is okay has optical and has IP? would it be the same methodology? same place, even extensions? Because in some cases, I guess, it's will be more use, maybe more use cases? Absolutely, yeah. What we've tried to avoid is boiling the ocean and then if we get the tooling right we get the layering right we get the sort of the terminology use right then hopefully adding additional technology layers will be relatively straightforward Yes, two questions one to oscar and one maybe two chairs randy bush comment for the apio i plugable do you think is better to do in the TMBI or is somewhere"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:24:01",
    "text": "in the T's, because it's multi-layering? involving also IP yeah i would say... I think we can reuse the tooling and the expertise that we are having here. Yeah, because the radio guys have already expressed an opinion here as well you know the underlay doesn't have to be optical. And it doesn't have to be any of the existing optical technologies that we've got either maybe that's me too but we can we use that definitely the experience and the process and for the change on case plus when okay i think for me is yes it's it's technical but it's mainly style yeah I'm coding style it's just moving a container from a choice from a case into the choice outside of the choice So I'm not sure whether. Yeah, I mean, I'll preference is just to address it with the other I IESG comments as part of the rc editor process We know the point and we will take the decision. Thank you. Thanks Okay now you will present each other Okay This is Cao DeFan Huawei I'm glad to present this job on behalf of all the co-authors Sure. And this job we defined two young data model for fine green OTN and this young data model can be used in the northbound of domain control And for the motivation of this, job, we have summarized three points at first we have all known that for FGOTN, the current is a very quite new technology and increased the usage of our OTN industry or technology And currently, the data plan of FGOTN have been consented in ITUT ITUT-FG-15 in last year and also in last ITM meeting we"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:26:01",
    "text": "also present a job which is about GMPS applicable for FJOTN, and it is a great that for FGOTN is should be the right scope in the C-Camp and it is welcome for all the experts to contribute for this topic and we found that for the for our current work on the domain controls northbound, it is missing in that for our current work on the domain controls northbound, it is missing for the FGOTN, so we designed to discount this is important with this draw and the third motivation is that when we're discussing FGO10, we would like to hammerline with the exceeding words, including the topology and tunnel model So to harmonize, with the current young data model, we have defined in CCAM, we consider two main data model. One is topology, the other one is tunnel. As I young data model we have defined in CCAM, we consider two main data model. One is topology, the other one is tunnel. As ITU suggests, FTO OTIN, should be a new type, audio type, so we will like to do the extension based on the current TE model and OTN models What have been extended in the OTEN topology model? At first, we don't like to define a new network for FJOTM because it is the same layer of OTIP type So we would like to define a new type new identity for FJTN and we use the OTIPropology to provide the information of F-G-O-10 Also, we have some requirements from the operator they would like to filter the termination point, which can support FGEL10 so we define their support FGOTN TP, which is brilliant for the termination point"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:28:01",
    "text": "Also, we have some bandwidth-wise augmentations including the maximum bandwised and also the unresourced bandwagon and in the old Otean topology model, we have a lot of extension on the labor restriction So here, for Matiwanda, perspective, we also define some tripper slot of FJOT for Martin multi-wanda interruption And for the attributes, we stand for OTN tunnel young data model. We designed to design it to define a new way designed to define a new layer of FGOTN tunnel just like the relationship with the lower order of ODUK and high order ODUK. So for FGO channel will be a more lower layer ODUK, and there will be some correlation of supporting relationship with support by the current T model we also extend their bandwise augmentation for FJOTN tunnel to indicate the band-wise information And for the labels information, it is same to the extension in the Ocean Tunnel model We will do some extension on the label hub, including the PC loot included or escrowed? hops in the primary path and second path also in the LSP information And for the next step, we would do some more detail research or design on the FTOT model and also evaluate how to do this new identity for the encoding and switching type based on the consideration the TE types model have been in working group, Lasco, in T's work"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:30:01",
    "text": "group. So we'll evaluate how to do that so it's at last, we also call for interest for these jobs. If you are interested on these jobs, welcome to a contact withers and after these IT meeting we'll apply a wicked call in the main list, and then you can join the discussion. Okay, that's all for this job Thank you, Shalda. Any question for Chaudet? Do you expect the willy calls being used the SICAM web? and so? Yes, sure. Okay, let us know, and we will organize. Okay, I was sent an email on the main list. Thank you Thank you good so No, it's the time for religion Zilin Good morning, everyone. This is Yi from Huawei Techno France. So this contribution is this uh job is um actually more about the uh of applicability of Germany for the FGOTN. So the previous one is more focusing on the young models, but this one is more for the traditional GMPS and PCE for the FGOTN And the main idea of this drug is that for the latest FGOTN, we need to do some applicability to see whether the existing GMPRs and PC can be used for the FGOTN and to see if there is some gaps that we need to fix. And the contribution is includes three parts, the connection control, like the connection creation and computation, et cetera, and the second part is of the service control. And last part is the routing consideration. So actually, this, uh, this, uh, presented last"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:32:01",
    "text": "idea of meeting and the main changes from 0 to 01 is that we is spend a little bit on the service control consideration and we analyze two different methods for the service control and propose to use the PSEF for the service control as a centralized way and this page gives a very high overview of about what is LGOTN. So we know that the G.709 and G.709 was published this year in March and April, just after the last IETF meeting And in this new FGOTN standard, the main the most important changes is that the fine grain transport the fine ground tributary slot was introduced with the bandwidth of 10 megabit per second And so that the FG ODU connection can text from second. And so that the FG-O-DU connection, F-G-O-D-Flas connection can text from 1 to 1119 tributary slot, which means that the connection each connection may have from 10 megableness from 1 to 119 tributary slot which means that the connection each connection may have from 10 megabit to 1.2 gigabit per second for the FGOTO flash connection so such FGOD flash connection could be multiple into the audioJ and then audioJ in connection. So such FG audio flash connection could be multiplied into the audio J and then audio J into ODUK. And for the audio J into ODUK is actually similar, actually the same as what we have before FGOTN So here seems that the FG audio flash has as what we have before FGOTN. So here seems that the FGOTO has the very flexibility of language so it is possible to use the FG audio flash to carry the high quality service correctly"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:34:01",
    "text": "so so this is the this major may raise some new scenario for the use of evidence connections So here is a very interesting scenario which was discussed in two other jobs dropped list in the bottom of this page and also was discussed several times in ITUT So in this scenario, so we assume that a customer may have several different sites or several different branches client network one and two, and the customer may be visit different data centers for different kind of services. So as show here a customer have two, client site and visit I need to visit to visit to centers. And this provides kind of from the service point of view, it's a kind of multiple source to multiple destination connectivity requirements so this request the OT and to provide the private network rather than private line service for this customer So here the problem is that how the different service to different data centers may have different, maybe in different flows with different like service addresses in layer two or layer three. For example, different VLAN or different IP address So how can OE1 the edge? node of the OTN, distinguish these two different flows? into different audio tunnel and send to OE3 and OE4? So it means that the OE need to learn some services address involved to be able to do this kind of forwarding So here the basic assumption is that the OE"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:36:01",
    "text": "should note the address the information of the client network one which are connected to the OE1 directly, and similar to OE2 3 and 4. For example, OE3 need to know the IP addresses in the data center one, and OE4 need to know the address information in data center 2. And in this way, the OE1 can distribute the kind of address information in Data Center 2. And in this way, the OE1 can distribute the customer 1 address information to other different OEs So there are two different methods on the left hand side it's a kind of distributed method. For example, we can use IGP to flood this kind of information And the problem is that actually the intermediate node, OTN node, do not need to know this information. But if you always, if you Flutting method, all the nodes, will know this information, which is really redundant and brings a lot of messages control messages in the network And the right-hand side method is a kind of centralized method So once the OE1 got the address information of the right-hand side method is a kind of centralized method. So once the OE1 got the address information from the CPE1, then it can report this information to the centralized controller and then the centralized controller can reflect this information to other OEs And same for the other OEs to do these kind of things. And we think, in this scenario, the PSEP protocol could be one of the choice to perform the centralized way for this kind of information interaction this is because the PCE and the link state of the PC was just accepted in PC working group and yesterday they also have another topic to talk about using the PCLS to apply"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:38:01",
    "text": "in the optical network so for that contribution, it's talk about the PCC could use the PC protocol to report the link-state information to the controller So I think it's kind of nature to make the for the extension to allow the PC to report the client address information which are attached to the OE and then report to the controller So that's the main idea So actually we have another that is another contribution, another job in PC working group which make considering to make some extension to the PCEP to support this kind of function And for the next step, we will continue to do the applicability analysis on the FGOTN control So today I show the surface control and in the next version we may show some more about the connection control routing, et cetera showed the surface control and in the next version we may show some more about the connection control routing etc and to see the gaps and also we may start to consider the extension to this kind of protocols too support FGOTN and your comments are always welcome and if you are interested in this topic, we can work together to move it on. Thank you Thank you very much, Yilin. Any comment? for J? Yirji? No. Okay, Kamiyan is joining the key Yes, thank you, Chair. Yeah, actually I have speaking to also draw people's attention on the FGO and technology extension Actually, there are a group of work, GMPRS extension PC extension, and also young model augmented So this would be a new kind of technology and I assume"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:40:01",
    "text": "it would be integrated into the CCAM working document structure Thanks. Okay, thank you Thank you So, let's go for the next presentation for Chauda Okay, let's just stop De. Okay, I'm glad to do this presentation on behalf of all the co-authors. And this job defined young data model for FJ Okay, I'm glad to do this presentation on behalf of all the co-authors. And this draft defined young data model for FGNN extension for their challenge network. And the data model can be used on the northbound of the transport network domain controller At first, we would like to introduce some background and to show how voice it the intention or motivation of this job. So in the previous ASEAN's error, the transfer network are managed by the EMS and integrates with OSS with some traditional interface such as COVA and MTOC. And this part of the interface provides a full lifecycle, including which is called FCAPS interface, and these series interface and when the rascone young appear and then the integration architecture lose more compliance And the domain control could be managed by the PNC and the PNC will be integrated with MDIC and MDIC could be recursively integrated with MDIC or integrates the OSS. But for the MDI and PNC, the mainly that focus on the configurations narrow, but for the operational maintenance, such as the F-C,"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:42:00",
    "text": "they are still using the traditional interface And this part of this part of functionality the operational maintenance such as the F caps they are still using the traditional interface and this part of information is also not covered by the ASIN data model So to minimize the cause of mitigation, migrating of TN covered by the essential data model. So to minimize the cause of mitigation, migrating of TMF, OMM to the RASCON, protocol, we suggest to support the same FCAPS capability in the new ACN interface So that the future architectural integrations architecture we will suggest that the PNC and integrate with the MDIC or OSS with the full lifecycle and with the same capability of the traditional TMS interface So to support the traditional traditional function, it is suggest to align the terminology at first We lease the terminology in the table two, which is the synops the terminology at first. Release the terminology in the table two, which is the ancient object and TMF object, and we know that the alarm of performance, more monitoring are usually performed or attached to the TMF object. We want to know which kind of object would be in the neural ASM modeling So if that the alignment is agreed so that we can do the translation and also we also need to investigate world attributes for these objects we need to extend. And this extension is called FCNM extension Here, I just want to say that this FGNM is a little bit different from the FGOTN They are all called fine grain"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:44:01",
    "text": "but they are used in different scenario And for the FGN, extension, we would like to do it separately to have little have no impact on the current world. We have in the TE model of later space model. And for the FGM extension we also divided into the generic part and also the layer-specific part and these data models list drop we only focus on the generic attributes And in the current job, we have defined the we only focus on the TE generic attributes. And in the current job, we have defined some, we have found some extension, which is for the topology and tunnel extension. For the topology, we have discussed the lifecycle and usage of ttp and for the tunnel, we have a modeling of P2MP or MP2MP usage of TTP and for the tunnel we have provide modeling of p2mp or mp to mp tunnel scenario and we also discuss more kinds of restorations scenario and support to specify TTP hop in the past constraint And for the next web, next also want to identify more generic FGM extension for all the layers. And we also will like to start the study of layer speed extension, just like the figure we show on the PIRC previous slide and we also consider that these job is also well stable and we also would like to call for working group adoption later and if you want to join the discussion we this is our GitHub, and we will also have a weaker call later and we will raise some discussion in the main list. Okay, that's all for this job Thank you, Chelsea Questions for Chaudet?"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:46:01",
    "text": "One question from my side trying to be the scope to be multilayer, let's say, covering different layers, will be sick One question from my side. Trying to be the scope to be multi-layer, let's say covering different layers will be CCAM. Is the only, in CCAM. It was, yeah, because we are also discussing the scenario in optical Okay, yeah. Okay, understood. Thank you Okay. So there are no further questions, let me open the next deck Okay, this is for service pass computation Okay, and this job is all a provider young data model which should be used in the northbound of domain controller and this job have been discussed in IT Actually, it is first time this guy in which should be used in the northbound of the main controller. And this job has been discussed in ITA, actually it is first time discussed in SICAM, but the open issue was discussed in IETF 118 and we found that some missing points of the past computation and for the motivation of this job, we have summarized four points The first point is that we would like to support a service driven, which may be also called as a top-down approach. And in some scenario, the user only delegate only as a top-down approach and in some scenario the user only delegate or only provide some information on of the service of source and destination and also some as a preference and they would like to ask the domain control to how to finish all the layers past computation and provide the comprehensive optimal results And compared to the existing T-Path computation, their scenario is the past computation should be done by the MDSC and layer by layer"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:48:01",
    "text": "This is a different, and there will be a slide later on to discuss the differences the second motivation of this job is we would like to provide a multi a different, and there will be a slide later on to discover the differences. The second motivation of this job is we would like to provide a multi-layer paths displaying. And because that for the end-to-end service, there will be a lot of tunnel underlay to show the part of these service so we would like to provide the the information in one response to show all the information of these paths The third motivation of this job is to provide the path management and we would like to provide a data structure to store the past computation result and later on, the the kind of the MDIC or the OSS can use the past information in the provisioning such as use the time top-down creation or specified the past as a root constraint The fourth bullet, first motivation, of this survey is we would like to support more kinds of past competition constraints and including the specify the cost layers resource, for example, we can support the optical resource optical nodes or LTP in the OTN layers presentation or in the Kansign nodes path computation. And we can support the fire granularity of resources or we can also support some some higher up high level of objects such as the service of tunnels or paths or SRG oh sorry for the okay for the top approach, just like I said in the previous line, and for the user, you should they only know their source and destination They have little knowledge about the detail of the transferment network"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:50:01",
    "text": "they don't have no who is WD and war is O-10 and what's should be the start point of the WDM layer So that usually they will tell the salesperson about their requirement and the sale requirement will forwarding these requests to the direct to OSS and MDSC and then there will be two different approach Some operator would like to do the past competition on the MDS side, and they would like to design which WDM node they would like to know But for some approach, they would like to delegate the control to do the full configuration or pass computation. And this is the this is what we call a top-down which is create a service and during the past competition on the O10 layer and WDM layer And for the current TE pass competition we suggest it can only support the Bolton app approach. So we would like to provide another approach for a button, for TopDown for top down for the multi-layer path deplane here we provide a figure just like a very common kind of service And there is an architecture we can see that there will be a lot of layers, including the lower audio decay and higher audio K and OTO tunnel and OCH tunnel and OCH tunnel an architecture, we can see that there will be a lot of layers, including the lower audio decay and higher audio K and OTO tunnel and OCH tunnel. And here we can provide the the tunnels or all the tunnels in the generic nasty structure because there could be the low order of the UK, it is no necessary to be exiting all the way. So it is not certain that how many other tunnels will be under later can signal So we provide a genetic structure just like the young data model we show on the on the left and we just indicate, use the underlade"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:52:01",
    "text": "tunnel and the computing SP and the server tunnel to provide to provide least reclusive structure And for the past mantra, and just like I said, some operators they would like to do the service pass computation at first, but later on, they would like to choose one of the paths and specify the service creation so that there is needed to store the past information, but how long will the past computation result will say it will depends on the random implementation? and it is out of scope of this job And if the client or MDS designed to you a path of computed and then it can be referenced in the creation request with the pass ID directly And for the path constraint, currently it has supported no no in-cru or escrow and also the LTP in crew or as crew. And the TE pass competition we reference the structures of a the existing data model and we also reflect the label host definition in T-E pass competition for the service and terminal or past computation we define some new attribute to support this requirement And for the next step, we will continue to fix the remaining issue and discard the modeling internet's past computation. And currently, we have set up a GitHub repository and there is a big recovery call with an in sequence past computation. And currently we have set up a GitHub repository and there is a big record call in CCAM. If you are interested on this topic, you can, it's welcome to join this discussion Okay, that's all for the presentation. Thank you, Chowda Swami, please Yeah, Swami here. Two questions"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:54:01",
    "text": "The first one, if you can go back to the to the the architect yeah this one, right? So in your view, is the proposals to stating that you would have a single path computation for both the layers? uh yes and the wdm uh it depends If the WDM tunnel had been set up before the creation and if the best option to reuse the WDM tunnel, there's no need to do the WTM tunnel path computation. It can reference or reuse the existing WDM tunnel it is not required to always to do the past computation on the WDM tunnel layer Okay. So which kind of gives me a follow-up question, right? um is if the top down and bottom-up is getting mixed up. OK okay? Because if you have both, then for one part it would be bottom-up and for the other part, it would be top-down It's just a comment, right? Because I think if you mix that up it kind of gets tricky right? The second question I have is that in this architecture vision, where would the path competition kind of reside on the MDAC or would it be on the domain controller? That's right the path competition in this architecture would be done in the domain controller or it would be on the mdc uh Actually for the top top down approach the path computation will be done on the domain controller totally. But for the bottom app approach, the past competition need to be done in the both MDIC layer and the domain control layer. Yep okay okay okay thank you okay thank you"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:56:00",
    "text": "so let's go for the last presentation or also from Chaode. So you have like four minutes for it. Okay. So you can speed up, please Okay. This job is about the issue performed monitoring for the optical okay sorry it's a past this job is a for the resource performing monitoring and this draft provided a young data model could be used in the domain control northbound And these jobs have been presented in SICAM before, and it used to focus only on the object specific work. But later, after last meeting, some IP technology experts drawn the discussion and tell us that it is also applicable for the IP technology. So they joined their discussion and also provide some idea of this jobs. And for the current status of this job and is was aimed to cover all the function performance, monitoring function and currently most of the traditional interface have been covered by the current model And this is your example of the usage of these draft and it can provide the on-demand PM data retrieval function and also the T of the usage of these jobs, and it can provide the on-demand PM data retrieval function and also the TCA configuration and also the performance monitoring task control and data clear function. This is a this requirements are all common for the IP network control and optical network control and we believe that it should be also used in the are all common for the IP network control and optical network control and we believe that it should be also could be used in the POI assurance scenario And this is the whole overview of the data model and in the it is it can be it is consists of three parts of definition. The first part is about to retrieve the supportive resource and the"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:58:00",
    "text": "indicator supported by the resource. And the second part is about the TCA management, which can support to define the profile and then use the profile in the specific resource and it could be also supported to specify the DCA derivative on the specific resource The third part of this data model is about the monitoring task to control the perform a monitoring task including to define the periods of the tasks and also the admin status of the of the performance monitoring tasks And these are also presented in observation this time and people are some feedback and I've seen we will still like to discuss some more with the IP effort and to check whether there or any feedback on some new requirements And also if you have any interest on this draft and you are welcome to join the discussion. Okay, that's all for the presentation thank you so much hello so any question for chau day No okay thanks so much with this we reach the end of the of the meeting Thanks so much for attending the meeting and the fruIETFul discussion. So, there are a number of actions that we as chairs we need to take This will be a follow-up of the meeting So Daniel, do you want to comment something? no i just wanted it to thanks everyone You in particular, you did a great job We left you all alone. Thanks a lot for running the session. Wonderful OK left you all alone thanks a lot for running running the session were wonderfully uh yeah i just wanted to confirm that uh we have a list of things to do that we agreed to do, including some preparation for working group plus school, some preparation for working group adoption"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "02:00:00",
    "text": "So, I mean, there will be a lot of work in the next weeks Which is great, by the way okay thanks so much everybody talk to you in Dublin. Thank you. Bye. Thank you bye thank you bye thank you Bye-bye. Bye-bye Bye-bye I don't know. I don't know fortlock. I don't know. I'd say I have to all the Thank you be it. It's all Thank you"
  }
]
