[
  {
    "startTime": "00:00:18",
    "text": "[Music] yeah okay let\u0027s go ahead and get started welcome we have only 30 minutes some things have happened in the past couple days so we\u0027re juggling the agenda quickly we\u0027ll see if we have time to get to everything so we put it in priority order so just reminder on the intellectual property you you must say if there\u0027s any IPR associated with your drafts and your contributions and in terms of anything you say if the might as well this is the no well you\u0027ve been seeing it all day yesterday so well but if you haven\u0027t read it please pay attention to it blue sheets are going around we need a new ticker "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:03:26",
    "text": "someone please volunteer it\u0027s going to easy today Thank You robber can we have a joker star this is just take to go to the mic if anyone who is remote and wants to share something with the room okay I\u0027ll do it let you run the meeting all right we have two documents of progress you\u0027ll see in a few minutes that the number has gone up since we made these slides but we\u0027re going to talk about them in this order the first one is with the is G and the second one has just been in last call this is the agenda we\u0027re going to deal with the amount of time necessary in this order so I hope we get to everything but we\u0027ll see okay and that\u0027s it tradition lesser than the agenda bashes all right Billy you\u0027re up [Music] okay good morning everybody my name is Naveen amar I\u0027m the main Otto the the first author of the the district after Alex left the draft in vision 43 so I will give an update about what have been done in this draft since version 44 until 15 currently we are in 50 but we are expecting to to to post a new version 51 after receiving some comments from a romanian ID so from 44 - 45 so we have in 44 we have updated the author\u0027s list and in 45 we have updated the abstracts so that we can give more focus on the the main scope so we have redefined the scope so that\u0027s to animate any ambiguity on what we want to do and we want to achieve in this draft as "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:06:26",
    "text": "suggested by the main reviewer at that time pascal figure so we have added in ran of one another of i simply a to do so we are dealing with ranch and that any other optimization are out of scope in in this draft from 44 to 46 we have a new abstract which is more concise so that we don\u0027t have much details in the abstract and we keep them to the main body of the text and we have introduced that these drafts doesn\u0027t make challenge in existing stack so with minimal challenge to existing stack and also we focus once once out of time that the more complex scenarios related to vehicular communication will be covered in future work also in from 45 to 46 we have specifying the scope also in the introduction so we have now in 46 this new text the document describes the leading of ipv6 networking on top of the I Triple E standard mock layer or I Triple E 8 or 2.3 ma clear with a frame translation underneath and we have added these centers that the results in stacks operates over 80 2.11 ocv and provides at least peer to peer connectivity so the term peer to peer was not in previous versions of the draft using ipv6 in d and link local addresses in the extension and IP way of optimization for vehicular communication are not in scope because we have been dealing with Pascal about what kind of Indy what are the the limits of Indy when it comes to vehicle communication etc so we made this sentence so to clarify things better in also we have in security consideration we have added some some ideas here so for example we added that previous work at say V working group present some threats while sent presented in these children these two RFC\u0027s is the solution against breast eft but it\u0027s complex had not deployed these comment was sent also by from from Pascal but we had some other comments from the 80s when it goes to the iesg that why talking about mentioning sand if it\u0027s complex had not "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:09:26",
    "text": "deployed and we replied that this is the only solution that we have at that time so this is what why we mention it in this draft from 46 to 47 we have changed the title so now we have this new title of the the draft basic support for ipv6 over X cetera and yesterday I asked the RFC editor if they can help even if it\u0027s not the time it\u0027s not an FCS but if we can gain some time to if we can receive some feedback so they told me that the title is a little bit long so maybe we can we can think about it in next version we have also included in the introduction that the resulting stuck in here it\u0027s from ipv6 over Ethernet so these lenses also some debates in the mailing list and with the ideas what we mean by in heretic cetera we explained that we do the same as in Ethernet as as ipv6 defined in RFC 24 64 so there is no charge and that\u0027s it yes for for this version and then yes and this was one of the hot topics hot debates which is about the the length of the address or the the interface identifier so we specify clearly that independently of the the method used to provide the even identifier the left is 64 bits so if we need any other if there is any comments that should be discussed in other working group not in IP wave from 47 to 48 Mohammed Boogedy thanks to Mohammed he suggested he proofreads the whole document and he suggests me in private he sent me corrections proofreading and such some ameliorations to clarify some text so many correction were made in this version 48 in from 48 to 14 9 we had some issues about the references which are normative and which are informative I think that can be I can happen in many stage and hopefully we have solved this problem and we fix it some remaining typos in every time we have a lot of typos from 49 to 50 so it was the the ballot so we got 10 okay so it\u0027s it\u0027s an okay for the moment but we still have some three discuss we reflected the comments "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:12:26",
    "text": "received from the IDS we removed to the following not in so in the new version which is 50 compliance with standard and the regulation set in different countries when using the 5.9 gigai frequency band is required we remove this part because we don\u0027t need to deal with this detail in in IETF no specific reason why this needs to be said here so this is why we remove this part I think this is what the so this one was one of the main comment of the of one of the discuss so hopefully this discuss will turn on okay the map pin to the exit so we have this must that became a shirt because one of the ad is say that must it\u0027s strong here and is in this this idea deals with I Triple E so why we need to force something like that so we agreed that this must be should I need to remind the participant here that this part of the draft was sent us as a review from I Triple E 802 dogeleven working group based on their review a long review we we made this this sentence here so we just changed the must into shoot we also corrected the normative use of may and should in the text the normal way of writing this these words also we reformulated the text in subnet structure as pointed out by Roman one of the 80s as follows so so he suggested to to to rewrite but with the help of Pascal we rewrite this this part so we introduce the some specific passivity is related to neighbor discovery to reflect what we want to say here and why nd with current ocv can so I can lead to other works that can be done in the future we also reformist the Security section because one of the ATS suggested that an attacker may not heed to legal limit for radio power and can use a very sensitive directional antenna so it was okay so I added this sentence if attackers wish to attack a given exchange they don\u0027t necessarily need to be in close physical proximity so this detail was not present in previous version what remains to do is to answer one last comment in the "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:15:29",
    "text": "discuss that we have now of Roman which deals with pseudonym handling so I think we have now with the help of Erik we have now I think a good text that Roman will I I hope will will agree on so that\u0027s it for for these versions so in equation our comments are welcome thank you say what are you going to say to addresses so we are we have just sent few lines to Roman and we can die and we are still waiting for his feedback just to fix the the this short paragraph about what is the the the the difference between what is the impact of confidentiality because we used the term confidentiality in the text it was on big use for him and we changed it into the identity of the destination and making the trust because identity is not as confidentiality its to term different so we have proposed to to change these two terms that\u0027s it that\u0027s the main change that we have in this section suresh krisshnan so Russ like in charge it tastes like the upper layer protocol should take care of it like that\u0027s the gist of this Texas like propose to roman okay thank you thank you okay so basically when you get the okay from from any you will be submitting version 51 yes and then we will ask the the three scums because there are three discussions to check if they are fine and 2/3 of that okay thank you [Music] hello everybody this is poor John from SK kill you so basically this IP waive promise statement document liberated by Charlie pockys and three and basically three kundo barely certified with on this television and Charlie Kaiser he looks like didn\u0027t finished and Libya yet but I believe most of his comments are addressed so after last the prom meeting revised it two times it so right now the version is 11 so so I will explain to Orly be jealous so the first revision from 9 to 10 so from a chali so the question is the mortar linker so Burnette models so this "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:18:31",
    "text": "is the problem statement so I remove a multi-link a sudden a discussion just we specify characteristic of a virtual or linker model is it symmetric and so mobile attack and that took property so we just addressed and also he mentioned the DNS motivation the pqy Deanna\u0027s important so I explained it especially in beaker has a lot of issue unit so they can be lester their own domain name or so remotely automotive services enter can remote a monitor regulator so in the case dns laceration also these are resolution is important so that\u0027s why I added a some text so in appendix I added that detail changes so you can refer to that so timing issues Andy so the you can see the national highway traffic agencies as a product service as appetizers thank you so they mentioned the 0.25 the second very important timing to avoid accident so in the case the neighbor discovery message if used for the safety a message 0.25 exchanges required so depending on tentative vehicle we can adjust the interval of neighbor discovery message so I added a tap text next the security consideration case expanding the considered neighbor discovery part and the mobility management part so I added a some text the secondly this you can see documentation predicts Charlie maybe some confused why what is it is so this is you can see the documentation predicts right for the example so definitely any allowed rubber IP version 6 address it can be loud trouble in Bennett and V killer Edie vehicle Annette on including infrastructure loader RS use also the third one in the piggy run case the separate vehicle on a dog netted panel can be merged to using infrastructure node over newly a joining of vehicles so you can see two separate a banach can link with the infrastructure loader all the other arriving not I mentioned and that part and suggestion are how a good a nose depress the prom a better nose or so we I added a text so certificate can be used to authenticate the beaker so I mentioned the high lever so our a document again is for problem Stateville "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:21:32",
    "text": "letter then giving the solution so and Burton ten case I reflected the chalice the editorial comment so many editorial comments are addressed some several questions case in the appendix that I address the what change are ton and three hakuna volley case the article she a fifty eighty five zero five reference this is for the six all of em the address alliterations optimization so in this text that we can lead up them just may be the solution development the page we can consider so we tell it either next step is after confirmation of a charlie and then Carlos will leave you and then we can call last call and then we can submit is G okay that\u0027s it I scan I miss the reason why you remove tags denied her for five is that because you\u0027re not talking solution hmm I did not understand why you removed that text okay three his comment the years that and the optimization is the possible a good solution but our problem statement the case we don\u0027t imagine it may be how we can discuss that\u0027s because you don\u0027t enter solution space that\u0027s because you\u0027re in promised ice that\u0027s very good yeah yes yes yeah okay so yeah basically we will wait until suddenly confirms that this is happy with the review yeah just closing on the last comment exactly I think it\u0027s not touching on the solution that\u0027s one thing second thing is this was the last minute you know the comments you know but that you are addressing were mostly based on the reviews from Charlie and others right there as to some discussion randomly we cannot insert some new sections without any discussion in the mailing list right so there\u0027s a reason why so it was scary yeah I don\u0027t buy the last argument if you say if you say okay that\u0027s not a subjective document I completely buy it if you tell me it\u0027s because we don\u0027t discuss enough well let\u0027s discuss right now that you can\u0027t just remove text that\u0027s odd because it\u0027s like if you say okay we have to ship now so whatever is discussion is pending we don\u0027t take it I don\u0027t buy that I mean you want a good document and if you want a good document then you want to make sure you have settled on the issues right so if there was a good reason to mention it then and you remove it just because you decided at the last minute that\u0027s not fair either right so so the group must are the consensus "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:24:33",
    "text": "either way we want to talk about it we don\u0027t want to talk about it it\u0027s the right document wrong document but you can\u0027t just make a decision like that in a work group document just at the moment you do last call to snip some document effect without the group saying yes you can right so the text that showed up in that version there was no priority discussion it\u0027s just a randomly showed up that intersection point of our point number two again this spec is about requirements right so we are not touching I think those for those reasons I said you know they should be okay so I mean we we can have discussion if somebody thinks that it has to be the earth text but I read that it\u0027s not about solution the document okay so then I was instead we\u0027re saying we\u0027ll wait for Charlie to confirm and then once at least happy with the review I will I will okay so we moved to the hackathon propose just one minute it enough because yeah and so basically this has only the second time hackathon we so I think that first card the solution of our solution is the proto-tool heated previous the work also the hackathon project case we approved the OCB and also one possible solution on the big hill neighbor discovery the multi hub at dat so we proved concept and so the basically we using this multi hub at the ad to lead years at the ad arm delay or so we can allow picker can start the TCP connection Egyptian and possible using the multi hub adding network and the impact on network so we extended the connectivity so we probably using the simulation and okay so the appendices are explained and this website can show the video clip and github that\u0027s it thank you yeah so if you have a question fully you can discuss so Paschal you have yeah short time yes if you want one are you talking that are you saying that you\u0027re flooding the dead of are multiple Hopf so you\u0027re actually doing a big flood for that well that\u0027s the one thing we just did not want it absolutely to avoid in the type of networks that right yo has been working on right because because of the bandwidth that the flooding cost you know the flooding well each broadcast is that at the slowest speed possible and if you have to flood it that means you\u0027re basically consuming all the bandwidth for everybody time you want to form or just check in your dress and "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:27:33",
    "text": "well many environments is just not acceptable they can\u0027t see that it would be acceptable the CD I don\u0027t just don\u0027t see why it would be acceptable because not you get it of course the only thing you will see is that on your network there is nobody else or anything else not not quite a good idea so the way six load has that of our multiple hearts is unicast so you need to have for a given subnet a registry and you just unicast check that registry that\u0027s how you avoid the flood because the flood with just one call it looks great then you have one thousand cars you know nothing works okay so inter pastor the adding load mark are he suggested we need to consider a multi up the ad with the unicast so that\u0027s why we implemented some possible solution but once we the penises promise statement document can discuss it not just example do you plan to do some real OCB yes definitely yes my group already have the Kota Wireless our Cu and ODU so we will test paper protocol okay thank you yeah so yeah yes thank you for pointing out to the hackathon so we made the two hackathons in the past one in Dakar and second one in Kampala last month during the Africa internet summit so we got two good results because we are using not simulation but real cards and to test if there is possibility to to connect and to send pings and we use in Wireshark to capture and to see the the frame and all fields and all details that\u0027s what we want also to do next time okay thanks thank you I guess we don\u0027t have time for for the presentation if they I mean for those are interested on that Piscotty within six month I mean six long six robot a like a standard version right so you can take the video recordings if you sure yeah okay okay we we are done Thanks where are the blue seats okay thank you "
  }
]