[
  {
    "startTime": "00:00:11",
    "text": "okay AR how's it going hi can you hear me okay I can indeed can you hear me yes good yeah I'm in Amsterdam this week so ah cool all right so I I was GNA ask about the jet lag um and there isn't any there isn't any exactly but I mean sorry is there something going on in Amsterdam or is just or just a bunch of people going to answer because like the there and I'm kind of just visi you're testing out I'm I'm just testing it out exactly uh and it's surprising how many people are still around at five but I guess it's not surprising given how we work with people in the US ah yeah I don't know like the in office is fairly um fairly chill after about 5:30 p.m. um I guess there are some like other Sr teams have a different sort of ethos about that but I think most people head home after the the and we like I just dropped out of my team meeting which runs until um 5:15 pm but then people start drifting off to yeah the bar or wherever they go I don't know usually the oh I see yeah I guess I'm what I'm still trying to figure out is how do I prevent myself from working all day because I got I went into the office at 9: because my hotel doesn't have breakfast and breakfast right and then I stay there for lunch and I in the afternoon I went out to meet somebody for coffee but they were an ITF or so it's I guess uh and now I'm back and it's like have I even have I even not worked at any time today"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:02:01",
    "text": "so the way I the way I tend to do this is one I go home at like 2 in the afternoon or 3 in the afternoon which doesn't necessarily work if you're in a hotel I have a hard block at seven right like even if I'm still working um I'm not gonna admit to anybody that I'm still working and then I actually um uh will count my hours so I have like a a little Chrome extension that counts time per tab um which when you're at Google and you live like your entire freaking life is in Chrome right like we our our web ID is basically Visual Studio in the browser right which is I mean like our vs code is is an electron app anyway so it brings its own copy of chrome with it um so yeah you can actually get a fairly good idea of how much time you're spending working just by counting your time in tabs um and then on when Wednesday morning I will have a look at how much time I've spent since the previous Wednesday morning and if I'm getting close to 28 hours because generally it's seven hours in front of a computer and one hour not then I adjust by spending more time at the pool nice which hasn't worked like it I haven't done any of that recently because I've been taking so much time to go do house stuff so oh yeah I remember so that is that hi pH can you hear us okay we can hear you now I can hear okay very good um yeah Ryan I think it's it's it's a good sane way of uh staying away from too much work yeah I didn't I wasn't able to do this at all in Academia though in Academia was 60h hour weeks all the way oh and we lost Philip again yeah maybe still listening maybe bandwidth in the oh you're there okay cool I still hear you my browser just"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:04:02",
    "text": "did strange things the problem is that uh I'm at the moment using Safari okay which is not the most stable option for for web RTC but uh Chrome is bugging other other things so yeah yeah Safari just really bugged out of my choice of cameras was not happy with me at all okay okay so folks it's 5 past the hour and I just started looking at our GitHub uh and I was actually surprised at how few issues we have yeah I think we so good go Callin since you closed the last issue I was just saying I think I think we did it all right yes did we resolve everything yeah so so Tommy and I sat down in the atrium on Thursday I think and we basically looked at the pending bugs and the pending PRS we had and we made some executive editorial decisions um as to uh like what we were going to do about those so we banged out some PRS there were three that were rendevu heavy enough that we wanted Colin to do stuff and then what was it yesterday I bugged Colin around about the time that he was writing PRS for things and those have now merged uh thank you Tommy could go so far to say every single active member of this group sent me email to say happy have done these I was not the only one okay I'm sorry I did that so everybody doged on Callin and he he got it done so w I think what we need to do now is choose who ceremonially pushes the tag for the interface draft and we can go all go off to whatever more boring meetings we skipping to be here okay so yes and we also do have to repace rep to the isg"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:06:00",
    "text": "comments at least some of them to get them to clear their discusses and I haven't actually looked at whose discusses I I saw somebody did hear it but I just still figure it's good to at least reply to the ones who still have their discusses on maybe we're just gonna pick you know whoever does it or I don't even know if we have to do it like right I can do the one for Roman because I handled that discuss that makes sense it might be nice to split them up both to show that we have a variety of authors but also so we don't Doss one person yeah one last PR that's open from Michael do we want to merge oh oh yeah that one's mergeable okay that one's good it's just capitalization right yeah yeah yeah yeah merge it before we can have before want to actually rev Arc or like I mean this feels like the type of thing that the RFC editor is going to GL on to anyway so I don't know if we can rch for that it's fine yeah it's fine just to have another number just have another it's fine yeah fine all right we're gonna have to be slightly careful with the RFC editor anyway because they're going to want to fix the capitalization and they shouldn't I mean if they catch something where we're inconsistent fine yeah they're going to want to lowercase it if we're not careful after okay so um basically the thing is we I I just looked I'm just looking at the data tracker and it looks like Arch actually has enough yeses to go ahead um we do have a no record from uh Loris but I figure we're going to reply to him uh for the interface draft because interface draft still has four discusses and he doesn't need to he doesn't need to give an opinion on our"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:08:01",
    "text": "one sure sure yeah so yeah I'm I'm actually I'm not sure if we need to reply to like literally everybody including the ones who balloted no objection maybe we're going to start with the um discuss this on interface right it might make sense just to send a sort of summary email to the a rather than replying to each person individually send a summary to the ASG that says you comments from such and such have been addressed in this way and such and such and you know thank you to X Y and Z for the comments they they were straightforward we fixed them yeah may maybe should what do you think about like replying to all the discusses indirectly just through the discuss points and then having one broad email of like here's the new version yeah for all the comments yeah right we we don't need to go through every single of Nets and so you're proposing four separate emails for the four discusses and then one General email for everybody is that correct cool so we got Roman and Brian volunteered to handle that one we still got Eric Klein we got Loris and we got Paul ERS and are are we still waiting for implementation to go through or 's done no it's done okay so ample and Arch are done yeah I'm not seeing the ballots for imple actually if you go into imple it is done so okay I also was confused by that okay so yeah it's so we have Eric Lars Paul Roman okay so now how much how much did Paul's differ from Romans not most of our I can actually I can actually address Paul's then as well that's what I'm wondering most of Paul's"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:10:00",
    "text": "comments were addressed by the changes that we did for Roman right that's what I was thinking um and then Eric's discuss was pretty small I can certainly reply to Eric because I wrote that text Y and then then there's Lars and Michael isn't here so Michael gets to do the one for Lars nice that seems fair I mean we basically addressed all of lars's points there's going to be some bureaucracy in figuring out which issues were this this this this and like like to his credit lores was like this whole thing is and then he actually gave constructive feedback on how right um so so I think it's worth engaging with that but man it's going to be a fair amount of work I mean if you only want to to reply to his discusses it's not too many okay yeah fair enough yeah he's got the like all of the yeah and we can just basically say in a bulk thing hey you know we think that this diff addresses all of your comments right I I I I can I can reply to him because I can just for his discuss to say here are the issues where he resolve them and here's the resolution to those we also revised the entire document so have fun he say gain anyway not sure we need to go through all of the comments and give feedback just say you know just a bulk yeah we yes thank you for your feedback we've addressed them all well we've addressed them all except for XY and z i I was thinking just to enumerate the ones that were discuss points yeah than you we've done them yeah exactly"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:12:02",
    "text": "and then as far as the overall like hi isg we revised everything email who should do that I think that's a shepher thing yeah okay yeah that makes sense but I think that's pretty short it just says we've revised it we just said we just followed up directly with the discusses without uh reflecting on this particular isg I think that there is a nonzero chance that this will not there will be more emails uh in response to the eils that we were talking about sending so it it may take a little while for this to converge and there may in fact need to be additional revisions yes yeah I think we've taken it as far as we can go which is that's a victory right there right I would be amazed if there were wasn't more emails to be honest yeah and then you know we may at some point reach the over to you zad um yes so uh about that Shepherd email for inter phrase Shepherd is actually Anna who isn't here right now but could approach her and ask her we could all s her emails at the same time I would I would actually recommend yeah sorry I would actually recommend you to um address all the discusss first and then when everything is ready and and S yeah but we can do that like we can reply to the discusses like as soon as we get off the call if we want oh and also also for the if for the discussers if you want to make the life of the ads a little bit easier then also don't only put a link to the pr and but also like have one sentence explaining how you address it yeah I was I was thinking for every discuss comment link to the pr and then say we resolved it by doing XYZ yeah perfect all right hi Anna we have something for"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:14:03",
    "text": "you to hello hi Anna are your ears sorry I was trying to I had finishing up my my course lecture that's important we we um so you are the shepherd for interface and so uh I think the steps we need to do we need to cut new versions of the docs because we've merged everything and closed all the issues Brian and I are going to respond to the discusses and once we do that um we were wondering if you as the shepherd could just email the isg broadly and say hey we have the new version out the authors think IT addresses all the comments please rebal it or you know whatever you want to say but just like generic email just saying we think we're done y okay sure thank you awesome thank you okay and then once we're done with all that and all the discusses have been cleared uh zah said he was going to look another uh take another look at the drafts and what has changed since you know before it left the working group I assume uh because he is wondering if we had so many changes that we're going to have to give a little uh note to the email list uh or we as chairs might send a note to the email list to give them two weeks to for the working group to look at what changed since it left the working group and then probably nothing is going to come up but he just we do that now yeah I was gonna say if you want to do that now the next aesg call is not to the end of the month right so I think we we have a couple of weeks to do it yeah we can do he he was saying he he does he's not sure if we have to send a note to the email list he wanted to look at it first and decide if but we may like say hey look at it let us know there was a problem yeah yeah maybe it's also good"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:16:02",
    "text": "for us to now have a chance to read the whole thing right because we have also edited and you look at the issues and you see them you know in the I mean I didn't read the whole document now after we did all the updates so maybe this is anyway good that we if we if we before this happens also take two weeks we can ourselves also make a final pass right to see that we covered everything or see if we find any inconsistencies okay yeah if you wanted to do that as editors that sounds like a fine fine thing to do yeah I mean this in parallel we don't need to delay it because of that right we just yeah I'd say send send these emails to the ASG and in the summary say you we we've just reissued the working group last call for two weeks just to just to double check um because that then finishes just immediately before their uh the nextg call and so we can then just follow up in two weeks and say well we did it no no one had any comments we're done are we are we making it a formal working group last call because I don't I don't know if we're like aren't we beyond that process formally I I don't know how that works you you can always issue more okay um I but I I don't know if you need I mean we could try to go very formal route of saying we have issued a twoe loss call or we could just say we've let the working group know about these and so that the whole working group has also been able to review them yeah yeah yeah just do that you send email to the group saying we updated it based on the isg feedback please if you got any comments please send them by this date so any objection if I go ahead and push the tag for 23 do it do you want"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:18:01",
    "text": "are we also pushing I guess oh we already pushed imple right yes do we want to rep push arch with the with capitalization no I don't think we need to do that but I mean we're gonna do it with the RFC editor anyway like or if if we ever do any other update we'll get those capital L but since we've got the fix you know we may as well push it it takes seconds okay well then I'll I am creating that tag as well maybe wait a minute what did you merge the pr yes yeah we merged the pr okay so so what was the time line now of the different step we send it to the to the list for a week or two for comments and in parallel you send the comments for the discuss this I follow up once those are cleared or you've so no I think the order is so Brian publishes then in parallel Brian and I respond to the discusses and somebody emailed the list saying hey please look at these we updated all the comments in case you have a problem let us know and then once both of those are out just in the emails but not we don't need responses yet then Anna you can as Shepherd say isg hey uh everything should be cleared up and also we let the working group know about it please reconsider this on your next T chat yes on the next T chat is the 30th of November which is in a couple of weeks time so we have time to do this um we also need that for for at"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:20:00",
    "text": "least Arc right because Eric had the discuss on architecture so on Arc all the discusses have been cleared now he SE he's seen the update we pushed an update on Thursday and the discussion yeah but so no one should should no one push so no one sent something to the list about the other that that one is also and for the mating list I would just point to all the all three drafts in one right right sure sure I was thinking about the isg because you said I should send it a Shepherd for API but should there also be a mail for architecture and implementation I guess is my question I mean yes but if they've already T to discuss this there may be nothing to say I think if there are no discusses on it you can just include it in the email and maybe say uh by the way you know thank you for your feedback we revise the documents based on what we heard and their updated drafts here um just to you know uh let them know that we have uh read and considered their commentary it does no harm yeah I mean it probably just needs a very short thing that says thank you for responding during the discuss we updated it let if there's anything else so who will send that note to the T meing L that should probably come from the chair sounds cherry yes Aon are you willing to do it sorry I missed the discussion I uh my"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:22:01",
    "text": "audio got really weird for a second so I just um joined about a minute ago so what's the what's the email so we were talking about sending a note to the Taps mailing list pointing out that there were changes and response to the isg comments and ITF last call encouraging the uh working group to take a look at them and let us know if there's you know any issues with it within two weeks uh okay sure I'll I'll send that note thank you we're uh are we gonna do another Rev on that last thing from Michael or uh are we going to leave that for the RFC editor I'm gonna leave that for the RFC editor because GitHub will not allow me to push the tag again because they ref they ref the same commit so unless we do a no op commit to Arch it's not that important it's not that important yeah that's right yeah okay so uh so no revs expected right yeah 23 just went out and my note to Roman just went out okay awesome I can't believe that we're we've hit we're on the other side of the diminishing returns [Laughter] line okay I I'm not sure if there's anything else I mean I guess is going to see our not to the maing list I think it makes sense to do it that way uh yeah I think that means we're done wow took a DEC"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:24:00",
    "text": "okay did you say that you you pushed you just pushed a r a REV I pushed a REV of interface so we're expecting 24 is gonna be the final one 23 is the final one 23 oh so it's already it's already gone through okay yeah it's thing went through yep I thought you meant you just pushed computers are fast these days pretty cool I can't believe we don't have like PES administrator still in the loop hey uh Ain uh on once the pet cooches get posted you have to watch Brian's for the reference to how long Taps take you know with uh with the um NFS V5 I think that you know it's there's no way we're GNA get any records for longivity uh but um but I think that you know we've really we've made a good effort uh all right well uh thank you for your service uh maybe this is our last Gathering so definitely maybe maybe a virtual uh drink together or something to uh to celebrate when the rfcs finally come out that's definitely definitely definitely all right folks well thank you for joining I'm going to hit send on that email in the next few minutes so um we'll see what happens see you on the internet bye everybody Bye by folks thank for joining bye we just finished"
  }
]
