[
  {
    "startTime": "00:00:24",
    "text": "oh oh is that the problem didn\u0027t even occur to me to switch on the microphone I I guess I didn\u0027t need I didn\u0027t realize it wasn\u0027t sounding in the room so it sounds better now even out in the room oh alright so now i assuming need echo can hear me now and he couldn\u0027t hear me before antoine you want to step into the room and say hi and just confirm for us that the meet echo is working okay excellent and I went off again I have to watch that what I really should do is take a moment to yeah where is the shoot well I guess it\u0027ll stay on there is Antoine thank you to see you okay thank you that was a little muffle but I think I got that so that\u0027s good yeah we\u0027re just waiting just another minute or two here for our notes taker to be set up and ready to go okay all right so this is registration protocols extensions thank you everyone once again for making it to our meeting here and we have Antoine remotely my esteemed co-chair here and we have your your big head floating in the room so that\u0027s great "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:03:25",
    "text": "okay the usual note well so if anybody has any questions or whatever about this encourage you to talk to your own lawyer and then come back and tell us what you decided but in any case the ITF owns you that\u0027s the only thing you need to know that\u0027s the pit that\u0027s right you know the right to remain silent that\u0027s what\u0027s important and not fill out the blue sheets oh and speaking of blue sheets well that was my one flaw in this process what\u0027s not getting it Lou sheets ready I\u0027ll do that in a in a moment this is just a standard slide that we put up here about document reviews I mean we have the same problem other groups have this problem you know I mean that I think that you\u0027re sensitive more sensitive to it when you\u0027re a document author you know but you know obviously if you want people to review your document you should be willing to review theirs and I think it\u0027s a good exercise for people anyway to review documents I mean it\u0027s important to the to the progress of the standards and and we certainly appreciate that okay moving on to welcome in introductions so we have a jabber scribe and note scribe and already introduced myself an Antoine so that\u0027s good so let\u0027s jump to talking about our existing document status very quickly the launch base document will we\u0027ll talk more about the launch phase here when we get to talking about the the feed document we had submitted this document to the isg for publication and Adam does have it and and it turns out that what it\u0027s waiting for it hasn\u0027t moved to the iesg agenda in particular because he conducts a review before he advances the document so that\u0027s actually in progress and he has some comments he\u0027s gonna in questions he\u0027ll be bringing back to the working group shortly after we get out of this meeting but it also turns out that as a result of the feed document inter meeting that we had we have some suggestions for this particular document so we\u0027ll get to that discussion later but you know you know yay for us for submitting a document for publication but we\u0027ll just have to deal with sort of some minor last-minute issues here as we go along so the next item on the agenda is to talk about the the extension document and the interim meeting that we had with respect to that document and Roger we will go over to you come up here to the microphone and stand in the pink box so the Medeco folks can see you and while you talk I\u0027m going to distribute the blue shoes thank you good afternoon everybody the feed document is is there we\u0027ve got a one last big item to solve I don\u0027t know if it\u0027s big or not but one last item to solve and that deals with the launch phase and how we portray launch phase depending on what the client sends in so originally version 5 draft said if no launch phase "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:06:26",
    "text": "was passed in server would respond with I think our on subversion 5 it would respond with all active launch phases and in our interim meeting which we had Jim last week I believe we had 8 people participate it was great a great turnout we actually discussed the launch phase piece for probably about 45 minutes straight going back on the pros and cons of each of the possibilities and we spent an hour just on virtual meeting and me coming out of it I thought it was great we actually got to an end spot where we think this last piece and we can actually push this draft final draft through and get a working group last call on it soon so again the fee document piece the last remaining question and I think it\u0027s section three point something three eight three it deals with the launch phase and it\u0027s just the outstanding questions I posted it to the list last week I don\u0027t think there\u0027s been a whole lot of discussion yet on it I know Jody posted something yesterday or this morning something about on it laying out the four possible scenarios if the server if the claim doesn\u0027t pass anything server returns an error it\u0027s something that I don\u0027t think the group really thought should be done the other option was if the client does not pass anything the server returns the current phase the problem came in is if there\u0027s more than two phase two or more than one phase active currently what happens so that was an outstanding question do you then return an area because you can\u0027t beside or do you pass back those number of phases back which then starts to get a little more verbose that some people didn\u0027t really want to get into I don\u0027t know if there was a third option or not oh just so it was passing back all active phases and then they got discussion around what an active phase was this you know came about and it\u0027s is anything current everybody kind of agreed on but the discussion was if there\u0027s a future phase would that be considered active or not so that was one of the discussions and I think that I don\u0027t think there\u0027s enough consensus on it I think if we can get launch phase updated to provide the listing functionality I think that the current should be just the current in that future is my thing questions Jim this gym world from Verisign so yeah I look at the the notes from the inner or "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:09:26",
    "text": "median and I reira viewed the the section in the launch phase extension because I could honestly could not remember multiple active phases so I looked at it does have text in there associated with supporting simultaneous or sequential phases so I believe that was feedback from the list a while back to be able to support multiple active phases I don\u0027t have a specific use case for that scenario you\u0027ll be good to know whether or not there is a valid use case for simultaneous active but my interpretation of active would be current not future and I don\u0027t I don\u0027t believe that this would be a big deal if that\u0027s a corner case multiple active is truly a corner case then returning back multiple active fees in the response I think it\u0027s an acceptable solution but I believe it\u0027s a corner case and I agree Jim and I think that if we can get launch phase updated to provide the list then it could dictate the registrar with what\u0027s actually depressing the correct things and not an empty field or something so yeah let me address the the listing I don\u0027t I don\u0027t believe a listing would work in launch phase or in the fee because both of those are command response extensions they\u0027re not object extensions this is better suited for if you\u0027re going to provide metadata about a policy or policies or features of a team even do something similar what Verisign has done in our proprietary registry mapping extension which when you\u0027re querying for information it\u0027s going to come back and says here are the phases if they\u0027re overlapping so be it but that\u0027s not really what the launch phase extension is set up for so this is an extension of domain so it doesn\u0027t doesn\u0027t really work I don\u0027t want to gloss over that to do lightly though that\u0027s actually a very nificant point and and those who were part of the p extension inter meeting that we had I know I really need to know what other people think and what you want to do about this issue you know from my point of view James is basically saying that are sick the suggestion out of that group to put the the functionality into the launch phase document that\u0027s not the right place to do it it needs to go someplace else this matters because the fee extension document depends on this functionality and so you know it just then becomes a dependency on the part of the extension document so if folks have a comment about that and what you want to do would like to hear that please so thank you Jeff out Alex may offer negative eighty my concern with with the launch base usage in the way it\u0027s being used understand by a single implementation is "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:12:28",
    "text": "that they are using it in a way for which we actually envisioned the class to be yeah used so I\u0027m not sure with a more favorable pass was actually to ask the implementer the one implementer who uses it in that way why he actually can\u0027t use the classes instead of that yeah and regarding my general point about the fee extension my requirement to the change to the document is that the fee extension must work on a registry that is completely unaware of launch phases yeah we might have cases out there and we are running a ccTLD registry as well and we don\u0027t have any large phases there if we ever decide to do premium names or something like that we want to use the feed extension but we\u0027ll not gonna introduce launch phase is just because of the feeds tension so that\u0027s my basic requirement however we get there I don\u0027t have a super strong opinion I\u0027m just worried about bending the standard because the implementation choice of a single implementation yeah that\u0027s what I also said it so before you walk away just to make sure I understand I mean as it as it is now we do meet your requirements right so is I mean is there a change that you\u0027re nervous of that because I\u0027m I guess I should list all the available faces yeah a registry that is completely unaware of the launch phases would it be fine if it returned an empty set of elements if that\u0027s okay fair enough yeah so you talking about your tight connection between one extension at the other extension because as you know as soon as you put two things together it typically doesn\u0027t get sick one right so I mean what I recall from the intra meeting discussion is is you you thought well of you you did want to move that particular functionality out of the B document right the the idea of returning all the valid launch phases and and right now it currently works so if you don\u0027t give a launch phase you do get a response yeah and I think all of that meets your requirements and so other than that you know okay I just want to avoid the misuse of the launch phases for for an application use case for which the class attribute was actually intended for yeah and I understand we also had different prices to in sunrise and blah blah blah of course but like introducing hundreds launch phase is just because we have hundred first classes is not the right thing if you have to file attribute available as well what brings out finally I don\u0027t get me wrong I want to get this done so I hope we can submit it to publication before Singapore we will Jody Jody Coker GoDaddy so one of the questions that I had is at times during a registries launches there are no "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:15:31",
    "text": "there\u0027s no phase available for instance it could be a quiet period between sunrise and land rush land rush and GA or any of the other faiths that you could have so during that time I guess what I\u0027d like to try to figure out is what gets returned if enough launch phase is sent in while there is no phase available this is nothing available to be registered then that kind of thing this gym goal from Verisign I would say you know if there was a gap between the two and that you\u0027re not accepting registrations at that point then the fee would not come back with anything because you can\u0027t register at that point but then if obviously rolled into let\u0027s say land rush or claims then it would return back appropriately but if the Registrar wanted to know what the fee was for the future phase in the economics he asked for it yes yeah that makes sense so basically when you\u0027re in a quiet period the Registrar has to send in a fee if they want to know what it is or the phase I\u0027m sorry hey Jim will that come back unavailable oh the domain name that\u0027s good a good question we don\u0027t have we don\u0027t have those gaps in our systems so I like to hear from one of the other registries that may have a gap my assumption is it would come back as unavailable because otherwise it will then fail and create if there\u0027s not an active phase so anyone have thoughts on that during a quiet period a check will come back unavailable all checks will unless the phase has been identified so Jim Galvin and just to clarify make sure that I understand this it\u0027s um just remember your discussion that we had before yeah what you\u0027re saying is that if the phase is not active then it\u0027s not available if if a if a create command will not succeed then it has to be indicated as unavailable that\u0027s the way that this extension will work if a grey command would fail then it shouldn\u0027t show up here as available I think that\u0027s actually a question independent of this extension so take away the fee extension and you don\u0027t have an active phase and a registrar asks whether not a domain is available are you going to return back true that\u0027s available you could but then the create will fail right right and honestly I again I you know our registries do not have this gap period so if there is a registry that does have a gap period to be great to hear from that register no "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:18:36",
    "text": "Chris from across the station I have seen both some registries return are available some return available and then when you do they create there\u0027s nothing there it doesn\u0027t work so I I don\u0027t know what that\u0027s if that\u0027s within this scope of what we\u0027re trying to do with this extension though because that\u0027s up to the registry to decide what they\u0027re going to return and availability and can we force them with this extension to do something else I I would I would assume no we could provide guidance Jim Calvin speaking um I mean obviously we could I mean I don\u0027t know that I guess the question is whether it should be a must or a should I think my going in position would be it should be a should you know that the way you should behave if someone asks for a price is whether or not you say it\u0027s available or unavailable should depend on whether a create would succeed or fail and we could make an indication that way I mean as a registrar you know what would you prefer I mean this is also I mean as James said there\u0027s there\u0027s partly this what do other registries do in a gap condition what would registrar is like to see um I think I think it should be available it should show is available but it should have some cable yet maybe in a region field something that one space is not because the domain saying it\u0027s unavailable could mean that spread to serve already so how can we tell the customer why this domain name is not available so we need both the availability and the reason behind the unavailability Scott Hollenbeck I\u0027m gonna disagree slightly and I\u0027m gonna go back to the course specs to explain why the purpose of a check command is to give you a hint as to whether or not a a create command will succeed or fail right and you know modulo anything that happens in between the execution of the of the check and the create right so if you return available in response to a check and then you fail a create right and not because the domain got registered in the interim I think that is misleading and is counter to the very specific text that is in the core part of the specs right now so I hear you arguing on behalf of what we should say in the spec here is yeah we should tie a two to the create man we should actually say you should only say available at the create command would succeed yeah I mean there\u0027s other reasons for a create to fail so it\u0027d have to be specific about that is because of show up here or whatever but yeah I think that make sense so up to find I think to answer "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:21:38",
    "text": "Chris was questioned I I think that if we did do that we could pass a reason back in the feech at or the theater tension piece that says reason and it\u0027s a quiet period or whatever this is this is a loser - I think we should tie it to the original check man because I mean that is what we\u0027re going for right we\u0027re sending a check and so the semantics should follow the you know the original so like Scott pointed out the or the the check should return available there equate command would succeed and it should return unavailable if it won\u0027t succeed so and that is what we should use here too if we shouldn\u0027t you know this extension shouldn\u0027t change the behavior and it shouldn\u0027t define the behavior at all it should just say we use the original behavior and that is what we going to use in this extension so I guess I just wanted Jody call ker from godaddy um I just want to wrap this up a little bit so basically if what we pass in and the check command is going to be used to create the domain name that\u0027s how we\u0027re going to determine whether it\u0027s available so you have to have the correct phases on it all they correct extensions on it in order to do the check command to return whether that\u0027s available or not because those those same extensions will be passed in with the create command yes Jim go from Verisign I\u0027d say no just because there are different set of extensions that may be applicable only to the create so I wouldn\u0027t I wouldn\u0027t try to make as a precondition having to pass extra extensions on the chat for the check to effectively work as defined in the core yeah absolutely but it but you at least need some extensions for some of these you need to have the fie extension on it right and in the launch phase to create for some of these oh hang on I\u0027m sure that there\u0027s registries that have needed to launch phase on there in order to register the domain this symbol again huh yeah no don\u0027t need the long space extension specifically for one thing you\u0027re providing the capability of including the phases in the extension so self-contained yeah no I would I would suggest that I would suggest that I\u0027m sorry I apologize if "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:24:40",
    "text": "the phase is not passed then based on what you\u0027ve defined in 3.8 the fee extension I honestly don\u0027t have much of an issue with that as long as we understood what multiple active phases meant right and if a future phase or in essence a future phase was desired then the the registrar could go ahead and provide that so the availability was that yeah if if the the current phase is a gap then in essence the availability in the act for the domain itself should be unavailable and then the fee should be unavailable right and I agree with the point made okay so I think in trying to bring this to a close there there are still two I think you understand what has to happen here with all of this right so we\u0027re good at that you\u0027re gonna provide some revised text yes question that I have those do do you believe that you\u0027ve heard consensus of what to do with the launch phase stuff because I heard James saying it shouldn\u0027t go into the launch phase document as document editor here or of this document what are you suggesting for the working you to considered it or taking that particular issue forward yeah I think that we still have to decide on that piece of where is that going to come from because I see I think that\u0027s functionality that\u0027s still needed and people don\u0027t want to provide it in the fee which doesn\u0027t seem like it should be and as Jim suggested it doesn\u0027t seem like it fizzes in the launch phase so where are we going to put that piece and I\u0027ll let James speak a little bit to that but I think in the interest of time we\u0027re gonna have to move on and take it to the list too but please go yeah again I I believe it\u0027s a corner case for multiple active phases so I\u0027d really like to hear a specific use of that so in essence saying that it\u0027s needed I guess I\u0027m not sure if I\u0027m in agreement that it\u0027s needed because it sounds like a corner case and then if we\u0027re gonna go down that path provide the information around phases then we should think of it more generically not just about phases but features and policies as well well yeah and I can give you the cases when you do a pre-registration you pre-register for multiple phases and you need to know what those phases are that are coming up so that you can pre-register because you may pre-reg for sunrise or you may pre-register chie but if you don\u0027t know what those phases are how are you gonna pre write for those well in that scenario you\u0027re talking about future phases yes so that doesn\u0027t match the use case of multiple active phases so that\u0027s a different use case no the use case of providing a list of phases that the registry has own but that\u0027s that\u0027s even different right so now if you\u0027re talking about the case of multiple active to support the fee extension yes now we\u0027re talking about all the phases yes in May my um lit my email to the list mentions "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:27:42",
    "text": "both of those okay great scenarios like I said if it\u0027s more encompassing that we might want to make more generic extension provide not just phases but other information as well similar to what Varys I know it\u0027s already created in our proprietary registry mapping extension okay take a look at it I think we\u0027ve already posted a list I\u0027ll post it to list again take a look at it and see whether or not that kind of information which includes all the phases by the way would be applicable so to your point I will post to the list that separate question pulled out of this so that we can separate the items in the forward and you could also post a revised document with what we have now see we can look at those differences and then when this closes there\u0027ll be one more revision and then we can submit it for publication okay all right thank you very much oh by the way I\u0027m in favor of interim meetings again just in case no I got that I think they work well and we\u0027re probably gonna have more hopefully I\u0027m not on the end of the agenda to talk about intermediate so Kay and I think we should have multiple meetings here like we did in Chicago oh he\u0027s going to post a revised document with at least the consensus that came out of the interim meeting and a little bit of discussion that we just had here and the second thing is he will post as a separate question to the list how to deal with the feature of being able to find out and discover all the launch phases all the phases that are available for a given domain name okay next up linden to talk about at the organization extension document these were these were previously the reseller documents if you recall and we had quite a bit of discussion about this and in our last session about generalizing this object to rather than being a reseller explicitly let\u0027s just make it an organization object and so she\u0027s here to tell us about the changes that she made is as part of moving in that direction and so we have your slides here and and I will just say next slide or look at me and I\u0027ll move them along for you okay and hello everyone and today I will give a very quick updates and organization extension drops actually we have discussed reseller gifts for many times and we the working group and also have many opinions about the reseller direction you know we have the four listed for operation options at a so I\u0027d have media I think and finally the working group decided to do a new object organization object and it will have many different type of "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:30:42",
    "text": "groups including our registrar registry and reseller and many other type of roads the registry defined and so all of the co-authors of this dropped had discussed many times and the way to spend some time to update the reseller drops you the current organization drug and that\u0027s all inland just the same slide is down in front of you so you don\u0027t have to turn around okay for for the organization extension dropped the modification is relatively simple because there is only one element ID in the extension part and we add an attribute with the ID element the row attribute that represent the relationship organization would have the values are defined in your rovelli registries and you can update all the oils next this is in the slide there is a simple info response example and the ID will have list of baroque road drugs such as with a lot privacy acts privacy of proxy next and for the organization extension thought and we have some new elements including the ID status and of 19 row elements with two sub element and one is a type and it also has a rope status attribute and the other sub element is the optional Real ID this grow I\u0027ll the element is defined you to have a third party assigned ID such as de ina idea for a registrar and this is optional choice in the the following is an example of your element and next piece this part in the studies about the Rovelli I mentioned before this is the we have some initial weathers are defining in this red tree release the Registrar reseller and the privacy proxy and also you have your own values it could give us feedback and we can update this part next please and when we put in forwards the reseller "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:33:44",
    "text": "drops we also we have many comments and feedback sound Menenius and many experts talk to us and we always heard about the why reseller is important them registrar or some other row rows of organizations so at the time we change it to a generic object organization object extensions and and we also heard about maybe this extension it\u0027s a little complicated and we tried our best to minimize the required fuse there are only seven if for just a one thing the type of organization if you just extend the reseller I think maybe you can identify our angry seller from its name let\u0027s have four mini multiple types of the organizations that maybe it\u0027s a little difficult of us to just to identify a reseller from the name so I think it\u0027s it is needs to have a row or organization object and also this is a new start for the organizer instant drops so also needs comments and the Royals that\u0027s all thank you so an important consideration for the working group is you know is this document now in a place where it\u0027s ready to move forward or not and so one question that I have for you than the dispute have any work in your mind to do on these documents now we kind of have the discussion about generalizing its organization are there any open questions in your mind with respect to these documents of course in my mind that this is the working group discussion and many actors have suggested to do a more generic opt organization object so we change the taxi and XML formats and the to certify all these three comments and also we have some requirements to extend the result based on the we set up we also have many other road types of languages so I think we like to okay James yeah I wanted mixed in as well I\u0027m a co-author on this and we work together to come up with this based on the working group feedback I think what\u0027s needed now is some implementation experience and my proposal would be for the registries to look potentially use this for the "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:36:44",
    "text": "Registrar information I don\u0027t know it\u0027s very sounds like for example created a custom extension for providing Whois information to support transfers this would might be an alternative mechanism for registrar\u0027s to be able to get information about the other registrar directly in line without going to who is and that sort of thing just an idea of getting some experience in using this because then the next step would be for reseller information if the registrar\u0027s want to do that so so this might be a good opportunity to just get an indication from folks I\u0027m assuming that it\u0027s a NIC folks that you have implemented this sort or will actually before we do yes we have you implemented a part of the extension and so we do is there is there anyone else who has implemented or will implement or I guess maybe just a quick show of hands anyone wanna want to comment Jane\u0027s coming to the microphone we have implemented the reseller version and I intend to update our SDK to support the organization and we\u0027re going to be looking and discussing internally related to formally supporting it in production thank you Chris from Carson we intend to implement this extension when when it\u0027s in their final finalized taped okay well I think what I\u0027m hearing here oh I\u0027m sorry Scott go ahead you Scott Hollenback not that I\u0027m going to say anything counter to what Jim said but what I would suggest that in terms of moving forward remember implementation is not a requirement right however there was a recent RFC 70 something something something that describes an implementation status section that can be added to internet drafts what I would suggest we do then is add that text capture everything we know about existing implementations and move forward from there yes thank you so I think you know where we are at this point is there clearly is some some traction so we have some implementations that are going to happen and this document is appears to be stable at the moment and so it\u0027s important to move to that step so I think the status of the document is to bring to the mailing list a desire to learn about implementation status and have people report to the list on what they have done or will do and capture all of that and then we can make a decision about when to move forward ideally if we can find at least two people who will put an implementation status and there of actual implementations then I at least do and I would say we we can much more comfortably suggest to move the document "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:39:45",
    "text": "forward okay all right nothing else then thank you that\u0027s good next up we have a new presentation a new proposal for a document for this group to consider and I believe Tom is here yes okay Tom to come up and this one I have to switch slides for so please go ahead this draft is about returning historical records via adapt so allowing people to see previous versions of objects and also being able to to determine how an object appeared at a given point in time there are various use cases here one is transference so people wanting to see who you held say an IP address block throughout its history disputants so when people in conflict over a resource they\u0027ll be able to see whether any suspicious changes have been made 20 of the relevant records there\u0027s a more enforcement use cases so being able to see who controlled an IP address block at a given point in time and then more open-ended there are research use cases as well the main element of this draft is a new object class called history it contains a list of records where each of the records contains in turn and add up objects and date period and the day period defines the time for which that object was current the date period is half open so as to allow for easy sequencing of records and retrieval of objects is agnostic as to the underlying art of object class so it works for the currently defined object classes as well as any that might come up in the future this is just an example of an object returned from there from this service it\u0027s an ASN so chose the date ranges and there\u0027s an extra out of conformance value as well IP address ranges are a bit different compared with the other object types because they can be split or aggregated over time so for example if somebody queries for 24 but when they query the only object that exists is the is a covering 22 but previously that more specific 24 existed there\u0027s an argument that maybe only the 24s history should be returned or perhaps the 22 yeah so it\u0027s not rather than try to I guess pick one or the other the JAF go system for "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:42:48",
    "text": "it and just says return everything that covers everything that intersects whenever it existed excellent there are obvious issues with running a historical service over and above a standard registry service things like mistake and data entry then being removed historical data that reflects poorly on somebody and also people looking at the historical data and misinterpreting its currency so people going to contact people who used to look after a block or a record and then getting very confused about what\u0027s going on a couple of options here our app allows for the omitting of data from responses so for example PII might be omitted from historical responses and also a history service could be could be put behind authentication and there are a few different options there the first thing here is to the public history service that opening runs at the moment the second is to the backend for that service and the third is a rudimentary front-end that allows for querying and seeing objectives over time I would very much appreciate any review and feedback a couple of open issues are how to handle redirections so in the numbers space where an IP address block has moved from one registry to another there\u0027s a question about how to best represent that in in this document and then we\u0027re coming at this very much from a number perspectives so if there are there are probable issues around forward demands that we\u0027re not thinking of so any feedback along those lines would be great as well we\u0027re not looking for adoption just yet mainly because we\u0027re conscious of the number of milestones that are already in play and the number of documents that are probably looking for that and have already been discussed so yep just looking to gauge interests let me just take a moment to remind folks in the working group there\u0027s almost always a few new people around so the registration extensions working group actually serves two roles one of course is to process any kind of document in the registration extensions area which applies to both EPP and our DAP thinks I want to go on to the standards track so we have that role in conducting that review and adoption and then moving it through the the formal process for all of that in addition this the working group and the mailing list in particular is open and available for anyone with a related document who is looking for appropriate expertise to get some review there is an explicit use case for this which is the Ayana registry of EPP extensions these are not required to be internet standards so people can certainly create extensions which they can then simply ask to get "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:45:49",
    "text": "listed in that registry which is always allowed there is a a technical review that happens to items that go into that registry mostly just for self consistency and if any conflicts exist but folks are used this mailing list the mailing list for this working group is used as the contact point for people who submit a request to a Ana to get on that registry so they get reviewed by this working group Scot Hollenbeck actually leads the the team of people who are responsible for those documents but in any case we encourage these kinds of things so I just want to make that clear he\u0027s allowed to come here and say you know this is not for adoption yet but he is looking for some review and comments from he\u0027s in this group and there\u0027s no one jumping up to the mic who seems to want to say something but I do you know you\u0027re encouraged please to continue on the mailing list press on the document and we\u0027ll try to move this forward if and when you\u0027re ready to ask for adoption well we\u0027ll take that step to okay so that takes care of actual active technical work at the moment so this is a a slot in the agenda where the co-chairs would like to walk down each of the other documents that have milestones in our in our Charter and on our milestone list and on the data tracker and give a quick discussion about each of the authors of these documents was asked to come up to the mic one at a time and just take a couple of minutes to give their version of two minutes of what\u0027s the next step on their document so what we want to do as as the chairs is we are looking to make sure that the milestones are still listed in the order that are interesting here so this is your opportunity to hear about these documents make sure that you see what\u0027s coming they are listed here in the order in which they are milestones probably would have been helpful to pull the dates forward onto the slide I suppose to remind people what they are on the milestone list but I think we want to make this a regular part of our agenda here as a better way to track our work make it visible to people that these documents are there and what their status is so we\u0027re just going to step through these documents one at a time give everybody a chance to say what they want to say about the documents we\u0027ll take a couple of questions if anybody has anything about any one of the documents if if in particular if you want to speak to saying that a document should move up in the priority list you\u0027d like to see a reordering of these documents and reordering of the work we\u0027d like to hear that recall from "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:48:51",
    "text": "Chicago we actually did a review of all of our milestones we made a presentation then we had built up the co-chairs had built up in working in the background with document authors the milestone list we made a presentation to the working group which was generally agreed it was consensus about that list but we want to allow for a reexamination of that at each one of these meetings to make sure that we stay on track and that we everyone gets the priority that they want for these documents so I apologize for going out a little bit long their questions to the group if listen to the document status if you have any questions about the document please stand up and ask and consider if you want to reorder this list okay because we\u0027re gonna be going through these documents in this order as we progress the open ones that we have that\u0027s the intent any questions about that process and what we\u0027re doing here okay then we\u0027ll just step right up to the first one which is the change poll document yes so for the change poll the latest revision was to change the authorship Sharon had left new star SoCal volunteer to take co-authorship on behalf a new star for this particular draft and the latest revision as well added the implementation status information for Verisign and Cal intent risk al here we go Cal is going to add the implementation status from new star to the craft as well as far as this particular extension is concerned this is completely generic I highly encourage the registries to review this to consider this for any suicide changes that are occurring and I encourage the registrar\u0027s to express the value of this extension because I know that this was built for the registrar\u0027s to be able to more easily reconcile things that are occurring in the registries so the more this is used the easier it\u0027ll be registered ours be able to be proactively notified of changes occurrence of their objects so in the end one one use of this particular extension that we\u0027re considering doing I know there was discussion at a prior conference was a deletion of unused objects and for the registries out there that have a lot of unused objects and if you\u0027re looking to purge them notification of a deletion of an unused object would be a perfect use case for this particular extension so okay would it be fair just well lets it get discussion first miss Roger and I\u0027d like to promote Jim\u0027s suggestion of registries looking at this as a registrar we would love to see registries implement this we would we\u0027ve been pushing this for quite a while and "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:51:52",
    "text": "I thank Jim for putting this on the list to get done but yes we definitely look forward to this being completed so hurry up so my question to you is would it be fair to say that from your point of view this document is relatively stable and unless comments or questions come up here should be expected to move along fairly quickly yes that\u0027s correct I I see a stable and we in our multiple instances of using this extension have not seen an issue with it so that\u0027s why a review and feedback from the other registries would be highly valuable but again I see it as stable at this point okay I suggested that Jim Roger can I suggest that Jim hold an interim meeting so we can move this forward quickly we\u0027ll come back to that okay next one is allocation token and you get to keep it floored all right yeah so allocation token again this is a collaboration between Verisign a new star this head is a very very simple extension exceedingly simple but the whole idea here is the fact that it can be used for many different use cases the most recent updates were again changing authorship callaghan volunteer to take co-authorship of this and we added in the implementation status section and Cal will go ahead and update it with new stars and actually new stars farther ahead on production use of this particular extension but its original intent was to be able to support oxygen off of domain names by third parties and allow for the allocation be passed grew from the Registrar that could be compared on the registry to authorize the allocation of a domain name but there are so many other use cases that we\u0027ve seen for this so to answer your next question which is it is absolutely stable it\u0027s as simple as you can get I\u0027m just passing a string a token across from the registrar to the registry but where the complexity comes in is what is the form of the token you can have many different use cases on this it could be a string to be a encoded block of XML could be just about anything the point is that you need to be able to pass this information from the registrar to the registry to be able to allocate a tomato thank you any comments or questions from anyone it\u0027s Watson from affiliates would it work for the name that need to be claimed from the king house for the trademark Clearing House it\u0027s actually very similar to the use of the signmark "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:54:54",
    "text": "carrying house for client - you have to show that token Wow you have to show that whatever they returned from the King house to the restaurant right that is a token it has a different purpose though because in the case of like for example the launch phase extension that\u0027s being used as a precondition to be able to register a name in the case of the allocation token it may be something that is being that exists that needs to be allocated based on the use of this token there have been used cases where this extension has been used where a registry operator would pre-authorized the registration of the main name and then had that passed through the channel to authorize the registration so there has a little bit of overlap but I\u0027m not sure if it would be an exact match to being the B\u0027s of a th-th we\u0027re looking to it any other questions or comments No well then thank you James next up on the list is the DNS operator and help set hi so a few months ago we thought we were pretty close to being done on this but a few new things have have come up so we\u0027ve got a few small changes that are gonna be going into the draft jacques letoure ran a panel at the last ICANN meeting on policy impacts of C D s and C DNS key records and they\u0027re there a few outcomes from that that are relevant although they might not have a huge impact on the draft itself generally comments that the policies need to be reviewed to make sure that third-party dns operators are recognized in in the registration ecosystem and and just a general lack of clear model for DNS a DNS SEC information moving around between all parties one thing that did come out of this that\u0027s sort of important though is the the common wisdom of the limitations of who can who can accept or used CD s than CN NS ki or who can accept C D or D s and V NS ki records from registrants the the common wisdom is this is essentially can only be done by the registrar\u0027s but there was a bit of research done into the contracts and it shows that the what it says about registries is they will accept DNS DNS SEC material according to industry practices but not from whom and the the registrar\u0027s contract said they will relay DNS SEC material according to industry practice but it doesn\u0027t make it their exclusive responsibility so this doesn\u0027t have a huge impact on what\u0027s in the draft but it does change who can implement very significantly of course if registries are going to do "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:57:56",
    "text": "this there needs to be a way to push data back down to registrar\u0027s because it\u0027s important for them to be able to see what what their registrants have in in in their delegations so we\u0027re I think we\u0027re interested in seeing any comments on lists if anyone has any definitive information to the contrary about this or general comments about you know what how this might change the way things work in the draft so we had some comments from Mark Elkins suggesting that we adopt some of the things that were used by is see in bootstrapping DNS in there dlv system one thing that looks particularly useful there would be inserting a record in the registries zone that indicates the entry point for the for an API if if registries are going to implement this would help with the scalability a lot so we\u0027re considering different options there something looks particularly promising to me as SRV but of course we need a new call name for that so we have four known implementations at the moment serie has one running as a registry Gandhi is registrar aap Nick is currently using this for reverse zones and there\u0027s a new implementation in see Zed Nix Fred registry which implements both daily C D s and C D and s ki scanning as well as this protocol for for registries that don\u0027t want to do active scans on on all zones all the time so our current plans are to produce a new version of the draft I\u0027m hoping within the next couple of weeks once we sort of sort out among ourselves how the these new changes affect things and we\u0027re hoping really for more comments on the draft and one made some great comments that we need to incorporate but if anyone has any further comments related to what he had to say or anything of their own we would really like to hear it this gym goal from Verisign INRI reviewing the draft recently I recommend adding some type of flow at the top related to authentication authorization mm-hmm because it wasn\u0027t clear you know I looked at it I was like I thought that it was something where the registries were going to start pulling information out of DNS but then the restful calls to be able to go ahead in Ishi eight actions yeah I\u0027m assuming is on the registry side I\u0027m not sure or the registrar so I\u0027m not seeing that I\u0027m not it\u0027s maybe and I haven\u0027t reviewed it in enough detail okay well we see all those we come together we might be able to make that clearer the the intention was that the protocol could be implemented at the registry or the registrar we have a "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:00:57",
    "text": "section in the the most recent version about it I think we\u0027ve we chose a distinct phrase to refer I think was registration agent to and which we defined as being either the registry or the registrar whoever it is who has the closest business relationship which with the registrant and and sort of indicate that that that that\u0027s the place where where this is intended to be implemented and that if that\u0027s the registrar that they would they would be doing all this work and then passing information for example through upp up up to the registry so but we can probably put something in there to make the workflow a little little clearer so uh Jim Calvin let me insert myself into the queue while I\u0027m sitting here but not wearing a hat so Jim Gallagher filius I you know I I appreciate that you folks had done the detailed analysis of contracts and determining you know who is allowed to do something and who\u0027s not from a technical point of view you know all of that is true and I agree with all of that I just since I\u0027ve been the one who\u0027s been pressing on this a lot with with with you folks not you specifically but but Oliver and shock and others just feel compelled to continue to to go on record and point out that part of Industry best practices is the relationship that registrar\u0027s and registries have with each other of course there is a question of documentation on all of this but in principle the standing industry best practices registries don\u0027t tell registrar its what the data should be registrar\u0027s own the data so the idea that a registry would take in these DES records and this key information and then push it back to the registrar is you know not a foregone conclusion and I don\u0027t know if you know any registrar\u0027s in the room want to stand up and speak to this in particular but you know I mean my experience with other stars is no they\u0027re not interested in that at least on the d TLD side but if we can change that that\u0027d be fine yeah and and as an occasional third-party operator and an end user who likes to manage his own data I\u0027m you know I\u0027m perfectly happy within any button to implement this we specifically designed it so it doesn\u0027t it can be implemented sort of at any level of the of the registration and as an individual I mean I I think it\u0027s great vertical I certainly don\u0027t have any issues with it and I I think it\u0027s you know it\u0027s fine piece of work but I am very concerned about the policy side of it so where my registry service provider at I just have to stand on that particular principle yeah yeah this isn\u0027t a thing we intend to incorporate into the draft but it does but it is we\u0027re concerned we are also concerned about the policy implications so we\u0027ve been trying to get the community to discuss that and and see what shakes out right not this community the IQ community well the I see the community in general yes thank you um this is Jodi "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:04:00",
    "text": "from GoDaddy yes speaking as a registrar yeah we\u0027re not comfortable as a registrar having the data changed underneath mm-hmm without the Registrar being in the loop first that\u0027s always been a concern of ours just stating it so the the trailing question since no one else is getting up to the mic obviously over it over to you guys is I guess at this point you\u0027re still doing work and you\u0027re still working the document so you don\u0027t have any immediate plans to suggest that it\u0027s stable and ready to move forward but no we definitely have at least one more version to go and and see where current comments are after that okay all right thank you and next up is the bundling registration document yes please come up to the pink box and my name Chan Khong y\u0027all so I found the registration yeah meeting I\u0027m not sure they\u0027re the counties are according the double D discussions there are three Eponine first let\u0027s treat strict bundling second is a partial open online surveys the responding Cardinal document is most folks on straights paneling this paneling is required most of the restraints share the same a lot of attributes so currently we have ohk dossier on at out room war on a moto g SG and out he W so a lot also a lot of the Chinese Chinese Tod used a soupçon during registration sentiment so we already have a lot of experience here so meeting we may we have some sample proposal we have murder also both partial so has hassle boundary and a strict paneling and less fun in together with a uniform solution but after several discussion we cannot easily get a uniform solution so I see it so carnal peso a tool to push for is use the first days strict the family and another the partial bunny and the surveys good as family and so since this draft art semester is already made sure so and we like to push for forward thank you okay "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:07:04",
    "text": "so just a quick comment on the history this document just to remind the working group with when this document was originally brought forward we actually I guess it was to ITF meetings go so I guess it was Sol we had the bath on DNS bundling and we had decided in this working group we put this document on hold at the time pending what would happen in that particular working group Athena\u0027s bundling so there was an opportunity there for all bundling parts to go into a separate working group so that we had that bath but there was no follow on proposal for a working group so now we\u0027re just putting this document we\u0027re taking this document off of a hold status if you will kind of our own internal designation and putting it on the list it is at the end of our milestone list at the moment so it\u0027s not something which is going to come up here in in the near term but I think I just heard you also say that you\u0027re actually ready to move this forward into making it a work item so should I interpret from that that you would like to see it reordered and the milestone list to come closer towards the top carnival okay no okay all right so all right so it\u0027s still a future work item for the moment okay I don\u0027t think when say something different being from cynic I think because the draft we think is a mercial so I possible we would like to move move forward yes yeah the other remove the the others okay so in front of okay in front of everything that\u0027s there or where you just want to see it move up it\u0027s all right I\u0027m just trying to be specific here for what that is okay for me yeah any other questions or comments about this document or changing its priority then Alex so so the question from Alex is is this important just to CN Nick or is it important to anyone else this particular document and proposal can you yeah come to the microphone please it\u0027s Jack we share from playing for we have employment to this draft in our I sized system and our our chart is Chinese thought since she in English is "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:10:04",
    "text": "information so turn now this we have implement this drug for nearly 1 years is works where ours sister thank you so a quick question I don\u0027t actually recall up and is there an implement implementation status section in the document today no special thing about your nation state her Spada in osg I\u0027m not out he wo da mo all implement has this mechanism so we also have a CDN say table we have all maintained the table for more than 10 years so I Singapore especially useful Chinese Tommy names so I yeah it is okay for us a lot of Chinese Tommy Quixote\u0027s also a lot of the Chinese young names and the second night here and under and the so I asked a Tod so I think at least one action that should come out of this is to collect implement put a particular question on the mailing list you should ask on the mailing list or if you know the answer you can you can just create it but ask for implementation status and gather that up and create that section in the document okay and collect that so that we have that data James guy please and as Jean grew up from Verisign so just to clarify there are three forms of bundles one was Association so we\u0027re gonna go object-oriented here its association was pretty much client specified relationships the next level was aggregation where they\u0027re separate actual instances that may share some by policy some attributes specifically the sponsorship so they\u0027re separate life cycles and that sort of thing and then the last form is composite which is what I believe this draft matches where it\u0027s a share all kind of scenario with enablement and that sort of thing and I just wanted to point out at least and the reason I came up here is that we have a proprietary extension called the related domain extension that supports the Association and the aggregation and we really would not have a need for the composite on a dis draft Ning from scenic base song the RFC three seven four three and the Chinese domain name if one register your preferred Chinese dome name and based on the the Chinese domain name we\u0027re in the table and the registry will then also then do the simplify the domain names and also the traditional version of "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:13:05",
    "text": "Domino so that means all the registries who sell who sell the Chinese domain names most most registries based on the rc3 743 and the domain name register registered can get not only one domain names he will get any group and all the mid names thank you question from the jabber room because antoine is having mic trouble he says so strict bundling is not a uniform solution should it be standards track document or informational we try to beast and track also may try out the standard track yeah so I think at the moment then the the right action we do need to make a decision about how and when to change the milestones I think what I\u0027d like to propose is that we take that to the mailing list that question so that we can allow some other discussion um I\u0027m going to presume right up front that most people probably don\u0027t have that closer look at the milestone list so we\u0027ll construct a question for the mailing list the chairs will construct a question for the mailing list with the dates on the current milestones that are there and give us so the workgroup has all that information right in front of them and then ask the explicitly the question of whether folks want to move this up or what they want to do next after the documents that are in progress okay we\u0027re not going to take on the work item anyway until we discharge a couple of the open ones so we have a little bit of time here to discuss whether it should be next on the list make sense okay that\u0027s it then thank you so next up is the validate draft back over to Roger leet this is actually the last one right oh I you know I I should actually offer just as a as a point of clarification this is an interesting oversight that has carried forward from when this was the EPP extensions working group because this document actually has its origins as part of the original chartering of EPP extensions and coming forward and what\u0027s interesting is in preparation for this meeting you\u0027re their co-chairs discovered an interesting gap in doing an audit on the milestones and that is that while this is a an accepted and adopted document on the list there actually is no milestone for it the milestone is is currently missing which is kind of interesting I have actually spoken to our area director about this so he\u0027s aware of this and then and in recognition of the "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:16:06",
    "text": "fact that this actually did come with us from way back in EPP extensions we\u0027re gonna submit a milestone for this and and he will approve that and allow it to get on the list so that it\u0027s part of what we\u0027re dealing with and we have not actually decided exactly where and the list this will go right now it\u0027s at the end and at the bottom and and we\u0027ll have to figure out exactly where we think it ought to go so if you have any advice about that we\u0027ll sort of take that question to the mailing list but we can we can make all of that happen in the our area directors ready for that I mean I\u0027m betting that no one actually noticed that right anyone here actually notice that besides us and we\u0027re along the way but anyway interesting Roger over to you okay they validate is a mapping to validate contacts into a registry pre transformation command so that you can get a valid set of contacts be it one for whatever\u0027s needed for the registry to be validated before you actually issue the create command that will end up failing because you can create a completely valid contact at a registry but you can\u0027t use it as a registry you can\u0027t use it as an admin specifically so they\u0027ll allow the contact crate to happen and they\u0027ll fail the create domain so this actually tests that prior to a crate so that you can actually get a valid set of contacts going in this document is fairly simple straightforward I think it\u0027s only seven pages with title and index everything so it\u0027s it\u0027s it\u0027s a quick read status is is it\u0027s it\u0027s done it\u0027s been through several comment periods not comment periods but several iterations and right now it just sets in waiting for to get bumped up okay any quick comments or discussion from anyone okay so you consider the document staple and ready to go forward and pending any other any issues that might surface um you\u0027re ready for it to move up on the list yes okay thank you thank you okay that takes us through that and moocs us onto the are def object tag in this case I don\u0027t think I was looking for Scott to say anything here is really just a reminder and I think you probably at this point you know heard everything we\u0027re saying about adoption having talked to our area director folks will remember from the Chicago meeting that when this document came up and it was presented there and we talked about it although there seemed to be in the room it\u0027s time some consensus to adopt this document the area director had pushed back and had asked instead that we really have to get our long list of milestones under "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:19:07",
    "text": "control so one of the things that has happened as you know is we have actually trimmed the set of milestones so now it\u0027s because we actually dropped a couple of documents off along the way here when they\u0027ve been reordered and so and we have actually submitted the launch phase but it hasn\u0027t moved forward on to the is GQ the feed document is just about ready to go too so we\u0027ll get past that but the explicit guidance from our area director is let\u0027s move along the work-in-progress a couple of items that are work in progress and as soon as those are actually on the isg agenda and they\u0027re actually in the publication cycle itself then we can come back and adopt this document and add it to our list and you know pick up some of the other milestones and move it along so it has to remain pending until we close on some of the other items that are there that\u0027s just a procedural point more than anything any comments or questions about that Scott please oh microphone go okay so just one thought there we know fairly well that within a few months we\u0027re going to start seeing our deaf implementation in pilot phases among gTLD registries for those of us who are in the room and who care about this I\u0027d really like you to take a look at this draft if you are going to be implementing support for contacts in our depth this document describes an operational practice for how to tag them in a way that\u0027s consistent with existing practice that\u0027s being done by the our IRS today it will help with the bootstrapping of contact queries if you think that that\u0027s a problem right and if you do take a look at it if you start to implement our DAP and a pilot and you think this is helpful please let me know I would like to keep the document alive and active in terms of adding implementation status information right and indeed once this finally does get adopted there\u0027s not a lot here in terms of controversy or it\u0027s not protocol it\u0027s BCP that\u0027s oh I think once this does get adopted it should move through the queue very quickly good thank you questions or comments from anyone okay then we\u0027re moving towards the end here so okay now Roger you can you can get up and so let me just give a little little preamble we we had the interim meeting last week and actually I I have to say that even from my point of view was really was a very successful meeting and you know riders already indicated he thought it was successful you know certainly interested in and anyone else who was there if you want to speak up and make a comment about it you know the format was essentially that um you know Roger as editor of the fee extension document "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:22:07",
    "text": "you know chaired the meeting moderated the meeting in the discussion and people who had issues and concerns about the document brought them to the table and we talked about them and in an hour we had a very productive meeting and really got to a very good place as as Roger had reported earlier and clearly from the point of view of the success that we had in Chicago in having two sessions one of which was a working session so that we could actually progress documents very directly this really did was a nice complement to that opportunity and it focused on one single document so unless anyone has any objections to whether or not you know we should do this I think that having inter meetings going forward is a good thing now this was kind of an experience even for for your co-chairs to learn how to make all of this happen in and understand all the administrative process that that gets it gets it going we think we\u0027ve got all that under control we have learned one thing along the way that we didn\u0027t know before which for this particular meeting godaddy was kind enough to host it as a zoom meeting and that that worked out for all the participants and no one objected to using that but it turns out you can ask for Miguel you know we can use the IETF sort of standard for doing these things so we can actually make a meet echo request and then have that set up so that we can use that and everybody can be remote and we can have a meeting so that\u0027s just something to keep in mind it\u0027s it\u0027s certainly not a requirement I mean zoom worked out well and I I think that you know just speaking from the point of view of a chair whatever technology works for the participants is fine for the interim meeting it\u0027s just useful to know that that option is available to us we did not try and have two meetings at this particular meeting for you know mostly just you know time constraints part of it is the availability of your your co-chairs in making that happen so but there is the open question here for the working group as to whether you know these I inter meetings are so effective you know do we really need to plan for two meeting requests the IETF tends to want to discourage that unless you can really justify it I think we did a good thing last time and justifying it it helped this working group a lot this working group tends to be a little slow moving a little hard to keep people engaged and active so you know having the two meetings last time really proved that a working session is a good thing I think the interim meeting proved that we can make effective use of those so we don\u0027t have to answer the last question here about whether there\u0027s a demand for a work session now at the next meeting but you know what we really should be thinking in terms of is for these documents that we currently are trying to close on you know the way to make the closure happen is to have an inter meeting and to do this again and you know as co-chair as a one of the chairs I would just appeal to the document "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:25:07",
    "text": "editors to ask for that and explicitly ask on the list and make that happen the only real thing that you have to do is is ask on the list if there\u0027s interest in having a meeting and as long as we know at least two weeks in advance so that at least one week in advance that we can submit all the formal documentation to the IETF for it and get it listed in the in the data tracker as a meeting that occurred then it can happen so you really just need to drive it if you\u0027re a document editor you want to move along a document you really can just drive this just you know make sure that your your chairs are informed and tracking with you because we\u0027ll do the administrative side of working with the Secretariat to get everything together and happen but this is an opportunity for open discussion people have an opinion about inter meetings not having them Roger do you want to say anything more about you started to say before I\u0027ll give you a chance that you ran this meeting and pushed on it and set it up yeah this Roger um I\u0027m not sure I have anything much more to say what I said I it was very useful we had eight or nine people attend and as Jim mentioned we worked through some pretty good items actually a pretty quick pace and that\u0027s why I would still suggest trying to get a face-to-face meeting here that that virtual meeting was nice because we were sort of face-to-face and it seems to work better than emailing and waiting for someone to respond the list works for I think certain things but I think that that the interim meeting or the face-to-face here allows for more in-depth discussions to occur so okay thank you vet but just my takeaway from from that is is you want to leave open the question of a second work session at the next meeting let\u0027s not lose track of that but definitely promoting inter meetings and doing it again so document authors keep that in mind we can move things along okay any other discussion or comments from anyone about inter meetings okay not seeing anyone to meet at kokyu I guess there\u0027s nothing in the jabber so all right so that actually brings us to the end of our agenda this is the opportunity we get to say any other business and we got people lining up the queue Wow Oh scary how quickly people stood up this is my please go ahead it\u0027s got Hollenbeck this is a good thing we\u0027ve got other things to talk about okay so those of you who are at the meeting in Chicago or saw them mean the meeting minutes me recall that I had asked a question about an individual submission internet draft that was written by myself and two of my colleagues it describes a method for doing search in our DAP using regular expressions one of the bit of feet one of the bits of feedback we got was now don\u0027t do base64 URL encoding you can just use standard URL encoding and we investigated that found out that it works just fine so the document was updated to reflect that change however one of the other things I took away from that meeting when I asked for who might be actually interested in using this "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:28:08",
    "text": "pursuing it or whatever there was absolutely no response at all so I don\u0027t want to work on something that people have no interest in and so I just wanted to ask one more time before we kind of let this one die is anyone interested in seeing that particular document move forward babe I am seeing one hand up and I would certainly suggest you know putting that on the mailing list obviously I think you would do that anyway but yeah call it out okay thank you the miserable Lipsky technical center of Internet if anybody is interested in using email address instance in EPP I am I will be glad to discuss it thank you so I\u0027m sorry I didn\u0027t catch the question I know what email address in in what email address and then in terms I\u0027ll see ya Oh is not ask a left part so I would like to discuss it if anybody is interested thank you I\u0027m Arianna Freda from registered IT I would like to present in a couple of minutes an idea about to improve interoperability between our clients and server and I would like to know if in your opinion it\u0027s worth to be developed and presented in a draft the idea is based on the G zone schema concept which is a schema is described in free internet draft of JSON beasts working group and it defines amid the media type application / schema plus Johson ageism based the format for describing the structure JSON data it asserts what\u0027s a JSON document must look like the ways to extract information from it and they are to interact with it this idea is was born from the fact that currently a they adapt api\u0027s are not self descriptive and this is there is a consensus on the web on the that modern REST API this should be self descriptive and current inna ended up there is a no way for the server to provide the formal description of its feature there is a delta and the point but it returns a human readable but not machine precious ball information and such such information can be material "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:31:08",
    "text": "genius the server cannot provide for my information about which adapter query capabilities implement and which subset of the standard response or or which response extensions it returns so the client cannot configure itself according to the server feature and as a consequence the user can waste time to submitting submit request that cannot be accepted because they are not implemented at all or because they are not allowed the core the tool they use the richest level the client must know the feature of all the service int it interacts with if a server changes its feature Disco\u0027s and additional implementation effort by the client implementers so can i ignorant right in a rut i did i want to ask one question though did you have a are you presenting this for information to this working group or did you have an ask of this working group with respect to this i would like to know if this idea is it\u0027s worth to be developed its what to be presented in a draft or it\u0027s a waste of time to to go on this idea okay all right so i apologize for interrupting you sir let me let you finish yes are you done okay um do we have comments or questions on that as opposed to a new item i think the guy behind you there wants to step up and come in so this is an errand so i have a trap it may have expired already on describing the are tab data structures in JC are not json schema and I\u0027ll note that both JCR and Jason schema are not standards or IETF that there are ITF drafts for both of them but the IETF don\u0027t work with both the so as far as trying to put the Jason Jason that are diffuses into a more formal structure or a more formal schema definition I think is an interesting idea obviously since I wrote a draft about it the I do have a problem with the issue of clients somehow understanding either JCR or Jason schema and then adapting their behavior that I mean that idea has been around for a long time the people who did soap and those type of things that\u0027s one of the things they sold us on it I don\u0027t think that\u0027s a good path to go down so when we\u0027re talking about interoperability yes I think it\u0027s a good idea to have a more formal formal definition of what those structures are but if we\u0027re doing that because we think clients are going to somehow change their behavior I think that\u0027s a false expectation so I do want to point out that our DEP currently does have the part up conformance structure in the very top of the response which says here\u0027s what these servers do support so before you sit down a question for you to respond to is there do you think this "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:34:10",
    "text": "is an appropriate forum for this discussion which you suggest that should be visited somewhere else I hope we\u0027re talking about specifically about our tap and not Jason schemes easy yeah no this is probably the appropriate forum if there are interoperability issues with our deaf people writing clients and servers then yeah this is probably the place to do it and if we want to go down this path of trying to write a more formalized schema around it yeah so this would be the place to do it I don\u0027t know what what I don\u0027t know is how many other people are interested in it you have two so far right so so let me ask that question anyone else want to express interest in the topic or have an opinion at this point about it because I think well Scott please go ahead Scott Hollenbeck yeah I\u0027m surely interested in it I mean I see some value to it both Andy and Mario are saying and Andy you might just have been a little bit Heather initially but I do think it\u0027s interesting now that we\u0027ve had two people independently you know kind of come up with the same idea here so I wouldn\u0027t want to just reject this out of hand I think it\u0027s something that is worth discussing so yeah back in into the spirit of the purpose of this working group in in you know again two roles one is also an opportunity for you know people to bring interesting topics and ideas to to an appropriate set of experts let me suggest Mario that actually you should write an internet draft it can be you know an individual submission for right now and then make it visible to this working group and ask for comments and then similarly I\u0027ll look back the nd check on the status of your document and resurrected if necessary and also you know when the two of these come out together make them both visible together and then the working group we can reconsider I mean if you guys both want I\u0027m sure we can make time and our agenda probably at our next meeting and give you an opportunity to talk about that the two documents and we can see what discussion comes from it yeah so I think the challenge is going to be I think the challenge in trying to say we need a formal data definition language to use is finding that right thing to do like I said neither JCR jason schema are our internet standards and so you\u0027re going to have to cross that bridge when you get to it so I think the the the first question ought to be do we need this and then the second question is going to be the harder one which is what do we do then right all right thank you for that so will will make that the primary that do we need this as kind of the primary question that we would examine it at our next meeting if we take presentations put them up there okay next topic but Chris Froome Corps Association I want to bring us back a little bit again into the beginning and into their fees extension and I have a general comment which I think was more appropriate now than when we were discussing the specifics and that is I have noticed "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:37:10",
    "text": "that many of the registries have quite a few differences in the way that they implement the fees extension and especially because of course we also have multiple versions of it then we end up with essentially more or less every registry implementing as if they\u0027re implementing a separate extension and a lot of the time does it make sense some registers for example they they don\u0027t even have currency they just put xxx instead of the currency and expect you to send exit sets I don\u0027t know what we can do or if anything or if we suggest the registrar\u0027s should bother the registries to actually comply with the extension or if I don\u0027t know what can be done to ensure that the adoption of this extension is uniform between the registries in the same way because otherwise does it actually make sense to have this I mean just something that we should consider so I\u0027ll offer two comments you know on the one hand one of the reasons for the extension is because there are different implementations of the way people do it so you know and those of us who are here or trying to pay attention to that and that\u0027s a good thing and the other thing is you\u0027re right currently even those who have implemented this extension because it\u0027s gone through a couple of iterations we are at different places in that cycle but I fully expect that for those of us who have implemented it and you know speaking partly for myself but I\u0027m I\u0027m fairly certainly not speaking out of turn by suggesting that even Verisign plans to implement the latest stable version once we we get to that point will certainly upgrade and and be in that place you know protocol adoption in generally ITF I can make the standard kind of response to that you know people do things because they\u0027re good and they work for them right there\u0027s there\u0027s no enforcement mechanism for IETF standards but hopefully we have you know the significant people here and people will see the value and they\u0027ll want to adopt it so I you know I don\u0027t think we can take on the responsibility of promoting adoption although that\u0027s kind of implicit and having the right people in the room who are developing the standard but they may change so do yes Jim go from Verisign I was going to come on this one the night a separate topic but I would say it\u0027s better to have these graphs otherwise I didn\u0027t have custom extensions that the Registry\u0027s will implement in five different ways so that\u0027s a positive but I do agree with you that there are complexities with the registries following what the intent of the graph is so and even implementing the version that we implemented which was the O six prior to the working group taking it we had saw I saw some issues in that and we had to make decisions on our own to get to work and that\u0027s what fed in with some of the feedback I\u0027m not sure how you can ensure it that\u0027s I guess there\u0027s not a yeah no Scott Hollenbeck and no internet police hat off but actually "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:40:10",
    "text": "there is something we can do move the document forward get it published as an RFC and then implementers drive towards implementing the RFC yeah good point thank you for that very important yes I agree with that yes and I mean in general we\u0027re all gathering here or a lot of us might be gathering at the ICANN meetings we should take that opportunity to kind of bring this up and push for it for people to to take it to where it actually is now and not where it was a year ago thank you this Roger and and yeah I mean when we finalized this draft we will be suggesting to our partners to implement the current draft we do not want to support multiple versions of this draft for some time I\u0027m sure we will have a few versions that we run but we will be getting rid of those so we will be suggesting for with our partners to move forward on this and in the ICANN world there is a tech ops group that\u0027s part of the Registrar stakeholders group and they brought this topic up independent a month or so ago about feet and they didn\u0027t know that this was being worked some of them did not know this was being worked here so we have pushed back to that group that this is in the works and it\u0027s close to being done so from the Registrar standpoint that is being evangelized if through the ICANN world as well great thank you any other comments on the P extension yeah one more uh Jody call her Go Daddy all I\u0027m gonna do is put in a plug for tech ops join the group join the discussion that\u0027s how we can push it forward well so it is an open list anybody can join be speaking to the mic please that\u0027s a good question I\u0027m pretty sure registrar\u0027s can join it\u0027s a it\u0027s a group off from the Registrar stakeholders group so I\u0027m sure that any registrar can join but I\u0027d have to look at that to make sure yeah and so let me suggest if you wouldn\u0027t mind you know explicitly figure that out and and send a note to the mailing list and make it visible to everyone who\u0027s on the list whatever constraints are there you know say that too but I\u0027ll point it out of subscribe and such and about the list good point okay new topic back to Jamison yeah this was brought up at the last ITF and is around file formats specifically around the data escrow address that are out there that are being implemented by a lot of folks if I had pretty much beat this group the other is the the bulk file format draft that I\u0027ve created I have not proposed to bring that forward yet but my hope is that once we hit get experience with it to then bring it forward I guess the question was I could not remember where we left it on the file format grass and whether or "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:43:10",
    "text": "not that\u0027s in scope or otoscope for this working group well unfortunately part of what happened in that is I will admit to having dropped the ball and one particular key issue is we had a transition of area directors in in March and and in that transition although I had on my list of things to talk to our prior Area Director about it I had not talked to our new Area Director about the fact that those documents this is probably the best place for those documents to exist they\u0027re not really strictly EPP or or our Dapp so you know we need to have that negotiation with our Area Director and you know obviously the is she has to weigh in on whether they think something belongs in this group or not in that sense because they\u0027re strictly speaking a little out of scope but on the other the kind of in scope for the concept of what we\u0027re doing here it makes emotions what\u0027s the next step so we have brows out there I think the data escrow wants been out there for years it\u0027s been implemented by many people the goal from the authors is to move those four yeah and we\u0027re trying to find a place for those to go so there\u0027s two next steps one is now thank you for raising that again I need to have a discussion with with Adam here about the where these documents fit and tell him what they are and what\u0027s going on and and see what he wants to do about that but under the assumption that so I either either will move forward with bringing them into this group which will then bump up against the can\u0027t do anything until other things go out the door or he will say okay he understands he wants to do something else with them then he\u0027ll take them on board but I\u0027ll have that discussion with him and then we\u0027ll send a note to the list and let everybody know what that\u0027s gonna go so yeah thank you for that so Annie didn\u0027t air and so I just want to I just want to say that I do think this is the right place for that what he his his document and I read it it talks about is a similar problem to but we commonly see as bulk who is and there are formats for that as well which kind of bumps up against the our tap stuff right I think it\u0027s a slightly different problem but I think this is the place to make sure that we don\u0027t complete the two things right so and and you know having said all of that and is our area director is actually listening here anyone else want to comment for or against this working group adopting these documents hopefully people will remember the document since we\u0027ve talked about them in the past and and I\u0027m not seeing a lot of nodding heads but at least a couple of the principles have had made a comment so all right so all right Adam you want to come in our esteemed area director Adam Roach no but I wanted to bring up was I mean probably a two powers forward we\u0027ll be changing the Charter and putting in here or ad sponsoring it and what would make the difference between those two is really how many working group participants are likely to actually work on them if we can get broader review by putting it in here then I think I\u0027d like to go down that path if it\u0027s just really going to be you know the one or two people who "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:46:11",
    "text": "are working on it already we probably can go ahead and ad sponsored I definitely prefer the first if we could get enough interest though so I want I mean people just want to like raise a hand and say yes we\u0027ll work on this that would be helpful or you can take that on a list either way but that would be a useful input to making that decision so let\u0027s do a quick little hum my guess is the way to do this people want to hum and indicate their support for this this document in general and moving it forward so I\u0027ll do - hums one those in favor and and hum for those opposed so those in paper oh wait Roger did you want to come in can we have a different come on the document that we\u0027re trying to discuss and again I\u0027d liked it to go to the mailing list because I know I\u0027ve read it I can\u0027t say that I\u0027m familiar with it today so fair enough maybe maybe I shouldn\u0027t go fall we should do it on the mailing list because we\u0027re resurrecting discussions that happen some number of months ago and not everyone\u0027s gonna have it in top of their mind can i clarify the request yes the first week questions whether that file format drafts are in scope for this working group that\u0027s number one and then if there were hum it would be under the data escrow drafts which has been implemented I have many many folks I\u0027m not sure about in this room but right there are a couple of file format documents there\u0027s the data escrow stuff and there\u0027s the pricing stuff so there\u0027s actually two of those and then there\u0027s a separate bulk access document right or that\u0027s what you meant by data escrow that\u0027s what you meant oh so there are three separate things to worry about here yeah yeah there are two drafts for data escrow and then there\u0027s one for bulk file format okay and then GoDaddy had another one for pricey yeah for the file formats or pricing doc is there is there another one no unavailable me okay this way it\u0027s it\u0027s a different classification of work yes so when that that\u0027s in scope or not yes thank you okay any other business Francisco yeah Francisco is I can speaking of reviving drops there is a draft on the team series the icon teams here specification the interface was originally or some point was in the in the Charter and was dropped at some point by lack of priority or something like that I\u0027m actually not clear on why was drop and I was wondering if there is a pat what is the path to reviving this there the reason why that document was dropped was because the idæan matching rules were unacceptable and they there\u0027s just "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:49:12",
    "text": "inconsistency on the on the IQ inside about that so from my point of view it\u0027s it was Patrick hallström you know Patrick okay who is the principal objector and you know there are just so few people who are experts on that space and dealing with this issue if you go back and you look in the archives and find the messages Patrick was very clear about his issues and until those issues are resolved you know we really can\u0027t move the document forward and I realized that that sounds like we have one person blocking a document but you know they\u0027re just he\u0027s an expert if anyone else wants to stand up and be one you\u0027ve got to have that discussion with Patrick and resolve it so Francisco genious so I think that conversation already happened months ago and as far as I understand the issue was clarified I think was more of a miscommunication between the the outdoors and the an Patrick and my understanding is that issue was solved and clear but then maybe there was some step that was not taken to revive this document in the in the working group so thank you for that I mean I can only say that from from my point of view and and you know speaking on behalf mantle on his co-chairs I mean we as far as we know it was delegated back to - to Patrick and it\u0027s Gustavo right yeah - to resolve if it has actually been resolved we were not aware of that so you just need to bring that information forward on to the mailing list and then then we can take it from there and and of course now since that document was actually dropped off our milestone list it now bumps up against the in order to move it forward we have to finish what we\u0027re doing and then we get to add it back in and make it happen okay so Thank You Frances crane so just just serve to see if I understand so next step would be for Gustavo to go to the mini list and explain what was they what was done and to clarify that this is salt so that and requests adoption of the document yeah I mean to be a strict point of process thing I guess he has to he has to send in a revised document with whatever changes came out of that and um I guess it\u0027s still he was a regex working I don\u0027t think it was left as an individual submission right it actually had been been renamed so he can revise the document and so it becomes active again but they\u0027ll have to ask for the working group to to reconsider the issues he should respond to the original note from Patrick about what the issues were and then he\u0027ll have to even though it\u0027s gonna be named as working group as if it was a working of document we\u0027re still gonna have to go through a working group adoption process for it just to be fair okay and I saw Antwon pop up there although and I\u0027m wondering is he trying to type anything in jabber by any chance or as a comment okay I "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:52:13",
    "text": "don\u0027t know if The Voice works or not you want to try and speak Antwon is your mic working now well I have your comment from the reality you\u0027re really quite muffled it\u0027s a little hard to hear you so yeah let\u0027s read it though the comment own from Antwon the TM CH document was also rejected it\u0027s only describing and I can process and not a general process okay thank you for that that\u0027s a that\u0027s a status question but we can yeah we\u0027ll need to keep that in mind too so did you get that Francisco if you want to comment on that and make that do you want to make a pitch for something different than print Gustavo will need to say that too and he brings the document back up okay any other business questions coming from anyone we are the blue sheets just hold them up please it would be nice if not only would you hold them up so I can see them if you could bring them to the front of the room here and I appreciate that and I guess there should be two of them I only see one the other one go look around you on your floor folks somebody\u0027s got it I don\u0027t want him to get lost oh there we go all right we got in bolt so alright that\u0027s it thank you very much everyone we\u0027re adjourned yes and a special you "
  }
]