[
  {
    "startTime": "00:00:04",
    "text": "foreign can you hear me yes we can hear you so how are you all going yeah Melissa it was a it's a it's a day off for you so you're doing extra time indeed indeed so I feel very bad internet connection so I hopefully it will work well I'm I'm just littering on my Cellular Connection so because I'm away in a remote place so hopefully I won't share my video but hopefully the the audio will be working just fine okay we don't want yeah you're probably in a better place than we are so Logan I'll let you start so first of all thank you all for making the time for this interim meeting I'm going to share my screen so first off is um um I don't see people on our call so we maybe wait for him for one more minute oh it didn't it didn't mention he's going to attend so oh I understand so uh next uh so the first item on the agenda is revoke token"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:02:00",
    "text": "notification so hi this is Marco yeah just a few words um I confirmed since itf116 we added a submission addressing the reviews from the working group last call and we'll reply to those on the mailing list so from the author's point of view we think uh we are down for now and the next step should be the shepherd review and write up as in the slide no no I'm talking Korean can you hear me I can hear you yes okay so um next is website profile I can say a few words uh almost two uh yeah there was a private exchange between the chairs and the authors seek them mostly don't have time to to check on this uh yet I I've had a full reading on the whole draft and with sigdan we are going to have later in May uh first discussions some outstanding open points in the meanwhile I'll do my best to start already addressing uncontroversial editorial points on the GitHub uh but yeah probably will have more um in terms of progress already the next interim depends a lot on Signal foreign"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:04:06",
    "text": "did you hear my question no I didn't get the talking no thing is when is sick damn going to resume I think in the second half of May so that's where we're planning to have a first uh yeah discussion about authors uh any other question about website profile the next item is OS called GM admin so yeah that's me again of the last one um I started to work on the split um so I created on the um Ace GitHub organization in your repo for this document with the agree title uh it used to be just a skeleton until a few days ago I've been feeling it with content I I pull back from the main draft uh as soon as I have something complete I'll start publishing at the main draft actually taking away Coral content from them until we have both documents ready for a resubmission and gmn and GM admin core would be a version zero of course so it's mostly work in progress um on the split on the GitHub thank you again Moco as usual so on the co-op EST Osco I believe that we have a"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:06:03",
    "text": "size ready so I'm just going to load them can you guys yeah so can you switch uh when I when I give you the signal to go next slide could you okay sure no worries yeah so hi uh this is malicious speaking so I'll present the update to the EST or Score draft which was recently adopted uh in Ace next slide please yeah so there was a call and option uh called for adoption on the list uh which ended on 19th of April the draft was adopted as a working group document uh in the meantime we received a review from uh from Marco on 29th of April oh uh so I would just like to take the opportunity to thank Marco for this review uh really a million thanks Marco uh I've already went ahead and fixed non-controversial points the points I deemed as non-controversial uh and they are fixed in this pull request that is open on the in GitHub uh I will go ahead after this meeting and respond to Marco's email uh with point to point uh replies to the to these points which were fixed uh and the goal of my today's presentation is to discuss the remaining comments from Marco uh that uh when that were a little more that require a little more discussion than uh than usual so"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:08:00",
    "text": "next slide please foreign so first comment is uh is uh here I mean the the outline of the next slides will be the italic words represent the Marcos quote then I give some context and then the proposed action at the very end so the first comment is regarding the uh the message flow which uh which uh which is implied in the draft to be uh to be a forward message flow uh in in respect to the roles of ad hoc peers and the ESD uh protocol uh uh client and roles so the implied uh the implied uh flow is that the EST client is currently the ad hoc initiator and this is implicitly assumed throughout the draft uh but there is no explicit mention of it whatsoever so Marco brought up a question whether a reverse flow where the EST client plays the role of the ad hoc responder can be ruled out and I think that we can safely rule out I don't see a use case for that role unless someone uh is can bring it up so I my proposed action here would be to explicitly specify in Section 3 which is the sectional authentication that the ESD client must play the role of the ad hoc initiator unless there are any objections to this I hear no objections so okay I I hear I a note approval from euron in the in the chat so I suppose this can be uh"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:10:00",
    "text": "yes so okay so the proposed action let's keep it as uh is here uh next slide please yes so the Marcos comment number two is on section one where we state that uh we also support pre-shared Oscar King material and uh apart from uh supporting the exchange the Adcock exchange for authentication and uh Marco is asking whether in such a case Channel binding is simply not achievable or it's uh or it is somehow possible as long the escort King material was established through some sort of interactive protocol so to to respond to this I would like to give context while while we use Channel binding in the first place and uh we are uh mimicking what EST Co-op s uh is doing in terms of uh making Channel binding optional in order to counter which they do in order to counter the triple Shake attack on TLS 1.2 and uh since we are not using TLS 1.2 you might you might wonder what why are we are doing this and uh we are uh specif we are men we are having optional uh Channel binding in order to counter any future attacks so essentially for future proofing the protocol in uh and to have a possibility of linking the ad hoc session to the uh to the uh ESD Exchange now the question is what if Oscar security context is pre-shared and ad hoc was not executed prior to the enrollment uh we the my proposed action would be"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:12:01",
    "text": "simply to specify that ad hoc exporter-based Channel binding is applicable only to cases when ad hoc is executed so essentially just a notorial note uh in the draft that we support this and that we do not support it for cases uh when pre-shared Oscar context is used uh I unless there is any objection to this um yes um one thing I didn't get is why we have to specify TLS 1.3 uh 1.2 and and another one three so no this is in a in EST core pass draft no not in our draft okay okay right so so it's not related I was I was saying that EST Co-op s which is uh RFC 9148 if I'm not mistaken specifies optional Channel binding to counter this triple Shake attack on TLS 1.2 and they also go ahead and specify the TLs using the TLs exporter interface for for TLS 1.3 so that they cover both cases oh the origin but uh from what I understood from that draft is that this uh requirement on having optional support for channel binding comes from uh from the need uh came from the need to counter the triple Shake attack which is a specific attack on TLS 1.2 but they they kept it also uh and as they discussed in the security considerations for TLS 1.3 so are there any comments on on this I have a comment yes yes um during the loss ITF there was a discussion about TLS 1.2 and I record"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:14:01",
    "text": "um during a discussion but around duplicating TS 1.2 at least leaving it frozen and one of the issues were mentioned by I think one of the guys from Google or YouTube please correct me if I'm wrong is that TLS 1.2 will be around for a long time due to the large number of embeddable devices was will not be upgradable for a while so I think this is really bad here I mean I mean it makes sense nice oh okay so just to make sure uh so we are not using TLS 1.2 so this was just making a parallel with RFC 9148 we are using in this draft in EST Oscar draft we are using ad hoc to achieve authentication ad hoc is another protocol which is being standardized in ITF Lake another working group of the ITF and uh but we are still using we in this draft we have a mechanism similar to TLS 1.3's uh exporter interface to achieve Channel binding I said understood thank you very much for clarification okay yeah thanks okay so if there are no other comments on this uh slide I propose we keep the proposed action uh I did not uh there is a question by Marco Marco maybe you can so uh uh maybe you can jump in on uh is it somehow possible as long as the Oscar King material was established through some sort of interactive protocol we do not uh we do not detail this in the draft so I don't think it's really relevant to specify Channel binding for something that is not detailed in the draft do you do you agree with this or yeah I"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:16:02",
    "text": "agree for sure it's good to say that if you have pretty sure material you just don't have it I think you can just live silently open for possibly achieving that if you establish the material in a way different than the network yeah that's fine okay all right okay then next slide please foreign yes so this is a Marco's comment on uh using uh in scenarios where using message four uh wouldn't wouldn't it make sense to have the pkcs 10 request and response transported in ead3 and ead4 item respectively so I uh I just want to clarify here that uh EST payloads are currently carried in Oscar protected messages so they are not carrying within the external authorization data fields of ad hoc and this is specifically for the reason to be homogeneous with respect to the re-enrollment and not require ad hoc so essentially when we do the first enrollment we want to do it with Oscar and not with ad hoc not with EAD uh fields in order to be homogeneous when we do a re-enrollment that we do not require ad hoc in the first place so uh my assessment so this is uh is is it is detailed here on this slide is that carrying a request and response in the EAD items would complicate the protocol as the flow would no longer be homogeneous and uh I propose to take no action on this comment unless there is some discussion and some compelling argument that I'm not aware of yeah Marco here I think the option is good honestly I missed the re-enrollment"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:18:02",
    "text": "um option document I don't I don't know if it's there already so maybe it makes sense actually to say that um that path is intentionally um excluding or not considering the interest of of a better alignment that you have instead if you considered the combined Adult School request because in that case the EST messages in all effects and all score Co-op message uh yes but I wasn't sure when message 4 is used can we still use combined Oscar uh no you can't you can't in that case but I'm saying it it's good to rule out EAD items then uh I I think there's value in stating that explicitly okay okay so in the interest of alignment with re-enrollment tool and what you keep instead including the possible optimization with the combined request is aligned so it makes sense also in the interest of the enrollment okay so I also note in the draft a comment by yoran uh carrying EST in oscot is also another analogous to RFC 9148 where the EST messages are not sent in the handshake so what I gather here is that we should clarify uh essentially uh for the optimization I'll sync up with Marco for for uh for exact action to take on the mailing list do we have any yes just thank you okay all right uh next slide please so so um uh yes action is going to be taken on this for more like clarification yes so more clarification and I will detail this we will discuss this on the mailing list uh in the in my response to on the mailing list"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:20:00",
    "text": "understand so this this one is straightforward uh so in terms of the proposed action the comment is on uh per section uh Marcus comment is per section 9 of RFC 8613 which is the Oscar uh RFC the osc attribute is optionally included in a link to specify that the resource has to be accessed with our score should it remain optional here too and then Marco goes on and gives a compelling example where we support both the Oscar and dtls that accessing a resource with uh when we are accessing a resource uh and over dtls and we are it may signal to the device that we are essentially using ESD Co-op s and we are not instead of ESD oscore and uh I think the proposed action here is really to mandate the osc attribute in links to SD resources in order to to uh to signal that we are using the STL score so I'll give a minute if anyone everyone wants to comment so this is plus one uh from there is plus one from your run in the track so I note that anybody else yeah I support the proposed action it's better than the alternative one that I hope was not considered in fact oh yes I I forgot to mention yeah the alternative would be to define a new uh"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:22:01",
    "text": "new set of esdr score resource type values I think it makes sense also this direction thanks record I pronounce my name correctly right it's right code yeah Ricard I mean it's you're close enough I think yeah record yeah okay so I propose we move on to the next slide then foreign so the next slide is related to server-side generation of keys and Marcos commented regards the response from SKC resource which is uh and he's asking is it possible to deviate from what is defined in 1948 and not encrypted the private key after all end-to-end encryption of the whole EST payload is insured by your score uh and then if yes that might open for a new content format pair an unencrypted PK cs8 private key together with a single certificate so just to give context here uh in our draft contrary to to EST Coopers [Laughter] can you repeat the last sentence because I think you drop for two seconds okay can you can you hear me now yeah yeah but you disappeared for a moment okay sorry about that it's my connection probably so I I would so please repeat what you were saying yes so I was saying about the Marcos comment uh I was"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:24:01",
    "text": "reading out the Marcos comment and uh that is uh is it possible to deviate from what is defined in RFC 9148 and not encrypt the private key after all end-to-end encryption of the whole EST payload is insured by your score and just to give context on this in our draft contrary to to EST Co-op s where register May terminate the dtls connection Oscar protection is end-to-end between the EST client and the ESD server so this indeed allows the private key to be returned as unencrypted PK cs8 because the key will later be encrypted by your score but we are not specifying we are not uh mentioning this in the draft draft and my assessment is that we can safely specify this uh in the draft and use the new the proposal by Mark on the content format pair hello so is there any objection to this uh to this proposed action okay I hear none there is a plus one for uh by Carson thanks Carlton so I propose we move on to the next slide so these these two comments are really straightforward so the comment is uh on uh content formats mimicking an RFC 9148"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:26:04",
    "text": "which we uh which we uh indeed intend to do but we did not explicitly State and uh the proposed action is uh really to just explicitly make a statement on the content format support uh as in RFC 9148 so this should be non-controversial and to add a table similar to RFC 9148 table 3 uh in our draft in order to summarize uh the supported content formats is there any objection to this I note good from Carson so that's uh thanks Carston Garena as well yes so so I propose we keep this okay and record okay so we have good support from this okay so next slide please so this is there is a list of uh requirements in section 4.4 which is currently uh preceded by it is recommended that which makes these requirements optional uh uh however isn't it a must for at least the co-op options Oscar and Yuri part and I give a screenshot of the proposed action where uh essentially I am uh proposing to replace the recommended with required in order to mandate the support for these uh set of requirements"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:28:00",
    "text": "that are listed here so the first one is that the EST Oscar endpoints must support delayed responses the second one is that the endpoints must support uh the following Co-op options which is oscorruption so the which is natural because we are using Oscar to practice URI host your iPad URI Port content format block one and block 2 and accept uh and the third one is that uh the EST URLs based on https are translated to co-op but with the mandatory use of the Coopers corruption so uh the action here is only is to change from a recommended to required so I would like to hear if there are any uh voices against this against making this change so oh you're on here can you hear me yes so I'm I'm a little bit curious why do we need to mandate this or what does it what is the impact here I understand that you have to have an old score option because you're using of oscore so that's clear but a new right path of course if you need to identify which of the um which of the different enrollment operations that that's going to be used but what what why do we need to go into this detail of mandating options so okay so it could be so one one response I can make is that this so there was a comment on this specific section that was recommended before so"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:30:00",
    "text": "that it was optional so now the question is whether what should we do with it and whether we should mention uh I guess your comment is whether we should be mentioning this at all yeah I I think I lost um I think I never understood the context here from our from RC in 9148 so but maybe someone else has a better view of why this is needed or not I I need to think more about it yeah I think the the problem is that statements like this can be misinterpreted as overriding the statements in the normative references and that that problem is understood as the restatement anti pattern because it makes implementers believe the the requirements are actually in the referencing a document and not in the reference document and you need to be very very careful when you restate uh things that that are in other standards that you qualify this restatement as a note or something that that is a logical consequence of what's already there as opposed to a new statement that overrides existing statements so by making all of these requirements turning all of these into requirements you evade this little problem because you are not giving the the implementer leeway in in misinterpreting this as a relaxing uh the details from the reference reference standards but generally I would hope that when we do restatements we are"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:32:02",
    "text": "always very explicit about them being consequences or summaries or nodes as opposed to just saying something as if it were a new statement that replaces existing statements when you say existing are we are referring to RFC 9148 or some other well if you want to use Oscar then you need to support the Oscar option okay if you want to to use host names you need to support the URL host options um right so this this is all just summary information and um information that that I think is actually useful for as the checklist for an implementer so I would leave it in in every case um but it should not be uh stated as a new requirement it should be something that that is identified as something that uh simply is required by nature and not required by uh Fiat here in in this particular statement so it's more of the kind that note that this specification is using the following Co-op options which therefore must be implemented if you're going to use them is that that the message that's how I read this and and I hope I get some some support from the people who actually wrote this because I might be misunderstanding it too so I believe you're reading it correctly Carson and the action I hear now is to summarize this without a requirement even though you uh you mentioned the keyword must but without making a normative statement here on that we that we need to support these options that it's just a natural consequence of having support support for us essentially"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:34:01",
    "text": "so adding note that at the start of the first sentence and down casing the required would make sure that this is not misunderstood as a new requirement keeping it up case is a little bit wrong but not really touching here okay that makes sense to me uh do we have any other comments on this I just typed the corresponding uh well there are there are a couple of sentences in the corresponding section which is also section four yeah section four four sorry um I don't see any normative language there oh in RFC 9148 yeah okay so this is a Remnant then from the previous version of the draft which I think we can fix by uh evading any requirement keywords any normative keywords you know okay sounds good okay so let's write down in the minutes that uh the action here is to evade to uh rephrase this to uh not to use any normative language and to precede the sentence with note that sentence [Music] okay and therefore yes uh next slide please so the next slide is on uh us uh on a sentence that uh I quote here the EST"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:36:00",
    "text": "URLs based on https are translated to co-op but with mandatory use of the co-op Oscar option and the comment is that the scheme Co-op is the translation Target only if dtls is not additionally used so uh the proposed my proposed action here is to explicitly mention that if dtls is used the scheme is Co-op s and I hope I'm not misunderstanding something here Marco maybe you could comment as you said it's most a special case when you use both all square and dtls use those scroll the uh the translation is into Co-op okay and it's correct to state that if dtls is used the translation scheme is Coopers right okay okay so it's a minor uh so it's a small fix to make okay okay unless there are uh other comments on this slide I propose we move on to the next okay so this is actually uh related to the the to the discussion we just had on a normative statement in section 4.4 I I believe and Marco's comment is that uh he quotes this specification Manda is the implementation of Co-op option block one and block two fragmentation mechanism uh which contradicted the text where Co-op option block 1 and block 2 is only recommended so I had a mandate block as a proposed action on this slide was to mandate block one and block two in section 4.4 s per slide number nine which is the"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:38:00",
    "text": "discussion we just had but since we agreed on having uh just in informational text in that section uh we should uh probably restate this to support also to to some inform inform informative language uh I don't know I don't see a better uh resolution at this point maybe I would need to think a little bit about more unless there are new comments so Mark was saying that it sounds good so just to make sure the proposed action is to rephrase this to inform informational text informational note instead of mandating anything uh as it is uh because this is just a reference to the section 4 4.4 anybody else this is not what your slides are saying no so no [Music] so we we do not want to make we as part of the discussion we just had cartoon on slide number nine or we don't want to mandate anything on block one and block two in section point four so my proposed action uh this is not the proposed action I'm proposing in here it's just to uh informatively summarize that uh uh that it's a logical consequence of the draft that these options need to be implemented okay and what will be the effect of interability so but I mean uh so block one and block two uh special regarding block one and"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:40:01",
    "text": "block two or yes so are you saying that we should mandate them or I don't know how in terms of time yes I I don't have a strong opinion on this yet I just think that if you single these out to be optional then essentially you are creating an interability problem when uh you are you happen to hit a link that that has problems with large packets so I'm just trying to understand what the rationale behind that is yeah I think I think this was a good discussion because first we had the more principal discussion about what to mandate uh whether we should mandate any Co-op options and now we have a specific example of where it might be useful but I I'm thinking like this so uh we're doing certificate enrollment so if there is a certificate coming back we probably have a problem with fragmentation and then again do we have options when there is not a certificate coming back I'm thinking loud now so do we have a case where you get back just a reference rather than a certificate because in that case you may not need to implement any fragmentation scheme because you don't have the sizes and and when you need as we said you you implement URI host because you need to send the main names or the the well there is some obvious need for for the certain options so I don't have a strong conclusion here I'm just noting that either we could rely on on that that we will state somewhere that these are the options that are being used in section 4-4 we"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:42:02",
    "text": "state that block one block two are being used um and and then you need to implement those if you're if you're if you hit if you have large sites and payload sizes yes but the problem is that on client side we cannot know what will be returned as a certificate right whether this will be a reference or the whole certificate even though we support the reference to it so so that what are you for mandating Block 2 right look through support I should say because you don't have to use it in every single packet okay so let's let's are there any other comments on this I think we need to think a little bit more about content of section four four um it's just a good discussion and let's and uh yeah that I mean that what whatever we state in section four four weeks will be repeated here I suppose yes yes okay yes I agree with current okay okay so should we move on yes yeah so the question is in in RFC 9148 I'm trying to look now are they mandating support for clockwise they're saying the co-op options used are block one and block two but I don't see uh as you as you said but I don't see a normative that team uh no indeed"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:44:03",
    "text": "there is EST core best servers must Implement block 1 and block two EST Co-op s clients must Implement block 2. yeah that sounds like a good yep requirement and then there is a statement that ESD Co-op as clients must Implement block 1 only if they're expecting to send qua pest requests with the packet size that exceeds the path MTU well that's a weird way about yeah I mean you you do have IP fragmentation so you you do have a way out um but yeah well you probably shouldn't use it um and you may want to start using blockwise way before you reach your path MDU okay so essentially you agree with the normative text but you find it weird how it is uh described the Russian other behind I I think we could write a textbook that that qualifies that last sentence some or maybe we don't want to do that and and it's definitely definitely a boundary that is not wrong um so maybe uh we shouldn't change that okay so we keep the uh normative uh requirements from uh RFC 9148 essentially that would uh yeah the penultimate paragraph of 4.6 right uh yes yes 1.6 yes and maybe we should look through the document for the other Co-op options if there is anything similar I don't think there is but just it seems that this this point have been not mapped directly"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:46:03",
    "text": "we should make sure that we map map in a good way from from rpc9 to 148. okay so let's take I will take an action item to do that so let's just write it down in the minutes foreign I believe we can move on to the next slide unless there are other comments here yes so this is uh this is I believe the last comment that I outlined in this presentation here uh uh and the comment is in on Section Five uh where there is a secure association between the SD client and the co-op to HTTP proxy uh and Marco is stating that this may alternatively and more conveniently rely on Oscar as well and he's referencing uh an individual draft uh the local code Oscar capable proxies so so my proposed action would be to informatively reference this draft as a way to establish a secure association between the ESD client and the co-op to HTTP proxy but not to mandate anything essentially it's just as a way architecturally how this could work so about the figure there is an HTTP and in parenthesis TLS maybe the figure should be adapted as well uh okay yes oh wait oh sorry what figure is is this figure this is figure two oh"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:48:00",
    "text": "right so so this figure is is pointing at uh that you may use TLS and dtls and what yeah so the hope I hope might be using transport layer securely but what Mark was saying here is that the hope I hope might use oscore and then maybe we should also either I mean maybe we should take out TLS and dtls from the figure and explain that part in the text yeah I was talking specifically of the leg between client and proxy in fact that's where you gain conveniency especially from the client point of view uh you may want to reapply that again also between the proxy and the server but I expect that to be less considered yeah so yeah I think you're right so so maybe maybe the most interesting part is the dtls they're taking out the detail-less parenthesis and explain in the draft that it could be either dtls or maybe you just want to say secure instead of DTS yeah explain that in the text yes something like that all right so this is the case where we are not using end-to-end or score but the point here is that it is end-to-end oscore oh okay the question is do you have what kind of protection do you have between co-op with between client and proxy or approxen sir okay got it and it comes from the fact that you explicitly want the proxy to identify the client and secure interact with it that's why you need something like dtls"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:50:01",
    "text": "but o score can be more convenient in the interest of code reuse for example because the client manager support or score only yeah thanks okay so the proposed action here is to explicit to add a paragraph in the text on essentially on this issue that we can use both dtls and oscore am I summarizing this well yeah I either yeah of course if you could use both as well yes okay all right I think I believe that is the last slide so um Melissa when do you think you can update um the draft so I already have a pull request in place for other comments that were not discussed here the church is just fixes I will respond to the mailing list and I I believe I can update I can release a new version of the draft by mid next week understand yes so if anything else I'll move to the last one"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:52:16",
    "text": "server lost item on the agenda is Osco profile so I don't have any update on the profile I I have so I don't know if anyone else of the authors have done anything but there is some planned updates which we didn't manage to do in time for this um for this interim what I've been working with is the shepherd write-up on the revoked token so that's the second point on the agenda but that's not finished either but I expect that to be finished first and then come back with the Costco profile for for the next meeting or for the next ITF meeting depending on how much we can progress it okay so um thank you very much is anything we missed before we closed this session I missed that at the beginning who's the shepherd for the revocation I am you're on okay thank you uh Daniel anything you want to add before so no um so um so I guess the the shepherd um we can expect to have it in the in the in the two next week am I correct"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:54:03",
    "text": "uh yeah I'm working on it now I hope to be ready soon but that's all I can say right now but yes I think it should can the chairs Mark that in the data trigger I think it's smart no good okay good let me look it up again didn't find it this morning oh no no then it's not because uh I had the impression I updated that but uh that was not this morning okay yeah we will work on it oh because my session yeah thank you Logan thank you very much thank you all for your time see you at the next interviewing meeting thank you thank you bye-bye thank you bye-bye all right"
  }
]
