[
  {
    "startTime": "00:00:38",
    "text": "okay now we\u0027re on welcome to tease first of two sessions I\u0027m blue Berger it\u0027s blonde biram and we have Matt Hartley somewhere in the ether and so we are at the IETF as you all know and we have process that governs everything we say and relates to everything we say in the session and how we contribute to the IETF if you\u0027re not familiar with it please take a look at the note well URL it\u0027s at the bottom go there basically anything you say in this session becomes part of our permanent record we\u0027re recording both video and audio and the video is also going out to remote participants and we do have a couple please make sure to use the microphone and state your name when you come to the mic even if you come to the mic multiple times we\u0027re taking notes via etherpad as we usually do please take a look at the URL actually this is the wrong URL but it\u0027ll point you to the right one you can also get that off the the tools page or the agenda please contribute to that it\u0027s very helpful particularly if you say something at the mic note that your name is correctly captured and your comment is particularly captured I\u0027m laughing at the temperature here we have someone sitting in the front with a blanket where it\u0027s 90 degrees outside but inside it\u0027s a little chilly so since the last our last meeting we\u0027ve had no new RFC\u0027s but we do have a couple of documents that have gone through the process are in the editor queue thank you to those who\u0027ve been patient with our process sometimes there\u0027s a lot of comments that have to be addressed as we go through the iesg and it takes a little diligence to get through and it does pay off in in getting the documents and we\u0027re looking forward to seeing these new RFC\u0027s we have one document that\u0027s going through iesg processing we have yet we don\u0027t have any adoptions or new errata that have come in since the last meeting we\u0027re meeting twice this time this is the first session thank you for coming the second session is shown here and it\u0027s also in this room our agenda is it\u0027s pretty tight there have been some shuffling and some changes since the "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:03:39",
    "text": "first time that it was posted the current agenda is also what\u0027s reflected in etherpad and so we can follow along with what\u0027s there and that\u0027s true both for the first session and and the second session and we expect both of them to be pretty full oops here we go we\u0027ve had a liaison and a communication that\u0027s come in one is on the OTN sanitization work plan we had talked about doing a response to this and we had asked okay that was Daniela who\u0027s not in the room to draft a response or he had volunteered do that we have yet to see anything there so we\u0027ll well Pavan has already sent a mail asking for an update on that we\u0027ve also received a communication from Etsy and Daniel he\u0027s going to talk about that remotely so hopefully he will show at some point we\u0027d like to remind the working group that we have an IPR process that we follow both before adoption and then before last call we ask that all contributors and authors directly respond obviously anyone else in the working group can respond but without a response from all contributors and authors we don\u0027t move the documents forward please do utilize the list we definitely allocate time in here in order of obviously working group documents but also lists discussion particularly on new topics and I think that\u0027s it for this one we look at the status of the working of documents next these are the working group documents that are not on the agenda today these will be covered in the next few slides first up is the a CT and yang document this is the document that talks about applicability of various young models lacey TN there was one revision published for this in august apart from fixing some material knits it also addressed comments that are raised by seacams transport NB IDT team this these comments are sent to the list as far as consensus for this draft course the understanding was that we would wait on that generic tea model drafts to progress and then revisit this that "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:06:39",
    "text": "remains the current stance in the meantime if there are any reviews please do send them in next is the draft that talks about gmpls signalling extensions for shared mesh protection no new revision since last time there are still some open issues that need to get our trust there was some discussion at the last meeting about sending a liaison to idat just stating that we are working on this and asking if they have any expectations from this activity we\u0027re going to ask each other to put that together we haven\u0027t done that yet and we\u0027ll take it from there next is the PC native IP document there was a revision published for this the authors do do state that they have another round of updates before they can say it\u0027s ready to progress to the next state there\u0027s also some open discussion that needs to be had about moving this from experimental to standards track Lew and I will have further discussion on that and then make a call before we take it to the next stage next is the PCC sea use cases document no changes since last time I this continues to be a living document the currently there is no intent to take it through the publication process but as always we will revisit it in due course of time for now please keep reviewing as more and more use cases get added to this living document next is the RSVP RM our extensions document no changes since last time the author\u0027s claim that the raft is stable but they do acknowledge there is another round of update that needs to be made in the meantime they\u0027re seeking feedback so please to give it to them if they have any next is the SF aware topology Model draft there were a fair number of comments received for this from Tom patch on the list most of those caught addressed in the last version but there\u0027s still some outstanding issues that need need a need an update to cover those once that is done the others are stating it can be taken to jung da-jung depressed review next is the tea metric recording graph we did start the pre last call i peopole for this still waiting on a couple of responses once those are in we should be able to initiate the last call process the last update and this deck is for the key topology and tunnel modeling draft is basically the tutorial document that talks about how to ease use the various models that we are producing this again a living document there are few more use cases in the pipeline so keep keep an eye out for those as and when they come and send him your reviews if you have any that\u0027s all we have in this deck "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:09:39",
    "text": "first up is an update on the various T models tarick good afternoon I\u0027m Tarek giving you a quick update on the modelling drafts that we\u0027re driving and Inti\u0027s so the agenda is the updates and I\u0027ll go over the open issues and the next steps for each of the documents the first document is that easy nte the current provision is 22 this document covers two modules te and t device the yang so the status is it went and undergone a yang dr. review on revision 21 we had received several comments and we\u0027re working on addressing them I\u0027ll be going over the plan to address each comment that we received on the next slide the next step is we will be addressing the comments as I mentioned and after that we\u0027ll be requesting a working group master home so for the first module we have received a number of comments the first is to use that derived from or self instead of equality in when checks this is a more elaborate an enhanced way and we accept it and we will be addressing that there is a comment of using groupings for for single instantiation commonly you would have groupings when you want to use it multiple places it\u0027s possible that we were thinking and in fact it is the case some groupings are used externally by other documents or modules so it doesn\u0027t appear in our module but they\u0027re used in other documents so this is under investigation at the moment and we will act on it accordingly accordingly the other comment we have is use of the leaf RAF with a relative path this makes it difficult to reuse the grouping so the suggestion is to use the absolute path and that\u0027s fine we will accept that and actually I take action on it consistency in the description for example terminate the description with a full stop makes sense total sense we\u0027re gonna go and update that the metric of "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:12:40",
    "text": "melody - seconds was suggested to replace it by milliseconds and that\u0027s fine and we\u0027ll do that there is a comment about Association object use in our model and on fixing the reference and lastly we want to add meaningful descriptions on the our pcs and we will act on that the next module is the T - device it also received a number of comments again avoid you the the grouping if it is single used that\u0027s fine we will act on it the same comment that we got about absolutely fraf versus relative and redundant range expression so there are cases where we are putting a range where it doesn\u0027t make sense that\u0027s already defined as 16 bits or 32 bits of the ranges dictated by how many you know by the data type itself so the last comment is to populate where we have our pcs and notifications we we either will remove that part if we don\u0027t need it or will populate it it\u0027s under investigation so the second document is yank - RSVP currently it\u0027s at revision 11 it has two modules RSVP and RSVP extended this had undergone a Yank doctor review we had received comments and addressed all of them in fact and there are no open issues at the moment the next steps we want to request a working group last call and take it to iesg next so this is kind of stable document that we want to progress sure now is good so do you want to press but I think the first question is do you want to progress these as a set or individually so specifically this document and these two modules I think they can progress on their own now they\u0027re RSVP specific they\u0027re not traffic engineering there are the base RSVP I don\u0027t think they need to wait for the other ones okay that\u0027s my personal opinion by the way all right and the authors I think speaking for the authors okay thank you the next document is RSVP - te it is covering two modules are de te base and the MPLS the status there are no open issues this hasn\u0027t been reviewed by young doctors yet so you want to ask "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:15:40",
    "text": "nicely for our young doctor review on on these two modules we already put in the request and it\u0027s scheduled to be done by 15th of December thank you and I think this this is the the last document it is he - MPLS and it has a single module there there is open discussions incorporating MPLS DP constructs into this module will work with Otello and the team to see if we need another document for this or another module or we incorporate it in the same document so the next steps would be to close on this discussion and and see where we\u0027re headed and we will let the working group know about what we come up with so that\u0027s it thank you and happy to answer any question you have are there any reservations about moving these documents to last call we\u0027d like to really these have been going on for quite a while and they\u0027re pretty mature I know I have some technical comments that I can certainly cover on the list and I don\u0027t think blocks last call but we definitely want to wrap these up so if there\u0027s any comments on them from people who have reviewed the documents it would be good to raise them now if you don\u0027t have comments and haven\u0027t read it the documents recently please do and expect that we\u0027re gonna have last call as soon as we get the bits of updates from the yang dr. one of the big questions I had is whether to wait for that and move them as a set or move them as to sets its out it sounds like you think we could probably move them as either two or three sets yeah you know maybe just the them go together yeah at least two yeah maybe three yeah all right thank you okay thank you and although there\u0027s no comments so that\u0027s okay I\u0027m assuming more from rotten monoxide come here quick update to toe documents when is the layer 3 tier topology model and another one is the SRT tornados or first let\u0027s look at this odd leery Tea Party so the status is that we don\u0027t have any change instance last IETF we asked is "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:18:43",
    "text": "resolving the young doctors reveal comments so editorial changes had been completed and we have send our responses to the questions they raised and we haven\u0027t heard a confirmation so we are still waiting and we see that they will have further questions one question from the secant people they are doing some augmentations to this model so the question here is how to way to documentation for the internet and I\u0027m amperes TP it was here but anyway so we have two options we can either argument the pace t the theater party model to Internet and I\u0027m curious at the same level and the TE project packet extension which is defined in this document this is fine because the the supporting model has this nice feature you can do multiple inheritance so another way to do this this is a we asked them to argument the tea eternity and impressed teepee models to the packet extension I should think quick question about this requirement just to clarify we\u0027re asking for even a teat apology is it because we want to set up Ethernet LS B\u0027s and if yes do we have a way to set up Ethernet LS B\u0027s you are asking that he departed model specific questions here Erica game and this air has been clarified the last week we leaned into the microwave in here well I see we discussing Montreal talking about the usage jobs isn\u0027t a teat apology which is used to provide update information after that the ethernet is configured into the underlying cause not necessarily to be RSP but the quality information should be useful okay just to collect the topology of Ethernet switches and links "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:21:43",
    "text": "is that something to our other generic tea and the tunnel right sótano you\u0027re really not part of the Toyota model yeah so the we had either option will work so one option we required the out the key extension know that Ethernet extension and MP RTP must have the packet extension the other one make what make it the optional the the adoption can put in the packet options and make it work so the question is do we have any preference or we just let the tea come people do whatever they want to do you think about MPs CP extension because you think you don\u0027t need ampere ste topology correct spec it is enough for NPS T we don\u0027t hire we don\u0027t need have the and caste it apart that\u0027s current situation unless unless you find something we need to do that so anyone has any opinions our preferences I agree with that both option works but I\u0027m not sure whether we have so far any quantitative evaluation on which whether there are some common sections as a general one so that we can we can use use a more generic types rather than make it a small pieces generic types of types is here so that actually packet extension only I did a few structures for like performance monitoring and some other packets specific options is that nothing to do with the labels and the fun way is all the normal extension you\u0027re doing for the ethernet it\u0027s a totally independent so they don\u0027t interfere each other right so that\u0027s why you have this option right so so we can talk if no other people don\u0027t have opinions just that we can talk further and decided by all the packet extension we defined in "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:24:53",
    "text": "this the document the Tia technology packet which is meant to be for both Internet and unpressed TP so well this this extension will cover the encoding types of post packet and the ethernet specified in RFC 3471 so we are not trying to separate them all so beside that we have currently have a te working group that we have network slicing p90 and which is currently examines some of the requirement potentially could be applied to the nursery to party in that happens will incorporate them into the layers report model instead of slicing model so that\u0027s it so we are trying to resolve all the issues and never move forward that\u0027s for this document the next one is the SR and as RTE so the chain changes very high since last time are the alignments with the latest dependencies so when last time when we received the uncocks review they had some comments on the coping we used from the sprint I start cameras our model so we send this feedback to the authors in their model and then they create on the changings and so they have put the change in their grouping so we can pick up automatically so in that case we just revert the changes we did here in this model the changes we are not belong here anyway so then we have some clean up then we are continuing resolving the toxic review we send all the replies still have another confirmation yet then the next step will be completed all those things and so we keep eyes on the common second writing model whenever they change anything we need to the change accordingly that\u0027s it thank you comments yep a Thai speaking so on my command the utility went into the first chapter so uh given that option wine into selected besides Ethernet and MC STP are there "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:27:56",
    "text": "any other packet technologists can use this packet models the packet what packet knowledge is what is yeah so besides Ethernet and the TP packet technologists can use this kind of you know are currently we don\u0027t have other I P native IP native so it\u0027s a that would be yeah that\u0027s covered in the layers right here right so what other technologies are you thinking about I don\u0027t know I just to say this kind of picture because like them if this you know our options negative besides Ethernet and i\u0027m just iridescent and there\u0027s no other you know our pic technology of can use this kind of model so on why we chose to option one well I was waiting for you as since your C camp chair I was waiting for you to bring in some technologies from there I know there\u0027s some photo and at least some thought on on wireless related to microwave but that\u0027s not really a packet technology but there is this boss that\u0027s happening tomorrow on Raw where they\u0027re talking about other wireless packet engineered technology so I didn\u0027t know if that\u0027s the way you were going but they\u0027re you know there might be something there you know I I wouldn\u0027t be surprised if the the topic that\u0027s talked about in raw actually ends up in your working group if not its own but ok anyway I think maybe I we can have more discussion don\u0027t say chemist and to get more feedback anyway we should you know make a decision on these two options right sure okay okay yeah let\u0027s call that yes one of the things that\u0027s causing me remains key to be having some discomfort with the second document and this comes from other documents that are showing up in like debt net is what is really srte and do we have a definition of it and you know sort of squirts on the edge with sr with srte topology because we\u0027re not saying what service is going over the topology so I think we\u0027re okay there but if so this is an informal question to the working group is how many would be interested in working on a definition of srte and what that would mean you know we have policy SR policy but not a good definition of sr team keep your hands up for a moment so there there\u0027s probably enough people to actually work in that so one of the questions for the work the "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:30:58",
    "text": "spring working group chairs is do they want to do it in their working group or in here so thank you for that information that\u0027s a nice data point all right okay good afternoon I\u0027m going to present an update I\u0027m sorry Bellotti speaking from Nokia I\u0027m going to present a big tear guarding a young mother four-part computation request well I\u0027m sorry we have some problem about the uploading of the of the draft because there is a pending issue with the T eternal that apparently was expired I said they need to put a view and yesterday we succeed - now there is a line so III send a message and also the text that the email for the working group about the changes before there okay so they did the changes as basically providing a proposal not a young model modification regarding one of the basic issue that remain in the list so to avoid - - to have the possibility to request but computation for protected tunnel so the day the issue the the proposal is a addressing two type of scenarios so the the request to compute both working and protected path for a tunnel that not exist yet so Greene\u0027s field situation or to optimize the situation and to compute the protection part to add protection for an existing tunnel we for this proposal we take we took the into account the feedback that we had in the previous meeting about this issue regarding the factor to have only one request that encompass both protecting a protected part or to have two different Pat requests within the same Arab seek and that the feedback from working group was this dis option so dissing factor is "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:33:58",
    "text": "the table that we prepare and so we we will enter to the option to and and with this proposal what we made is that we addressed the issue that the disadvantage that for for option two apparently is related to this dis option so they need to define association between part that has to be used in the in the same tunnel and the duplication of tunnel parameter per tunnel in case you have multiple requests so basically the proposal permits first to associate multiple Pat requests that is intended to be used within the same tunnel and the second is succeed to avoid repeating the settled tunnel third tunnel based for any funny requested part and these consequently permitted the server to easily understand what are the attributes that is related to the tunnel and what is the attributes that is a configure third part okay we do not made yet the yang modification because first we would like to add opinion of the working group on the proposal so this is the basic yang tree that would be as a consequence of our totes and we basically the detangle Association structure that is in fact is permit to associate paths that are or referencing an existing tunnel so when they when computing the protection to add protection add to an existing tunnel or referencing an entry in the new list in which we provided a list of Association identifiers and so when the tunnel does not exist you you can have this association identifier between the different requester to associate which are to be associated with the same time at the same time in the list are reported also all the lists of the tunnel of the tunnel attributes that is "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:37:00",
    "text": "related to the tunnel to avoid the problem to repeat for any computed part the configuration of the same attributes and the Association the tunnel Association also provides information about water about the role of the path request is for so if it is a primary or secondary part the the other another part of the of the possibility is a 2f destructor so the tunnel attributes that addressed the collection of the attributes related to the tunnel in case you have the unprotected panel so you have only single path not requested to associate any requests related to tange added pointed so the server has all in the information to create a tunnel in case for with energy operational at a store and we already added ended the document the possibility to have disassociation of computed part with the tunnel that has not yet been created and so this is the case and the server will have all the information to know how to create the tunnel this is also implied permitted to have a more strength and alignment with with the tettemer model ok this is the proposal so the job the situation of the open issue basically we have still 10 open point but 5 are still related to align with the discussion with the eternal a group instead the 5 are specific for path computation RPC but three out of the them are all related to this issue so we think that once that we have solved it and this proposal can can be providing in young we can have an easily path to solve also the other issue that are forbidden internal and the directional pad with a symmetric part properties and and the other two issue are one ended editorials or review of terminology and the other is as soon as the young model is stable we would like to have an example to introduce an "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:40:01",
    "text": "example for path computation request so the next step is obviously we continue operation with the T eternal model outers because we have still five opening shoe that you are painting together with them and provide guidance for technology specific so sync up with your TN tunnel model outdoors and w.zahn and flex grid obviously our plan would be to require a young daughter review for July meeting thank you I direct from juniper if you can go back to slide six feet six six okay so you\u0027re defining the association ID here as 32-bit number we have defined an association some something similar to Association object that we all know about it\u0027s already defined for our GP but the idea would you would have an association type as well what type of Association you want is that carotid nurse diversity to provide information regarding which of the requested part has to be associated with the same time yeah but what kind of Association is it is it just one to one mapping or like ownership or is it like I want to be diverse from this tunnel I want two paths that\u0027s diverse from the Stano Derek the association is pointed to one entry in the list below the Italian Association list where you provide the tunnel attributes and then you say these paths should be part of this tunnel and then there is a role it has to be the primary path the secondary part or the reverse primer or the reverse secondary so that\u0027s the idea is that with this patter associated by being into a tunnel not by okay may I\u0027m getting confused because with Association there is a Association type here it\u0027s just a Association employer eternal as part of the saint tunnel okay me maybe renamed because it\u0027s okay we can take it offline an aim is to provide infrared that is going to associate yeah it\u0027s confused by the term Association which refers which implies some Association objects which is not the "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:43:02",
    "text": "case here okay thank you maybe we need to better mean group I had the similar question because in both be seventies we have that Association so bit confused by that but let\u0027s move on the second is why is it a choice between putting a reference to a tunnel or a tunnel Association because now I think I get a little bit idea because you don\u0027t think of this Association as a bigger Association where we can associate LSPs across tunnels as well but in your case you want to do it only for one ton of like is that what what\u0027s happening here that\u0027s why it\u0027s a choice yes the choice you mean the choice for tunnel a reference and Association Edie my question is why limit inside the tunnel only why can\u0027t Park computations be associated across as well because in both piece F and otherwise we have allowed that is there a particular reason that you want to limit it only for inside a tunnel the reason is that we wanted to create the Association or related today to return in other words what I mean is in other protocols and in the yang otherwise what we have we are a much more generic Association concept why it should we use the more generic Association object because that\u0027s something that we have already know how to use and not define something very specific to your yang that\u0027s the thing that I want you to explore a little bit okay and I agree with drove here I think we should you know at least consider the Association definition that we added in the tunnel model if it applies here it\u0027s more you know elaborate and William take it off - okay we are already using the association from the tunnel model this is because we want to associate that paths which are in the same tunnel and in the tunnel model they are associated by by the structure of the young model and yet there are different entry is the same part request though you have to find another way to say these two paths are the primary secondary of the same tunnel yeah yeah I think it would be good to clarify if this is a different Association than the existing Association mechanisms may be pretty mature at this point yeah maybe we can describe better the the intention of the DEA\u0027s situation either speaking at it is a generic comment on here and tunnel we have basically if I look at the latest II tunnel model we have three ways to associate paths one by putting pass into the same tunnel one by associating all the time all the paths between two tunnels this tunnel level Association and one at a path level when associating two paths of two different angles maybe we have to "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:46:04",
    "text": "find a way where to describe this either here or in the part on the tunnel model I\u0027m trying to understand which one you mean here and what oh we need all at all the tree and the other two we are inheriting from we are reusing the groupings from theta from titania so it\u0027s it\u0027s implicit and yeah we need to add or if you have two paths in the same tunnel your protection metal inert if you take it off one okay generic mechanism support that already yeah okay yes hi everyone I\u0027ll give you a quick update on set of V and Yanks model that we have the model that we are discussing is the VN the first model is the ITF geunyang model and then we have 2kpi telemetry model which augments the t tunnel model and the VN model and finally we have the service mapping model which has first a generic set of mapping types defined in one yang model and then the l 3 sm l 2 sm and other and l 1 c sm augments those with the generate grouping so i will go through the updates in all these models the overall comment we did a bit of editorial cleaner yang formatting references all the style guide changes and thanks for everyone who gave comments there we also move from word to XML which was also a big task and that\u0027s why if you look at hard if everything is little bit like looks like the whole document is updated ok so let\u0027s start with V and yang so we know what it is it\u0027s just it\u0027s a VN yang model at the CMI it\u0027s between the the customer and operator it gives a very abstracted view of the virtual network slice it relies on the T topology abstract node and uses the connectivity matrices to define how the end-to-end connections are being established we had a comment that we discussed in the last meeting which was Jana B\u0026B established without having the customer information that is I can set up a p2p VN member without having without attaching the customer information at the time of the uncreation and maybe have an ability to add the AP and the customer facing information after the VN is already "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:49:05",
    "text": "established so we made sure that we can support that of course the VN creation already had at the time of VN creation you need to have something called as an AP which is just a shared logical identifier between the customer and the operator so in the yang model we allow you to create an AP with only a P information so that the second requirement can be established so to do that within the AP container we added a node called PE which can have a reference to the PE node and why are that you can create an AP with just the P information and later on update it with more customer information once you have it so this kind of satisfies the requirement that we got during the last meeting so this is how the change looks pretty straightforward change just a reference to the node ID so that\u0027s our first document the next is the telemetry this one has some a does two jobs it has the performance one I have my notes comments from the last meeting that wasn\u0027t sure how they were addressed yang yeah this is the one this is what we kind of addressed or this was what jin-woo or raised we were we had it in the slides we discussed back and forth that we will handle this okay is there do you think it\u0027s all addressed this one is addressed yes is it was with chin right yes in the room do you think that yeah he is yes do you think that the issues are addressed yeah did you know ya already have offline discussion with now with through and I\u0027m happy with the channel made actually and Jessica wanted a sense of the room for for this model to have a change yeah okay yeah good to go yeah so the second model which is about the telemetry this model we augment the tea tunnel model and the VN model with the telemetry information again the telemetry information comes from T types itself we are augmenting it here and we also have the scaling conditions as the scaling conditions being set so those are the two things that this young model does we did one change we earlier used to put the scaling condition the operation type which is when you have multiple parameters or how do I consider "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:52:05",
    "text": "those multiple parameters whether it is and or or we were putting it in an outer container we moved it inside that would allow us to have mix of and and or for multiple metric types so we can say that delay should be like this and jitter should or jitter should be like this while the bandwidth is something else so we can we have a flexibility of making those changes another mistake maybe was there from the previous version where we were not augmenting so now since we are all menteng there is no need for us to have a reference to the same tunnel that you are anyway augmenting so those two changes were done in the both the te KPI and the VN KPI model we had one comment on the mic last time which was about how do we use can we use percentile or mean especially coming from the stamp yang model we are currently relying on the puffins performance metric attributes as defined in T types and defining a new metric we can at this stage we wanted to avoid and we could not figure out how adding it only for this model would help so I had one small discussion with Greg that what\u0027s the next step we could do I will continue to have that discussion at least in the text we will add that this is just part of the problem that we are only giving the telemetry from what we can learn from the notes there cook there are other techniques out there such as end-to-end measurements etc which can also be applied in the end some kind of text I will at least add and I will pass it through Greg that\u0027s our current thinking when it comes to adding new metric we want to avoid defining new metric again we will get into AI ppm and other working group space so at this stage we don\u0027t want to go there but we can say that this is just part of the the telemetry this is not everything there are other techniques out there as well any comments on this okay so that was our and the final I have Dan who\u0027s sitting in the is in the back who who\u0027s also active on a draft in net mod related to event condition action framework and I\u0027m interested in your perspective on and you\u0027re the authors of this drafts perspective on how either that work can be applied here or you could influence that work basically that works doing a generic mechanism for triggering actions based on events that happen on the node after you drew no no I want to listen what do you have i I\u0027ll be honest that just walked in I was just outside that\u0027s the anything I I\u0027m just going to also "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:55:05",
    "text": "add as a co-author of the ECA framework opposed all that there is absolutely applicability here if you\u0027re delegating some event and condition to a device but it could also be in in actn a device might be the PNC a cell that would enable some telemetry stream in the event of some condition being met whether it\u0027s packet loss or or some kind of cue issue so yeah I think I think there is some applicability yeah of course this work is a bit more advanced although it\u0027s very specific it might be good to help inform that work rather than try to wait for that thing that\u0027s not even a working group document yet to be there to use yeah these change in from well way and we actually work together with is a model job actually work on the Issei mode of action we did actually support this kind of logic test we think it will be good idea to define a basic model we can you know let this job leverage some group in defining a basic model maybe that will be a good approach that but I haven\u0027t thought about that how do you realize this yeah yeah since this workers more advanced it might be this will just help inform your work as it moves in on thank you thank thank you so last young model which is our service mapping yang model this young model does a mapping between the services and the various different ee models that we have so you can map either to VN or t topology or te tunnel and we had defined a t and service mapping types which is a generic container and that is being used by a by augmenting various service model we also added some things like availability and isolation requirements which are currently not there in the service model itself and that can be used when you are selecting and making decisions at the VN and the P topology level so that\u0027s how your model looks the comment that we that\u0027s kind of open and we had some internal discussions now we want to get a little bit feeling from the room service model we have idea how to do this but the requirement exists at the network model as well you want a map from l3n em to whatever t tunnels are being used within my domain so technically this mapping what we have as a generate t and service mapping can easily be applied to l3 and M as well and all we need to do is augment the l3 and M model with the same gender ik grouping that we have already defined and you could easily use it the "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:58:05",
    "text": "question would be that it\u0027s not a service it\u0027s a network model do we do it here do we ask L 3 nm folks to update it there or a new document something like that and whether this approach makes sense or not so those are the two questions related to l3 and M that I would have for the group maybe we can get a feedback on that first before I discuss the second one how many people are aware of the L 3 nm oh okay well there are how many of those are not authors we have someone at the bike I would like to clarify about the first issue say this mod also applies to f3 and them so are you referring to we should map we should map the layer 3 sm 2 layer 3 and red or no we I\u0027m that\u0027s not the job of this model this is still T so we are mapping L 3 nm once you have an entity that in the network model this is my l3 VPN server network how do I map to what are the te tunnels or or if it is in multi layer thing even te topology kind of information so I would in this case not have VM I would when I augmented make sure that the VN choice cannot be taken but T topology and T tunnel choice could still be used okay I will also have the same preference to make everything to select the T part and the Agron feral maybe this is the opportunity for a little advert for l3 nm obsidian maybe this is the opportunity for a little advert for l3 nm at least you give some context so l3 nm is a recently adopted document in the ops area working group that is attempting to bridge the gap between the way a customer requests a layer-3 service and a way that the network delivers that service by partitioning their functional blocks for delivering the service and allowing the l3 service to be expressed with a few network aware pieces in that sense it\u0027s very much behind the curtain and it\u0027s unclear to "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:01:07",
    "text": "me whether you would need to also do the service mapping for that but it\u0027s also unclear to me that you wouldn\u0027t I would suggest the thing to do is to sit with the authors of l3 nm explained to them what your service mapping does have them explain to you what nm does and then try to see whether that matches or not yeah there\u0027s some issues with l3 nm in that as you said it it\u0027s unclear what goes what the scope of it is and when it starts bringing in things like the protocol details are the the routing protocol details it gets really confused because it\u0027s redefining things that are already in other models sorry modules rather than referencing those and you know we seem to be going in a loop here of redefining things over and over again and this is doing it yet again and right having that sit down it\u0027s probably a really good idea and probably pull in someone from the routing working group as well because I think there\u0027s some deconfliction there that might want to happen yeah I\u0027m sure that the intention is not to increase the entropy but yeah we shouldn\u0027t be redefining stuff we had an email exchange with Oscar and other authors of l3n em they liked the idea they think it\u0027s needed even on the mailing lists this question actually came up that whether this could be done so at least from the I will follow what Adrian suggested and have a little bit more in-depth conversation but at least at the very high level on emails there is a consensus that this is done this is needed the question which I was where should we do it should we keep this more this document which is right in front of you only focused on the service model and maybe let the LC nm folks continue on to have defined the l3 and M model plus the service mapping right there in the ops area working group that\u0027s one approach another would be that we can can add it here itself yeah I think keeping this working group in the loop right now is the right thing and let\u0027s see what happens when you have the l3 and M discussion and again include the routing working group maybe it all goes there you know what\u0027s I\u0027m not saying what the right answer is yeah gotta be home hi so we have the presentation of the draft in last drogyn working group went well so let\u0027s keep collaborating and I had one more pending commit Jeff as Jerry were you okay with the redefinition of the routing protocol the details in l3 mmm all right I\u0027ll have a chair okay anyway "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:04:08",
    "text": "so the the last point which is which has a which is also a pending issue for us we define a term called availability and we don\u0027t have a good reference for it this availabilities may be from the service ability point of view and more related to a service model it defines like no service is 99% on 99.99 that kind of thing we don\u0027t have a good reference for it so if somebody has any suggestion or can point us to the right direction that would be very helpful Greg mercy City yes actually the thing is that with the term availability we use it colloquially but at ITF we don\u0027t have a definition for it there is one RFC on micro microwave links availability and I think we\u0027ve done this work in C camp but it defines the availability which is very specific for this technology I think that and I know some efforts that been done to to define availability for the packet switching because the term has been defined in TDM and because if there is no data they fill in information so basically it\u0027s a constant stream so that\u0027s why they it\u0027s easy for them to express it I don\u0027t know any viable definition for packet based technology availability and I would encourage to use another term we are running behind at this point no it\u0027s okay you know where it\u0027s good to have discussion you know if all you\u0027re doing is presentation we don\u0027t have to come here thank you this eating problem calling and presenting the jobs about the interworking of JMS consistent and centralized control control assisted first of all thank you all the others listed in disguise and this Java is about describing how the GMB are distributing control plan can be in the work with the centralized can control assistant in many different scenarios for example the MIDI domain or multi-layer service provisioning and recovery etc and main trends of this version is the first first of all we add a new message about multi domain service "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:07:09",
    "text": "provisioning which is the else be stitching method defined in RFC 5150 and secondly I and myself as an author of this job and this is the background of this job we know we have been working on the GM has for many many years and because of the Sdn recently we introduced the centralized controller into the control control plane a lot of typical architecture is a CTA architecture we believe that this centralized control system and the distributed JMS control system are not competing to each other but they can work together to make a better control now so we are trying to reveal the previous work to see how they came to work together to make a better control of the network and one of the most important sin always for the multi multi domain service provisioning we are try to wrap up with the existing methods and try to cast by into several methods although first one is about the with end-to-end EVP sessions which means that we run the end-to-end as you repeat signaling to to create a multi-domain connections and use this into an SVG session to distribute the labels on the inter domain link and there further to some method the 1.1 in the latter is about just simple simply around an SVG signal tool to create a connection and 1.2 in the right path is up is about using the SPS teaching method and we can create each in the each domain as field segment and then use the stitching method to create SP stitching to stitch the as we passed together this one point two is added is newly added in this version and further the second method is about we stop in and two as the previous session so in this case we don\u0027t need to say in the interpolation between domains using a CV PT but using the centralized controller system to the father in the operation similarly we also have to a method the two point one is about if the centralized controller do not have the information of the inter domain link that the label of the in determining dental node can assign the label and "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:10:11",
    "text": "then use the centralized controller to distribute it this label to other domains to create the end-to-end path and in the right side the to point to method we assume that the centralized control controller system can be aware of the labels of the inter domain link in this case the centralized controller can distribute the can assign and distribute the labels on the inter domain link so each domain can simply create the paths a common in their domains yeah so for the next step we believed we were pretty down about the multi-domain scenarios and the next step we\u0027ll try to figure out how to do the multi-layer provisioning protection and restoration and control controller reliability it\u0027s a quite a lot of work and we and we we want to get a feedback from the WG to help us to move this forward thank you are you looking for input for the working group as in more writers or do you think your team you have a sufficient number of people to to get that work done yeah yeah we can do that but if I know I have commas we are happy to hear that yeah or someone wants to set a contribution they could always set it to the list right yeah yeah we would love to see this this work sort of moved towards completion it\u0027s pretty old concepts we\u0027ve gone actually full cycle because we introduced ug MPLS what we were doing was figuring out how we can displace centralized controllers so you know we\u0027re going back and forth now so right thank you thank you hi I\u0027m Jen from Siena and actually I I have a question that with respect to a and you lean into the microphone okay I\u0027m Jen from Siena and the question is with respect to OEM if I ping this inter-domain LSP it will go across the domain and how can I do I am on an individual segment versus the whole inter domain LSP I mean if you can expand on that you know what we\u0027re a little over if you don\u0027t mind doing that on the list it\u0027s a it\u0027s a good discussion but we do it on the list is that all right I mean it\u0027s a possible like or not to do om on the segment as well as volume across the LSP yeah as it possible you know and indeed or the configuration of OAM that\u0027s two different things for the OEM in the data I think with nothing change just as we have before "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:13:12",
    "text": "and for the control plane I think we can continue the work to see if the anchor vibration signaling can be used in this scenario if yesterday right I believe is yes okay I\u0027ll mail my questions already okay okay thank you thank you and to be unfair for you yes hi afternoon everyone so given the importance of sort of maximizing efficiency of some of this work at the ITF and using working group time efficiently this is really first of all it\u0027s a relatively recent document we started working on this the idea at least at the start of the year we\u0027re into our second version we want to try to highlight how operators can use some of the yang models that are being developed within the ITF we\u0027ve got you know hundreds of young models thousands of yang models even and what we need to do is actually show how we can combine these to deploy services so one of the more recent discussions is how we use the actn framework and so essentially the functional components the interface is combined with the data models to deploy packet over optical services so these are essentially two layers one control via physical network controllers for the optical domain split into two domains that are not directly connected sitting on top of that we\u0027ve got packet layer with additional sort of domain technology they\u0027re managed by domain physical network controllers that are connected across and into the main connection so essentially if that\u0027s our deployment model what we want to know kind of operators and vendors is how we can use the data models that currently exist for providing multi-layer services so packet over optical and furthermore this would be a set of procedures the data models what part of the data model that we will use and then things sort of under consideration are operational and security aspects as well so the two use cases that are currently in the document and we we didn\u0027t want to have a document that that sort of boiled the ocean we wanted sort of two specifics scenarios the first is obviously the multi layer but multi domain coordination and the second use case is recovery so when you detect failure how do you recover from that failure and sort of various permutations of that so if those are the two main use cases we\u0027ve got sort of "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:16:13",
    "text": "subsections of each of those so things like discovery of existing resources you know links next hot neighbors etc you know we will actually talk about in the document what protocol mechanisms are available how we set up the services how we coordinate those you know what data models what part of the data models are going to be used and in which order so essentially this document is a cookbook that talks about setting up multi-layer services over sort of packet and optical domains using the context of a CTN it\u0027s a very simple topology you see it on the slide here so to kind of get to the point of presenting today what we want to do is encourage more operator input so right now we\u0027ve got a good sort of blend of vendors we\u0027ve only got one operator currently what we\u0027d like because this document really is is is to highlight how we can actually deploy these services which data models to use but also what gaps potentially exist as well so please operators especially that you have multi-layer networks and ie every operator potentially please have a read of the document see if the current scope is suitable for your environment we already highlight in the current document what data models are candidates we will actually have examples code examples as well this may be a combination of rest cough Netcom so JSON and yang may have sort of xml schemas as well so questions for the room I would like to ask the chairs if we could just sort of have a quick show of hands to see who\u0027s actually read the document especially if you\u0027re not an author oh okay let me ask the question then thank you so can I ask if you\u0027re already a co-author of the document keep your hand down but who has actually read this document okay that\u0027s that\u0027s great and how many operators have read this document okay that it\u0027s slightly better but so we\u0027ve got sort of two operators that essentially read the document it\u0027ll be great to get more so really that\u0027s kind of all I wanted to do was just to highlight the work let you know the scope and we will continue to update the document yeah Ruth I drove here I really would like if he have a little bit better not do pio i applicability or at least in the title it is clarified what\u0027s the difference between the young and Danny Lee\u0027s document and yours so so that other document essentially seems to focus more on the IP services and the service mapping on top although of "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:19:13",
    "text": "course that\u0027s applicable for our document we are kind of that lower layer optical interaction so I think that\u0027s sort of sin initiative yeah yeah they\u0027re complementary rather than competitive but if we need to make that clearer that\u0027s yeah I agree with that that would do the documents are kind of focusing on this thing but as a working group should be how do we coordinate the two things and make sure that that P oh I can go forward easily okay yeah great well that\u0027s it great thank you very much keep watch on the work hi I\u0027m Adrian it\u0027s all my fault that\u0027s it so we have this design team working on looking at RSC 3272 which is ages old and somewhat out-of-date in the way it uses terms and the fact that technologies come on quite a long way and a number of people including the chairs observed that many working groups using the term te without any anything to point to so what we\u0027re doing is a complete revision of 3272 everything\u0027s up for grabs but we will inevitably use a lot of old text and then update things add new pieces and try to streamline some of the historical material and then the references were a bit ugly what we learnt is don\u0027t try to get old people to learn new tricks we we picked using github and markdown at the same time and the intersection of people who knew both tools in the design team was small and so we didn\u0027t make a lot of progress we also had it running as a background task and we had a team leader who was not properly motivated but it\u0027s still open to bribes from the chairs we also had a large team and and that tends to lead to waiting for everybody else to do something first and then we tried various management techniques but we didn\u0027t we didn\u0027t do public humiliation until each night EF meeting when I get to stand up and so that works and maybe we should do it more the way it worked was we posted a draft so we\u0027ve actually done something and we\u0027ve updated it as well what this "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:22:13",
    "text": "essentially does is take 3272 puts it all into the new format and tidied some pieces a lot of the references were ugly and got cleaned up thank you lower and we tidied some of the text and added some small pieces of new text but that only sets us up to know that there\u0027s a lot of new work to be done we will I think change our working practices and do that work we are already 30% too long without having to edit our text so anybody who is good at operating marking blocks of text and deleting them is is welcome to work with us we will need to be adding text for your favorite protocol how we do this the design team will meet on Thursday morning I hope to do some actual active edits in the room and then hand out assignments to the team and then we will edit in the normal old-fashioned way of me holding the pen and people telling me what they want changed and hopefully that\u0027ll be more productive and we will do then multiple revisions to keep everybody up to date if you\u0027re interested in this join us by sending email to the t\u0027s list to the design team list or direct to me I suggest we need at least one more substantial revision before we even talked about adoption I know this is a targeted thing for the working group but I don\u0027t believe that this draft is is meaningful for adoption thank you appreciate the update we have five minutes left for the Etsy update hello good afternoon so this presentation is likely to look a little exotic to the crowd here so I am working in both an AV at Siena V and in ITF so I got here because the Nellie chica le couldn\u0027t present this year\u0027s also basically a couple of months ago SECNAV Center liaison to ITF T\u0027s and this is the presentation for this liaison basically so there are several documents so for those who don\u0027t know it\u0027s en AV is basically the major standard framework for telecom virtualization and there are a number of deployments in the real world this is something that is a big deal even though there\u0027s a lot of open "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:25:13",
    "text": "source that is also competing with it but this is something which is actually deployed in the real world so Etsy nav does have a framework which is fairly comprehensive and there is there are several documents are quite published is the one that you\u0027re looking at here I\u0027ve had 22 was a report that tried to understand how you could connect different data centers in different locations to deploy any v4 any of the network services across those different locations this brought the creation of a component that we call the wim the wide area manager what wide area network infrastructure manager sorry and this component is is something that is being used here we have put this in this report and no that\u0027s the first version of presentation but it\u0027s ok I\u0027ll do without and then we had a stage 2 specification which is called ia32 which is presented here which try to explicit the requirements for this wim component and we have worked on it extensively and today we have started working on what we call the stage free which is protocols and data models for the interface to this wide area controller so this has been started already so we have tried to [Music] assassin of existing protocols actn is prominently featured in this document it doesn\u0027t mean that you want to approve a CDN as the interface but at least we want to understand how a CTN fits in the picture and of course how if that is how the actn designers and users expect the specification to be used so the interface basics that we have on this interface or there are four different sub interfaces one of them is for the multi-site communication services management interfaces with the typical crowd operations but also operations on notifications and on reservation we have a capacity management interface with also core operations and topology and topology information queries a fault management interface which also allows to query the different notifications for faults and performance management interface so this is the kind of concept that we deal with at that level on this interface when we try to map nav with a CTN so we have tried in document I fat32 to get to a number of guesses over how this could do there is not unanimous agreement on those mapping and if people in a CTN have some comments about it we\u0027d be happy to hear about it as you can see on the left hand side you have this drawing that shows that the EM the service Orchestrator and network Orchestrator are considered to be equivalent to the MDS c but in other "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:28:14",
    "text": "interpretations we think that the MDS C is actually the wim itself so clearing that understanding is something that you could help doing so finally to get to what we\u0027re typically asking for the the ITF reaction so we we would like to be Sienna Vee would like to be informed of the relevant RFC\u0027s and internet draft that pertain to ITF actn I think it\u0027s pretty easy to do along with the status of each other\u0027s document and the date of completions if any and also we are interested should we identify some specific requirements over a CTN on how we can do to push them forward to our ITF I think I know but the dates are the two ITF meetings are there of course one thing that is not written there but which is prominent interest for us is to understand if the way that we are planning to use a CTN is what you think our actn should be used thank you how do you envision this exchange to take place so how do you envision that we will communicate with each other so I think that the easiest way would of course be through shared participation or at least three or four people that have common participation in both ITF and at Siena V so that\u0027s the quickest way I would say but we doesn\u0027t need to identify someone in ITF that would at least take a look so generally we in the ITF look at documents so if you have a document in some description that you can contribute here you know the leaders not to be very easy way to the text of the liaison statement that was sent contains the links to publicly accessible documents from its univee if you want a case you would be asking for us to comment on that in the way that we would do that as see who is interested in participating if you submitted an internet draft that would be something that the working group would actually definitely look at so just keep that keep in mind how the process works the other suggestion is to talk with I think it\u0027s the IAB that manages relationships with other organizations I don\u0027t believe as a relationship between the IETF and that\u0027s Etsy and having a formal relationship might house I think there is a formal relationship okay we haven\u0027t exchanged lots of liaison but this is the first real one where there is yes I went looking for that the definition that identification of a formal relationship and it doesn\u0027t seem to be posted so we can talk about that offline we have a Adrian Farrell so first I think it\u0027s really good news that a CTN is reaching out beyond this working group so thank you for that thank you for communicating and pointing out the work and I think you\u0027re right that the most efficient way of achieving "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:31:16",
    "text": "progress is by mutual participation you may find it hard to get people to go to even more standards meetings so emails are good be careful of the formal relationship formal liaison thing there is no as Lou says there is no formal relationship between the IETF and Etsy at the moment that would take time to set up and send in a formal request for a formal response will fall into the quagmire what you want really is an individual to be sending a mail to that tease saying we\u0027re doing this stuff does this look right and getting other individuals to comment back that\u0027s that\u0027s the effective way to make progress not asking for the IETF s formal consensus opinion on something okay this is good guidance thank you result from Nokia another thought about this interface if I understood correctly the interface is trying to basically address the connectivity between to the virtual natural function in different data centers the upper layer is a request in the connectivity the new initiative that we have on the network slicing design team the interface that we are try to address I think could be applicable here as well the upper layer is requesting so-called transfer slice or connectivity which are the logically independent connection that we want to do and this might be another the way to do this the wingman interface yeah I think it looks like it\u0027s it\u0027s pretty close to what what\u0027s needed and at Siena V itself is pretty oblivious to slicing because slicing is supposed to do it on a higher level but still we do carry the network slice identifiers into the interfaces that we use conversation short were actually three minutes over we have an IAB member behind you so I don\u0027t know if he\u0027s gonna talk from that standpoint or no standpoint is in my previous I have participated in Etsy and leadership of Etsy doesn\u0027t recognize ATF as such so saying that the relationship with Etsy would be deceiving what you see here is particular IG trying to work with ATF would be great to establish this relationship but it doesn\u0027t really and we are certainly certainly would be welcome any participation here so it\u0027s it\u0027s the formality that makes it a little problem makes it a little problematic last last question just in on the comment from vista well the I\u0027m rich Contreras from telefónica just to say that they\u0027re considering this I 0 17 is from the roadmap of the API document that we are managing in design team for nebula slicing okay so Daniel II has a "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:34:19",
    "text": "comment on jabber this will be the way we end is he says this has nothing to do with slicing so if you want to have a conversation more to learn more we can take it to the list and get the conversation going about with different individuals having a good conversation this is welcome alright great thank you we will see you back not the next session but the one after that and we\u0027ll be back here 5:10 thank you no it would be nice if it was "
  }
]