[
  {
    "startTime": "00:01:28",
    "text": "all right good morning let\u0027s get started we we have a very short one-hour meeting so we\u0027re a little bit little bit we have a packed agenda before we get started I need to remind everybody of the note well the motel applies to this meeting at applies to any ITF meeting if you know of any IPR that we\u0027re discussing you have to disclose it whether it is yours or not read the slides read the documents that are listed here if you have any questions ask your favorite ad or workgroup chair reminder we\u0027re taking minutes so thank you very much - Dominique Farris and Charlie who are taking minutes I believe that charlie is also the mythical scribe you\u0027re not can take away can you be the mythical okay you just have to connect to me take one just in case there\u0027s a question related to the to the microphone we\u0027re taking we\u0027re recording this meeting and presence is logged all of that will be published to the mailing list after so more participation mailing list reading materials these are links that you can consult offline the slides are online they\u0027ve been online for a couple of hours we\u0027ve just started two slides they should appear with little bells next to the meeting materials and that was - three hours ago so this is the agenda that we have prepared we\u0027re now in the intro on status will then go into a quick presentation about the architecture draft the table will give militia will have a ten minute slot then to talk about minimal security and and in particular I think you\u0027ll focus on some comments that you haven\u0027t made recently on the mailing list we didn\u0027t have a section on dynamic scheduling with thing Fay talking about MSF MSF who was published on the 11:00 of March and then we have Marco whose is Michael around Thank You Marcos they\u0027re talking to us about an individual submission called robot scheduling we didn\u0027t have two other drafts from Michael Richardson I\u0027m sorry before that yeah one draft for Michael Richardson on enhanced beacon and then we have two updates one on the open benchmark that border will give us this border around yes right there and then I\u0027ll come up the hackathon that thing say will give us at the very very end this should bring us to twelve twenty which is the end of the the end of the meeting you wanna take over back up yes I realized I did not update this agenda we had some agenda bashing and if you look at the other night agenda so maybe tomorrow when you come back agenda we actually moved Michael Richardson\u0027s presentation down to the very end of the of the meeting because he\u0027s I think an ISO meeting and he well he promised it would be here around noon so Michael will will be in the last ten minutes "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:04:28",
    "text": "so you see yes you had it was correct why were you late okay so what happens to six dish since 1803 as you know six dish is is building this all stack of RFC\u0027s and I Triple E standards so that we can prove that the stack works using real devices in drop tests with the Etsy and so we as we as we do that we mostly push work to external bodies I Triple E and six lower row etc and part of those things that six dish kind of promote it pushed into other working group is this six lower RFC 66 67 25 had eight draft which is now published as RFC age 505 so that\u0027s what that kind of an outcome for 60s well then militia will tell us but they were meeting about a score on which we have a dependency for the minimal security and well this progressed well in the recent there is actually weeks and days so very good on that side we also have a dependency on a doc sorry it goes to proof yeah so we have done with with her score and so our dependency on the score is kind of done a doc is not such good news for I know it\u0027s told we don\u0027t have a dependency form anymore but we have a dependency for zero-touch that\u0027s how I understand it and you\u0027re a list of the case Adele said 505 was published but there are many others that you know the document that kind of inherit from work that was the net six dish to make the whole story work and so there is a status we don\u0027t have much time we have onion our so one goes with that but the work at six low is progressing very rapidly AP and D and backbone router past work or class cause that\u0027s very good result and the fragmentation work is very close to worker Pascal as well I guess for the milestones relate but we are not that late we decided to merge the terminology into the architecture we actually pushed the architecture of a publication we had only reviews pre is you reviews I would say and they were addressed so now we are waiting for the for iesg set of reduced or the architecture zero touch is definitely light we are looking for co-authors and Michael will tell us about that and we more security pass the subsequent walk up last call we got some interesting commands many shall tell us we have a question oh Suresh - hey Pascal like so have you converged with Eliot on the changes on the early review "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:07:31",
    "text": "with our deities in the room actually I think we did because I saw some email that yet we have actually used lot on architecture to discuss exactly that but oh no no just um so no no you\u0027re here all right Eliot lyrics I\u0027d yeah I did the earlier review hi Suresh okay and so I think the the the key here the content of the document is very good the only issue is whether you there were a couple of issues around do you need a glossary of terms you have like three separate you know you got a reference section in the front a glossary of partial glossary from other places and and another velocity like there\u0027s a certain amount of editorial that\u0027s still needed in terms of condensing that but I think it\u0027s the documents very much on the right track in terms of in terms of improving readability but it may need one more pass to be honest we will address the commission of terminology in the architecture right next right that\u0027s your big the big real question for you Suresh so let\u0027s move Thanks all this is very much editorial and readability yeah there was like one thing Elliott right like that has been like kind kind of a recurring theme in similar documents is the status right so whether its information was standard so and you brought us all so that\u0027s something I want to discuss past all the possible I think you have something for that but let\u0027s talk about it okay oh okay she want to talk about that piece the the initially document was intended for informational and then we did that net deterministic networking architecture and Lou Berger insisted that this one goes into standard truck and the reason was because it impacts other bodies like the I Triple E and he said we\u0027ll get a better set of reviews if we go faster on a track so he pushed for that and I said hey if that\u0027s true for that net then it\u0027s true for 60s as well some reasons we impact the I Triple E to to the treating for and it\u0027s good that we get the best we get the best level of review we care that\u0027s all I mean the rest is in your hands I mean if if that net is right then it applies to six dishes if that net is wrong same thing it applies to six dishes I think we are slaves to to the debt net resolution and detonator ISO right the reason I\u0027m asking is because they did net dark stocking for the exact same reason in the iesg valve and that\u0027s why I\u0027m bringing this up so if you look at it it\u0027s been stuck for like more than a month now and if you see a lot of the is position that\u0027s like EE criticisms of the draft so that let\u0027s have a longer discussion about this Pascal and I will try to do a resolution of that okay okay okay we need to "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:10:40",
    "text": "discuss whether it star Trak of informational so the gold this particular document is to provide another view of what the worker group has been doing of other years so we maintain this document each time where the decision is time we added some mortgage that we did something we actually wrote it in the architecture so if you follow the architecture sense assumption of the working groups you will find everything we did and how we progressed it is really catching two pieces the eye level architecture for people who just need that level and then you can go deeper into how we do and what we wanna do in Section four and part of the review I got home colors actually was to Anne Elliot was to reorganize that because some pieces maybe which Ryan sections we belong to for and and the other way around so there was a bit of reshuffling after the work replace go into what goes in three and four but the text itself was mostly unchanged so thanks Carol else thanks Elliott the big question that we have now a deal yacht alluded to it is the fact Suresh that we decided to merge the terminology document which was a separator of C button called into the architecture and as we did that this the section you know that gives basically the terminology references and the acronyms for six low things like six are etcetera as a big section which you know surprised idiot because it has all the sixties terms also as a subsection of the term energy section so that kind of look looks huge and so is it the right way at least the reader finds it surprising that\u0027s so what do you think about this merge are we okay I personally like it right like but I\u0027m not gonna force my will on the working group but I personally be glued like the terminology in the same document maybe we can like rearrange like maybe some terms for someone later for the additional reading but I do like the idea of keeping them together part of that was the naming of this section so I renamed the section they don\u0027t know if I published with that yet but I rename the sections according to another RFC which was structure like this they give you the hint so to sell my comic series again this is all readability okay and I don\u0027t think we should spend I encouraged people not to spend too much time in this room worrying about readability but the issue was that terms are being defined in the in the up front they were being in some cases redefined in line in the text meaning to slight conflicts and Pascal cleaned that up in the review by the way which was good and then there was there was document there was information pulled in from one from another document which was in a separate section oh it was finis Agustin see so kto lied this section the other point I was going to "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:13:40",
    "text": "make was the references that were listed up front is ink that\u0027s in congruent with how we do RFC\u0027s references go on the back the reference that are on the top of the Tommy areaa reference I mean if you want to understand the text below you need to read this terminology document so it\u0027s not the full set of reference was just the terminology dogs like the one from Caston etc other ones from 6lo so it was external terminology it was not the rest of the references people are expected to chase down references in the same way throughout our series so I mean I view that as just a consistency thing and and truth be told I\u0027m not gonna stand on my head on any of this right it\u0027s you know the working group can just go whichever whatever direction it\u0027s going to go as an external person who\u0027s just reading the document for the first time that I found I was immediately synchronize read the document that oh my god in order to understand any of this I have to go read all of these other documents if that\u0027s the intent okay even that\u0027s not the intent that is the message you like to give them if the goal was to say there is terminology in those documents that I won\u0027t repeat in my documents so the links are there but usually you don\u0027t read but I mean I would like other feedback from other readers that would be perfect because I understand the question but I don\u0027t know really how to resolve it so if other readers come to us just on this section - I guess terminology and give some hints about Oh to fix I have a suggestion Pascal and Elliot right so what you can do is like you you have the list of terms right so as long as all the references are covered in the nominative references I don\u0027t think you have to do anything more so I expect fusion and I kind of agree with them so if you just make sure that like the terms that you\u0027re using from the other documents are listed in the terminology I think we should be okay unless you want to know all the terminology at which point life it\u0027s not nominative references then people have to hunt it down anyway so so what is the resolution what is your next step I understand from Suraj if I understand what Suresh told me because I\u0027m not 100% sure so if I may quote I\u0027m gonna remove the external references from the terminology section and try to extract the terms that are needed from there and include them in our terminology is it the solution so Russia is it like and with the reference with the actual reference it\u0027s like you should say like okay like be for example if you want to say Pio Pio s define as defined in RFC 48 61 directly in the terminology section instead of putting in another reference section because that\u0027s what threw off Elliot okay so we can discuss this on the ship Thanks yeah that\u0027s that\u0027s clear unless thanks for a sure okay that\u0027s it I\u0027m sorry I have you really really courses with time next item on the agenda is militia let me swap slides "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:16:43",
    "text": "here giving us an update about oops sorry alright ok so I have a $10 so slides but I\u0027ll focus in the major issue that was focused that was brought up by your on last night on the on the list essentially we published oh 9 after the ITF 103 meeting in Bangkok the meet then we had a second working group last call some sometime early March which ended and we received one review from your own so under which I ride yesterday outlining one more issue that seems to be pending so this will be the mayor the goal of my presentation to today be essentially to just give a quick summary of the changes in online and this issue that that you\u0027re on brought up as a side note I usually finally approved the score so we are good to go in terms of minimal security as we have a heavy dependency there so in terms of updates you know 9 we we removed their network identifiers from drawing response in order to simplify the structure now we required that the 6lb our pledge be provisioned by the network identifier before it attempts to join using concern joint protocol with the so essentially this is just the deployment requirement we\u0027d added a parameter called the drawing rate that is used by the Dre RC to control the emission of enhanced basically to control the start and stop of the drawing process in the network and it is also used as a bandwidth cap on coop as it directly configures the probing rate of god we clarified the usage of the blacklist parameter just specifying covering supporter cases that are missing previously how do you how do you essentially remove the blacklist from a given pledge from the GRC so now I\u0027ll go through the working group last comment so the first two slides are just a minor comments that I will really quickly cover essentially you\u0027re an outlined some well some myths in the in the text the first one was on on one sentence that was regarding the increment of the sequence numbers when given pledge joins two different networks so essentially there were used to be a sentence saying that the sequence numbers obviously should must be incremented as we want to "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:19:44",
    "text": "avoid nonce reuse so we were just going to rephrase this to make it more general and just to adhere to to do our hearts back then the second comment was on also some also the myth on the on the ask on the user for score so we have a proposed resolution that was here brought by your on which I will take into consideration for the next version and yes the no score had an update regarding the the update of sequence numbers in their storage in persistent memory so right now we need to update the reference and also to essentially in in terms of minimal security we\u0027re just we\u0027re just piggybacking on Oh score spec relying one on this on section on appendix B 1 1 so now I\u0027ll go with the issue that you\u0027re on outlined this is this is this issue was originally brought up by Jim shot during the first working group last call and the scenario that we are considering is that there is a failure event of the jrc in which case the jrc loses all the mutable parameters that can be stored on this that can be stored in in in data memory but it still has access to the database containing the pre-shared keys of the different plunges so now in the context we have we mandate that the administrator forces all the networks that are managed by this GRC to rejoin and after that the node 3 drawn with the new Dre RC the new nodes had preserved the mutable context parameters so there are no known there is no known CPUs but you\u0027re an outlined a problem with this procedure in terms of a possible replay attack on the jrc where the attacker could essentially replay one on the of the early drawings so this is what I will show in the in the following so essentially what you see which is in the top spy during the day are see the so there is a typical request response exchange with sequence number sequence number and key essentially the knowns that is used here is an and the key used for encryption is the key of the pledge the response is sent using the same sig using the same sequence number button there are different keys all of this is fine and then after that after the drawing the plot becomes a drawing node that are covered there are several possible parameter update requests coming from the jrc to the pledged incrementing the sequence number m on the side of the jrc that pledge keeps "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:22:45",
    "text": "track in order to detect replace so now there is this event of the jrc failure that you see on the right and essentially as I said PSK the assumption is that fresh artis the database the free Sharky\u0027s is preserved and but that the mutable parameters like a sequence numbers are lost and now so essentially the jrc and this stage does not have the sequence number nor the replay window that it should accept on the behalf of the pledge so what can happen is that the attacker here can a replay the initial join request send it to the JR see if the jrc accepts it and according with the current text it there isn\u0027t essentially there is no way of jrc detecting that this would be a replay there would be Jesse would respond and this would result in a nonce reuse on the join response packet essentially losing the confidentiality property of the underlying cipher so this is the issue that was outlined by urine we have a couple of ways forward and with the latest updates to do scores back what what was introduced in inner score is an appendix B dot 2 which specifies the challenge response based mechanism for key exchange based on a pre shared key you know that compliments of score that we can use in order at trigger this mechanism at the GRC by knowing that there was a failure event in order to rekey the context so now in terms of the other dollar head munication overhead this adds one round-trip one additional round only in case of the jersey failure event and it results in a new context being derived at the GRC and the pledge so that they can consequently start using the sequence numbers they can reset the sequence numbers to 0 so this yeah so I mean this is not specified in our score which is an advantage that got approved so it would be very easy in terms of the spec in space 6 dish the only downside we have identified so far is that if we were to use this mechanism of for score we would no longer be compatible with the there would no longer be the lightweight implementation option that is currently identified in Appendix B of minimal security just as a reminder this lightweight implementation option allows us to get away without the implementations of sha and it KDF in firmer and by deriving the session keys at provisioning time of the pledge and essentially what pledge ends up with is "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:25:46",
    "text": "the session key is provisioned and it uses so now if we were to use this challenge response mechanism in appendix B to a fourth core essentially we would need the we would need the HKD of implementation if error the second way forward that we discussed yesterday you know in in the sign meeting is essentially the design of a custom sequence number is resynchronization mechanism but this would be something that is custom for six dish and that would be defined in minimal security again we would have the additional round trip only in the jrc case and if we were to succeed with this this would be compatible with the a lightweight implementation option but this is not fully baked yet and this would require more security review and then the third option just as a question to the working group is whether this scenario of partial jrc failure is realistic enough to be considered and if we still agree that this is something that we should address in the specification so those are all the slides so I welcome any questions from the working group Domo so Dana as contributor so from what you\u0027re saying it looks like option two is not you know it doesn\u0027t present enough advantages over one or three and so from the from the the three options that you present it looks like you\u0027re you\u0027re saying one or three are realistic two is not that realistic and I understand expected yeah so option two will require a bit of more trip to work on in in minimal security and ifs of course can introduce the lies in terms of the interest in terms of the document and it would be custom to success so this would be a procedure that is specific to the six dish use of force court okay yeah and so if I about option three and one option three were basically saying if this happens if the GRC loses for some reason the mutable parameters of the of its solution there\u0027s no it\u0027s the moats are bricked I mean you have to go and reprovision yes case yes essentially so we\u0027re saying yes and the okay and then in option one we have a mechanism that\u0027s already defined enough score that\u0027s correct which allows us to recover from that at the additional cost of hat a little bit of code inside the moat in particular H KDF and today\u0027s shop is a correct in the script and so the additional code means larger footprint and larger time to update over-the-air Thanks so there\u0027s there\u0027s two questions that I have can we make option one how do you say that optional so that in case you have that implemented you can you can "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:28:46",
    "text": "recover otherwise you\u0027re just you just you know it doesn\u0027t work and the second question is we had the discussion as before do we need sha-1 or can we do something with h KDF around AES rather than sha-1 and what what kind of effort are we looking at yes in terms of the first question essentially we I think we could that this would and this will boil down to saying in case your firmware is deployed without the challenge response mechanism go-go reprovision all their devices . this is a if it happens that your firmware has the edge KDF and the whole head KDF in implemented yes you can run this particle so i I think we are still in terms of interoperability we are there is no there is no problem with into for question two for HK D F so currently the default HK D F of a score is based on sha I was made aware by the other authors that essentially we can use an algorithm that is defined in cozy where HK D F relies on the AES as on the char on the hash function based on AES and this the changes required would essentially just be a referencing an algorithm in another spec so what one sentence yeah I was just going to say what what you said malicious this is your answer London that I mean the AES based hkfs are already defined so they\u0027re in table 12 of RFC 81 52 pitifulness talker open your stupid suggestion why don\u0027t you ask her to restart or fall to know and network about the current Secret Service and use the largest on for everybody I didn\u0027t get that I\u0027m sorry I asked all the all the all the participants that you contacted what allows the sequence number is used the highest number for everybody this is option number two yes this is option number two we already have a sort of this mechanism implemented but we would need to redesign it to refine it to cover this new attack that you\u0027re on brother but this is option number two essentially and it would mean a custom mechanism is in the Indus bank so this is these are things of million euro for raising this thanks militia for reacting so quick this is something that\u0027s not 24 hours old so let\u0027s continue the discussion on the mailing list I think that we have progressed a little bit in understanding options one two and three and and that you know I understand as a "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:31:48",
    "text": "chair that this is not redesigning the food world but it is referencing different things so I\u0027m happy from that point of view and I\u0027m happy to hear that Oscar or that that we have some summation ADF wrappers around - yes as well that would basically simplify the code in terms of whom if we go with option one I suppose yeah if we go thank you we\u0027re so I coordinate that thanks except for agreeing to give fight for humans to militia I think it was necessary Thanks so the next item is on MSF the minimal sketching function I think he has an update about another function to heroin temptation from Paris I was the I\u0027m the one the author of the MSF and the last time in the Bangkok we published MSF is version zero Y and that before this meeting we publish their version - and I\u0027m going to add to that the main update from this version is we introduced surely an unshared autonomous style concept and also we resolve the pending issues listed in the previous version and to a row revised and after that I will give a valuation of the MSF performance so for the non-shared and for this M as a massive versions zero - you introduced a now share and shared autonomous cells I will use a example to introduce how it works so for in the picture in the figures from the left side there are four nails and the different on the right side is the slot frame of the nose and the blue it allows codes like a box a blue box there will be the one of the autonomous house which is a Nam which is installed according the nose its own address so this is Celsius installed once the mode is put up and then the note to start - trying to select a node 1 2 has a JP or a parents - transmitter to join requester or 6b request and then it will getting the address from the node 1 and install a another autonomous house which is a shared and to transmit this packet so the node 1 will using the same same cell to transmit to the joinery response and or 6 who responds back to the to the south and later if the no.3 and no.4 trying to join - no - "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:34:50",
    "text": "as a parents or as such drawing proxy those two nose will install the autonomously ourselves according to the note grass of the note dress of a note - and the bigger this cell is the shared so only one only once the packet from either a nose relearn or for I say no - and then no - will reply the drone response or it 60 responds to one of the notes and the later another note will try again because there\u0027s a autonomic shared self and hence it will finish to this drum process or the 60-year transaction more sense so there\u0027s a a list of a pending issue from the preservation and this is the issues we already roast resolve the most with no result and there\u0027s three lacing there but the main discussion is already in many lists but I will focus on the following comments which is from yes Yauch who\u0027s giving the corner on the version - I would talk about it this more so the first issue is the security issue on the neighbor caching during tone process this means if you\u0027re not trying to join between a drum proxy and the job proxy will install those neighbor entry into the Intuos neighbor cache which is defined in the minimal security but this will introduce the issue if there\u0027s a I know the trying to faking different of UI addresses and to fill up the neighbor caching and there\u0027s another patch trying to join and you cannot join because they the fall of the neighbor cache so the yes I saw a that this is my short range from in there so just a comment on that and minimal security there is a net configuration section basically that says that gives recommendation that we should keep a separate entries for insecure and secure entries such that if there is an attack only the basically the insecure entries do not inflow is not flood over to the to the secure to the notes already that that are already in the network yeah so I think this text already covers this and we we might just reference the section of animal security yeah yeah so the solution here is more IKEA we want to record the name in the entry yeah touch yes in via yeah so you do to find out the Institute at that section or the skip mini mall security or framework but "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:37:54",
    "text": "my comment is the join request would fill up the the schedule the memory for the schedule those cells so we may need to have some comment on the security concerns with section about the heart - to prevent filling up the schedule just hop crane but right now right now on the John Cook society is actually did in the install and in autumn our cell so during the term process the current rough said if you if you have a new the neighbor entry and if you have the new every day you must is install the autumn of search I see ok ok this is from another place in draft so just to make the just to make militia change from here just don\u0027t make this clear you are talking about you are essentially saying that the pledge that this text is generic enough that the pledge can be recognized as there\u0027s another neighbor and add that is the okay okay a matter of clarification in the dunyah yeah I missed general it\u0027s a question thanks for a clarify and so the the second issue is in known trust package should be counted on the for adapting yeah I agree with that and the protocols the packet invitation specific so the solution is either we remove them or we change the term recommend master by shoot this is under discussion and so is no and another one is and clear for how we implemented the trigger timer with a rated limiting I think it will just a change removed with Britta limiting just using the tribute hammer 40 IO and yeah so there are other issues and to say actually talk is already in that memorized so we\u0027ll discuss later and for a devaluation we implement this MSF way with an open doors in project and we released a new read a new release which is implemented eruption two and we deploy the network at through one of the building from area Paris and with the forty nose and this is a result and we are running this experiment for two hours and each node are transmitting one packet for minis and we got a average 96.4% PDR and which is is it\u0027s to a developing we were trying to push more higher up here with this and this is a performance of the cell usage or so you can Mosul most of the nose actually is a controller between 25% SM type 5% percentage and for the lowest one is a "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:40:54",
    "text": "have low traffic is will kind of a low cell usage and for the highest one you can see the cell years we are changing over time but is over always a controller within this 75% and febris into which is the special parameter we configured when using MSF so so tocopheryl adoption is a round term there so next I will discussing the question in the forum analyst and published net worsen thank you thank you thank you so in the meantime yet you have sent in or we\u0027re just yeah you have sent an email to the mailing lists indicating a six-tier simulator also implements this and where you configure your you confirm those numbers only the PDR being at a hundred cents so that\u0027s yeah yeah the ninety-six percent is because of heart essentially firmware bugs so that thing yeah how to progress this so this has been you know thanks for evaluating this we have two implementations that they felt that they use it straight I propose that you guys integrate that the comments push the next version and the that next version should be close to ready for a working class call I think it\u0027s too early to do it now be because of their comments but yeah this this thing is running yeah I agree okay so let\u0027s yeah push those push those updates in the next couple of weeks and then we\u0027ll launch work with basketball once it\u0027s done yeah okay comments yes what\u0027s nice usually is to find one two person in the room who are all ready to do an early review of the document so it would be great that when thankfully pushes the document one or two persons are in the room are ready to read it right away and give you know pre work or class call commands or something all there voluntaries in the room we would just do that yeah it may be another okay so so Thomas and yatch will will read you the document as soon as you push it and fairies and then will if they are happy then we launch the work of Lascaux okay otherwise we just rip in a rapid version and we restart the Welcome Desk oh hi marketing authorize I\u0027m going to give you some quick update on this draft about about scheduling for selective jumping sisters networks just to recap the document in fact presents an attack and the solution against that attack essentially is about targeting a number of nodes in the network and in a first step once and for all derive their full communication pattern and after that starts actually joining their traffic that can be essentially entirely killed will effectiveness in a stealthy way and "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:43:56",
    "text": "low-power way of course Mon that later on the benefits and then we propose a solution against this so that all the nodes in the network of course in a consistent way observe a randomly shuffle the cells they use for communication at each slot frame regardless the original schedule they started from produced with whatever schedules are going we are agnostic about that here and I think is that in order to do that the network nodes engage only local computation so there\u0027s no additional communication they they have to take for this the result of course is a practical news schedule to preserve for communication which is still collision-free consistent and now it\u0027s also unpredictable for this versa so the original attack is neutralized this was firstly presented in bangkok and we got some feedback comments requests for clarifications of the updates are mostly about that in fact we clarified whether the attack importance this is about tearing down traffic of selected nodes in the network the adversary can do this so essentially minimizing the exposure enhance the there is to be detected compared to alternative forms of jamming it\u0027s also highly efficient at the same time which means it can be carried out with a battery-powered device in principle and if you consider all this this is much convenient to do in this way compared to and otherwise always possible of course quite been constant time in the increased consumption and risk of detection we better qualified well together with this I can say the adversary model versus external can join one or more network nodes in the same like a attack execution so to say and just to clarify this is about our getting the sack traffic or off selected nodes in the network node the network as a whole otherwise of course it does the final goal it\u0027s just more convenient to go for a whole web and jamming we clarify the the main solution limitation I would say so that this is about protecting against selective jamming traffic occurring in slot frames where data traffic happens so we cannot apply the same principle on lot frames that are essentially used to support a joining process to a minimal cell or other kind of runnable cells so if we shuffle cells there to of course the joining process would become well not unreliable but for sure less deterministic you cannot really think more of upper bounds for joining them so this is fine to apply to stall frames for data traffic not really for lot frames evolved in the joining process meaning that the same attack is still possible of course against the join process as a whole and as a final update we already had in a previous version that the two keys that are practically "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:46:57",
    "text": "used for local computation on the network nodes to alter their so usage have to be provided to them before the join the network and a possible way to do that of course is using the minimal security framework practically putting them in the general response in version zero of the draft we were aligned to version of the minimal security framework before our submission so now this is aligned to the current format of the general response it\u0027s essentially about adding two more parameters in the configuration object the key set was in general there are two but there\u0027s a corner case where it can be one and the actual permutation cipher to use with the keys to perform the shopping and of course we described how to perform higher handling in case there are some is matching key format numbers and so on so to summarize this was about taking into account the comments and feedback got at their bangkok we think we addressed all of them in this update and of course you\u0027d like to see document proceeding for which definitely we need reviews from the group thank you thank you so much so reviews is what you\u0027re asking for I\u0027m sure makes sense can people raise their hands if they so who has read this draft all right so yeah less than ten people who who is willing to review this in the next month my so let\u0027s write down in the minutes we have charlie think Fay Michael and Pascal so please please please provide to the main list a review of the draft to the next month that okay for you yes indeed miss perfect thank you thank you so much okay so we\u0027re as you have seen watch your watch we\u0027re late so what I propose we do is we proceed with the open benchmark presentation and then I propose that we swap and leave the plea please and then talk about the outcome of the hackathon last in case we\u0027re running out of time thank you for agreeing to swap so next is this kick-ass rush everyone you had some Oh the owners okay hi everyone I am bored our carpets from University of Montenegro and together with together with much needs and professor and his godson we are working on development of benchmarking platform for six dish as part of so the project of university of Montenegro now first of all what was the motivation behind so that so the first reason is that there are many academic papers which propose a 60s implementation but failed to give a comprehensive benchmark and the general overview in a real world driven scenario the second reason is that the standards are always evolving and it is important "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:49:59",
    "text": "that we have a constant performance evaluation and the third reason is that it is also essential that we have a reliable tool for comparing two implementations with one another or to compare state-of-the-art implementation with a new implementation now how do we try to how do we aim to achieve this by following these three sets of rules the first rule is that all the experimentation is should be based on test scenarios which are defined in RFC s and which try to mimic the real-world environments will use case the second principle is that we define the performance of firmware as the set of key performance indicators which are strictly defined and the third principle is that the conditions and the environments in which we perform the experiments namely the configuration of the test beds should mimic the real-world environments as closely as possible now the means of access to the platform apart from a GUI which is meant for human users is also another mean effects this is restful api which aims for the machine users so that we can use open benchmark for automated test is continuous integration nightly builds and so on and so on now here are some of the key performance indicators which we have defined and which should be used as the indicator of for the evaluation of the firmware performance and this is a simple fight simplified schematics of the entire system so the core of the platform essentially reserves the resources on a selected testbed deploys the firmware to all the notes the ephemeral which is provided by user and illustrates the actions on the testbed and on the notes the orchestration there\u0027s nothing else but sending commands to each and every node in particular time instances defining how that node should behave on every execute detection on the node event is emitted back to be open benchmark platform which is then used as raw data which are then used as raw data for calculating KP ice which are then forwarded to the user as the experiment results this is the current work in progress so we are currently we have implemented these three scenarios so home automation building automation and industrial monitoring and we\u0027re currently working on implementation working on integration or have already integrated these three tests but so they are at 11 supply its WI lab T in Ghent and open testbed in Paris which is about within India and for the last for the end this is some sleepy kept the gy of the current version it\u0027s still a work in progress as I said but this should give you an in and I should give you an insight into what the GUI of the first stable release should look like so that\u0027s essentially "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:53:00",
    "text": "all thank you very much if you have any comments and questions please ask so thank you so much for the visitors we don\u0027t have time to take questions now but if you have any questions your names are on the slide yes you want to highlight the importance of this work and and and kind of very very cool that you\u0027re able to do real word benchmarking and repeatable and some kind of continuous integration of benchmarking on six dish very very cool thanks thank you thank you for coming in like this as per our little switch next on is Michael and I have I didn\u0027t send you a second set of slides there\u0027s no second set of slides hi so I\u0027ll just give an update in two documents one is the zero touch join summary is there\u0027s not a lot of change since even Montreal but the goal of this document always was to use protocols and other things to find in other parts of the IETF and not do anything that we really needed so the update to this working group is really to understand that the core burski document has passed working group last call had three very large reviews which took literally six months of of several days a week to to deal with them that\u0027s all happened it\u0027s it\u0027s gone up to Ignace to get to the is G the constrained voucher document was adopted since we last spoke so received significant work includes from string brewski and is probably going to enter a record group last call tomorrow the easty co-op document which we also depend upon is it has passed it was in a working group last call it\u0027s over but the data tracker says it\u0027s still under way but it\u0027s factored over if you want to run all this over DTLS and we actually are making it run over a DTLS on 15.4 but not six dish in another room not associated with the IETF today and tomorrow with the threat group in these people that\u0027s all happens but if you want to use a more constrained key management protocol if you want dead heart for instance we still don\u0027t have a home for that this has been very difficult we\u0027ve been through a sec patch SEC dispatch virtual interim was that two weeks ago Melissa two weeks ago you know two weeks ago and I don\u0027t know what the results are I don\u0027t think that anyone knows at this point but there is some progress of some reasonable progress happening on getting that so those are the kinds of technology pieces that secure zero-touch going require us for to do our document I refreshed it in October really that was "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:56:01",
    "text": "just you know reposted lost a co-author last summer just not doesn\u0027t have time looking for help and and essentially we need to we need to go through the document again and essentially remove text the removing text essentially means because that text is now moved to another document which is in a much more mature State that\u0027s the kind of architecture of documents that we have had that documents lies been in front of you before and then I\u0027ll just mention the other document is enhanced beacon so I\u0027ve received some reviews on that from Pascal thank you very much have posted a new document in Oh - on that I think that as a working group we have pretty much reached consensus that the contents of the enhanced beacon is unchanged the real question is how much introductory text do we need to talk about why we are using an enhanced beacon why we have so limited broadcasts and that\u0027s really to explain it to people not in this room why it is that we\u0027re doing this so Melissa did you have a question quickly motions from in there I just have a comment about removing tests from zero time I think we\u0027re currently blocked with the ad hoc status and we eventually need to decide if we\u0027re going to go yet hoc way of the TLS way and yeah and we need the progress on the way on on in the security area so just to add to that in the other room which is where I been all morning where were we\u0027re doing DTLS and over 54 and it\u0027s not easy the packets are too big they take too long we treat we transmit Tanners mean that unless you deal with that right you actually get retransmits before the original set of packets even arrived so there\u0027s a bunch of things to tweak and get right for that it\u0027s not it\u0027s not trivial making that stuff smaller really will help so yeah I mean we had the discussion in Prague oh I think it was two years ago when two years ago yes yeah yes here\u0027s again we still don\u0027t have a resolution so I think it would be useful for us as a working group to have some support maybe from the 80s and also from the security from from the security area to progress on this work yeah absolutely yeah it was literally two years ago here we did Interop on Eid Hawk right in another room you\u0027re on yeah sure you\u0027re on sir London so I\u0027m I don\u0027t know the results from sec dispatch yet but there is supposed to be right up coming out soon okay so hopefully they should be news about question we should make sure it passes through this group for for comment okay for that too that maybe that\u0027s all I have but I "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:59:03",
    "text": "would like to see is maybe another review from the room and then launch let\u0027s go yeah that\u0027s fine I show you so we can do dis Diego Diego is gonna do some my co-authors gonna do some of the introductory tasks I think the working group needs to decide if the introductory texts need to be this big you know everyone understands what broadcasts or this big to explain to the rest of the world why no we have issues about broadcast actually yeah and so the role document being the user will clarify just by its existence why this is needed because whoa we\u0027ll use it so that\u0027s why I don\u0027t write a book okay I\u0027m just concerned about you know Jen art review or someone you know comes along and goes we\u0027ll what\u0027s the problem right because the problem the problem is in some ways not very well defined in the document because we all understand the problem and that\u0027s why I said well look there\u0027s some more text that maybe is needed but if we don\u0027t really want to put that in I don\u0027t want to put it in it\u0027s it\u0027s texted right and and maintaining I think the role documents you know explains what it\u0027s doing if the question comes from the review just point on the role document say yes but I wrote the role document too so I still go to write some text is what I hear heard just not in this document right okay fair enough it\u0027s kind of self yeah so in the last 60 seconds a quick a quick update about the hackathon that took place this weekend so my Timmy\u0027s Menasha and I attended the hackathon from two days ago oh I want to give the message later where it shows up if there\u0027s a 400 or 16 people attending this a hackathon so is largest a hex on ever and their hair is on pictures in the middle is this is a sick day she opened August in table and right otoko corner is my teammates militia is working harder so what I plan to do during the heck zone is once we using opened up a new project to optimize the imputation of MSF and another one is militias working on the benchmark which is a page marker the performance of sick tissue so this one we have done after the exome so from the benchmarking part is able the benchmark server is able to kind of communicate with the mouse over tests the test batch such as that the text powers at DeGroot and the others and on the massive site we trying to organize the MSF and also create a live demo which is available on one so with this link everyone can access it and the interface look like this is as empty under latency and an entry and the "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:02:04",
    "text": "reliability and the cell usage for MSF you can access is this link and see it\u0027s lively actually right now yeah so it\u0027s a pretty cool heck phone here\u0027s are some links if you want more details about where\u0027s code and how this progress you can access the links that\u0027s it thank you thank you so much I think face so click on the link and you\u0027ll be able to see a little dashboard and see a live network running six dish now that\u0027s it for our time we don\u0027t have time to take any more questions let\u0027s reconvene on the mailing list thank you so much so please make sure that you have signed the blue sheets there\u0027s a there\u0027s a blue sheet at the table there as you walk out if you have it thank you "
  }
]