[
  {
    "startTime": "00:00:03",
    "text": "How do I do this? Okay. Okay. It's a I'll call it a US keeps, it's an NCA. Dave, we hope you guys are busy Alright. That seems to it. Awesome. Awesome. Alright. The doors are being closed. Well, look at this, isn't it? No. Yes. It's time. It's time. Please those of you who have not already GAM, That was beautiful QR code. Hello? So those of you who have not done so already, please scan that beautiful QR code or do the other things that let the world know that you were here? We have welcome to the combined Jmap and extra session. So the plan is to spend around about 55 minutes on jamap and 55 minutes on extra. A few minutes at the start while we figure things out and give you the note wall of text. And, we'll get into it, and we'll get into it. I have a I have a click. So gen map is, yeah, gen map is the host of this and extra is combined with us for half of it. It's a bit weird that it doesn't show up in extras meeting list. There you go. Expertise. Tonightwell. As many of you have already seen, Hello. Welcome. I'm sure everyone here I've seen this one before. If you have not, please read through this. These are the conditions under which you will be giving your contributions here. And now the clicker doesn't work. Also, be be good people. Behave yourselves treat people well. Thank you."
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:02:03",
    "text": "Skip right through that slide. We know what we're doing. Here's our agenda. So we're going to be spending the 1st 60 minutes or so on jamap, the remaining 55 minutes or so on extra. Give or take. The timings for the individual items in there, I don't think it really matter too much as long as we get through all the work that we have here. Any agenda bashing before Easterheart? And you don't wanna talk about anything else in this session. Yeah. Do you just? Well, do we is part of the agenda bash discussion about about mealmate. That is in the extra Section, I've set aside some time for it. Could we could always do that first. part of extra. It's an yes. It's an extra It is a middle part of the session. Fantastic. So to start off with under Jaymap, we have 3 documents with a s ASG, jamap Sieve, jamap sharing and jamap contacts. I believe we have some slides specific And for sharing in context, Neil was just going to hop up and speak. So we wanna share the slides for sieve, I got a clicker here if you need. How would you dress? This this should be quick. And next slide, please. So this went through, a full ISJ, ISGR review. Actually, yesterday after I'd made this slide, I got my sec review which was mostly comments. Nothing to be changed there. The other feedback did result in a lot of eternal changes. I'll run through those real quick to see if anybody has any issues with what changes were made. The the big one, there there's a statement either in the abstract or the, the introduction that said that, Jam Absiv, had different functionality from Managed Sift."
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:04:01",
    "text": "Which caused some confusion. So I I removed that. And there's terminology elsewhere with relation to each method that it specifies that it's has equivalent functionality to a particular managed function or multiple functions. Subsections in in, section 1 were merged together, which pretty much editorial, I added an example jamapp session object one of the reviewers was asking about that And I was able to use that to reference it from all the other examples which made things a little cleaner, The blah by these description talked about what the what the content was supposed to be, what it shouldn't be, moved it out into its own section, which seems to be a little bit cleaner way to do things. Looks like please. As per the other jameth specs, I stripped all the examples down to this just method calls and method responses. Meaning all the using strings, everything else was stripped out. Make a little lightweight. Per Neil suggestion, 2 of the errors were renamed. Using the terms 7 instead of script. And I added a section, talking about quotas. It it's fairly, sparse but basically says a server server should impose them. How you administer them is outside the scope of this particular document. But it does say that the JMP quote is spec is one way that a client can fetch information about those particular quarters. Next slide, I think that's pretty much it. Oh, yeah. George had a comment, about the examples I listed them as a gym up API request in response. He thought that was somewhat confusing and just wanted me to just use the terms method calls and method responses I mean, it has any strong feelings about that. Murray, is that the mic, maybe he does, or he has No. No. No. Just, you you said that this has been through ISG evaluation. It's not"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:06:03",
    "text": "it finished last call. It's sitting in the queue for it's got a ballot open. You're you're getting your director reviews in. So it's not as far along as you think Alright. fine. That's My mistake. I'll I'll take this issue to the lit actually, this particular question was in the list. If anybody has any strong feelings about it, please let me know I'm inclined to let things roll the way they currently are unless someone else chimes in and says that I need to make a change. You said, oh, sorry, George. Go ahead. Yeah. I don't have strong feelings about this. I just looked like, an take to me. So I rest it, but I it's fine if you leave it if it's on purpose, Okay. Thanks. Neil. Sorry. I'll have to have another perspective where was, again, but general API request with the capital r would be the object including all those extra properties because that's what that object's called, it's just method of calls, then that'll just be the array of of of method calls, Okay. So whichever one of those it is, use the right. Alright. Thanks. I think that's pretty much the last slide. Yeah. If someone wants to take another read, other than George, that is once a read through the updated text, I'd appreciate it. I don't believe I made any technical changes but but but but but but always good to have a 2nd, 3rd That is it. Thanks Alright. So I I don't think we need another working group last call. For, at It doesn't sound like there's substantial technical changes there. Mean, our area directors right here, if he doesn't think that we need another work group last call, that was a no then and put slotted. Keep going with your changes. So press mapping next. So next one is sharing and contacts."
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:08:02",
    "text": "Okay. This one should also be super quick. There's no slides for this because there's no much to say. Murray is an AD review of these 2. Thank you. Some good small comments. I published a sharing update this morning that addresses those Nits, and I will publish an update to contacts for those ones. Today or tomorrow, probably tomorrow. But there's no substantial changes. So I don't think, again, anything needs to go for a particular review, and I'm hoping that we can progress those on to the next stage once that's published. That, sharing one's already done. Contacts pretty soon. There's no other blockers or any Like, people raising issues on those that I'm aware Anyone got any comments on those? I otherwise, I think That just bothers me wrong. Alright. Thanks. Anyone anyone any comments on from them, it's sharing your context. F. No. It's quick. Thank you. Yeah. I thought it would be quick. Okay. So calendars is the one where we've had a bit more discussion on the list recently. If I think we've got a proposed way forward with this. So have got slides where they don't so much, but you can are So am I jumping ahead? Is that the next they? Yep. Challenges is next in the in the agenda. It's in working group last call. Did did you Email them or did you upload them? Oh, I emailed them to you. Sorry. Alright. I should have uploaded them. That was the Optum It's Okay. The Alright. So I think the main the issue that was raised here was about, conversion to Icalendar, which was kind of required for the dependency on I tip, And I think what we realized when we looked at it again is that we shouldn't tie it quite so closely to it. Well, that is the most common"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:10:00",
    "text": "scheduling mechanism people will be using for sending events at least between different providers at the moment. It's shouldn't be this is locked in and you must now support this forever because it know, mandates a bunch of things like you have to now also support eye calendar forever even if you didn't want didn't need that for the rest of your Jam app server. So the plan is to make Pretty small change, which just removes the subsection that describes what IT messages to send. We would publish that probably later than informational things. It's useful your arms in the eye tip, but it's not essential. And then, think that removes that dependency. And, the other change we're going to make is to rename introduce this new property called Schedule ID to make it easier to map participants or attendees from Hi, calendar, and we're gonna rename that to calendar user address, which is just very explicit about what that is because it's for start, it's not actually an ID type. It's, URI So having ID in the name is a bit confusing when normally when we say that in Jmap, it means it's an ID type. And secondly, that's what it's called an eye calendar and because it we want people to map these very directly. If they are converting between the two we thought it would be better to be explicit. So Yep. So this slide is just basically what I've been saying. Those are the two things that we plan to do. And I think between those two, that then removes that, concerned that the had been raised about, yeah, this dependency on, I tip and be, on dependency on me, I would convert to eye calendar. And then so we'll be able to publish jamout calendars and Then later on, we'll have a, recommended way of converting I calendar to Jess calendar, which Robert and a few other people are working on and we can publish the where you would then send IT messages JVAC calendars, with that as well, but I don't think not, you're not going to conflict with this work. It makes them nicely independent and"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:12:01",
    "text": "So that's my plan. So again, I'll publish an updated as draft about spec Probably, yeah, today was tomorrow. And then I don't know what the next step would that would be, whether it would need another working group last call or whether we can, keep it wherever. I'm not sure what the status of that is at the moment, actually. What's the What's the draft status of calendars, genomic calendars? Oh, so it's Work Group last call. Okay. So we'd probably just refresh the work with last school then. Refresh it. Please review. And then hopefully that's, hopefully that's then done, and we can tick that one off too, and we'll have a lot of specs progressing towards a final destination. Any questions or comments on calendars. Joyce. No? Okay. I'm still quite loud, Yeah. Quite loud. Yeah. Okay. Maybe I can lower the Volley on my microphone. Okay. So, yeah, just wanted to say it sounds like that that that that the the main issue has been resolved. And it can go through. I would agree. That's it. No further comments. Right. Thank you. Good to see. Yeah. Now sync that too. Alright. Yeah. I think that's it on those. They're they're all so close to being done. I hope we can get them over the line before the next meeting and weren't to pay only agenda again. Oh, or maybe not. Larry's got something to say. Just a quick thing I sent. Not the contact draft. The other one is set for last call now. The one you have updated. Jam up sharing. I think the one that you're wanting. for last call. Sharing has gone Complex call to perfect. Great. Excellent. Thank you."
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:14:00",
    "text": "So I've got actions here and there will update drafts and continue with sharing in context and for calendar's new all update draft and firmware refresh Work Group Last Call, for another 2 weeks before we submit that to ASG. F. Existing draft, rest, portability extensions, and portability guides. So, yep, rest is next. Yep. Alright. Alright. Think I can start Yeah. Yep. Yep. Okay. So, yeah, 1st, I wanna start with an intervention, if explaining again why we have all those 3 portability specs. So, basically, the main idea is be wanna have a protocol and and some Yeah. Basically, a protocol about moving for moving existing user data between systems or virtual API, we wanna be able to give, API spec to users or developers of legacy systems, have no appropriate API. And as an example, we want people to migrate away from or the webmailer, just one example I came up with. So we would then present 3 documents one First is the portability guide, which, shoes, showcases that bear minimum of jam up, even for such u use cases, which we call one time migrations are you. On the migrant once, and then if you don't, use the API anymore, so it has to be a very low entry barrier. To implement TMAP then we have the rest mappings back to have even lower barriers because for some people,"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:16:02",
    "text": "even those barriers might might be too low, which introduces a simplified request team scheme. And then we also have some further extensions, that can be useful to migration specific problems. Next slide, please. Yep. So Here is the rest mapping spec. Which is basically the the second of the Paul, Paul, Paul, bunch, So, Yeah. The the the big change it has is that it has been adopted now by the working group. Manssell, So no further changes. Until then. Yeah. So this is what it looks right now. So, basically, the main idea is there is an and your API URL arrest. Property and the session object, and, It's it is just like the download URL, in the session object or the upload URL, you you can define but with the with the difference that you define things like method call and properties that are typically in the Jason. Request. You define them in the URL, And, yeah, as it is right now, each call is that a post call to this endpoint that is defined. Yeah. And yep. I'm not quite happy with the way it is. Other people also were not very happy. So, Yeah. I think we should 4. I I think it makes sense to talk about what do we what we do with that, or how we progress here. Next slide, please. So, So the main idea for the rest mapping spec, because it has also been raised ethic, by Robert. Oh,"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:18:01",
    "text": "it was like it's not clear from the spec what the what the main purpose of the speakers, that should definitely be in the spec. Here, I tried to nail it down. So the main idea is to impose lower requirements, So we didn't want to have any JSON in the request. One idea was also to avoid routing in general, like, avoid having passed in the URI. Next slide, please. As all, Neil, when he did a review, He looked at the He he had a different suggestion, then He said, basically, use this type of API rest URL, And map actually, map each Jaymap, Call method of call. To to a rest Message. Next slide, please. I would say this is fine. Basically, But, yeah, obviously, this was done or this may then allow To have no JSON in the request, But, yeah, it we would need to drop the routing requirement as it is right now. Is possible to define a API RESTurl more or less, without having a rod without needing to have a routing library, but Yeah. I think this is fine to drop this requirement for me, at least. So we only would have the first requirement And, yeah, just do simple crude tests, recruit methods. Or can you please go back? To the slide. Yeah. So one question that I would have is, Is it fine?"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:20:01",
    "text": "To actually only implement the group method for me, this would not include query. Would be nice to leave that out for our requirements, at least. To not have a quite complicated mapping spec. But, yeah, I think that would need to be discussed if that's Fine for the working group. Neil, is it the mic? Yeah. I think You can leave out query except you need some way to be able to get all of the objects. Given the purpose of this. So maybe Oh, yeah. Like, Get without an ID on the end of the URL. So it's like get slash API slash account a one slash calendar, you get a page back with some token to be able to get the page or something. That's how this kind of your, API would normally function. And then in the future, you could extend it to add filters, but don't know you need to. Like, the The the point of this is not to try and replicate everything you can do in Jmap because at that point, just got a clunkier syntax for JMAT. Like, it's it's to be able to do exactly. It's it's yeah. You know, JMP is designed to be as clean as possible given the all the things he wants to be able to do. So Here, you want to say, if you only want to do these really simple things, we can define this simple API that people expect and, like, do it like that and then just drop everything else. That will be Yeah. My recommendation. Alright. That is really nice to hear. I was I was mainly when I drafted the spec, I was mainly a bit unsure about the working group. Expects from the spec here, but that makes it very clear. Alright. If there are no further comments, I would move to the next slide. Alright. Your item plates came up twice now. And I I also saw Neil using them in his, trough review, So this on the on the first"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:22:00",
    "text": "line is basically what is defined right now. It's I I tried to stick heavily to what's defined in jamapcor already. For for download URL and upload URL. But, yeah, we could move to using your I templates. One concern of me was that did did did did might people might then wanna use all the features that your item plate would give them, And Yeah. Maybe people already have opinions On that? Yeah. I think they do. Alright. I'm back in. The Jmup Core spec referen it uses URI templates as well. And it's it's explicitly says your item plates level 1 only. The the your item plate spec has different levels of complexity. And so it says, you can use anything in level 1, which is simple. Just placeholders as I recall. I'd have to double check So there's a audio solution for that in which we use in Cool. Okay. Nice. Then I overlooked that. Thanks. Alright. Then that yeah, was quite helpful. And then done. Was that With taillights, Okay. Alright. I've noted down here. I think that things says action for your for you to publish a version 1, Yep. Combining the speed back. And then discuss again on the list Yes. It's the next portability extension. They're mostly in order just checking. Yes. So this is, yeah, So well, sorry. It's a bit early in the morning. Soya. Yep. The draft on migration and portability extensions. Can you go to the next slide, please? Yeah, so there have been"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:24:00",
    "text": "a bunch of changes during the call for adoption, actually. So, before this was adopted or last last digest, these were 2 specs still jammerdebuglogging and jammerbeckendinfo. Those have been merged into portability extensions, each of those specs has a different JMP capability Kim Timothy Bug logging logging is for exposing back end logs directly to jam up clients, and the jammer back end info is for identifying the server software version And As it is right now, it has been adopted. Next slide, please. So Yep. Since it has been adopted Nothing has happened. It still needs quite, like, definitely you need some work. Here and there. So for debug logs, to for me. My my point of view, we need it to have still some locks even though, the server prints out an error response. And, for back end info, one thing, and that's obvious to me is yeah, to gain more implementation experience and refine the as it is defined right now. It's not the final version, definitely. And likely, there will be also more changes. Needed it. Yeah. If there are any commas, feel free to go to the mic. But if not, I would just continue with the next spec So I think we probably should try and get some experience with we want to do that? In our server can, Yeah. I think I think it's worth it's worth doing it and checking that it makes sense as an implementer, Alright. So we'll do that."
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:26:00",
    "text": "Someone at First Mile. Implement in Cyrus and see what it looks like. Cool. Alright. Alright. And here is my my last slide deck, about the guide migration and blood portability. Next slide please. So, since it has been adapt, like, Not much has changed, but it has been adopted now. Next slide, please. So here again, why did we do this? Because we wanna have a version of JMapp that or we wanna have no. It's not a different version. We would just wanna show how to implement Jmap, just to have a bare minimum And as it turns out, this is not only interesting for, yeah, migration or portability scenario. It's also interesting for other server client developers, for example, after Fostam, I got some feedback regarding this spec. And, Well, it was told to me that it's surprising to see when reading this back how middle is actually required, to have a minimum version. And that's also one of the big ideas here to help bootstrap jamapp. On different systems. Because Yeah. Blaint, and It was our impression that the speck looked quite. Big and complex, at first sight, And this is the idea here is also to help them guide people and maybe prioritize implementing certain things. Yeah. And as a side note, I was also, yeah, reference to the the current implementation guide on on Jaymap. I It's it's out at least it says on the on the page that it's outdated. Might make sense to"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:28:00",
    "text": "I think they they somehow belong together, the guide we have here and Also, the implementation guide on JEMET by all might make sense to to update that also at some Pindor, in conjunction. Yep. Next type, please? Oh, yeah. So for regarding future work. I think this speakers. Seen a bunch of versions already. I think 2 or something. So, actually, I'm not sure what's needed. Here. And if somebody has some ideas on what the specs still needs. Maybe you could come up to the microphone or I mean, I think we internally, we need to have another round and discuss if we're we're very happy with the spec as it is, but I don't see obvious points, that still need to be addressed. So if there are any, just come to the mic or or maybe if you'll, leave feedback on the list. And that would have be it. And the microphone is still lonely, so I guess not. Alright. I guess the next question is, have people read this since it? Since it was Alright. So I I think probably what we need to say here is action to people in this room read the document. Read the document. Give feedback, please, on the list. So this is Gemap Portability Guide. Yes. Yep. So, speaking as an individual, I I'm wondering if portability, I I I think I misunderstood the Purpose of this document,"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:30:03",
    "text": "as portability guide if is maybe an implementation guide or something like that. It makes it sound as though you've got something jamap in one place and you're moving it someplace else. Whereas, I think what you're really doing is the way you're describing it here is And I have I apologize. I haven't read the draft. Is that you're you're trying to make it easier for people to Deploy. Yes. Thank you. I was, yeah, I I thought that this point might come up yeah. So I was I was also thinking if the if the naming is Still Good. Because Yeah. Or if it's what the working group also wants, maybe this I mean, for our use case is clearly more migration and portability direction, but it can also be useful for other people. So that's not obvious from just reading the title of the document. I think that's what you're referring to. Right? Right. Yes. I mean, I'm I'm working on doing some deployment, and I didn't think to look at this document. So Yes. Yeah. Good point. Yeah, definitely a good punch and maybe if I'm ready on the mic, I can sense here. 1st of all, hi. Maybe giving some history on that. So I think that was our starting point initially because there is this classic distinction we do between portability and interoperability, full fledged interoperability, where you wanna use all that client features because you do a continuous interaction with the server. Whereas in the portability scenario, you do basically a one off import export, which is our historic main use case. And for that, of course, we needed to find a subset because we don't need, you know, whatever update features and this kind of stuff. So this is how it gets started. Right? And obviously is on the way it turned out it might even be interesting also for some, you know,"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:32:00",
    "text": "low level interoperability scenarios. So you absolutely have a point that this might be a a clarification to rephrase it a little bit, sub tires, neil again. I'll reread where this is going to have a look. I just wanted to make the point that, I think, really important that It's the minimum bare minimum means it still would work with a client that just has been designed to work for Jmap, so it is still Jmap. It would, it's just it would be horrendously inefficient if you're doing anything other than, like, very basic stuff. That's kind of The goal. Right? Just wanna confirm that. So as a client, you've asked me to do one of these servers. Everything, it would still work because it's all following all the stuff that came you know, the jam up's back. Is a valid implementation. It just happens to be a very inefficient one because if if cut some corners to make it much easier to implement. That's the idea. The basically. So I I actually have 3 different flavors more or less, like, the the smallest one. The bare minimum in the spec is actually not supporting anything, then you can choose, do you wanna support, create like work. Creating, or do you wanna support reading if you, yeah, if you sup if you implement all the three things, then I guess the data is basically. what said, you The danger is you can get you come up with something that people can say, we support Jam app and then you try and actually use it and It just kinda doesn't work and you have this Yeah. Problem line of you know, what, what, what does it mean to have, like, jam up support. It's just my concern because we've saw that bit with imap where people can say, we support imap But if you just put, like, 3501 and nothing else, it's probably barely usable, Yeah. Does it make sense to rename this Jmap minimum profile or something like that rather than Jmap"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:34:00",
    "text": "Portability Guide just in terms of this? Branding, Yeah. Yep. Definitely. Cool. I think that it's easy enough just to upload a document with that as the name that replaces the current one. We can consider it still be the same adopted document. We've just renamed it or just change the title and leave them leave the document name peers after after it turns into an RSA Yep. Yeah. So last last point maybe regarding what Neil said is, it it it it it it would be important for us to also distinguish between only reading and only writing, because those are just common use cases that we see in the Migration. And or portability realm, But, yeah, that's, like, if for a normal jamap, server, that would be kinda weird to only support 1. I would say. But, yeah. Read only account makes perfect sense. I can I can imagine I reader, s s a read only profile being something you would offer? To quite a lot of people, if you don't wanna store any data on the server, about someone. Alright. Yep. Okay. I I will make that more clear in the spec then. Regarding those 3 flavors. Alright. Alright. Alright. Alright. Alright. Alright. Alright. Alright. Alright. Alright. Alright. Alright. Alright. Alright. Alright. So next session topic is So next thing on the agenda here is s mam sender. Let's say"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:36:00",
    "text": "I just realized that, you gave me 5 minutes. That probably takes longer than 5 minutes. It's fine. We're well ahead of time. Oh, okay. Perfect. And he is all the time. Right? Moving on, So, What happened is the booking group document is 04. It actually sppired. Last ATF, I was working on personal draft, which is a alternative roach, and I I'm revising the alternative approach draft I think suggestion is If people are happy with alternative approach, then kind of free adopt it and make it the 5 of the working group. I'm not, I think chair can chairs can decide what the best process for this. But I think the booking group still needs to make a decision whether we stick with the original simple approach or delta native. And there there are some slides explaining that. Okay? Next slide, please. So the original approach is just having an email set have 2 main bullying attributes for signing encryption and a couple of supporting ones, and that'll It basically it's very simple, but it's not extensible. So it only allows signing and encryption of both. If people want things like triple wrap, which is sign encrypt sign, then it's not possible to express this. Yeah. Next slide. Please. So, another thing that was Is there is a way in email query command to basically say help. Find me all messages which are encrypted or not encrypted or sign not sign. Okay. Next slide, please. So this is what happened to the alternative proposal where"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:38:01",
    "text": "I'll firstly describe quickly some changes, which applied to both documents, really, will only apply to my personal version, Well, trying to explain what what is, like, is this message signed or encrypt there is, I was going through, like, various media types and parameters And then I realized that it's actually a document in lamps, just got approved, that describe terminology for, for this sort of thing. So instead of hacking it, I thought I'll just reference that document. So then, instead of having like 2, 3, 4,000,000,000, there is a object array of objects that describes each operation that will be applied with the signing encryption. And, There is now a better way of doing the lump's header protection, which can say, well, Don't strip this headers field on outside, but they will be an encrypted payload. So you want to hide it for, from external observers or, also list header fields that are being, you know, sanitized and changed the change to change the change to change southbound on the outside and then after some background discussion with Neil and Philip. Yeah. I added Email as MIME decrypt, and there will be a bit, some information next slide. Next slide. Right. So email us mine decrypt It basically takes a blob ID from which is one of the booty part blobs of the message you are trying to decrypt. And it pro produces a new blob. And if there is nothing to decrypt, it just returns the regional. So I did this based on"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:40:03",
    "text": "Blobbs back, actually. I was trying to find the closest one so that I don't debit. And then I realized that actually, Email as MIME decret probably is not not a great name. It's probably better blobusmamp decrypted because It translates a blob to another blob, which might or might not be a message, actually. And then you you invoke email parts on the blob, on decrypted blob. So, Yeah. Yeah. I'll probably rename it. That's okay with you all. Next slide. So, yeah, these the main kind of differences how this will Sorry. That's probably not not very obvious example. But so email set on the left hand side is the original approach with just bullying the right hand side, it, it has the same account and ID and create an older other parameters, but it has this array of operations being applied. And operations, you know, there are main operations there. Accent and crypt, and they also can have parameters, parameters specific to them, So you can, like, if you want to say, I want to encrypt using specific cipher. You can sapphired if you omitted server pics. Yep. Go I just, you know, looking at this, my question is, how many reasonable, different combinations are there. Because because The right hand side is obviously more flexible, but it's all saying, you lots more opportunities to fuck up. Whereas, The left hand side is like, like, like, like, like, maybe, it does sign encrypt sign if you do both set those both to true, for example, because the service like the best way to do this. I don't know enough about it, but I'm just know, I I like that it's a lot harder probably as a client to make a mistake with what's on the left. Yeah. That that was kind of like why I create alternate version because I'm not sure."
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:42:00",
    "text": "The right hand side allows you. So, obviously, it allows support triple wrap care about triple wrap, we can just add it on the left hand side as another option. Even just say if you do both, is there a reason you would not want to do Yeah. You can do just sign and grip. It doesn't have to be triple wrap. It's actually They're technically different. I know. I know. It's like which ones should you be doing it? Like, if we can I suppose the one on the right I'm being advocate I'm quite neutral about it. that? You can do things in s MIME like compress. If you want to add, you can just x xxx extend the structure on the right and add a new operation for compression. And you don't have to, you know, change as much. How likely it is no idea, So, yeah, I I'm a bit ambivalent. The right hand side it's quite a beautiful and flexible, and you can generate all test cases. From this, it might be slightly of engine engineer. So I don't know. I think the working group needs to pick. So I I don't know what's what's the know, do we need to have a poll in the working group? Just Philip is the one who wanted this. Yeah. The the nice thing the one on the right that meant to be an argument to email set, or was that meant to be a property on the okay. You could actually make that a property on the email object, which is, in some ways, is nice. Cause firstly, it means you can specify something different for the different emails if you're you're doing multiple and a single request, we're being flexible here. But the other thing is presumably then you could fetch it, and it would get come back to you Well Or you can't. Well, that would have to be the first to finish it. And Reverse engineers, how how it was constructed not right. Are, you, I'll just Hopeful, but no. Okay? Robert Stepanek Fastville. I might have missed, but Is the is there is there any order implied in the s my operations array, Yes. Okay. That's yes. Exactly."
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:44:03",
    "text": "So the the left hand The left side will always say that if you have both a signance, moment crypto, then signing first on Crip second. If you want to construct the opposite way, which is not as far as I know is being used, But possible, Then there is no way of expressing this. Thanks for clarifying I mean, I, I think I'll I'll leave it in capable hands of chairs, try to figure out a way of how how we decide on this. Doesn't have to we'll probably cannot do this in the room, Isis here. Alright. But you need to help me out. I lean towards what Neil was saying that we should define the best way and do it. I one tricky thing there is is who do you encrypted too. Just SMIME encrypt doesn't cover the which Which do you have? Director recipients. It actually does well, it says you cannot add extra well. Yeah. If we want extra recipients, the way on the right will will give you ability to stick extra attributes. So BCC recipients are not support it with this, or how's that? How does that work? A very good point. No. It's not at the moment. Well, how do you encrypt for a BCC recipient without revealing who the BCC recipient is. Right? While the Yeah. There is a spec for this and lambs that just got approved. Okay. It does propose that you don't include BCC header field. And, yeah, you, you might send different copies to different recipients, and I think that's actually BCC might work. I think if BCC is included, in the message create, but it will have to be stripped from the message and just keys, keys, inserted for the specific recipients and separate copies generated. But this is Barry."
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:46:00",
    "text": "All the All the systems I'm aware of these days send separate messages for BC sees anyway. So that's moot. I don't think that's true. Okay. Well, Can't prove them wrong on that one. Yeah. Cameron, just in Fast Mill. I agree with Neil that Disruption in the right, might give clients too much rope. But on the flip side, if the best current practice of what SMIME recommends changes the right hand side is kind of future proof. Allegard, an aliquard, Yeah. That's kind of exactly. Like, I mean, The one on the right can give you a lot of simple examples, like you can have sign and sign. Can you still can generate it in real world? I don't know what clients will actually do with it once they receive. They might just handle it automatically or not. I have no idea. I mean, when I think about it, actually, If you go in the left side, what you really want is a single option saying, It's behind this message. Then the server should do the right thing. Like, So if you yeah. Like, if you're doing that, just Well, so Okay. Maybe what we want is a single thing, which is an enam, which gives you a you know, wealth. There is no do the right thing because sometimes you need signing. Sometimes you need encryptionable. Well, you either need signing or signing an encryption Yeah. But, you know, there are cases when you don't want encryption or can't have it. So yeah. Okay. Yeah. I think enough for the left, for on the left hand side will work. That's actually implemented this. Yep. Robert Stepanick again. Did you also look into making the as mine operations property, object value so that you would have a key signed points to an object that might include Options."
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:48:03",
    "text": "Yeah. They're they're objects. Yes. No. No. But, I mean, at the moment, it's in the objects, objects, Yes. So you would have you would get to this nonsensical thing, like, sign three times and whatnot. Versus if you would make it an object, as my operations, for the key You want you might want still twice. That's the thing, you know, It's more flexible, but you can generate I mean, then I under don't understand, like, the the left hand side and the abbreviated version seems like to imply all these trusts. Yes. The left hand side is, limits the variance that we can produce. Mean, I think Philip also mentioned, I don't think it's the main driver, but with the right hand side, you can create nonsensical options for testing if you want to see how system behave. So I don't know. Help me choose. So Yep. Speaking as a as an individual. I can think of situations. You you the the sign and sign thing kind of brought something to mind that, you know, you I can think of situations where you might want more than one signature on a message, one representing maybe the the individual and organization or something like that. How how does that work here? I I'm I'm not sure that you necessarily want to have nested signatures. You'd like to have several independent signatures on the body, I think. Or on the box that you're saying? I think the way how it works with man, you you have You generate random key. You you sign your encrypt pane load with random key, and then you include for rich recipient, you include For this key decryption, way to decrypt it. So you you list all the recipients. I I was referring to signatures more than more than encryption."
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:50:02",
    "text": "I mean, maybe it's maybe it's fine and you have and you have multiple multiple, Signing keys associated with it and It's I think it's all kind of, yeah, date advice, ma'am. I'm not sure. There are also in the SMIME, technically, there are core signatures. So but they're they're typically involved when you do extra processing and want to add, you know, I verified they said cosignature. So it's another field and and and science structure. The moment, there is no way of doing this. But not In any case, I I I think that sort of argues for the more, flexible approach. Okay. So you're saying if you want this, we want the right hand side. That that would be my vote. Yeah. Okay. Alright. But, We need to take this to the list note out. Yep. And we need to sort it out amongst the chairs because my vote is very much the opposite. I think we should having read The lamps documents have been the art art reviewer for both of the lamps documents alleged. This they define a best practice we were debating in lamps just yesterday, whether we do a BCP or informational and, give the there should be informational documents because we don't have real world experience, but the idea here is that your jamap server does the right thing. And that's generally what we do with wist wist Jmeth. Email creation is the jam app server does the best current thing to create the email that goes out And so what I would probably add is an s mile s mime profile or something, which would include the opaque headers in there as well. So if rather than having the specific you say that these headers are going to be obscured and these headers are going to be removed from the outer object. You would name the profile and the lamp documents. I can't remember what they called it. But it was a it was an e nump profile. And so you it's it's basically Edge. You are saying HTTP. Yep. Yep. So name the HCP. you'd you'd"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:52:01",
    "text": "The thing is, in this case, what I've done, it's actually the decision is okay. So made on the client server doesn't need to know about is because If the client gets updated, they can still use this existing server. Yeah. I would I would have the server give in the in the, accounts object. It would say here's CHCPs that I support. Here's the recommended one. Or just the default 1. And then if you don't provide one, it uses the default if you do provide one of the other ones that's ports, you use that. And have the client do very minimal just pick from the choices the server offers or use the server's default. And you configure your servicer as the thing that you want, you want, Personally not entirely convinced that this this particular part should be on the server side, but we can discuss on the mailing list. It just I suppose it depends whether, you know, how quickly you can revise the client side, the server side, if you want to try in your you know, like, that it's kind of more almost operational issue. Okay. Next slide. Is there anything? I think there might be one Okay. That about it. that we kind of talked Like, flexible and sensible I think we so My personal draft has some of the improvements which are should be applied to both. But I think once we make a decision which approach we want on there, how to express signing encryption options, I think, then I can either, you know, merges to the other one or just reports to existing ones. So So I think chair should talk between them. Tops, the best best approach, and then we can follow-up. I can follow-up with you. Alright. I, I mean, I think either way, We should consider this to be 1 different variants of one document and whatever the working group agrees upon should be rolled into the That's fine. The working group document. I I don't think we need to do another call for or anything I'd"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:54:03",
    "text": "not gonna die on this hill as a work group prefers to do the more complex thing fun, fun, fun, fun, fun, fun, fun, fun, fun, fun, fun, fun, fun, fun. And I I'm I'm just trying to be, That's flexible. Yep. About this and I'm sure chairs will do the right thing. K. I think I'm done with this one. There are nothing else right after that. Is it? The final item we have here is jamaptask So I don't know if we had anything to do on that or if it was, I know, not much has been done since last 8 here. With Sarah slide deck that are not I think probably not. Yep. Yeah. Yeah. It just didn't come around to work on it, So still in this last in the status last time I also that's also why I didn't prepare any flights. Do you need anything from the working group? To make progress on this. Would say not really It's Yeah. It's nice to see calendars is progressing, so I just basically need to catch up, I would say. And work on it. Alright. So I guess we await the next draft. Yep. And with that, we are up to any other business. Does anyone have any other business for Gemma? It was a heckle that I didn't quite hear, but that's probably good. I'm just minuting very heckled Hey. Hey. Alright. It's amazing, isn't it?"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:56:02",
    "text": "Alright. We are up to If I can figure out how to share my screen, Milestone Review. Sorry. We're actually So, where's the screen share button on this thing? That one share screen. Accept. Here we are. Submit jam at calendars document to ASG that is going to happen shortly, right? Yeah. Let's say April. Sweet. Submit SIV document. Is done. Submit jam up sharing document also related. I think it got replaced by But That one. There we go. Remove the other one. Why not? Share sharing is done. Today. Far out. Thank you. Dropped a draft basic migration simplified is done Submit contact document is done, done, Server info and debug. Done. Rest mapping Done. Came up archive format. This was not done. And we don't have a specific document on this. Is this still"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:58:01",
    "text": "We want to do win by. May. Fantastic. Maybe. Alright. Should think is where we're going to. Maybe must. Submit SMM sender extensions document. That's definitely been kicked down the road a bit Alexi, when do you think we'll be? Right. We'll we'll discuss it in the list. We'll do it in July. Next. If we can make decision between 2 choices, after that, I don't think there is much work left. Alright. If it helps. Or. We'll get everything done in May. Final one here was submit Jmaptask's document. Obviously, that has been delayed. When do I think we'll get that one done by? It's also saying May or June, Mayo? A Listen, mate. Why not or say everything, mate? Alright. Were there any additional milestones we've come up with from Today, there's no new documents repent added to So we need put any submit to submitting of these existing rest or server info and debug documents through the ASG. Do we wanna add Is there anything more sense to that? Portability or whatever it's gonna be called document? So the they were in the a doctor document for severinfundaybugdot do a couple of them. 6 yeah, But then we don't have"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:00:00",
    "text": "submit them yet. Yes, Ken. This is Ken again. Reminding folks that the jamab SIV Draft Draft used to have a test method in it. And we split that out. To simplify things. Is that a work item that The group is still interested in, Or are we just gonna shelve that for A later time or eternity or where do we stand? Anyone Alright. I don't see tons of people wanting this at the moment. Up. So I did split it out into a separate draft. Based with the existing text the one Well, the biggest open question was Was there enough parameters in the request to handle all the various extensions that somebody might wanna test. So I'll I'll clean up what I have I'll post it as individual and let people read it. And if there's strong opinions to wanna bring it here, we'll Yeah. Yeah. We'll call for it. Cool. Alright. Let's create some milestones for our existing documents. Which Portability extensions, portability guide, rest web push VAPID. We missed that, Neil. Somehow that didn't make it into the copy of the gender that was on there, but you wanna speak to web push that happened? Quickly."
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:02:07",
    "text": "Don't see Daniel in the in the list, Okay. Well, Yes. Not my draft, but I'm very much in support of this. It's super simple document. And it's needed if you want to actually use the push with most, well, any web browser or other thing that implements rcd30 at the moment they will acquire Appet these days. So we should progress this to last call. I think it's that's It it looks good. Let's not make sure. Yeah. Alright. Kim, do you wanna take this 1? Do a working group last call on it? Sure. Congratulations. Thank you This was what? Let me push that. Yeah. It is. Yeah. Excellent. Glad we didn't miss that. So let's add that to our milestones. And we're gonna do that one in April, by the time we've worked group last called it, Alright, Juris. We're rest mapping. When do you think we'll submit that? Maybe"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:04:00",
    "text": "I don't know. May or June. Or or okay. Maybe move moved that fur. We could also move it further back. We've gotta we can't do everything in Yeah. Me. I guess, in terms of ordering, which what ordering do you think will do them in out of the 3. I mean, I would say the the portability guide is the first. And Yeah. The other two more or less similar they they both look Like, they need quite some work. So I'll give them August Yeah. That's sort of like that. This will up to the next day. Yep. That's right. For mobility Guys to ISJ. We'll say that one's gonna happen in June. Hold. Extensions. Profile to ISG. August. No. Actually, the minimal profile is the possibility guide. Oh, yeah. And this one's portability extensions. And so which order was that going to be in? No. Sorry. I meant the guide is likely ready first. Yep. Yeah. Let's say extensions for August and died. Yes. For June. Yep. Perfect. Yes. Wait. Alright. And that, I think, is all our active documents SIPs ISJ Janet Calendars is work group last call, but we've 40, 40"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:06:00",
    "text": "dealt with that. Shwait. That is all the milestones. Review changes. Alright. Done. That is jamap completed. If we could go back to the chair slides, Welcome to extra at Ace F 119. Please note the note well. All that. No. We're staying in the same same session. So let's let's fast forward through t around it. Alright. And then get too far yet. Yeah. one. That Friends Weemailed in it tonight. At the Boundary Restaurants. Did you want to speak at all about it, Aunt? Cheers, mate. Good. Yeah. Yeah. I reserved for 11. If it turns out that 12 of us appear than Sobeys. I'm sure they'll cook. They have more beer. Mhmm. Alright. I guess, should we meet here and walk up there? 645 or so. Sounds good to me. Alright. Let's meet at reception and walk up there, or feel free to make your own way. First section, you mean the registration desk? Registration. Yes. I see a registration desk."
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:08:03",
    "text": "Out here in the in the area directly outside this room. Those of you who are remote Feel free to wish you're here. 645 give or take a minute. On the dot, Alright. Excellent. Now I think with their any service. Can we have to show up, Anne? Do you wanna do show Anne's Sure. Are you coming Awesome. Making t 46. A little bit ahead of us. Right? Yeah. Near enough. Excellent. Thanks Arndt for organizing this. Thanks. I can for sponsoring this or who. Alright. Extra. So this is the agenda that we have so far for extra. Again, any any agenda bashing here. Can I just ask a quick question of the room unrelated to any agenda item, but there's some work that's been brought to us that they would Someone would like to have processed? It is referenced by the quota extension that this working group did not too long ago. As expressions in particular, but there was nothing to there's no RFC to reference. For as expressions Would it be better for any future work for you to have one? If there is, then I'll figure out how to sponsor What's the I think But I see it's in the quote of the Yeah. one? There isn't a spec about S expressions. Do you would it be helpful for you to have That's my question. Yes. Expiration. I remember those. Okay. They're using quota. Yeah. The So not a priority is what I'm thinking. Not."
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:10:01",
    "text": "You know, nobody's jumping up and saying, yes, that would rank my life way easier. That wasn't me saying you should take this up. Alright. Show it dive into it then, Art is standing up to speak about I'm at Jamup Access, which is the first item. And that was, obviously, you can come up here if you like. Deckless. We have one minute for JMP access. And I think we're going to need an extra hour. You've got because we had a fascinating question to settle JamM access does not add any new grammar to Imer? It does not and then you've capability, substantial capability, not name. To IMac. So It kind of doesn't need a capability but should it have one? This is a perfect question. For the pendants and bike shedays among us. My opinion is it doesn't need 1. Let's ship I don't care though. This is Ken. So those that paying attention. I kinda had an argument with myself on the mailing list as I was going to implement this So Yes. So minus my reading Best kind. after going through it a couple times is all we really have here is is in the response code It does not need a capability in my estimation. There was wording in there led me to believe that there was one but I think Aaron is determining is going to remove that. To move with a confusion. The only other question that I would have"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:12:02",
    "text": "and we can leave things as they as they lay. The only advantage I see with with having a capability returned after authentication authentication is if the client wanted a fetch it a second time they can just do it with a capability command. With the response code, it's a 1 and done. If they miss it, It's no longer there. Small point, but and I I'm totally fine just leaving it with the plans court as is. Please. Let's just ship it. Well, yeah. That's good. Line. I I'm the monkey wrench. The you also noticed that is an in action missing. Done, I believe. When I thought there was a capability, I there was a, I had a registration missing. But if we if there's no capability, We're fine. Look, there is an, IANA action. It adds a response code to the response code registry. Created by the fine RFC 5530. But that's already in the doc. Like, we're not in the documents. Okay. Great. Thanks. Okay. Great. That's what I was missing, is that we it's weird to add an INA action in off 48. But we're we're not doing that grid. No. Yeah. Again, my arguing with myself is what led to Murray's confusion. We're we're good to go. Yeah. Why the That's it. Alright. It sounds like there's nothing to do here then, other than let it just keep progressing. I love this. You had some other stuff in these labs too, didn't you? Yeah. Well, that's me. Yeah. Alright. We'll come back to it. I'm at in progress is next."
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:14:01",
    "text": "And message limit and whatever else Thank you. Message limit and your ID only, and I think there aren't slides in progress Marco, do you have something you wanted to say? Not Okay. It popped up on the screen for a second. Alexi. So, yeah, it was, I had excellent time. I thought don't need any slides, and then I just covered a few reviews from Berry. So I thought, oh, I probably should have slides. Which is fine. It's just like, by doing slides, I actually discovered I missed some of your comments. So that was good Next slide, please. So, yeah, minimal change in 7, just a missing capability registration for save limit. But there are slightly more substantial changes queued up. slide. Next So document and last call, Very raised a few issues which I would like to quickly talk about. So clarify that I'm a copy behavior that there is no partial failure. Let's say they're all, you know, could be everything, or nothing I think that document says that, but it wasn't where you you were looking for it. So, I think it's digital, but they can fix the append you said it was under specified. I mean, it is kind of through, but actually, multi pen says that It's it's atomic as well. So it's all success of failure. So I added, sentence in my copy of next draft saying Again, No partial failure, either success or failure. Yeah. I, this is Barry. I those two comments were both intended"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:16:00",
    "text": "for somebody who's just reading this document One sentence to clarify. That's all. So simple enough. Okay. So now I will talk about the thing I kind I didn't mention here which I probably should have difference between UID Expense and Expense. Reason for this is Basically, Well, expansion will be used and it always expands everything. So there is, restricting it just makes it very awkward unusable pool lift for most of the clients. Your ID expand is mirroring how You had, search and fetch work. So if somebody will Search for certain number of messages. And hit the limit, you will get the error message, the same with UIT Expense. Basically, to make it symmetrical. to What I brought up in, in the review is that it's odd. If I say expunge, It it will expunge everything, which might be 20,000 message If I say UID Expunging Limited, That seems odd. I think what I was trying to think if there were cases where This is trying to present kind of a subset, well, chunked view of a mailbox. And if you can find a case where Find all messages with certain property and then delete them. But maybe UIG expansion is not a special case. So I'm I I I if mean, guess if you can specific if you can show a case where it's useful to have a limit on UID sponge that might answer my question, but I don't see one. It seems like you're trying to just do it see with expunge,"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:18:00",
    "text": "rather than consistence consistency with these other commands. That's all. It's it's also a minor thing. If the working group doesn't wanna change that, I'm done. crazy. I don't think Yes. About it's Okay. I was more certain before coming to the mic. Now I'm less certain, so let me just think about it. And I'll double check with my coorditors. About because, well, They are trying to limit, you know, memory usage on the server and where there's other things. But in this case, actually, If you want to delete messages, this will Minimize the disk usage, which is public things, so you might as well make it easy. So so okay. I'll I'll double check. Ken? This is Ken. I just wanted a good clarification on the you you've briefly mentioned multi multi append. Are we saying it's up to the client to know what the pen limit is? And if they plan use multi append that would take them over they need to expect that the entire The pen is gonna fail. Yeah. But it's the same if it fails for any for out of, quota or something. It's the same. Right. Yeah. similar. It's unfortunate. It's Yeah. There's no way to accept the first three out of 10 in in No. Return that you took. Never was. It's optimization reduce number of round trips in some cases. And it's used for migration mostly between, you know, you know, cash to, to, to the server, but it's it's just it's just supposed pricing. Yeah. It's, it's, it's a lousy situation to be in a 5th. The client It goes shoots over by 1, and they've appended 99 messages. Which would have worked. We we still have to fail the whole thing. Yes. But at least the document will be clear about this now. So The last point is an interesting one. Is the whole argument about what happens if you exceed the limit?"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:20:07",
    "text": "I think the limit was put up as as a 1000 to be a reasonable limit. So basically, these effects, for users that always keep all of their email and one mailbox or multiple mailbox. That that, you know, basically big mailbox users. This is where this will affect people. If people keep smaller mailboxes or 0. You know, inbox type thing. This will never be observed in real life. Yeah. I'm I'm not expecting that this will show up a lot. It's just that this is maybe one of the first extensions we've put in that is not compatible with clients that didn't that don't know about it. Yep. You know, the server is foisting behavior on the client that used to work. And now we're putting in a standard Wow. Extension that says it's not gonna anymore. And and and that you, the client that doesn't know about it, her script. And so I'm just a a little concerned about it's, again, it's not a major issue. But I, but I, be honest, I don't know how to resolve this or just I I don't either. I would rather not advertise soft limit, you know, because this while or having, like, hard limit and soft limit, that will make it slightly more complicated. I mean, we can do that. I suppose, Yeah. Turn up. Yeah. This is Cunningham. Yeah. I agree with Barry. It is it is tough for existing deployed software. But I guess moving forward, Clients have become aware of message limit can either limit the size of mailboxes the users are allowed to create, you know, on that server"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:22:02",
    "text": "or at least notify them that you're gonna have a problem with mailbox x because it has three times the number of messages you can fetch your store against whatever. Yeah. I suppose. This one raises what you raised before with the multi pen. Really? Because a client that understands message limit knows to not to try to append more than the message limit, but a client that doesn't might try to append a 1000 messages, build this enormous thing and send it to the and because they did a a 1000 and 2, the whole thing flops, and that's what I'm concerned about. So absolutely agree. And we, we just ran in this, same situation with a pen limit. With a very largely well known client that was exceeding that, and we were sending them by messages saying, because they were using non sync literals. And we're like, you're out of here, and they just kept trying and trying and trying and 400 megabyte draft. Just just just, just, just, just, just, just, just, just, just, just, just, trying over and over again. And on one hand, you can say it a not well written client in the first place. On the other hand, they're written to the original specs so you who would blame Well, this this one. I guess it is. Great set the server's allowed to say no, and spec actually specifically says you're in a bad the is what you can do. My price. On the earth. We have an older extension that limits I'm, it's called login disabled. It's really very simple. And it is our record holder for The number of client bugs provoked divided by features in the extension. Kind of unhappy about, login disabled because of that. And it makes me well, yeah, retrofitting the old clients to support newest stuff is kind of hard. So"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:24:00",
    "text": "So Imaging didn't work where very well for for logging disabled. Not sure what to say about it, except spat comma, Yeah. So maybe the answer to my comment is just to put some text in here, that warns about the situation and says that servers can choose to tolerate clients that don't understand this or something like that, but in something non normative that just says this is a problem. Be aware. May maybe that will suffice. I don't know. You can still our advertiser limit, but don't enforce that type. And so, yeah, Okay. Okay. I suppose. Can we maybe watch me some text with you and then we'll edit? I don't. Yeah. Alright. I've put us an action Barry and Alexei wordsmiths some text. Yep. And I will come back on the UIDX Punch whether the limit should should plan or not. I'll I'll double check whether there is a case where it matters. If it doesn't matter, then just making No limit. Might be okay. Okay? Alright. Alright. Directions, Next slide. You are the only next slide. Please. Right. So this is the changes in the last version, which is in law school now. There was a discussion about your ID feature item and I think it's done to prone satisfaction, when somebody else raises same issue. So And then your ID required response code was registered with Next slide. So in last call, there were a couple of things"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:26:00",
    "text": "But one note is Dave Kriedland note is that example actually said UIG required. This is returned in at tagged bad response, But example, I actually used okay. So I I fixed in my call people will be in the next vision, Then Barry asked in his art art review about why is this should include the UID required. Don't have a great answer to you. I think historically, A lot of response codes are kind of If you include them, that would be great. But if not, world wouldn't fall apart. I think, probably for debugging, it would be used. I I don't mind having a mass here. I it was a minor comment, so I'm not wrapped around an axle either way. I hold the other opinion, but, agree. This is not a hill to die on. What's that opinion? Would you rather have master? I think that should be better than must Really, Just go ahead with either. It's fine. Okay. Use your judgment. I'm after thinking little bit about this. I think a for debugging client bugs as well as, for server operators to find out what the issue is If the server returns just bad, then they kind of, you know, they might not If the server turns bad UIG require, they might be able to Google UIT required finance and the registry file in the document. And so it would be slightly easier find So Alexis. Aren't. Did you know that if a server disregards a must practical police will come and arrest the developers And so they should Yeah. The the other kind of argument in my head was"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:28:04",
    "text": "how difficult is it really for server implementations to include response code? Is is there some implementation that for which response code That's is anything other than a text string somewhere in in the code, or in the table, and I couldn't think of a Why it would be difficult for somebody to have a response code? To return a response code. This is Ken. A server developer, at least on our server, it's it's trivial to add the code. Originally, it was of the thought that if a client violates The, you know, must not use message numbers. It would know what the issue was. But having thought about it. Just getting a bad back that you could you could have bad back for a new a whole variety of other reasons. So I think including you at a required would tell the client and anybody's looking at the protocol, this is why it was rejected not because the head you know, bad syntax or something. Find Okay. So, again, I think, I think was settled and a must then So we'll change the must. So can we record an action item that Alexi to change should include the USD required to must include the USD required. Yep. K. That's it for this one. Awesome. So given that you will then publish the new document and is already, I believe, with ASG. So just not not This is Waiting Marie, we'll for Eddie. Okay. And then, post it once it's done. Perfect. List message data. Sweet. Next slide is some disagree real quick."
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:30:01",
    "text": "Yeah. That's another typo. This went through IETF last call. There was one one substantive change I had failed to list the unmet metadata RC in security sections, because anything that applies there also applies with this draft. I think it's Good to go. I'm gonna make one more revision because last night, I discovered IRC 8 792, I think it is. Which describes how to notate overly long lines. It will not fix fit in within the a line length limit of the text RFC. So The examples are line wrapped to fit within the line limits. So I'm gonna go ahead and use 8792's guidance and notating those. But will have no other effect. I think that's That's it. Alright. And then, action, Murray will Push all these documents through once they're done. We we've got a lot of stuff in progress here. Existing draft sieve process, Imep, and email snooze. Don't go anywhere, Ken. I'll start with email snooze, as the DEX coming up. I thought we had shelved that because there was a wasn't enough support for moving that forward just because there's too many disparate ways of snoozing. Cool. Happy with that. We'll when we get to the milestone review, we'll delete the milestone. Or market. If there's some canceled Cool. Chris assignment, there should be slides for that, I believe."
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:32:00",
    "text": "It's good that, though. I was just gonna let the the existing draft expired. That's his calendar. Yeah. Yep. Alright. Next slide, please. I forget what I have here. Okay. Yeah. In Prague, we had discussed a couple, additions that we wanted to make, one of which was a new organizer's argument which can use the sieve extended list options. So if you wanna specify a list of organizers that you're willing to accept invitations from you can do that. We also I also had a text to handled a case of multiple mine parts with calendar data. Basically says that the implementation needs to make sure that those are all equivalent and only process 1 of them. So it's not doing the same thing more than once. Next slide, please. Yeah. Also, we had a text to security sections, about attachments, as we discussed in Prague basically says, it should decode them if necessary and scan for malicious con content. And, based on some feedback I clarified the meanings of, these two of upcome, air strings, Next slide. And that is it. As of right now, I think it's ready for working group last call. So take that to the boss hopefully. Yep. Alright. Thank you. Alright. Aunt, you wanted to speak about about about Yeah. of Ucf8 equals accepted. I'm at 4 So 2. this is aren't slurred again. Second half of them. Play"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:34:03",
    "text": "The second half is seven times as long as the first half. It's a second 90%. It's called What was it called? Keep going up there. The this started when Has it dropped out of the list? Speaking to I forget either the Ruby or the Python client library maintenance. Must have been loopy because the pattern thing is Gotcha. Hello? They want To they they have I'm at 4 Division 2 as a road map. Item, Mhmm and have, you deviate equals accept support. And the 2 are not quite compatible. And then the same thing happened, working on Dovecut. Which also, Presented Competibility Problems. I found tuna Alexa has found both of them, but I don't think Alexa realized they were a province. Yep. I think Alexey wanted to include all of 6855 in IMF Division 2. And, instead of just cutting and pasting, he tied it as the way it should be and fix two bugs. Thanks, ladies. The first bug concerns A pen. Which is the thing I talked about in Prague. 6855 says"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:36:01",
    "text": "clients must send this UDA a bit and must use the parent. Parents is massively difficult to implement in dog cuts. In combination with Catanet, but there is it's used by only one client at the moment, which use it I believe, Alex stated it correctly. Looks a bit simpler. No. We didn't. We had we discussed it in Prague. No. No. You and I discussed it in private mailer? Years ago. But let's go on to the second problem. Because that's new, More relevant. Excellent. Thanks. I but I well, we were just having discussions whether we discussed I would discuss this before, and I don't think that's a particularly useful thing to repeat with the mic, but Yeah. I think, the point of It's kind of if you just do a pant, you know, in searching UTFA, trying to analyze data before you emitted. And then in searching UTFA, if it's UTFA, it's a bit of a difficult proposition, right? That's why, you know, we just just left. The server figured it out. That was your argument. Right? Was my argument. And it's all all yeah. It's difficult to fix the bugs in Python Because neither the I'm applying or the skip tend to know that Yeah. I is being used and it's pretty much unused by the servers. So there's not much value in fixing it"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:38:03",
    "text": "It's a communication for not much reason. The Are there any difference that I discovered next time? N, It's a problem in In the knockout implementation, which uses which has an an index to send some of the patch items quickly. Most importantly, by the structure, because by the structure is income definitely compute the bug structure once the first time a client needs it. And then send it. From index fund to every client, the tasks creates. Makes sense? Yeah. I would guess that's what, all of the service do. Mhmm. Many do. Yes. How implementation does as well. So Yeah. Sorry. delivery. That's it on This is a problem for messages that comply with RFC 68 33.33. In Alexis implementation. 1950,951, Message Global is treated like message RFC82. 60 855. Don't done that, I think. Think it's a simple mission But it's not. And that means that If the first client that asks for a or body structure. Has enabled union 8 equals accept. Then any for revision 2 plans, will you get an incorrect public structure? And the other way around. I found clients that actually break on passing this policy structure. So this"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:40:00",
    "text": "is a problem. The issue is body body structure will have UTFA the data in it, right? You know, The issue is that if you, if you, if the message is, DSM, Then the 4 revision 2 version has an extra block with the envelope of the message to which the d DSM pertains Yeah. And in 6855, it will not have that data. It's for division 2. You get the envelope of the bounced message. In your debate equals except you do not. Okay. Well, I think 9051 is right. Sid Ryan? Yep. So this is Pete. So when we had this argument. It wasn't that much of an argument. When we had this discussion in Prague, I I was worried But I think you said something that, relieves this worry. You're saying that servers don't have a problem with doing the look through the message and dealing with it. I mean, my concern is always that the client that that that doesn't support UTF 8 is gonna be handed something with UTF 8. If you're set, it Are all of the server folks on board with the idea that We'll deal with that, and we won't give clients, the bad thing. If you append UTF Eight, in the headers, we're not gonna hand that to a client that's on that that doesn't do you DFA except. Well, I I I don't care how they do it, but if I'm a client that doesn't say utf8 equals accept, I don't start that."
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:42:01",
    "text": "Then whatever messages I get back, better not have UTF 8 in the headers. And it it All of the service that support, UDEBATE Equals except also support a protocol that allows uploading messages without the UDFA map market. Sure. The upload is not the problem. It's No. The append all of all of them support a method of appending That doesn't Right. No. I'm not worried about the append. I'm worried about the the the Fatch. If I if someone else is a pin that a UTF 8 Message. Right. And I come along as a client who doesn't support utFA, Are you as a server either not gonna show me that message or gonna downgrade it for me. Sorry. I expressed myself badly. All of the service that allow clients to retrieve you UTP equals accept. Have At least one way to append a message. Where the client does not have to, to, specify whether this message uses UNIFATE. That still no response. I I think that's not what he's asking. And So Yeah. Can I can I try to explain know your cannot Okay? This means that The If the server wants the server doesn't care, if the service is, well, kind of has to deal with it. Then that's the series prerogative. It's balanced stupid, I think. That's what it does. if the server wants to But bear the current's feelings. Then the server has to analyze this on its own. It cannot rely on the append bits. Because it also features a way to get message where it where that a pen bit doesn't exist."
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:44:02",
    "text": "I think we understand that. The question is is you have client, a And appending using UTF 8, and then fetching using except UTF Eight. The client is fine because it supports UTFA. And then there is client b, which doesn't support UGFAID and fetched the same message. Yep. fetch? Will it get UTF 8, or will it get a downgraded version in the That's Question has is not related to the actual appending. It's orthogonal. it's it's It but but The question is, I have 2 clients. The the reason that we went to all this trouble was because it was claimed that servers are too stupid. And so Clients need to make them aware that they are appending UTF8 so that later, if some client comes along that doesn't understand the UTFA, and it does a fetch. The server will do the right thing. Right. You're saying that All servers, understand. No. Not what I'm saying. I'm saying that all service support more than one protocol. Okay. For example, it may support both I'm at. And EWS. And EWS has an append command. Not called a pen, but it it is in the pen command. And that a pen command There's not require the client to set any UV event. So okay. So let's let's stop there. We assume that that's all true. now Got it. I agree. Understood. Now This server, that is able to handle UTFA8. Depth."
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:46:01",
    "text": "If a client that cannot handle UTFA comes along. 1 of 2 things has to happen. Either that server has to hide messages that have UTF 8 in them, from this client so that it doesn't get them with UTFA. Or it's got a downgrade that was messages in some way that the the client can understand, you agree? Agree entirely. Do all servers take on that responsibility? To either hide the messages or downgrade them. If they do, then we've got no problem. If they don't, if you're saying there are servers who are going to blindly give out UTFA even if the client can't handle it, then we still have a problem It's not related to the append. I agree it's north 5 orthogonal question, but the reason we put the UTFA marker in the append was to give servers away to resolve that problem. If we're gonna take away that marker, the server has got to take responsibility for that problem. The server has got to take a responsibility for it anyway. Yeah. The survey can't escape that responsibility because it supports either G made API if you want. Jamec, AWS or graph. Right. This is Ken. Just to the append, question, question, Clients are gonna push us UTFA, whether they put that marker in or not. So the server's gotta deal with it. Oh, and to clarify one other thing you said, the cert I mean, observers aren't stupid. The implementers are stupid for trying to implement the server. Fair enough. So If the answer is, servers are going to take on the responsibility to resolve this for Old clients, I got no problem. Paid, you got you got a problem. So servers servers will servers will just do random shit. Service will send aid bit crap. Anywhere. In the week. I'm aware,"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:48:02",
    "text": "5 servers that kind of do this. I know that 2 of them do it without regard the UDF 8 market. I know that one Doesn't. It just sends Shit. You asked for it. You got your teammates. And for 2 of them, I haven't seen the source code. So I don't know how they actually do the resolution. Reason to believe that they don't look at the UDF bits. They don't know it. So to to to Pete's point, we had this we had a similar issue with binary. One client pushes binary, and then another client. Yeah. Yeah. So the server's gotta do Well, I suspect if we see the end of the slide, the answer will be You propose to revise the RFC and RFC will just have to say If you talk talk to clients that don't support you, do you have ETF 8 accept. You have to downgrade. Well, which is probably, you have to downgrade, basically. We have 2 RFCs that specify downgrading. I would say that's enough. That's Well, yeah, it If the current document doesn't say that, it has to say it somewhere. I agree. Can add that as a third point that 6855, this should say the question here is how do you feel about a 6855bis that explicitly aims to be compatible with 9051. Yeah. This one. Okay. Okay. Because that's what I want. I want it to be simple to have support for both Using the same Hill base, In the client libraries,"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:50:06",
    "text": "Just to clarify, I absolutely agree. But but but but we're gonna do 6855 biz that does that, gonna have to also say and you have picked up the responsibility to downgrade when you need to. It's gotta say must. Otherwise, you're gonna break claims. Get get get get collego, needed to So as an interoperability that's all that must mean. issue, He wants to what it is. know I'm Okay. Yeah. Yep. Yep. Completely amazed by how EAI support can work well with unextended clients. It's Yeah. It's in in some ways, it's sequence of bugs lining up and People manage to send mail through the align bugs Alright. So we adopted 68 I think we're out of time on this now. So Excellent. We've got a we've got a request to adopt that. I think that's, Do you have a a draft already that you'd like us to Yep. Yep. Alright. Alright. 6855 a call adoption. based personal drafts. I'll do for I think there's a thank you slide at the end. 2. Oh, that's Yep. Cool. Alright. Let's do that. Alright. We had, I think, someone online who wanted to speak. So I'm an incorrect an incorrect case. Cool. Their charter doesn't let you modify that document. That the charter doesn't let you modify 6855."
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:52:02",
    "text": "It actually lists the ones you're allowed to play with, and that's not one of the Okay. It's it lists. You can you can change imap. You can change submit, but that's this one is not in the 6855. Happy to work with you to fix that. just pointing out, like, I'm This is an I'm app extension. So Yeah. Doesn't imap include imap extensions. I think does. it Yeah. We have a charter the, you know, this says it extends RSC 3501. So I would I would have assumed that the charter and he said, this and all its all its extensions. The introduction says extends 3501. In 6855. Alright. Other business. Somebody online wanted to Victoria was saying Yeah. That somebody wanted to talk funding progress. Somebody will vote. Yep. Alright. Go ahead. Here we go. Hi. Hi, everybody. K. Seeing it's, the last time discussed about time up in progress. There have been a couple of revisions, mostly minor items. Some rewarding, Monday, in the examples and and not reinforcing good invalid message should be disregarded in the security So this is these were most most of the things that were required. The only point that has remained on cover this from, Marie When He asked why, we have a shoot rather than a than a master"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:54:00",
    "text": "the progress, leading to be, increasing. And I replied to that in an email in mid of, February. In the external group and specifically to all the people that address it, ask it stuff to be addressed, but I'm not sure if it is enough or not. That's, the status for This, the laughter. At the moment. Sorry. What what document are we talking about? Now this is I'm at in progress. Which was on here. We just we just weren't slides in it. We skipped over missed because there it. Sorry. So we're we're back on these are this is one of the documents that I believe is with you at the moment, Murray? 3 Right. Cool. Cool. We need anything more on this? Point. I can't hear from here. Yeah, Marie, we'll need to get you pop up to Mike Frank. Murray is Murray is looking through the chat here mumbling with that. here, and and and we'll Okay. And set in a second? Anyway, my my point is I didn't receive any negative or positive feedback to My reply so I don't know if it is good or not. Time, So Murray just said he can't see anything holding it up. So It's sounds that Quite true. like Positive feedback. Alright. Yes. I see your message. I see my reply to it. There's nothing outstanding. It's it's ready for the ISG to deal with Thank you so much. That's all for me. Thanks, Marco. I'm sorry for missing you earlier. No worries. Alright. We are"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:56:02",
    "text": "We have the re chartering, and we have milestones, and we're kind of out time because this session finishes in 4 minutes. Did you wanna speak briefly with the re chartering, Marie? I guess we talked in Prague about the idea of recharting an extra into a working group just because this audience would move with into into the new work area when extra is done, we would start working on becoming a general email maintenance working group. And we thought about either creating that working group separately or recharting this one into that. I'm leaning strongly into the former now and just make that one. Let this one finish work and wind it down. Even though there's overlap in the, in the audience and the participation set, there's not much to chat about now unless, unless extra things that needs to reach harder to do other work. You'll see that the charter for the new thing is called Mailmate we're just, I'm, I'm not totally sold on the name yet, but the charter seems to be stabilizing. And the plan is to get in front of the ISG starting early April. The whole thing would charter by theendofApril. And it would just be, you could read the charter. I'm not going to read it to you here, Oh, Mail Maint, m a I n t. I was gonna call it let's go through the names. I was gonna call it mailman, but there's a obvious. Right. And then Pete had the idea of just calling it which is awesome because We could take a on that and just confuse everybody. Right? And there were other interesting names bandied about. So, anyway Mailware. Mailware was one of the leading ones, but I couldn't, couldn't quite come up with a long name that match the short Anyway, you can expect the external review to that to start name. about mid April, and then it should charter about the end of April. So nothing for this No recharting unless you guys have some recharting you wanna actually do for extra. I I think continuing with just extra and winding down once we've finished"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:58:01",
    "text": "our existing documents seems fine. Mailmate should be able to take on anything that for would have taken afterwards. I think it still makes sense to adopt Alexis's document Given that it's, say, a continuing 3501 extension. There's no verator wind this down. It's fine for them to be in parallel. You you all have enough energy to keep showing up at the meeting, so I'm not too Cool. And, any other business before we very, very quickly look at the milestones. Pouring. Not right now in the minute we've got left. No. I think they I think big files can go to Mailmain. When it comes up. And I think, likewise, the auto discovery can go to mailman when it comes up be a bunch of stuff together Alright. Edit milestones, we have Submit message limit draft. Which is done We have Submit list list metadata draft, which is done. Submit in progress. Done. Submit I'm at your ID only. Is done, done, A doctor document for e a Eai was sieved. Did we wind up doing that? No. We have not adopted ERC, but at least it's not here in our list of I don't see it in Italy. Yes. I didn't see it in related either. Alright. Yeah. I will. I'm gonna pump that forwards to April and figure out what's going on with that."
  },
  {
    "startTime": "02:00:03",
    "text": "See if calendar process and we decided not to do. So I guess delete that? But part. This one is press assignment. Yeah. Yeah. Sorry. That's done. It hasn't I don't have been submitted yet. Yep. Still still open. Okay. That one that one's not done. This one's still open. Going to be submitted Was it we were waiting on for process, Amit? Nothing. Alright. So it okay. Sieve at EAI, obviously, we can't do because that hasn't been adopted yet, so bump that forward. Submit process. I'm at Draft. So, that that that a duplicate? Yes. That's because we've got the wrong This is this is the wrong document. That's the wrong document. I think Nice. The document of this phone call process on a payment, you changed the name of the Yep. So There's that, and then there's process on it. So these are duplicates, right? Yes. Just delete this one because there's a duplicate. Some email snooze draft. We decided we're going to get rid of So And then there is adopt document. Yes. 4 I see. Yeah. 55bis. Which will be next month. So And that's it. I think."
  },
  {
    "startTime": "02:02:07",
    "text": "Done. Thank you. I'm ready right on 2 minutes late. See you at 645. Well, I'm actually coming directly to the boundary So at 7 there. See, there at 7. Cool. Thanks, everyone. Enjoy your afternoon. Have some beverages."
  }
]
