[
  {
    "startTime": "00:00:11",
    "text": "we don't have brian haberman but i think he had a conflict anyway and he's at the end of this agenda i think actually right he's at the of the agenda because he does have a conflict um there we go should we get go onstage yeah let's do that okay so yeah here we go um welcome everyone itf112 um here is the note well you've seen this many times i'm sure um it's easy to just gloss over this but it's it's lots of good information here that i hope people have read especially the code of conduct ecp 54 is maybe important it's talking about how people should behave in working groups and be civil and focus on technical discussions"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:02:01",
    "text": "and so on and thinking we are doing a great job but you know atf in general there are sometimes problems with you know having good civil discussions and there's other good information here as well all right them for our agenda uh it's a bit smaller agenda this time um so um yeah i'm gonna present a draft and and there's three other people presenting as well um any comments on this agenda so one thing to note here is there's no um we have had some presentations recently on on multicast and source routing uh there's no that on well there's one draft on this agenda but there's a side meeting on friday um to discuss those topics it's not like an official ietf session but it's an open meeting to everyone so if you go to the main itf page there is a link to the site meetings where you can find the agenda and so on all right so i want to go on with the working group status hey hey hey uh steak it might be just good if you sent that to that link to the pim list as well right yeah sure uh we can do that yeah okay thank you uh yeah okay for the working group status um there is uh the the pym yang model"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:04:00",
    "text": "which has been in the re rfc editor's queue for a few years it seems like but that should be published in a few days now from what i understand it's uh it's it's like going through the final review right before publication this is the igp mld sweeping young model [Music] that's in the rfc editors queue as well let's see did alvaro join the queue just for a second he backed out uh alvaro he sent a link to the chat i think that's what he wanted to do hey uh no no i yeah i got on the queue i got off because i i saw ac you thought i wanted i thought he wanted to say something and i think maybe we're going to see the same thing uh or hopefully we're going to see the same thing um yeah the ping yang model is in the our mosquitoes it has been there for a while there was a very late uh bug found not in the pim module but in the bfd module that pim imports and etc so that affects only pim it affects ospf and isis which are also in the editors queue uh the problem the bigger problem is that vfd was already published as an rrc so we have been talking to all the authors to see how well what is the best way to fix this um right now um uh rob wilton who's the op cd is talking to the yang doctors to figure out what's the best way where we think the cleanest way is is to republish rfc 91 27 i think is what the bfd module is and the intent would be to you know fast track that as much as possible because apparently there are no implementations and then uh and have the other documents including the pin module uh your published um"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:06:00",
    "text": "essays or as they are right with with with no changes so that only the only changes are in the bfd module so in any case uh that's a long story to say that it may not be in the next few days uh it may be hopefully the next few weeks uh hopefully not it won't go in two months or anything anything like that but but uh i think i sent you guys an email at some point um maybe the last couple of days i know it's been busy but yeah just take a look at that okay great yeah thank you yeah so it's not our fault it's all external references um all right um so uh we recently requested publication of the bfd point to multi-point use case that's being evaluated um well actually it's it's i guess right before last itf we requested that um then um more recently we request requested publication for rgmp mlb extensions uh so there was an ad yeah alvaro reviewed that and uh yeah i'm one of the offers and i submitted a new draft just now so we'll see how that goes um then we have two working group drafts now on the dr improvement or backup vr or sticky vr behavior so for this we we really need to make some progress and uh we've been thinking about yeah having you know how to have some good working with discussion on this um so i think for next slide jeff we should try to try to make some progress here find some way to compare the approaches and have some discussion about how to proceed in the working group yeah because we're at the authors are"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:08:00",
    "text": "really driving these efforts if they're not driving it then it's going to kind of fall by the wayside and we agreed at the beginning that we don't have to progress both drafts because they're similar you know we talked about whether to merge or to leave them separate and so far as a working group we decided to adopt them separately but if there's not a if there's not progress on these drafts then um one of them or both of them are gonna just kind of die off and that's a good point alvaro yeah so ultimately we we want to find out you know what what are the right technical solutions do we need one solution do we need two solutions but what what do we think is the best and then based on that we will decide you know how to progress with each draft above drafts or or a new draft or whatever the main thing is that to come to agreement on the technical the protocol aspects okay uh let's see okay yeah we also have um uh igp mld proxy young model um it passed working group last call and uh i'll learn oh request publications sometime next week or so let's see we also have null register packing um we had some issues at first with that the quality wasn't it wasn't good enough it had some shortcomings so it was returned to the working group but after that we have a pretty good review by several work group members some discussions and also by the routing directorate so um yeah mike is driving that well i believe we"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:10:01",
    "text": "are about request publication for that um then there's an assert packing draft um so uh [Music] yeah most worker plus call comments were addressed i had a few just a few minor comments that i think should be addressed before publication um so once those are addressed i'll go ahead and yeah request publication of that as well then we have the point-to-point star point-to-point multi-uh point to multi-point policy which we will discuss this meeting and also um you are doing some work on progressing igp with 3ml2 to internet standard and we'll have a presentational discussion about that um the next one actually uh [Music] yeah we want to consider progressing that as well we discussed at the last meeting but not this meeting so we'll get back to that later and then we have this lisp john poon extensions that was just adopted and we also will discuss today one thing we don't have on here is the draft that you recently called a uh adoption call for humans uh point to multi-point ping uh right draft which um it looks like we are good to adopt as far as consensus is concerned however we did receive a comment that it would be helpful in that draft human if you're hearing this that to specify whether this is focused on the sr mpls data plane or the and or the srv6 data plane and to"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:12:01",
    "text": "specify that in the draft and it was also requested that before we adopt it that we ping the mpls working group just as a cc at least the uh the chairs so that they know that we're using their code point in this draft so um does that make sense human sorry can can you guys hear me now yeah okay yeah that makes sense my apologies i i forgot to add that comment i i think we need to start with srm pls as the multi-point policy yeah that that was something i missed i i will definitely add that yeah that'd be great if you can update that and then um and then we will just uh stick and i will do the thing that we need to do with the other work group chairs and then we will uh likely uh make an adoption uh yeah we'll send it we'll send you an email on the list that's saying okay it's go ahead and clear the submit as a pin working group document now thank you then we're working on updating the charter mike do you want to take that yeah so just good segue is that we uh as agreed with the spring chairs over the last year or two we are doing uh sr point to multiply work in pim for a variety of reasons including springs just very busy and they prefer to have us do it so we have adopted a draft and it looks"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:14:02",
    "text": "like we'll be dropping adopting a second draft there are other working groups working on point-to-multi-point related work as well including bass and idr they will likely keep that work but there had been the discussion on whether we should take on that work as well to kind of make it consolidated into one working group but for now that work appears to be remaining in those other working groups and it would be helpful if we at least be aware of those works and stig and i will do our best to make this working group aware of uh point of multiplayer work going on in other working groups so we can add our expertise and comments to help them to make sure it jives with our our protocols uh any questions so far comments about that okay so uh we will be sending we were intending to have this done by this this itf but uh because of what i just described we were not able to to solidify it but uh so far we have this charter update everything's the same except we did remove the first bullet with regards to um management and yang and we removed that because as far as we know the yang work is basically done if that is that does that sound correct to everybody okay so nobody's jumping in and you'll have a comment to opportunity to come on the list too um so we kept the rest that is already in our charter and then added this last bullet so remove that one bullet and added this one which is to develop"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:16:01",
    "text": "point-to-multipoint protocols uh this includes sr srv6 point to multipoint work per agreement with the spring working group um and this may also require other point to multiply protocols as requested from other working groups which kind of keeps it open to if they do want us to take on that work that we can do so so that's really the main thing that we wanted to make sure that we're all aware of that it's already been an understanding that we're taking on this work specifically from spring but we wanted to make it more formal and then the rest of the charter stands as is which is to comment about aligning and working with other working groups any comments about this charter update yes alvaro so you already uh you mentioned some of the other work in other places and that side meeting that's happening on friday so you know in general the charter looks fine to me i think that we're gonna want to look at that other work on friday uh sync with all the other chairs to make sure that you know we all have uh all our ducks in a row we do need um better coordination across working groups and you know that's one item that i think we are seeing very much right now with multicast but that happens in other cases as well where we see multiple types of work or multiple work that in this case uh refers to the architecture being worked here we see work in idr we see working best we see work in pce and other places that all refer to the architecture but that are different solutions so we want to make sure that we coordinate that um so as far as the charter uh sure i mean we should probably start discussing that uh we probably don't won't want to you know progress it until we have all the other"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:18:00",
    "text": "ducks in mind so that we do this just once right and not have to maybe do it twice or whatever so at that time um and hopefully we can get that done in the next few weeks as well so that uh we are all in in agreement on what's going to happen and who's going to coordinate and and all those other things great thank you uh hi june hello hi go ahead yeah uh for uh for for sr based uh p2mt uh solution i i think the the sr based uh multicast solution is different from the team protocol so my recommendation is we can consider with the side media that will be held in friday for the msr side meeting you know uh the other related all these are released multicast workers i think it should be included in my new new working group okay okay thank you so we can discuss that all at that site meeting thank you yes alvaro what stay already said before which is the site meeting is not an official atf uh meeting right so you can discuss anything you want uh we still need to agree uh in the atf where and how anything's going to be done right everyone knows here that we need to look at charters and you know everything else if there is work which hasn't been presented anywhere in the atf yet to be done in a new working group sure we can consider that um if the work of course overlaps with other things uh we can do it in in you know other places uh just a reminder to everyone uh"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:20:02",
    "text": "this working group is called pim not because of the protocol but because of how you know what it says in the charter here on the slide this is called protocols for ip multicast not protocol independent multicast we chartered this what four or five years ago to on purpose be able to increase the scope if necessary now that doesn't mean that everything that has to do with multitasking has to go here right uh it just means that that we need to to discuss that and uh as with everything you know things need to be presented in the atf we need to discuss charters uh yeah et cetera right it's not just uh unfortunately not everything is automatic as as it should be okay thanks yeah thank you yeah so there's been many comments about the side meeting i think we should regularly do side meetings that just don't fit within a working group time period um jake holland had an interesting one last ietf and i've already from a side meeting that i attended this week uh yesterday uh on addressing i already had an idea that i think i may want to present along with dino um on dlts and an ipa multicast so i think side meetings hopefully are becoming like a multicast related side meetings hopefully become a regular thing that we do to kind of just brainstorm on things like this so yeah great any other comments before we move along to the rest of the agenda okay i think stig you are all right so um yeah so uh let's be one with the agenda uh so let's see yeah so just to remind people this is the agenda so i'll start out with now"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:22:00",
    "text": "with this and then uh yeah that will just be just a few minutes and then you can go next stop for me okay let's see the slides here all right so um um this is the drone print attributes for lisp environments using underlay multicast so um there was a draft in the pin working group some years back uh defining these attributes um the only thing is that the attributes could be used for to specify a unicast destination for like ingress replication but as defined they couldn't be used for underlay multicast so what this draft is doing is basically saying that you can also specify a multicast address as a destination address um for lisp and cap so um this draft was presented in uh let me go to the next slide draft was presented in both pim and lisp last itf and it was agreed with this working group that the work could be done in him just like last time but we reviewed by this parking group so yeah it has recently been adopted i'm one of the authors and it's a very simple document we offers believe that the main thing we need to work on is the security considerations otherwise we feel it's already fairly complete"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:24:02",
    "text": "but um okay um yeah so let's see um looking for okay yeah i have a couple of slides here that can remind people what this is about but i feel like i already said basically what there is to say it's about getting this across a multicast core network we need to specify the um online multicast address and basically using that existing tlv just specifying that a multicast group can be specif can be used that's all we are doing in this draft so uh yeah we're hoping to get some comments review from the working group and uh you will work on the security considerations and uh hopefully we can do a loss call soon but yeah i'm hoping by it by the next itf that we can get some comments and hopefully be in good good shape by next item that's all i have any questions can you put your pen hat back on so uh just from a why well while we were talking about pen rechartering um do we need to add anything about lisp related work or do you think this is just kind of a one-off we do have in our charter at the end they we mentioned working with other working groups including lisp do you think that's good enough for now right so in this particular case um uh the reason we're doing it in pim is that you know it has to do with that pin joint attribute and that is in our current charter"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:26:00",
    "text": "so i think you are good there um great there's been some multicast work done in the list working group as well but it doesn't involve him in any way so that was done purely in the list working group okay right okay yeah all right so next step is uh multi-point policy yeah i'll i'll drive the slides here just tell me you want to go to the next slide please if you're talking to him and we can't hear you my apologies so for whatever reason my browser keeps reloading this webpage um so hopefully i'm not going to drop off but if i did that's the reason so quickly we wanted to give a quick update on the point multiplying policy so i guess we're ready for the next slide by the way can can you guys hear me clearly yeah okay um so as of now the replication segment is obviously adopted by the uh sr uh and this working group has adopted"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:28:02",
    "text": "the point to multiplying policy i'll give you a little bit of update what has changed in that draft um i'm not going to talk too much about the end there hasn't been too much churn on the yang and eventually i think next itf and present them to the appropriate working group based on the the yang um so that's one thing we have talked about unfortunately i haven't done it so far i'll do that for the next idea um when it comes to the best in vpn evpn sr point to multiply policy uh so that's the bgp signaling layer um for the services uh that work is somewhat complete we can signal the services over a point to multiplying policy between two pe's from the pce point of view and nailing down the point to multiple point three on the on the routers we went through some changes in the draft i'm not going to get into the detail there was a adoption call which was had a majority and they should be it should be adopted by november 25th unless if there are any other comments that would come in i don't foresee that so it should be a smooth sailing the next one is the idr uh for star point to multiply policy so"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:30:00",
    "text": "basically what this is is a bgp srte trying to nail down the the tree obviously we have bgp into the routers we try to keep it just uh it's not it's not just me like every minute or so your audio just uh disappears for like 10 seconds so i don't know if there's anything you can do on your end especially since you're giving another presentation after this one so just yeah maybe maybe i'll get to my 5g network if it's any better than this um like right now it comes and goes if this is not useful and i and i keep disappearing i i suggest to go to the next presentation i don't know whether everything is yeah we didn't just we didn't hear any of that last uh 20 seconds okay so i've got the next example okay next slide the next presentation next presentation okay yeah bob i had that same problem with bluetooth i had i'm using hardwired just for that very reason unfortunately"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:32:14",
    "text": "so we're ready when you are coming but take your time if you're figuring out your audio yeah i think maybe he reloaded i don't see him on the list here right now yeah yeah let's give him a second if he doesn't come back we can uh go to the next presentation on extension source management and then come back to them yeah let's let's do that if that's okay yeah uh yeah i think it um is it pronounced on lee for uh ig pmld yeah extension you hear me yeah yes we hear you hello everyone i am juan ali from china telecom i am going to introduce our updates the next page please in the last discussion a similar draft is mentioned named multicast source notification of interest protocol msnp"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:34:00",
    "text": "msnp is designed around the premise that you want to minimize source when no receiver listening msnip focus focus primarily on dataflow control or documents aims at management of multicast source and related service including control of multicast source access which can improve the security of multicast control of data flow which is consist consistent with the idea of ms nip management of money casters statistics with controller and other uses can be extended based on source registration in addition both msnip and our document is designed for ssm scenario if these solutions are to be applied in esm scenario maybe other multicast protocols such as protocol independent multicast need to be consid need to be considered together we will have made some updates to our document in reference to comments in last discussion and the process of msnip expat thank you next page thank you sorry sorry the first is updates the first update"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:36:00",
    "text": "is updated for multicast source registration process after receiving the gesture message from the source system and authenticate authenticating the router views and multicast source registration messages with valid registration status response to the source system and inform the source systems that the requests are approved the router then the router will trigger a timer and maintain the registration status for the source systems until the timer expires the source systems need pretty periodically send registration message to the routers to inform the router that the multicast source is alive then routers will refresh the timer of the registration status if the router receives multicast data from the multicast source they will refresh the timer during the data delivery the source systems does not have to send registration message periodically when the timer expires or the validated periodical registration expires the router will release the registration states and send a multicast resource registration message with invalid states to the source system to inform it next page thank you for multicast source registration message and the update is"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:38:00",
    "text": "the credentials is extended to 16 bits in addition to earned timestamps times stamp is replaced by three by the duration the start time and the duration are not related to the timer mentioned in the process start time timestamps indicates the start time when the multicast source can prove can provide a service for multicast approves before this time router don't send the multicast data notification message to the source system duration indicates the maximum duration that the multicast source can provide service for the multicast group you know valid registration request next page thank you for all messages defined in this document the address type field was removed if this message are used to ignp message the corresponding address are ipvs addresses if this method are used to mld messages the corresponding addresses are ipivalio addresses next page thank you we add a new section to introduce use cases and place multicast source management for pce based beer solution in this section such as in sdn to unify the money management of multicast information"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:40:01",
    "text": "based on the controller source excise authentication that float transmission control and the receiver information management can be realized and the ability of multicast network service awareness can be improved other use case will be added in the in future updates and that's the main content of our presentation any comments on your work our work welcome thank you yeah so thank you very much are you requesting anything of the working group at this time other than comets stig or anybody uh well i can mention that uh yeah i'm like i joined as a co-author and i have some contents that i plan to add on use cases and uh yeah some more work to be done okay last uh itf you mentioned uh m snip was there ever like a comparison to see if the work done in the past [Music] uh applies to this um it's this at least from protocol point of view i feel uh that the main thing is this you know basically that the source can notify that it wants to be a"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:42:01",
    "text": "wants to sell multicast and that there's a way for the router to respond back to the source with some information right about receivers and so on and that's common in both of these drafts of m snip and this draft but the motivation is is different and um yeah i think we have several use cases that are not mentioned back in the m step draft there's some differences too like this job talks about uh i mean there's like credentials and you can announce like start time and someone that was not there in amsterdam okay hi june do you have a comment uh hello yeah we have compared with the msi team and this software and their aim is a similar bosom to control the the behavior of yourself not as a source i think we can cooperate and under the that messenger used msnp in the left update so we also understood as a closure to put for this job and we in the either can't update the person we have also adopted the command from the from stick for the encoding of the message and for the timer timer control for the register timer control etc okay okay ac cisco systems can you hear me yes you can we can't now no yeah it it asked me to allow every time i turn my audio on i don't know why uh the"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:44:01",
    "text": "the primary motivation for this would be one you can do credential validation of the sources and number two you can tell the sources to quit sending when there are absolutely no receivers is that what it is are those the two main uh two main advantages why you'd want to go through this complexity is that correct yeah yeah uh i i think yeah yeah correct the main goal of this result is to the first thing is to authenticate the multicultural source we want to deploy the multicast in the control manner so not every not uh any source can send the mouse password for the network this is the first uh first thing the second name we want to feedback some more information for the receiver i think this is the popular multicast application this is the main aim of this quarterback although we can under other [Music] capabilities especially in the msrp later yeah from yeah the way i see this you know we had the main complexity in multicast is often the source discovery and we have lots of different ways of doing that and it's usually been like some dynamic discovery mechanism but we can simplify discovery a lot if we actually have some signaling other source rather than having like data driven signaling okay okay thank you uh i guess maybe you could look at things"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:46:00",
    "text": "where you eliminate the rp and go right to source pacific with this right yeah sorry i didn't get the losses you could look at flows where you don't rp list flows where you just go you just have the registration of the sources and the receivers and don't even bother with asm right right i think that would yeah that would be more deterministic i think i agree thanks all right anything else on this track [Music] yes satoshi [Music] i didn't leave this draft so um i may miss the point but uh why this draft wants to use igmp or mld for source discovery so um maybe there was a next time i may clarify the more uh difference about uh between ms nip and this draft because in fact i couldn't understand the clear difference between ims and ipad this draft but in any case so why uh you need to use igmp or mle because igpmla is usually or in general used for the receiver protocol so why you need to extend ignp mld for source discovery and for the source discovery if we talk about a very old protocol we already have sap sap of course sap is not perfect profitable"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:48:01",
    "text": "so that's why maybe recently no one has been using uh sap but sap itself can become as something like a source uh notification so you can extend sap even if you want to enhance some credential approach uh for source discovery so my question is why you need to use or need to extend or medley go ahead and answer that yeah i try to answer uh i i i i'm not aware with the the protocol between the horse standard and its first road router you know the the allies responsible i say the main protocol of the main proposal of reserve is to authenticate the the multiple source not not the firing source really in the network you know so uh uh for authenticated resource it is a must depend on the protocol at the layers between the host and the first router so ignp and ambi is in the best selection for such control you know uh we we don't want to solve the uh source recovery within uh within the network and missing the by finance currently we focus on the ssn sm ssm scenario so there is no rp in the network okay"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:50:00",
    "text": "money um yeah it seems like um this idea of kind of request to send where the sender actually requests to send something into the network um it feels like this is an old idea uh and i remember it being abandoned a long time ago but i i remember m snip um not getting much traction um i i think i'm not old enough to remember why rts died i think that might have been a little bit before my time but i'd be curious if anybody can remember you know this isn't the first time that this concept has come out it you know it was an idea from a long time ago and does anybody remember why it was abandoned and [Music] decided not to pursue or is everybody else too young to remember right yeah at least i would say i i don't remember um but at least the main challenge i see is you know deployment it's very hard to get hosts upgraded to support something like this so even you know like going from igp with two to three or seven two years and years but i at least i imagine it could be useful in some special i don't know some special cases maybe not like you know like generic windows through linux but maybe let's say cameras with ip support or i don't know it could be more specialized use cases perhaps but at least that's a big challenge is how do you get something like this into like host stacks in general yeah brian haberman probably would remember um but i would i would guess greg shepard where he here would have an opinion yeah"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:52:01",
    "text": "probably so yeah go ahead uh i i think uh for you know because we want to make the the smart caster in one control manner so we think the source must be authenticated and controlled so it is different from the start point of the ms9 here so i think we can and the source is the number of smartphones in limited so i think we can the update of the may be acceptable okay it is not uh like the receiver side so so i think we can put for the implementation of the multiple multiple sources for such protocol extensions okay this is our main aim for the design of this project great thank you i suggest we uh communicate more on the list and not wait till the next itf to present this and let's see what people think other comments before we go back to human all right human are you back yes can you hear me okay all right um so pim light um if you can go to the next uh slide please so the entire idea was born based on the last call that we had on the beer signaling um"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:54:10",
    "text": "it's breaking up yeah but you're back now just well i'll just say something when you break up and then just pause okay sounds good maybe are you unwired or there's construction around so maybe they cut something or not you know yeah um so the in the beer signaling we use the pim join and prunes to signal them you're breaking up mike i don't i don't think it's working because i hear my own voice and it keeps breaking up right uh i i apologize i think i'm just gonna take away time from working group i can hear you well most of the time you just break up a little occasionally all right i i can't continue yeah just power through it and we'll just uh it seems like your first and last sentences are audible it's all your middle sentences that aren't so stick with first and last sentences okay so basically we want join prunes uh without the pim hello to be accepted from other routers other peer routers so including the assert messages so this is what we're going to call pim lite you don't need to bring up team adjacency between the routers directly connected"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:56:10",
    "text": "basically without having the pim hello you can accept the joins and proven messages to signal the multicast estates next slide please so what becomes the limitation of this pimlight protocol if you will so the first thing is that obviously you cannot discover pym neighbors dr selection so there's no ddr priority options and obviously since there is no pim hello you don't create a general purpose state for your neighboring pim routers on the local router i mean these are the main limitations of this pim light just simply because there is no pin hello between adjacent routers next perfect um so again it's pim with zero calories we all know that pim is complicated the protocol which some networks uh or interface types might not be able to support or are not optimized for the pim protocol full pin protocol itself"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:58:11",
    "text": "in in the beer network where you have beer packets going between two pim domain uh really the beer encapsulation is not optimized for sending pim hellos and bringing up full pim adjacency between the two pim domains if you will so this pin light plays very nicely with a of networks that are not optimized for pin as well which this pin light can be used next slide please so obviously we are looking for comments we want to make sure that this draft is bulletproof that we are covering all cases corner cases for having a pim light protocols between for the comments okay not sure how much of that you got but that's it we got a lot thanks for powering through that so one thing that we will oh go ahead alright let's see let me yeah thanks mike uh but i haven't read the document but can we um what you're defining here is really a different type of interface can we actually call the draft not just"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:00:02",
    "text": "pim lite but pim light interface or something like that so that gives the idea of what we're really specifying in it so please let's take care of that before yeah we go further with anything else thanks and by the way thanks for doing this this this work oh well yeah thank you um i have no problem calling it team light interface the only thing we need to think about is that there are logical interfaces or physical interfaces or even beer um you got that last comment so what i was saying is that beer doesn't have a logical pin interface it's really we figure out where the source is and where is the last beer router on the path to the source and we send the join via the next beer edge router so i have no problem calling it interface so i said i don't have no problem calling it a pimlight interface yeah we don't know what you're saying but it's important [Laughter] let me just chime in right now woman and say that one thing that is unique about this draft is being that stig and i are both on it is that we can't call for adoption of this draft so we would need to"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:02:00",
    "text": "have a shepherd um be as if they're a chair for this particular draft and do the calling for adoptions um and follow this draft throughout the life of the draft if it were to be adopted and do the working group last call and all that so um does and we can pull the list and see or just find someone and ask him if they do it but um right now does anybody would anybody be willing to to fill that role for this draft okay so we'll find somebody so we can't ask for an adoption right now any other comments human you want to try again anybody no i'm i'm i'm good okay yeah thank you sandy you're you're it appreciate your helping out with that well stig and i will talk to you more about that uh via email all right so we have that volunteer great um are we ready for brian now i don't think he's here though yeah i don't see him it may still be a little bit too early we're kind of ahead yeah uh unleash are you interested and able to to present"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:04:01",
    "text": "yeah and there's a lot hearing you have you been on any of the call stick enough to give an overview or not yeah i was checking with um unleash here you know if he could do it he has some audio issues trying to rejoin [Music] but yeah if neither he or brian is here in a couple of minutes i guess we can sort of discuss it at least start discussing it without them oh am i audible now yeah hi it's working now great yeah uh hi uh so this presentation is for advancing igmp v3 and mlv2 to internet standard uh so in last ietf 111 we also presented this at that time we asked for adoption and uh now it is a working group draft so we uh submitted the first version with some changes before the cut off and for both three three seven six for ignp v3 and three eight one zero for mlt v2 so i can briefly talk about some of the changes"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:06:02",
    "text": "which we incorporated so for 3376 one of the changes which we did like recently there was a query over the working group alias regarding the query election process which was uh being seen and like one of the implementations where we don't have a clear way of identifying whether uh which query should be used for the election process so uh for more details we can look at the emails in the working group and so that that was one of the issues which got incorporated in 3376 second thing was the mld messages being sent with link local addresses and this is for three eight one zero and one of the erratas which was filed against three eight one zero uh mld v2 was the right of four seven seven three where it talks about the missing recipe field so that also got incorporated in version one and uh one of the older orders which was filed against three three seven six is four three seven five where the older version query present time of definition itself has some discrepancy so this is also being incorporated and i guess we there is uh another thing missing so there is another area which is like kind of editorial uh which is five three seven five against uh ignpv3376rfc so that is also got incorporated in version one of three three seven six piss so we are using github and all these issues could be tracked here so all these issues which i just talked about are they are present in github and"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:08:02",
    "text": "that right now markers closed so on next slide please i stick and next slide yeah so some of the open issues which we have right now is like uh do we want to move rfcs1112 with igmp v1 and mldv1 to historic so this is also one of the questions which will be asked in the last atf as well and second thing is like rfc four zero four six zero four uh ssm for igmp and mlt so do uh do we want to incorporate that in the uh this while this while we are moving with the advancement of this internet standard so we want to incorporate 4604 and that and another question is like uh how we want to define the relationship with the new pim igmp mld extension of this piece this drops and i guess last one is the errada 675 which is recently being filed and i brian i think he's already working on it so i there there is some email communication happening over the working group as well so these are the current open issues uh yeah i have a couple of comments on that"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:10:01",
    "text": "for the uh igmpmld extension at least after pulling the working group you know i think there's agreement that we don't need to um make it an official update of the of the igp mlb rfcs so i don't think it should be an issue for um to make the right decision on the first two i think you know we need to have more details i think and it's probably good to send some emails to the working group mailing list and basically outline a bit more what uh what you should consider like for instance for 4604 like what is the actual text that what's the scope of the work you know what text do we want to actually copy from 4604 um so yeah it's kind of hard to without having all those details and maybe doing some thinking to to answer these questions right so getting some discussion on the list of big rates guess for second one uh while in the internal meeting we do identified uh so what sections we would be borrowing from 4604 uh i think yeah it would be better if we put all those things in email and get along on the group okay great and regarding the first one are so uh uh is it like we should be asking this thing over the group or moving the rfcs to the older one started all right i think it would be good to send an email to the to the mailing list for this one as well"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:12:02",
    "text": "so maybe send you know separate emails for each bullet points kind of try to get input i guess so this is the pretty much update any questions or comments are welcome yeah thanks a lot for presenting this i know you were not that prepared for it and brian is not here so i'm glad you could do it so i guess that's the last we had on our agenda have anything else we should discuss or i guess they might be done thank you that was a good meeting appreciate your time catch you guys throughout the week thanks yep thanks so much see you next time"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:14:02",
    "text": "you"
  }
]
