[
  {
    "startTime": "00:02:32",
    "text": "good morning welcome to spring we are about to start so please have a seat so if you if you\u0027re not looking for spring this is probably a good time to leave the room if you are looking for spring we\u0027ll start it this is the note well it\u0027s Wednesday I hope you\u0027ve seen it already if not note it well we will need both a jabber scribe and a minute taker and we\u0027re blocking on continuing until we have both so do we have any volunteers 4 minutes I\u0027ll try add some things but another minute taker would be useful any volunteers what about JavaScript thank you very much minutes folks wait where we have a fairly packed agenda so if a volunteer four minutes would be super useful please yeah I\u0027m just gonna assume that someone\u0027s going to help me with it if not there we go thank you very much Col so last time and a few for the last few ITF so we\u0027ve been going through a recharter we are now done with our recharter who we you can see the Charter has been discussed in pale length on the mailing list so hopefully it\u0027s not a surprise to anybody and in general we\u0027re going to give preference in meetings to drafts that address the charter items rather than those that are outside of the Charter I think there\u0027s not a huge amount that there isn\u0027t if there isn\u0027t included in the Charter that we discussed working on one notes I think about the Charter is that in general it requires a lot of a lot of collaboration across working groups so it would be very useful to have a view if you have a draft elsewhere that\u0027s that needs some attention from spring even if the work is progressed in that the working group please make sure to include this spring alias just to cover anyone that\u0027s interested in the area there was some discussion around the implementation requirements policy that will use per working group Martin esters to have a look at this it\u0027s was "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:05:32",
    "text": "discussed in the plenary f-102 and then by the ASG the implementation policy is essentially what do we require in terms of plantations before progressing a document it\u0027s defined on a working group by working group basis there are a number of different suggested implementation policies ranging from we need to interoperable implementations and detailed reports of them down to we don\u0027t care we don\u0027t really have time on the agenda today we\u0027ve already significantly over subscribed for the time so we\u0027ll after this meeting initiated thread on the mailing list in general we think spring is is kind of easy in this area because we don\u0027t really have a huge amount of things that we standardized ourselves so the own working like the is is working to report on GP working groups can do their Tara can can choose their policy their which probably affects it more and so we\u0027re considering just taking this taking a the route of having known implementations documented in the in the implementation status section of documents from spring but will start a thread on the main list about this there is another thing that we were asked to highlight which is there has been since May 2017 there has been an updated requirements keywords document and replacing 2119 and the ihj you still sees a bunch of documents that have 2119 in them rather than h 174 you should have data and use the boilerplate from 8174 rather than the bullet form 2119 please do this if you are the editor or author of a draft in spring so bit of information the agenda again we had significantly more requests for time than we have time in the meeting um I think this time it was something like 200 minutes for four hour two hour slot this means that we have to disappoint a bunch of people and say that they can\u0027t present in the meeting our preference is generally given to working group items if they have been through some update we\u0027ve got no working group items on the agenda today because really there was no update on those during the interim period between meetings that\u0027s kind of disappointing I think I think we need to finish the dockstar working group items before we necessarily progress a lot of other things then we give preference to things that have been discussed on the list which has been again relatively relatively quiet please discuss your drafts on the list it gives you more chance to get feedback from folks who on here it gets more detailed feedback especially what we\u0027ve given the time that we have here and it will guarantee it will give you a better chance of getting a slot on the agenda when you when you are presenting things we prefer as we\u0027ve said before to use these meetings for time for discussing open items rather than giving overviews of new traps this time we\u0027ve also tried to accommodate presentations that over first time I think last time Rakesh had 30 slides in about 30 seconds "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:08:32",
    "text": "so we try to also be include that at this time so this is our agenda for today it\u0027s pretty packed we have about six minutes speaker shuffling which I\u0027m going to imagine that we\u0027ll use most of the slots are pretty short we\u0027ve tried I think we\u0027ll end up overflowing please please focus your presentations on things that we need to address inside of the working group rather than the need and updates which can be gleaned from reading the document so the documents that we have going I kind of mentioned the the progress on the working group items we have a few documents that are with the RFC editor which includes both the central EP and the LDP Interop drafts both of these are currently blocked with missing references the EP draft is on the idea draft the LDP Interop is is blocked on SR MPLS SR MPLS itself the authors are addressing comments so as a forest and great releasing the editors and and helping drive that work we\u0027re aiming to get those comments addressed pretty soon and get back to the lady on this this document we really need to finish I think it there\u0027s a bunch of spring work that really depends on this this getting there and it\u0027s implemented and has been stable for some time it\u0027s really just a case of getting this talking finished the Segway routing policy draft that we adopted that I think prior to that last meeting I had raised some comments on the list the losses of responding to some of them I think would encourage some more working group review of this document it\u0027s fairly substantive but in terms of what it includes the yang model that for spring we had a review from Lada who as the young doctor so thank you very much for that and I think that it\u0027s those comments need to be addressed and then we\u0027re probably ready to try and progress this after this meeting will sync up with the authors on that and then we have the MSD C draft this has been undergoing a lot of discussion after ISU review particularly on some some wording around hashing and traffic placement of flow looks the the feedback I think would be that would that we\u0027ve gone through here and just as some in insight which into the discussion and there\u0027s a lot of detail here that\u0027s probably superfluous in this draft to spring requirements and has it\u0027s not necessarily specified in detail but has implications in the transport area if you if you read in certain ways I think we should focus our drafts on things that need to be addressed in spring rather than trying to overstep and cover every particular use case so both that abs and the ASG and burner myself have had some input on this so hopefully this will be we can clear up this it\u0027s been "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:11:33",
    "text": "kind of nine months addressing this particular comment so we really need to close there and finish off with this draft in terms of working group adoption we have a couple of drafts a couple of areas that I think we\u0027ve had some discussion in a couple of meetings and we have interesting competing drafts so between the on BFD we have these two drafts the one press our policy and one for more generally spring VFD we\u0027ve asked some we\u0027ve asked the others to consider merging or at least ensure that these two drafts are consistent with each other ideally we would issue a call for adoption of the resulting merged document when it\u0027s been done that\u0027d be based on the agreement we\u0027ve we\u0027ve already agreed with MPLS and PFD chairs that this world this work can be done in spring and but yes they ask here is to merge these two drafts because they covers the very similar areas we have to service chaining drafts the service programming and the spring Innes HSR we\u0027re proposing to start a wider discussion on what we need to standardize around service training on the list and then use some time in Prague to to discuss which of the documents that we have in this area the working group would like to progress and so I I think Bruno and myself will kick off the discussion on the list and then we\u0027ll we\u0027ll reserve some discussion time in Prague for this that will mean that there will be less time for presentations so again please only ask for a slot if you need one so we have in your interaction and coordination with working group and so as a v6 is an extension to 86 and is expanded six panel so we need to call in a tweet six memo so as spring charter we can do protocol extension unless we have an agreement with visit walking protocol working order so currently if our service is the status is that extension in and working abreast coal or humans as a progression is good and most of the issue has been addressed but there are still a discussion and something like six or eight issues from my understanding it\u0027s supposed to be resolved by December done sent six men we doing is working up last column waiting for this so so six men shells would like to wait for this document a search exemption to be a free definer before we can consider as a v6 exhibition so we not adopt Ania I mean neither "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:14:34",
    "text": "spring Clement will adapt a document with a v6 extension before a search is a Buddhist PC final and then we\u0027ll see how we work so our options 1 as polish after sprint as a functional specification and then 6 tons of protocol work or we can do both in 6 men or boys in spring after agreement between shelf yeah I think the charter business top working to work on items and take working group drafts without SRH because it is gonna be huge dependency or backlog for any progression of service in documents the chapter allows us to work on functional extension but for protocol extension it needs to be done in particular walking over oh we can do it spring with agreement with the children which we don\u0027t have so far for cycling yeah ok so the struggle that I have is that there are documents less than my own name document is one of those that would completely block with go despair in this is from SRH various times we have understanding where things are and spring working group can we start defining it\u0027s not a blocking factor that\u0027s what I\u0027m trying to say there is a lot of work that has happened in SRA draft during the last times in like since the last call as well and there was a very good discussion yesterday we\u0027re working group ii was agreeing on also major items are opposed and and i i don\u0027t think i mean a spring should basically make it a blocking factor that\u0027s my comment ok points taken up so far we would expect some probation within one of Commons we will see mata you were a li that doesn\u0027t prevent you from working on your document what Bruno and Rob are saying is that there won\u0027t be adopted until only as a cheese situation is clear but you can still continue working on your document okay it\u0027s a it\u0027s not saying stop working yes it\u0027s you can we we can assume it\u0027s work items for the spring document for a sprint cutter so we\u0027ll ever get time as if it were working document you\u0027re also welcome to present its in six manner because because it\u0027s possible that the document who would be discussed in six-man so you can work on that if you can advance the document you can have "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:17:34",
    "text": "slots in a meeting on time to discuss implementation happening and then to the premium will be based on an individual document or an individual document goes through a lot of private discussion and and working group not so much in modern bertie group there\u0027s a lot of private discussion a person in jail document progression so I think from a technology point of view it is not a good good thing I mean I don\u0027t see anything why we have a good base for a cirrage why we cannot take more I mean we start to close on the rest of the world why we have to make it a block in Sector the discussion of an individual draft is entirely down to four authors where authors want to discuss it right it\u0027s not to do with this is an individual draft therefore it cannot be discussed on the spring list please discuss individual drafts on the spring list I think with this they should already be gating whether we adopt no I mean granted but I mean they\u0027d mind it\u0027s a lot of implementations and they are happening based on individual drop so at the end of the day service provider will have issues that\u0027s my opinion III respectfully disagree with your opinion and he again s NH is being defined in six months we don\u0027t decide how six man works and the pace at which six man works okay you might have an opinion on the stability of a site but we rely on what six monthly sites for that so the conclusion is to working on an electric to close their issues on finishin s : so starting with Rakesh yes you are you\u0027re hi everyone good morning happy Diwali to everyone celebrating Diwali today Americus Gandhi presenting a couple of graphs on performance measurement for segment routing networks so these graphs are for the probes based performance measurement we also have couple of other drops for the in-situ where the data traffic carries the p.m. information I think so far is presenting one later today so the first draft is for the UDP part I\u0027m presenting on behalf of the authors "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:20:35",
    "text": "and contributors listed here so the agenda for this draft look at the requirements and scope the probe messages QT Alvis that we are defining as our policy has ecmp so we discussed that and next steps so the requirements is to performance measurement delay and loss for the SR links and end-to-end P to P and P to MPs are policies applicable to both SR MPLS and SR v6 data plane we want to avoid bootstrapping PM s-- essence that\u0027s the spirit of s are also stateless on egress note again spirit of s are both one-way and two-way measurements I want to handle the AC mp4s are policies so are basically the scope is to use the RFC 66 94 and 7876 and I defined the IP UDP part for them probe probe messages so as mentioned I PA DB part is defined for the probe messages for Sol links and policies and they are sent with the label stack or the seedless 4s are MPLS and sr6 policies and the payload is basically RFC six you see sorry for so not inventing a new performance measurement protocol here so we are requesting to Ayane ports one for the diem in one for LM so for the prob\u0027ly sponsor message there is a lovesick 7876 that defines the UDP written path so if you\u0027re doing one way measurement you can use information from there for two-way we can use the information from the receive probe query message for the IP and UDP port so this table does define return path TLV this is for the two-way measurement and this way we can avoid the state on the egress node the TL we may contain the cid list or binding c4s our MPLS or a service 6 the cafe it also defines a TLV to carry sequence number also defines a TLV for the block number philosophy measurement as mentioned in RFC 8321 for the alternate marking method as we know s our policy that is there are a CMP between ingress of transit and transit and egress notes so the UDP header does allow us to take "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:23:36",
    "text": "advantage of the hashing function to go over the various ecmp parts and these are the standard hashing that doesn\u0027t define any new forwarding behavior so next steps welcome your comments and suggestions many implementations of the building blocks already exists 66 74 has been around for a while and so is out of the RFC 7876 and so we do request a working group adoption and this draft was presented that i ppm working group session yesterday Greg yes Greg Mirsky City can you currently rewind it to the beginning and then we won\u0027t go side by side that\u0027s good next yeah and next here okay so you say that no need to boost rpm session negotiate UDP port and then you mention that you request to EDP ports well-known [Music] so using well-known UDP ports creates a dart vector attack and your draft doesn\u0027t have any security consideration how you do how you address the possible does attack because for example if we take t1 protocol it uses dynamic ports on purpose so to hide and basically use dynamic port numbers negotiate them over time we learned that for example in t1 white yes there is advantage of using well-known destination port on a reflector and we already have RFC for that and port being rededicated 862 so my question to you is why to reinvent the wheel when we have already t1 white and now we have a working group document in IP p.m. which you\u0027re reasonably soon will go in the working group last call on the stamp which has all the properties that you described here good question so the RFC 63 74 has been around and has been implemented and used for MPLS so if it\u0027s good to bring that into segment logging and make it 4s a v6 as well as SR MPLS so the main objective is to use the RFC successfully for its radical RFC why Stewart who is there again 7876 has been there as well so the motivation is to continue to loudest those two implementations "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:26:36",
    "text": "that\u0027s out there but 63 74 works over a seven POS with no questions for our service 6t want white or stamp works without questions so why we need to ask for two more ports allocated and create another alternative protocol so that so the segment routing network has both the SRM TLS and SR v6 data plane so you\u0027re not gonna run you know twelve on one some nodes and 60s early for on some nodes or or some parts of the network is you just want to use the same mechanism 6624 in your entire segment routing network irrespective of what data plane that some nodes may have if somebody wants to run the same protocol you can run stamp on both networks no problem 66 74 has been around has been implemented as when deployed stamp I believe is a new it\u0027s a working group document is not an RFC yet I have not seen an implementation for it yet 6600 for is shipping implementation deployed in network today okay stamp is backward compatible with t1 quiet mode and t1 quiet mode then if you look at the numbers t1 to protocol is 53 57 this 63 74 so you know if we just talk about seniority and time around but I really don\u0027t see the reason let\u0027s go next of your return path I\u0027m gonna pick up the port question because go back when we wrote get back please very yeah when we wrote 678 76 there were many iterations of that draft and in the early iterations we had defined ports and we had huge pushback the port allocation people and the general sort of policy is unless you absolutely have no way of having a well known of having a dynamic port well you really need to find a way of having a dynamic port so I don\u0027t understand why you\u0027re asking for any static port allocations hey I think you\u0027re gonna find it very difficult and be you can almost certainly deal with dynamic ports for any of this it means that you had to add unless we bring kind of negotiation to get yeah III was just a very very early discussion with the UDP port allocators before you end up doing what we did when we wrote seventy seventy eight seventy six and re-engineering it to put the ports in if you need extra ports you could extend that to to define them so if you want them for your other "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:29:37",
    "text": "oal operations we can talk offline from Google I because it\u0027s thing working group and cubicle spring specific questions first one for the scope part are you making sure that the unicast traffic is part of this or not so we need to discuss that and add the relevant information okay the other one is for the round trip kind of thing we have are you going to do anything on the the egress for the SR segment maybe we can talk about it what specifically so I mean like I just want to make sure like in this case because you\u0027re having entire path value for the source idea what exactly you\u0027re going to do are you doing anything specifically on the egress of the segment that node so the because of the UDP port it will packet will get one hit on the egress node and it will use the return path to send a reply back so there is right so the only question is like how do you make sure it gets we go small that\u0027s because you have ventilating stacks yeah so that there is a segmental is there so it just follows the same as the data traffic so only thing extra here is that the UDP port therapy header gets exposed Ellis you court looks at the UDP port and punts it locally right but in this case it may not look at the UDP port because you have the subsequent levels it just forwards back oh it\u0027s not on the label stack this is a separate TLV and RFC in the payload in the RFC 63 sound code okay so the the packet actually goes to the only you have the label header only only to this yes I see Thanks there will be that we\u0027re in the squad I can point that there is already proposal for return path TV in spring PFD draft so I encourage you to look at and let\u0027s keep it number of new entities to the minimum because it\u0027s the same idea of controlling the return path in traffic engineering environment yeah we can make it similar but you still need to get the IANA a location for the TLB type but we can have the similar will be content okay 6334 TLB right now you need to get that in a location yeah and again I want to stress that especially as a service 6 environment if you don\u0027t have integrity protection and security of your data that\u0027s very difficult start yeah we can definitely address "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:32:47",
    "text": "okay okay thank you so can you yeah can we shit email of the list to address the Commons in particular is a dynamic or static UDP port yeah I\u0027ll talk to asteroid Bank as well so the second draft again this is for the probe as well so presenting this stuff on behalf of the authors and contributors this draft is for the SR MPLS data plane so look at the requirements and scope probe messages for the SR links and the P 2 P and P 2 MP policies we are talking about delay and last measurements again probably spawns messages and how we compute the various PM matrix and flood them in the network in next steps so delay in lost measurement for segment routing for links and policies and flooding the T matrix in the network so this is again for the SL with MPLS data plane probe messages we do have another one for the in situ performance measurement draft so again using the IRS a 62 74 and 78 76 our existing RFC\u0027s and that this drug is informational so as mentioned as defined in RFC secretary for are using gal header the probe messages are sent for sr links and for the p2p and p2 MPs are policies label stack is used with the gal header the gal for delay measurement DM probes there is a gas value defined at the same is used for the SR links and SR policies and similarly a gas defined for LM and same value used for Excellence and SR policies so that there can be one-way or two-way measurement so for one-way measurement the RFC 7876 uro written parts TLV is used and for the two-way measurement the responses end the same way as the ready message so there is a path segment ID draft and it can be useful for the loss measurement for accounting traffic so this way we can do the performance measurement for sr links a delay an loss and then compute the extended matrix T matrix to the minimum delay maximum delay and so on and as well as the "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:35:47",
    "text": "packet loss matrix and there are RFC\u0027s there today for OSPF eius eius and bt pls it\u0027s a drop to flood those values in the network so welcome your review comments and suggestions as mentioned many implementations for sixty to seventy four and seventy eight seventy six already exists we did present is dark in IPP a working group yesterday and we are actually requesting working group adoption so clarify this Stewart I\u0027m Cree clarify are you going to do colored packet techniques in this because the 374 worked okay in MPLS TP because there was never any ecmp but as soon as you every CMP you end up needing the the piece of work that\u0027s almost complete in the MPLS working group and is being discussed in I ppm of covered packet marking so what\u0027s your approach to to the packet marking going to be yeah so we do how so in the previous draft we did define a TLV that can be used for this duct as well is for the alternate marking and identify the car the color of the traffic counter for this one but yeah you do need to get the different incoming seats on the egress to do the coloring so you\u0027re going to basically double the number of seats to make this work yes yeah similar concept as the synonymous label that you know certainly the synonymous approach Simula appreciate yeah okay so twice as many said twice as many well-known notes it\u0027s I\u0027m the egress it can be local sit on egress no it\u0027s not a well-known because it has to be unique on the egress that\u0027s all has to be unique on the egress for every possible source yes okay can we go to the opening statement of this presentation this one yeah this one so you say that in-band probe messages are there any other methods to do performance measurement rather than ensuring that your test probes are in band so if you\u0027re doing someone reminded me yesterday and we may have to add the text in the duct is that the last measurement basically all you\u0027re doing is collecting count TX and rx counters so it can be done out of bed right but this is a passive performance measurement when we are talking about "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:38:48",
    "text": "active Oh am I don\u0027t know about any other method just to try to ensure that you are in band because otherwise you are measuring something else yes so you\u0027re saying that this method is in band but you\u0027re worth saying that other methods are not in band our the scope of the draft is to the in band in the sense that we would put the label stack of the s our policy and send a probe messages so we if you\u0027re doing a delay measurement and to increase our policy it would be the same as the one experienced by the actual traffic right I agree so they that\u0027s for MPLS one of the methods to ensure that active om is in faith sharing with the data that with the flow that being monitored and I believe that it\u0027s quite obvious so doesn\u0027t need a drag for that ravine for javi I have the question in order for the craft self upon this maybe I won\u0027t know this because this is related with the I\u0027m cars so I\u0027m not sure this is this standardization for this Walker you intense burning working group opulent who I\u0027m sure so working group watch here job so I think you need to have that discussion okay okay thank you very much next is security well I want to thank the chest opening my draft up here even though it\u0027s a individual and a 0-0 version and for putting me early on so I also want to say this my first presentation straight so be nice okay so this is about rings Eric stop laughing so you know what rings are there is simple topology that offers resilience and so the goal is to make this work well for rsvp-te and LEP is kind of a pain to do this to make them work well on rings the other thing is we want to make this completely self-defining as much as possible so the "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:41:50",
    "text": "goal was to have a lot of help from the IGP to build these LSPs so basically LSP is a built as counter-rotating pairs so for those of you who know blsr it should sound familiar and the goal is again also not to configure our speeds and not to have to do a lot of work especially if you\u0027re going to use this on lots and lots of access things so the way you way this works is you create a less prepare so you have a clockwise pair and an anti-clockwise fair in the simple case you need if you think of all the metrics being equal you need one node set to go in the short fraction and two nodes is to go in the long direction so here you see a and LSP from r1 to r4 and the clockwise LSP is just the node set for our for the anti-clockwise LSP you put in an said sort of halfway there and then you go the rest of the way so the IGP doesn\u0027t defeat you so from our - to our for again you just put in one direction you just say r4 in the other direction you may pick the same point or a different point but you want to go about half way and then go the rest of the way and the really exciting part comes for protection where suppose I\u0027m on the r1 to r4 LSB and that are - I realized that I can\u0027t go to it r4 in the clockwise direction anymore I will jump on to the counter clockwise LSB or the anti-clockwise LSB to r4 which basically means swap the r4 note said with the note said that goes to our 4 in the other direction so that\u0027s the blue LSP that you see there and so you essentially you go from a one label stack or two label stack there are cases where you need three node sets so this is you know painfully construct an example for this but Bruno assures me that\u0027s the most you would need so using this approach in one direction you need one node set in the other direction you might end up through three notes it\u0027s but I don\u0027t know I didn\u0027t know at the time what the upper bound is but I think it\u0027s safe right wow that\u0027s okay okay so two additional things you start with - it could be four but I think he was probably the maximum but I\u0027ll leave it to address theorist or Eric whoever comes first I\u0027m so an alternative approach is to use a flex algo type approach not necessarily that mechanism for flex I\u0027ll "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:44:50",
    "text": "go where you have a single set that says I\u0027m a clockwise said and you have another set that says I\u0027m an anti-clockwise head and no matter what the metrics say because part of the ring discovery says this is clockwise everyone in the know on the ring agrees that this clockwise and this is anti-clockwise so if puts down the forwarding in the right direction then I just throw that sit on the stack and the packet is guaranteed to go to the right place in the right direction again if I encounter a failure I flip it to the shape that goes in the other direction and then I\u0027ll end up at the egress without having to worry about the metrics working against me until the ring has defined what is clockwise and anti-clockwise you should be dropping any packets you see with these sits on top once the definition is complete then you can put in the forwarding path that says go this way of us go there the other way so there is a question of how to allocate these heads I was a private conversation with both Bruno and Shraddha convinced me that there\u0027s configuration involved in doing all this which is not a great thing because we\u0027re trying to make the Rings come up on their own there might be asaji bees as well because unless you want to use the common SI TV for everything you might say here\u0027s srgb for brains and here\u0027s srgb for regular note sets so this is definitely a problem that I would like to address and make it easier so we need more details in the draft for sure we need to bring this approach into the draft we need to define how to manage in a better way asaji bees as well as notes it\u0027s or these clockwise anti-clockwise it\u0027s a few more words about how to install primary routes and production rods when to install them when to remove them for example the ring is being redefined so if a ring change is occurring maybe you should again drop all packets until everyone is clear on what directions and I\u0027m done for now we will post another version of the draft with a lot more details I will confess that I wrote the stop in two hours I hit the deadline comments now if or comments on the list fees wonderful rag you\u0027re not gonna come up and make me go to the first slide again thank you okay morning everyone this is an update of the Sigma routing for "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:47:52",
    "text": "enhance we PM draft okay a little brief review of the motivations you know that VPN has been widely deployed in to support Maori Tennessee in the operating networks basically it provided the separate attendant address spaces and also the separated routing and forwarding tables well there are emerging services which are more demanding requirement on the SLA for example the more strict requirement on the banner is latency cheater so basically we need an enhancement to the existing mechanism to meet this demanding requirements so enhance the appeal actually it aims to enable multiple tenants which have this demanding service requirement in a shared network and we need to ensure the high performance was a reasonable cost and the scalability and it is also considered as a solution for the network slicing in the Falchi scenario the framework has been defined intese and we just presented yesterday in his working group so for the enhancement we actually it is a requires more integration between the overlay VPN and an array network so I think it could work with existing overlay between signaling the leader VPN via to APN evpn etc for the enhancement it is actually the foundation is we need the enhancement in the forwarding plane because the current it sra comes from the guaranteed resource our deterministic scattering in the forwarding plane which currently we have several candidate technologies like listed here will not go to the details and for the control plane it actually need to take advantage of the forwarding plane enhancements so to build virtual networks where they enhance the characteristics and the role of the control planes also to give a good abstraction of the different tech forwarding plane technologies so I have a generic mapping something the control plane also the scalability is an important teaching we need to consider in the design so we can see whether Sigma routing can support the has maybe any requirement we know that countries and routing is mainly designed for the explicit routing we use different seeds as topological or service instructions then we can see as as shown in this diagram different service flows they can share the same seed or seed list using the packet forwarding and how about the performance in a guarantee in current eyes are it is based on the tips of cues "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:50:53",
    "text": "to provide a class-based traffic different differentiation this may be enough for many of the existing services but we can see it does not provide the solution for the perb tenant of a service traffic a differentiation or treatment so it may not meet the requirement of the demanding services in the future so here we give define some enhancement to the second routing which is to put it resource information associated with the segment in seeds this is based on the forwarding plane resource partitioning technologies for example we can allocate it allocate dedicated link resource for different virtual networks on each link and then we use different seeds to identify the different set of resource allocated and have the multiple adjacency cedar for one link each represented a partition of the resource we can also have multiple prefix say for each node then based on this mechanism we could build separated segments in virtual networks with different set of seeds as shown in this diagram we can build three and separated the virtual networks which was a group of state used in this way the traffic in different virtual networks will be steered to the isolated resource according to the seed used in the VPN service can map to either dedicated a virtual network or sharing a virtual network according to the requirement this overview of the controlling procedures basically did rely on a hybrid mode of the control brain we need a controller to compute the virtual network topology and the resource needed according to the service request received then we need a controller to instruct the nose involved to allocate per segment resource and seed for the virtual network link in the notes the distributed control plane will be used to advertise or report the information about the resources allocated and seed associated with the resource then the nose will need the distributed control plane to build a virtual network topology and necessary forwarding entries for the service now this is in spring which has defined the procedure and the architecture the protocol extensions will be turning the relevant working groups here we summarized the updates since last the presentation in the recent two versions we had more details about mechanism in the draft and we described the procedure with an example diagram also the control brain "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:53:54",
    "text": "considerations are ideal in the recent versions we also clarify that the applicability of this solution post SRM Harris and I service six there are also many editorial changes to improve the readability we have received a many comments on this draft here just at least at some of them and and the answers to the questions the first days what extension to Sigma routing is needed I think the extension here is to use some routing IDs to represent the different set of natural resource on the narrow segment and how to reserve resource in the network when the question asked down during last presentation and we here we\u0027d like to clarify that we need a controller first computed resource needy then the controller also need to instruct the involved a node in network to reserve the resource in the data frame in order to guarantee the performance there\u0027s also concerns about whether as we add the state to the state morality networks I think the answer is yes when you add more state but the states will be necessary if you the purpose is to provide a guarantee there\u0027s always the same routing technology and how about scalability compared to existing technologies because this Maxim is still compliance to the same routing paradigm we will not introduce per pass state in the network just at the present state for scalability will be better than the end-to-end TRS behemoth listen okay so for this draft I would like to solicit more comments and feedbacks so that we could improve it in the next version maybe we can ask for the adoption there is a related document India Stephen Joseph orange I can you go back to be your source partitioning slide maybe there\u0027s something I\u0027m missing because I have has it also sorry for that I\u0027ll do you partition resources by just allocating new seeds I mean because you\u0027re telling that on the same link you are allocating adjacency seed but this does not provide any resource partitioning yeah so what\u0027s the mechanism behind you know we in the forwarding plane we can have multiple technologies to do the resource partitioning it is so it\u0027s not exactly the same link it may be I don\u0027t know it\u0027s film fixed channel or whatever plus we can be one any day yeah whatever you can have a sub interface VLAN or "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:56:54",
    "text": "whatever yeah but it\u0027s not the same link it\u0027s a different link I I think from a logical point of view you can see it\u0027s a separate logical link but we can also hide this link from the protocol from the IGP protocol the test that we can see there is that similarly as we are doing for likes today as we are able to allocate from seed for each leg member yeah similar to that didn\u0027t allow liquor Cisco how are so so there is a virtual network which is defined and there are this node and prefix seeds which are you know additional state which is created to map what is this construct of this virtual network and I mean what\u0027s the way in which let\u0027s say here you have colors blue for example or yellow how are they associated or grouped together yeah I mean you know do you know that that part is not yeah you mean how do you know which groups of the seed or resource belong to the same person and so on so yeah so if you I\u0027m guessing if you look at we have the Flex algorithm proposal there are different prefix it for different algorithm and that\u0027s how you know that you know that these are the grouping or a topology or something how do you achieve the same yeah I think there can be several ways to do this one approach is what we proposed in the Ariston working group means to use and naughty technology to associate all the link and the note C together for a particular virtual network you said money to forge ID well approach yeah okay so I think it would help if you clarify that this mechanism is about partitioning networks with multi topology I think that clarity would help that that\u0027s one the other thing is some scalability analysis of how many if you are doing multi topology routing how many such partitioning can be done and you know what\u0027s the proposal that that would okay thanks hi Lu program actually can respond to both comma previous speakers comments this the fun he talking about whether you\u0027re modeling the resources as links or not it\u0027s really a question of model a and there\u0027s options here you can represent it as a queue because fundamentally that\u0027s actually what it\u0027s going to do with the hardware is you\u0027re gonna have some allocations of a logical virtual or however you implement your queuing you\u0027re gonna get different resources and you can model it as lengths you can model at a sub interfaces or you can model it as as cues and it\u0027s and it\u0027s a "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:59:54",
    "text": "discussion for the working group to decide to sort of decide what kind of modeling you want and there is gonna be some implications on on scaling and that also goes to the immediate the speaker I mean for me is you can model as multiple multi to Paulo G or you can model it just as different SIDS that are available on that interface and then if you\u0027re using a controller based model your controller can understand that it Maps the different technologies and no one else has to know that it\u0027s just different identifiers and with different resources available so there there are different options and you know you chair mentioned that there\u0027s a related draft and T\u0027s and we would hope that that tide of trade-off actually is that defined in here not in T\u0027s because it should be driven by the actual use cases that this group has versus that what\u0027s possible in an architecture is from an architectural standpoint you can go many different directions and that got a shoes so multi quality routing that\u0027s great that works but it has certain scaling properties controller based model if that works it removes a lot of state from the network and has some real advantages to it but doesn\u0027t line up with the use cases that this group wants to do so you\u0027re some choices Thank You Stefan again if you want to partition for example using Hugh\u0027s we have also other mechanisms that are that could be used to identify the flow like the speed of the SCP so you can also use seeds but you we can also use what we are using today which is the XP bits for example okay that has certain scaling limitations so if you have you want to have more flows or more logical resource handles or cues then it\u0027s good to have an independent identifier yeah actually you can use seed and ASP together right right and so this is the same thing we had in MPLS I forget that the the draft with the LSB and LSB knew exactly the same thing so could you progress on the working of modeling you have in mind on the scaling and elitism and quality to this modeling I know related to the use case you are in mind how many slides do you need to forgive your schism yeah I think we can work more on the modeling after this meeting yeah and we can have me discussions on the list secure heaven builders think five years ago another company you really want to start looking into decoupling your non-connected labelled next help at egress not to the service itself because in current proposal soon "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:02:55",
    "text": "you are going to map next help in your LG VPN to the remote look back you really need to figure out how to provide some degree of interaction between number of services and number of remote log back in a way otherwise it\u0027s going to kill you mapping you mean from the yeah your mapping server to non connect the remote next hop right yeah some if you do one to one it\u0027s all going to scale because it\u0027s one next hop per service we can support it as well mapping one to one or multiple to one you need to figure out how to do it properly okay next is Nucky thank you good morning my name is Mark I\u0027m going to re presently subject to the past statement I\u0027m hearing based signorine Signori they work so here\u0027s a motivation for this tract so as we know signal thing is didn\u0027t - as a signal as a source tracking technology is that directly encoding for what in the instruction in packet header that means the pack apostate is only maintained at the ingress node there\u0027s no path state maintained at the transmit and egress out so that means when a packet reaches the egress loud summer most of the pack labels has been popped off so for the egress there\u0027s no way to determine from which is her path of packets come but for some use cases for example the past performance measurement down real traffic bi-directional pass correlation the passer implication at the egress is necessary so this trap introduced the path segments that can be used to identify her as her pass in the context of the egress load so here\u0027s the reviewers of this path segments so passing will actually is for SRM PS network a passing is a label that is a signed by the egress load of surpass they can uniquely identify the SR pass and the u.s. code and when passing we used it must you must be inserted at ingress node and it must be immediately follows the last label appears of Hearts "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:05:56",
    "text": "Serpas here can be an either or sub pass or + 2 n pass so when they and the past segment must not be popped off until it reaches to the it was loud that means the PHP function must not be enabled so here\u0027s the updates made to this version since we first present in I IDF when the weather\u0027s Wonder one since that we had a new author Rakesh candy and since then we saved a lot of online and offline comments and according those comments to major updates made to this version the first one is to remove the two label option for past identification at the very beginning we proposed two options for positivity identification and considering that the use case and better use cases for this path segment needs to for example to pass back to the performance measurement and bi-directional correlation most of this same should be done in the egress node so we think is suitable to to use the ones as one label solution that the solution is are assigned by the egress and the second one is to add a new section to - to describe how to support an listing of the path segment this is Corinne - such a suggestion the idea is to use the finding a pile inside and together with spy segments and with this it can reduce the depths of the label stack and also you can support those sudden a sub pass a monitor and an to end part monitoring you can see that in the next slide and also we do coddle of actor in changes to the draft and to make it more readable so here\u0027s the histogram shows the details how to combined used a path segments and the binding site to support sub path monitoring and Antwon monitoring you can see that in the figure there\u0027s a path from A to D that spans multiple scenarios multiple domains the access the aggregation and coda mean this is a very typical scenario mobile backhaul network you can see that the order to reduce the label stack the depth of never stack because split unto one pass into several sub paths in this example that passed beta into three sub has a path and for each sub path it can be "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:08:56",
    "text": "allocated to one path segments and 1-8 we can see that at the ingress they only in the details of the Ferb set list of the first at subpaths need to in dirt and unfollowed by the panning sales and the ant one passing went follows the last final set and with this way we can see that depending on the depth of the of the neighbors that can be reduced at the same time post sub path monitoring and Antwon monitoring can be supported the hair just stares at always way what would like to select a lacy more review and comments on the draft and then we find grab the conley and attract is the foundation server ongoing work with them for the past segments based performance measurement Patrick no answer policy PCE extension for path statement and also there\u0027s apparently work that is different services per segment and also currently how is implanting the path segments based performance measurement and the bedrock no a surpass according to the department from the some customers and also I don\u0027t know there are other vendors also trying to starting to implement such Sentinel functions so we would like to ask looking to abduction under trapped Gregg Mirsky zt2 comments I see that you have parallel work on a service 6 path segment I think that it might be something to consider to have one document that addresses path segments for SR MPLS and a service 6 because I think that they\u0027re issues that you need to address will be the same so basically you want to characterize their attack between two endpoints second is that I\u0027m not sure that removing their two ID label to characterize specific path between two endpoints brings advantages so sub segments might create might require more SIDS to define explicitly which path between two endpoints being taken so we can discuss it offline Sam Waldron from Google I have to say this because whatever segment routing right "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:11:59",
    "text": "intended to simplify the whole thing this kind of work is actually bringing too much complexity into the mix I really don\u0027t understand why we have to do this the reason is you\u0027re adding now more levels actually you lost me at when you said this is gonna be another label in the mix if you really have to solve those kind of problems then adding more levels is not the solution yeah I think by the time we actually add mod 6 or levels there\u0027s actually no mores you know label space to actually in a sense we can push more levels to the start I just saw in the beginning of this presentation the use cases for this hot segment is about for example the past vironment past a performance measurement real traffic so because you want to pass measurement and a negress need to know which packet belong to which passed and king counting based on that counting so with the current macadam you can do you cannot do that sure I know you cannot do that that\u0027s why you\u0027re adding more so what I\u0027m saying is adding more levels will not solve the issues the the thing is so who is actually encoding this level the lowest putting in the variable start gingrich putting the delay and the devil in your leg stack but is allocated by the egress controller to have this to allocate 5 segments so the previous presentation we heard one more accounting level or something now this is one more level right so it\u0027s just piling up on that all right if you want to somewhat stopped problem with such a requirement you have to do this all right otherwise it isn\u0027t all way to do this so if you have to get the the performance data on the intermediate nodes right you will have to add one more if I see the picture now the use case is only required to maintain the state\u0027s on the egress only on the egress if you want to mean intermediate or transit Lotus orders there\u0027s other way to be less freedom for the IBM solution right get ontological Cisco so I think we should review more closely the use cases and where this is really applicable or needed one comment is for example for the delay measurement I don\u0027t really see that this is necessary we can discuss more offline the other part was that the path segment the draft says that it has to be allocated from the sRGB or the srl "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:14:59",
    "text": "be I think you know if where it is really needed it could also be a local level so I think it will help if you plot it yeah you can do either from srgb or SRO why not just a dynamic local neighbor just a dynamic local a local label from our dynamic pool outside that\u0027s our edgy it\u0027s nothing better yeah that the draft says it must be from sRGB or srl B and my question is it can be just any local label from the node right the egress node yeah yes correct japanese Robster two points one you\u0027re explicitly stating that it has to be bottom of stack label so anytime I need to look at but I need to traverse how label stuck look up for the both feet set and then it\u0027s very expensive operation you won\u0027t be able to do this on any loan platform so doing entropy label work we thought about this as well the easiest way to put it the watermark is a stator but then half of the devices in the past might not support it you really need to think where you keep the know did this Passavant only integrated a performance measurement and the egress or pass by directional correlation so when the packet reached the egress the labor labor has already popped off so that has been in the past segment directly present to that egress so it only necessary to scan they never start to to found a path segment I thought you were going to use it for counters and country and the egress to accounting to account at the u.s. okay second since you\u0027re asking for working group adoption can you give it short anyway curves align it with me give her on but after her you know one you can you can you can go ahead well you have also referred optional publish to the list out but years ago doing exactly that Erickson onset sorry you might need to consider it okay thank you if I\u0027ve got you if I understand you correctly the purpose of the path segment is to reconstruct what the path looked like when it left the source before labels were popped given that in SR v6 you don\u0027t pop labels and you don\u0027t throw away anything from the segment routing header what\u0027s the motivation for doing this in SRV sex okay I know this trap is not about SRV Six Sigma Pi segment bad for that direct and yes I agree with you at the US they can use dice our edge to recover the recover the past right identify the past but from "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:18:01",
    "text": "the implement point of view it\u0027s very maybe it\u0027s forgiving it\u0027s not friend to the hardware implementation you know to compare of very naughty of arable lands field to compare with to determine the package from which pass that\u0027s you know that\u0027s a optimization to that okay second second part of the question the destination node can use the path segments to reconstruct the entire path as it was when it left the source I assume any other net node in the network can make the same transformation it has access to the same I GP given that what do you need the rest of the note labels for every node could generate the whole label stack you mean the pasta can fly I said aren\u0027t peers or passing laws are v6 no no this is an SR MPLS every node could Jen generate the whole label stack you you I\u0027m following up on Sam\u0027s comment what you\u0027ve essentially done is reinvent that the label that RSVP used to use yeah LD be sorry so this is about is our Sigma all in here okay I mean we cross beneath me just to be here is dependent thank you [Music] selected a shutout it good morning everyone and Shanta a and presenting TTL procedures for a society paths on behalf of quarters stack to start with the the let\u0027s J and see what what is the use case you are talking about so we have this network R 1 R 2 R 3 R 4 R 5 and we have a srte path which is represented using two labels in the label stack one zero zero four which is going to R 4 and then from our photo are fine so the label stack has one zero zero four on top and one zero zero five on top at the bottom so what we want to do here is to be able to trace this path to see where exactly the packets are going when this when we have the society path constructed on the head end so we are doing an MPLS trace knock procedure from the head end so so according to RFC it to 870 we suggest that you know you have to have the the tunnel that you\u0027re "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:21:03",
    "text": "tracing the TTL moves from one two one two and then three four and so on and then the bottom labels are all set to zero so let\u0027s start with the top label 1 0 0 4 which has 1 and then the first step is like the top label has TTL 1 and the bottom label has a TTL of 0 and then on step one packet reaches from r1 to r2 the TTL expires and so packet has packet is pointed up to re and each generation and pls eco reply that and and since r2 is transit for the label 1 0 0 4 it sends that return coding and Phyllis eco reply which says R 2 is the transit so when R one receives an eco applying it increments the TTL to 2 for the top level and then in the step 2 it takes the packet it at the top the TTL of the top level becomes 2 and then it sends the packet out so in step 2 the packet reaches it transits are 2 it reaches three and and the TTL expires on our tree and then packet gets punted to our tree and it generates an eco reply that it is a transit for our trees doing the PHP here it\u0027s and it\u0027s short five more with all PHP so at r3 the label gets popped and the the bottom label gets exposed so then our three cents transit written code to r1 r1 further increments the TTL of the top label to 3 and then the MPLS based or precision and TLS eco request message is sent again so this time when it when the packet reaches r3 the TTL does not expire because it is 3 so you still have TTL left so the but then the packet the top level gets gets popped so you portable label gets exposed and packet reaches our four with bottom level thousand five with TTL of zero so this could be problem because incoming TTL is zero so packet may be dropped or rate limited so even if we assume that it packet is pointed to a four and then r4 generates an egress egress return code the next step will again have a problem because now our fortune rates that I am egress and then so the the so we are done with tracing the top the first tunnel and so now we start tracing the next tunnel which is one zero zero five and so we set the TTL to one four one zero zero five and then when it because our trees popping the label so when it when the when the label reaches our for the TTL again expires so our expectation in this step was to reach to our five but the TTL expires on our four "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:24:09",
    "text": "so so this was the problem in short pike mode where we don\u0027t copy the TTL from top label to the bottom label so let\u0027s see how it works on uniform model where we copy the TTL from top level to bottom lip yes you have a question yes I\u0027m sorry to interrupt Greg mercy City so we have hello sleeping for segment routing the RFC 80 to 87 and section 75 specifically discusses TTL considerations for the traceroute why you think it\u0027s not sufficient so it\u0027s not very specific call to handle the PHP scale yes and that\u0027s what I\u0027m trying to does not very clearly specify how do we handle PHP case and that\u0027s exactly the problem around discuss so there this document to update 80 to 87 or because I\u0027m not sure that the reward of we update it to 87 those are logistics I guess so it\u0027s in the draft okay thank you Lu burger something I didn\u0027t get in the draft in the problem statement is what makes this srte versus just SR so this problem is very specific to the stacked labels everything just works fine if you have a single label that ends on a four so it\u0027s you see the ID the previous one so the problem is for the bottom label so our for your good yeah I guess part of my problem is there isn\u0027t a definition of srte so I don\u0027t understand what means those tecna\u0027s Becca flippers in it I understand what a stack of labels are but there\u0027s it if it had said that I I would have understood it but it didn\u0027t it kept saying srte and there is no definition SRT and it gives a reference and I get lost so they\u0027d be good to clarify that that\u0027s the problem and maybe that would help brag to probably that\u0027s not going to be the objective for this draft then remove the term and just say stacked like this okay or as I\u0027m producing it\u0027s our policy let\u0027s move on to the the proper to describe what\u0027s the "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:27:12",
    "text": "problem with a uniform model so uniform model is where you copy the and the label is getting popped you copy the TDL of the top label into the bottom label so so the first step and the second step pretty much same no difference so you set top label to top TTL top label TTL to one and it expires on r2 sends transit and then you will increment the TTL on the ingress to two and then send the packet again and then it expires on r3 and then it says r3 also says it\u0027s a it\u0027s it\u0027s transit for label one zero zero four so at this point the the label is getting popped from r3 to from 0:04 is getting parked at our 3 so it is supposed to copy the TTL from top label to bottom label that but that doesn\u0027t really happen so if you really see this is step 3 where we have incremented the TTL of 1 0 0 4 2 3 so it\u0027s even if it\u0027s getting popped if we expect that it copies from top label to bottom label that may not happen because so MPLS TTL copy mechanisms will not copy the TTL from top label to bottom label if the bottom level has a lower value compared to the top label so that\u0027s that\u0027s that\u0027s done to avoid kind of you know in MPLS data packets if you have TTL for the bottom tunnels test set to 1 then you need to honor that you cannot copy the live TTL from the tunnels that you\u0027re traversing which is you know your outer telex so we need a solution for this so what\u0027s the solution so we need when we reach in PHP case when we reach the PHP node we have to increment the bottom label TTL to 1 instead of waiting until we reach the egress so that\u0027s the solution we need so let\u0027s see if we do that everything works fine so step one is same so you would reach our to Xandar its and TTL is 1 so it would expire you send back transit step 2 you would increment the TTL of top level you reach our 3 and our 3 would say I am PHP and then once it says i\u0027m PHP r1 would increment next step it would increment the TTL of the next level to one when PHP is reached and so when when a task 3 when the label is parked so we would get you the label one zero zero five would be exposed on our 4 which which has a TTL one and now the next step "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:30:13",
    "text": "our four would look into the package because TTL expires and the next step our four will say egress and then you increment a TTL of the bottom label to two so so you go sequentially from our for to our five so the recommendation here is to use DD map TLV so which gets generated on every node when it and I can course the next hop information to say it\u0027s there and then use the DS flags to set the pivot there\u0027s a new bit defined which says I am the penultimate hop router and ingress would look at it and then increment the TTL of the next next label so these are some of the alternate approaches evaluated tht router itself sending saying I am egress and second approach TT setting inner label - one third approach is secure setting inner label to 255 and then fourth option setting inner label - - on reaching egress so PHP router itself sending egress return code has problems because you you are not pressing the tunnel and to the octave up until the egress so you might miss some of the things that have you know that that are you are supposed to validate on the egress so that\u0027s not the right way to go or also it would not detect these kind of errors where r2 as misprogrammed or r4 has programmed a swap operation instead of an egress operation and also it does not guarantee that the traffic is heating r4 before it\u0027s going to r5 so those are the those are the reasons for which this option was not considered solution and then setting inner labels to one so if you to begin with if you stay exactly all the labels to one all the labels in the label stack to one so this works fine when when the network is programmed correctly so let\u0027s say everything is fine r1 r2 r3 r4 r5 everything is programmed correctly than if you had set the inner label to to begin with instead of waiting until you reach the egress then things would just just work fine but let\u0027s take a case when there is r2 has misprogrammed and it has popped it\u0027s going to pop the label so in that case it may not correctly detect this Empire State or procedure Omaha correctly detect this if we if we use like the inner layer TTL to 1 because in SR the labels are you know pretty much everybody understands the labels that up there in the stack so 1 0 0 v r3 would understand 1 0 0 v as well so when which would not have been the case most probably not have been the "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:33:13",
    "text": "case in in NDP or RSVP but here s RR 3 definitely understands 1 0 0 5 so when it reaches our two eyes pop the label top level is 1 0 0 5 so it comes to our 3 and then it looks at it\u0027s a valid lay incoming label 1 0 0 5 is a valid incoming label and also the fact is 4 4 4 4 which is transit for this case r3 is programmed transit for 4 4 4 so we may not be able to correctly detect and you know the ste trace or procedure may repeat like just keep incrementing it goes to our 3 States transit and then increment in New York not reaching so compared to this we thought that sending I am PHP information from r3 is a more elegant solution so the next one is setting inner labels to 255 so this this does not really work because if you have set the inner label to 255 when you reach r3 and the label is popped the next step you want to reach our for and then you want the label to get in the packet to go to r4 TTL to expire which does not happen if it is set to 255 so the last option is you when you reach egress on our 4 if at for says I am egress then instead of setting the inner TTL to 1 insert it to excited to to directly so the this also works well when everything is programmed properly but it has the same problem as setting the inner label to one because if so there\u0027s something miss program then you might not detect it you may not be able to properly detect that you know this this miss program router and it might just repeat keep repeating the procedure so request feedback from the working group on the job any questions black onyx may have a question on the problem statement to refer to the uniform model where you claim that the TTL won\u0027t get copied if it\u0027s bigger than the next label question whether it\u0027s a best practice over her RFC behavior I am I\u0027m not I could not find this in any RFC but I mean either this is something that might need to be fixed right because once you fix that you kind of speak from the sense you think you should copy essentially if implementers following they are sees then there is no problem yeah if you if you look at this method right so you if you if you copy then you have a problem here because you see 254 "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:36:13",
    "text": "and if you if it was a uniform model and we will copy 254 to the bottom label you have a problem you know but let\u0027s go back to the uniform column that you mentioned so here if you copied and you should be good right yeah but for this case but generally if you look at MPLS networks and how packets are forwarded it\u0027s not a good practice I\u0027m just asking whether uniform is a problem or you if only for short pipe so what I\u0027m suggesting here is the practice that I\u0027m listing down in red line here is the best practice probably not there in any RFC but I think that that\u0027s the way it should be I\u0027m not I\u0027m not saying you know you change that because if you change that things won\u0027t work right because if you change that let\u0027s say we change that okay we may we say you know you have to copy then this doesn\u0027t work right this doesn\u0027t work because moment you copy 254 to the bottom label the bomb the traceroute won\u0027t work so what I\u0027m suggesting is keep this best practice if it\u0027s not I\u0027m not fully sure if it features in any RFC or draft the the statement in the bottom we probably need such a statement because and people and my understanding is and I\u0027m talking to people and pls veterans my understanding is they do believe that this most implementations do honor this constraint probably not there in any RFC people if you have opinion you comment on the sir thank you Sam from Google I\u0027ll keep it short because I don\u0027t want to repeat what I talked piously the only thing where you may want to consider is in this case you send echo request then you\u0027re expecting because in the trace sort of course you sent the DD map but if you send just like a pink packet for the specific mode or something you won\u0027t be able to really know because you may want to send DD map along with the ping request or the KO request or you may not want to so if you don\u0027t send the DD map along with that you may not be able to promise specific to trace to sure sure I understand what I\u0027m saying is instead of giving map if you can encode it to written thing that may be a better option but we can always discuss we can discuss actually we discuss we thought about it like introducing a new return call but we were concerned about interoperability issues see one of these things writes because this 8 to h7 RFC has been there people might have implemented you know having this one bottom label one or you know this up last approach so we we don\u0027t want you know if somebody people are getting it working somehow it should just continue to work for them so that\u0027s definitely doesn\u0027t work this problem is real sure it\u0027s thanks for explaining but I definitely would love to see not associated the solution to the DD map "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:39:13",
    "text": "alone if you can actually separate it or it you better yeah sure thanks sure if you couldn\u0027t stick to your seven minutes I can do this so this is about so basically we have this e PE use case where you know we have the strap for century te which defines these three different kinds of sits for for doing egress PR engineering note said I just insisted and Pierce exit so when we have when when there\u0027s a network built inter a yes using these sits you probably want to validate the control plane data plane validations for this network which are and paths which are using which are built using these sits so so the cross a is called localization is useful and in certain cases you know the cross a s om packets may not be accepted if they are in different ownership so so we are trying to address both of them and then we need the target extract definitions in MPLS OEM protocol to identify these new kind of sits which have EPE sits so this draft basically defines what are these six what is the facts technician for these fits in MPLS OEM so so we have this for piano so that fear I just insisted so it basically has local ace number remotest number basically the definition of sits is included in the target effects TAC definition so when the when the label comes in with this the defect stack and you know it can make it can verify whether you know it matches with the definition of this a little and good so we have the spear set 6 Pierce actor is you know represented by a set of links so you the the the tech stack definition has you know a set of links which is represented using using the same block where you know you have this all the the link representations using the local ace number remotest number and interface addresses as well as it out radius so I have no one comment here in the peer note said you can have here there are part different assets they are not in the same yes with this encoding you cannot encode that case so that\u0027s that\u0027s "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:42:14",
    "text": "the problem with this encoding I just want why like that yeah but you could you could express those links as I mean the same thing repeats right so you know what do you mean so this is the so this set of so basically it\u0027s a set of links which you\u0027re supposed to load balance and then you know the same definition I mean you have it repeats right so you you are representing a set of links and then if that\u0027s what is is your you can verify that you know this this label the presence this set of planes and then your cool in that case do you have to repeat the local yes again and again anyway but I think the local information the local is information because that\u0027s the node that is advertising so it\u0027s not a different but it\u0027s different different so you have its repeating again again yeah and indeed note said what says the agency said there could be cases where the interface is not known but notes it validation work so not in all cases for the note said you need the you need to mandate the interface address information because that may not be known may may not be known to the sender but anyway and I think it\u0027s going back to the my side of things lights but but I think the other thing is also that the Engel and in a different year so we need some consideration with that because in the reverse path may not be there at all so this is a kind of thing that we were looking into it incidentally we were working on the same thing one of the things that we were looking is when you land on a cross you may not have may not have the return at all so anyway ago or so yeah so what so if you did we did think about that as well but what I was thinking was this is mainly getting generated from like performance management system few QC RFC eight four zero three it talks about a performance management system which "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:45:14",
    "text": "generates you know this ping and traceroute packet so you could have a situation where you know the PM s has a connectivity to all parts of the network and then it\u0027s so society so some IP would be that PMS and that that\u0027s reachable that\u0027s where we were we started with yeah but what you suggest is yeah that\u0027s definitely use case as well so you have to have two different procedures for validation because it\u0027s cross yes so in certain cases if it belongs to same operator it may be he may be willing to you know allow that cross-validation and in some cases that cross-validation like if a packet really reaches the other areas it may not accepted so we have two different modes of validation and that that can be controlled by a config see that\u0027s what I have so this is basically in MPLS working group so using the same slides so I hope I suppose this is going supposed to be done again pls the work bus suppose Draft out i\u0027ve been presented in MPs on we discuss with the Chinese yeah one quick question supposed to be you on the next slaughter but your subject is but we are very late on the agenda so so basically you are eating your own times so do you do you prefer to freedom the same subject basically or do you prefer to I can I can escape the overlapping part or the okay go very fast okay thank you let\u0027s keep in mind that you\u0027re eating your you know eating your own time zone yes I like so this is the fairly and preventing it on behalf of my quarters so we were looking at the problems that 82 say 80 to 87 does not address the ship types so the three VB prefix it is not mentioned there be PEP that Rochelle just talked about it\u0027s not mentioned they are in finding positive it\u0027s not mentioned there so we try to address and it happen to be there for EPE we were looking at the same solution this so I\u0027m going to skip this because the changes are minimal I would like to also mention that we are talking with the shelter and the courses on the other draft and to see if he can collaborate or or manage the traffic so um but so that is a depression in progress I would skip these because in the question I already mentioned some of the use cases that we "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:48:16",
    "text": "try to address now for the PT prefix it we don\u0027t need a new fact the fair but we needed we need a description that we can use so I skip that slide already then for the BOD finding said we did put in effect which would be the Hedden address the color and endpoint and but the really question is that the path binding set validation procedure so we did define something that initially should set ETL to one for the path binding set validation and the procedure is are there in the draft or me in the interest of time I just want to highlight some some differences in the same thing for the BT PPE if the different parts of the Nexus or the pairing node is a non MPLS router but to which we cannot forward the packet then we also are recommending that the TTL for the label could be set to one also a text file so these were with the procedure I think we can discuss more in the MPLS working group I think next is Jim why should be three minutes so a quick update on on this draft originally wrote this drafts all that kids could play nicely in the sandpit together we put it in SFC originally this is a fourth version of the draft because we think it actually belongs in spring rather than SFC basic intention of the draft gives a couple of application scenarios where the network service editor can work with segment outing together deployed while maintaining the separation of the transport and the service plains which was the original intention at the SFC architecture so two scenarios there\u0027s a picture I showed last time so I won\u0027t bore you with that this is the first scenario with issues in NSA\u0027s using SRS of transport and then this is an integration of the two we\u0027re basically nsh follows the segment routing stack the encapsulation details are here everything all of this is in the draft anyway but basically the NSA follows the segment routing stack and we would use something like draft IETF MPLS SFC encapsulation to indicate that NSA\u0027s follows the label stack for sr there\u0027s the details there but basically we added some deep detail in the new version of the draft to indicate how you would indicate nsh follows the second route in "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:51:16",
    "text": "stock so changes since 102 we changed the name because we think spring is the right working group we added more detail on the SFF to SF interaction and the layer in between segments and then SH we added more detail on the SR v6 encapsulation which is basically indicating a UDP in the next header fill so we need new UDP port or indicating an IP protocol number for NSA to it both both of those are requested in in the document from Ayana conclusions same conclusions as last time basically next steps we - look - requests working group adoption into spring but I heard the chairs earlier we\u0027re going to have a conversation on this in Prague so that that\u0027s fine and we can make some decisions then and then we\u0027ll continue to refine the technical details in the document any questions yes when thank you Jim you define how to capture s NS H into S a v6 two questions is there exists already an existing document to define our to encapsulate NS h into ipv6 or not no there\u0027s no how do you expect it to be different No so maybe we deter to address that point in Sigma because yes okay thank you sexy so far so the next one SB f d4 it\u0027s our policy but chair has a slide and that is partly covered to that direction that share one want us to take so we\u0027re going to talk with Craig and the author of VFD drops well for the S equality n okay so here what I would like to discuss is the SR v6 Wynnum draft on behalf of the quarters there is quite a big history of this draft is drafted around and is very stable and implementations exist for this draft so but the main point that I\u0027d like to discuss here is that when we presented this so there was last call for the SRS draft and one of the comments during the last call for the SRA job was that the obut definition should either be defined fully in a suresh draft or the OB definition should be removed from the authority drop so at that time I think we made a mistake in terms of removing from the asari table but then later on it turned out that there are many use cases of the opet "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:54:19",
    "text": "there are now spreaded around different drafts so that includes the PN and and also onm for the service programming in a services network and in Menuhin so based on this and this one and so based on this it it it make more sense to have the obit definition getting back to the side across there is something that suggested I suggested with this expansion yesterday and would be follow up on 610 meaning mister now other than that is only a tree changes with this job since the last time I presented this so in interest of time I\u0027ll remove disco but but really this draft does not define any changes to any existing my simple procedure it they were seamlessly for a savvy six Network the job does not work changes and make any changes with the SRH processing or ipv6 diddly and and it does not make any changes to so essentially the only difference the only thing that we are asking for is some new code point for the ICMP v6 type numbers so that we can have some more specific error codes and during doin and for the a solid I serve it succeed that\u0027s the only thing but that\u0027s not sufficient enough or or big dependents on six men so I think from that perspective what you would like to see is that this draft proceed in in spring working group and get adopted into in working group I don\u0027t see like even from an SRA definition practically there is any blocking factors because there\u0027s a right definition point that we discussed earlier doing this this stuff is not touching anything for the service six so with that I like the chairs to consider that request one thing you will need to do is there are a boatload of offers on the front page of this document so before it would be good to see the address before we start process yeah sure that would be it that would be I don\u0027t think that should be a blocking vector if that\u0027s better it\u0027s not specific to see strapped on it\u0027s coming again it\u0027s not specific to this draft on it\u0027s coming and begin again again and so it\u0027s better to be before the trim another comment in regaining I on our section you cannot do self allocation of I in a good point so they need to be to be definer and then we can do adoption with Martin you cannot just be quite mad to be "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:57:21",
    "text": "removed yeah for sure we can we spin the laughs with the rhythm there are two lists and we can also remove any good point negativity in the draft and really spin it okay okay okay so thank you Greg Martin speaking I haven\u0027t read the drop sorry but if it is another first come first serve cold point please remove it very rapidly because otherwise if people will read the draft they can think that it\u0027s been allocated and let\u0027s start implementing and that\u0027s messy afterwards I fully understand and they\u0027re fully agree thank you Greg mercy City I will not ask to rewind it couple quick comments it\u0027s it\u0027s very nice draft and it\u0027s nice that you demonstrate that existing mechanics works with service six the question I have is that what is real need for all bit if you have ICMP port number so you identify om in IP through their well-known port numbers there is no apparent need to have a beat in SRH to identify that your payload is belongs to the certain protocol and you can parse it accordingly so why are you bringing back the opiate so when a segment know when a node is processing a segment and and it needs to perform when M operation you\u0027re not going to go down all the way to I saying beautify not the payload what did I see MVP adore and and and and what it contains and it needs to be done at that time note should not even have to worry about whether and it doesn\u0027t it\u0027s not only the payload for the use cases of orbit are not only ICMP the payload could be UDP payload payload could be some other constructed payload n/a it could be four days some sense in valuing em some TLV containing the pillow so it is completely well I like the element one year serum mixing in many things in the one so if we\u0027re talking about this draft and during ping and traceroute so the traceroute works through TTL expiration and if node has TTL expired on it then you apparently look at the payload if no doesn\u0027t have tto expiration on it then obit is irrelevant because you\u0027re just for running this packet so again I don\u0027t really see apparent need for obit no but I\u0027m you\u0027re saying that just "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "02:00:21",
    "text": "because you can use trace route which is just like of maybe one percent of the OEM thing without using öbut doesn\u0027t mean that you don\u0027t need open there are so many other use cases no but you can take in this document in the document I suggest you remove all the reference to obit because it\u0027s irrelevant to the document no no so there are two flavors or use case ever discuss even for taste of alliteration and and the undelete race so hop hop trace with we work on TTL but the overlay trace works on mobile there is segment by segment ping that works on orchid okay so please read the drop no okay if you trying to do underlay traceroute then you put certain constraints on your transit nodes of your channel that they need to understand SSH and nothing no not at all no they don\u0027t they don\u0027t end it fully explained in the draft crystal clear they because not need to understand when a node receives a packet where TTL expiry happens that TTL price body responds in ICMP error message time exceeded and it copies the invoking packet as much as copy it can make it is this is this has been like 20 years this is not something new and it dad no does not have to read this chrisrip - yeah I mean it\u0027s mentioned the drop very clearly it doesn\u0027t need to understand a savage so otherwise I mean nothing would work with classic notes this is how there\u0027s our v6 Wharf in classic right so that\u0027s exactly so why Oh beat what Opie does in ping and traceroute öbut allows you to do in this job or will allow you to do segment by segment ping or it allows you to do overlay for a sorry musics overlay trace out okay and then orbit has other use cases that I just get before the performance management and an end so you\u0027re defining Orion functionality in two places you\u0027re using some flag and you\u0027re using effectively protocol type through UDP port number and that creates ambiguity I suggest you read the draft that I put before Montreal on am identify which analyzes this complexity and it creates more confusion rather than helps things so in IP om being identified for the UDP port number and let\u0027s not create the second mechanism which only confuse that because what will happen if you have or a.m. port number like UDP or performance "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "02:03:23",
    "text": "measurement and old it is not set it\u0027s confusion no I take it to the list Greg can you start to straight on CEO bit can you start an email on the list Josie actually I\u0027m glad been removed proper definition so it not being removed I\u0027m the Greg if you have if you want to be removed you need to discuss to six-month now okay no it\u0027s a back in six men craft Gregor its back in six men graft okay so thank you for your time sorry Zafar for you two slits see you in Prague on "
  }
]