[
  {
    "startTime": "00:00:33",
    "text": "hello can you hear me hi Loa hi okay you can hear me as well then okay yeah we are at the top of the hour but I think we should be waiting a little bit more to see more um attendees"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:02:40",
    "text": "foreign"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:07:00",
    "text": "okay sending a keep alive so again thanks for whoever joined and uh we were waiting a little bit more to see more participants the usual uh uh culprits or the people that help usually in the discussions um some of them are here but uh some are not um so uh I'm not sure there was any confusion about timing um but we did send reminders uh I think Lois and the agenda as well um uh what I can do is wait a bit more unless Loa you have other things on your mind"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:08:00",
    "text": "did anyone hear me I'm just wondering if anyone heard what I'm saying yes you guys think about plenty of announcements about this coming okay thank you Joe for acknowledging okay I see more people joining as well so David thanks for joining by any chance lower can you still hear us yeah I was wondering why you stayed silent looks like you're having trouble okay I'm gonna go to sleep for one more minute and then come back uh on the mic hopefully by then Lowa is back and I didn't say hi to Nick so if you can hear me uh uh hello Nick you can acknowledge that everything's fine on your side I can hear you yeah good work hi okay"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:10:00",
    "text": "hello can you hear me hello yes now you're back uh we were I was trying to reach out to you and you probably was and now you went offline not a good sign foreign can you hear us are you back okay um Nick I guess you still can hear me"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:12:05",
    "text": "yes yeah I can hear you yeah I think Lois trying to say something as well and sorry can you hear me yes I did yep hello Noah he's gone again yeah okay I was gonna ask you if uh you know we can get started any objections Nick and uh it's got um maybe through way lower can I get his technical problem solved and then join in uh okay so you you're you're okay with that I guess so let me uh reiterate my gratitude thank you for joining the first M A interim meeting um this is one of a series of meetings uh Loa feel free to interrupt if when if you want to test your audio again so I don't mind so this is a uh a first of a series of interims that we scheduled um this is a work and collaboration between three working groups mpls files and net uh we have a number of chairs I think today uh and the number of secretaries as well Mac and David are here as well"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:14:00",
    "text": "uh well actually he's yeah he's listed uh yeah I guess yeah Secretary of both uh thousands that um the usual usually we're in in our previous M A meetings we uh the attendees where um you know the numbers were hovering around 15 participants uh today we're a little bit lower than this um I'm hoping it's not a confusion uh caused by our switching into using meat Echo so this is more of a of a formal way of doing the meetings that we were carrying out um meet Echo will will offer you know the recordings uh they've done automatically and I'm gonna go through the tools that we usually use in ietf um Okay so because this is a more of a formal meeting we have to flash the note 12 which has the rules for participation participate participating in IDF and contributing to ietf as well so I'm sure you've seen it but if you haven't please go through it uh some useful pointers we are using meet Echo today and we will continue to use meet echo in series if we continue to hold this uh we are taking minutes using the usual tool um at the address URL I left and I will try to post this as well in the chat so people uh have the opportunity to uh contribute in taking minutes right now it's in the chat so please uh"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:16:00",
    "text": "if you can log in and contribute to taking the minutes um other pointers are there for you uh to uh get a hold of the discussions we've had in the past okay today's agenda we have a number of things that we wanted to talk about um I'm going to be walking with with Loa that the plan was to have lower and myself go over things uh um I can hear you good not good uh so we have the the agenda is on two slides so it's a number of items there um but I'll leave a chance for you know I will if anybody wants to bash the first slide um it's it's your chance um we have an all other um you know any other business at the end so if any uh one wants to add an item that's not listed on uh these two slides it's your chance also to uh suggest that um as you see the second item here is to talk about the series um I know people started to uh question do we need the series or so feel free to speak up or when we're going when we move on to the second item um and we can definitely have a fruitful discussion about that we do keep a track of action items so I'll I'll have a you know more pointers on that in one slide and there's a discussion on the first nibble and some polls uh that we might be preparing and"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:18:00",
    "text": "coming up uh that's number five number six we want to have a good discussion or a decision on whether we need a post stack data or not and finally let's see what we can record uh for for next meeting uh in terms of action items or topics that we want to talk about and the last one is any other business that's how we track it and I don't see anyone in the queue as of now all right so I have a marker for me to hand over whenever and Lowell should kick in and take over so this is a blue marker here which indicates that you know Lowell wants to talk about that so go ahead lower I want to hand over to you okay thank you so I guess can to go over what has changed with using mayteco and what is actually staying the same as it was when we used WebEx the first thing and I would like people to actually use the raised hand so we can actually keep a queue in the discussion uh please use that sometimes it's hard for some people to actually get to the top of your queue and actually say what they want uh since it's a formal meeting we need blue sheets but the good thing is that they are automated we've done the agenda bashing and that's"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:20:01",
    "text": "a thing it comes with the formal ipf meeting uh we talking about note-taking there is a tool um and we should use that tool it's also on the top of the um meet Echo page with the pen on a white on on a paper go in there and read what's this written and correct things that you think are wrong and actually add things you need I think I'm missing um Andrew or A.D said that the notes are more important now than there was before um and I think it means from a formal point of view one good thing is that it is yet to find the recording it if I understand correctly it will be uploaded automatically uh to YouTube let me ask you there and search for mpls interim and you should find it directly so next page please or questions Maybe nope okay uh so this is still a joint meeting with um mpls paths and that that uh yes so I have that ticked off I made a mistake on the first slide David is not the secretary for that net it's Ethan and we will be changed that on the slide the working Group shares will continue to meet I guess on Tuesdays and we will have the"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:22:00",
    "text": "regular meetings on of the interim myths and thoughts that they are booked all the way up to as far as we can before iitf fund 17 um I guess I jumped the action item uh Terry will talk about that in a minute and we're going to be the week keeper still be used for document things and it will be updated I I want I will check what I need to do about it but I haven't done that yet and that's what I had to say I think uh one more thing I actually booked two hours for each meeting and I don't think we normally will use all both hours but uh we go as long as we have things talk about and then we just stop and have the next meeting in the week okay [Music] yeah yeah so we've been talking about action items uh so this is uh something we've been doing in the past meetings and we were keeping track of those on a on a Wiki uh um and we will continue to do that so the wiki will be updated to have a new page for these meetings uh you know if anything comes out of them um we don't have at the moment an active uh I was checking the the open I action items and uh except for um yeah I I don't see any active uh action"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:24:03",
    "text": "item um but you know when what we discussed today will be recorded on a new page um uh we want to remind owners of action Islands to come prepared with a report or status on anything that's assigned to them and we will discuss these action items obviously in the interim meetings so that's not much uh you know but a reminder okay I'll move on um uh the first technical discussion we will have is about first nibble um and again Loa please go ahead and talk about it Yeah we actually started a Hall on the first nibble the um the poll was formulated what value should we use and there were two proposal I think a unique one for m a or use zero we close that poll today is as close but I will close it later today um the the point is that we haven't really converged so the results are not conclusive and we have had a handful of people uh cannot stating their opinions but we were actually we wouldn't need to have more and we will come back to this one way or another that I don't know how so we"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:26:01",
    "text": "don't have a session decision on the first nibble uh Paul as of now and we need to fix it some way questions oh yeah Tony I agree more discussion would be good and we will are you suggesting that to bring it up in the next meeting okay so we have a item for the next meeting suggested by Tony I'll see him in the chat or you can you speak if you like I okay I just want to see you okay if you just use this chat because you couldn't you couldn't speak but that's fine okay so you just say we take a discussion on the first nibble next meeting that'd be good okay great and so anyone else yes uh okay I I went in before Greg but um you know let me know if uh Loa ready I'm done but with the slides you have the meeting yeah yeah well I just want to say that discussions on the poll hovered between uh reap reusing the zero value zero uh for the first nibble and a uh in a new value that gets assigned specifically for m a I'm not adopting any one of them but just uh you know sharing the results of what I've seen so"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:28:01",
    "text": "um maybe it opens up the more discussion but the these were the two pro two two kind of feedbacks we got from uh they were not conclusive on which one but at least I've seen two uh two uh feedback on Nepal I think that actually is one more opinion and I think I actually recorded that one for myself and that is that I think we can ignore at the first nibble if we have a good enough indication in the stack so I think there are three different opinions big in the queue Laura so Greg go ahead I don't think anyone else but so it appears to me that um the first nibble is not uh important for m a in general but for PSD m a um so would uh first we need to decide whether uh we have any uh viable solution for PSD and then uh decision on uh what the value would be for uh first nibble PSD M A to use uh will be a a consequence or part of this uh decision so as I understand uh ISD m a uh which we adopted uh solution for as a mpls working group uh does not uh depend on any uh special first nible value for m a"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:30:06",
    "text": "okay Loa go ahead okay actually we are going to talk about the PSD decision a little bit later in this meeting so I think Greg can you come back with um kind of adding that this actually is relevant for the first nibble discussion when we do that yeah of course okay I will move on and it's a different topic now uh and you're still on on this uh go ahead uh you can hear me yes uh the so label 14 has a long history the RC was written in uh 202 I think it's an informational Roc it doesn't really follow the procedures around assigning a newbie bsp else but at that time those procedures were not really set in stone so we got it to say a draft coming in pretty much from iqt asking for an oem alert label and there was an RC written from informational one and we assigned the alert label in six years later George and I sat down and said we haven't heard about any implementations or products that"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:32:03",
    "text": "and the OEM alert label and we sent out the poll asking if we could retrieve it and make it available for other purposes um at that time there were about five or six it's a little bit unclear how many it actually were because I think the two of them had responded two of the six that responded actually worked for the same company so and they said they had products and then they were marketing products with the label 14 using the label 14. so now we are 15 years later and so what I did was actually go back to everyone that actually said that they were using label 14 and us if they were still doing it all of those five companies or companies that had been bought by other companies since then actually says that they don't are not using label 14 any longer I also picked a number of companies that were active on a market where you have tmpls deployed and that would be the reason to use labor 14 and also no no none of those companies said they are using labor 14. um so what I did was preparing a poll to be"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:34:00",
    "text": "sent to the working group suggesting that we retrieve label 14 and actually deprecate the ERC and when the shares reviewed it um we got a comment that we actually need to send a liaison to uh the study 15 it was started with 13 at that time it's now um starting with 15 that owns owes that uh part of the technology so we need to send a lace onto the itut starting with 15 and 13 and the tsp and we will do that at the same time as we send out the poll to the working group so just now we are holding the pole maybe a couple of days and then we will send it out any questions [Music] I have one more thing and that's kind of not not documented really but when we get the label back and we make it available for being assigned for other purposes we will actually put that they've lost in queue so that as much time as possible before it gets get reused okay thank you okay I have a question uh lower and or maybe clarification rather than question so the retrieval of label 14 is not directly tied to the m a work or even the PSD in specific in m a"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:36:00",
    "text": "uh we're just trying to bring it or retrieve it and make it available for the next next application that's I think it's true but there is one aspect that it actually makes it if we get one label back it makes it easier to actually assign a new one a new label so and since we actually need to assign it looks like we have to assign an m a11 so uh it's eases up a bit if we can get label fork and back and that's the connection we have now okay okay there are no other hands raised on this topic so I'll move on so this is a slide on uh the PSD discussion uh and it's the chance to talk more about it um so Laura go ahead again still okay thank you so the situation we have on PSD is that we had a poll back in May 2022 where we said that we need both ISD and PSD based on that we actually started to push two drafts through the working group we did a working group adoption poll on both the draft Jackson draft song the draft Jacks did go ahead with the exchange that it only only"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:38:02",
    "text": "addresses the ISD part so that part the ISD parts are kind of kind of clear but the decision is still that we need PSD and we have a proposal that we need to take care of that the um uh PSD is not necessary and we should get rid of it and what we have on the list here is that we a number of questions where uh how how the chairs want to actually derive this discussion and it's kind of a waterfall it starts with number one and only if you say yes and we have sufficient use cases to motivate PSD then it's worse going ahead take trying to address the other questions and so we need to take them in order one two three four five and then we dig through the list we haven't had the decision and that is uh work we will do in the intro meetings but if any if at any point in time we need to pull the work made work group mailing list we will do so on this so not no decision in the interim it just be a preparation for technical decision on the mailing list um I should say thank you to David is probably most um your your text on the questions but the Tariq and I scrubbed a little bit"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:40:00",
    "text": "yesterday but we I don't think we made any any real changes it was clarification we do have questions in the queue lower I can't see them you go ahead yeah yeah uh the Joel you're at the top of the queue so go ahead thank you two points first I found the characterization of the earlier discussion on the mailing list and its conclusion somewhat odd because the question when you asked it quite some time ago and it and it was a very reasonable question at the time was not do we need only ISD the question was very St specifically do we need only PSD or should we go with both ISD and PST it didn't even occur to me at the time that we would be better off with just ISD and that question was not asked so I think it's important that we not assume that the earlier decision which said just PST is not sufficient doesn't answer this question and I at least in looking at the use cases have not seen enough use cases to justify the complexity yes there are some use cases Now Grant there are but PSD introduces a lot of complexity and I haven't seen enough to justify it and at the same time there doesn't even seem to be an agreement as to which use cases are actually important in that we have some proposals that assume you only need it for end-to-end cases some proposals that assume you need it for hop by hop and end to end I can't even tell what we're really discussing and much less I see sufficiently clear use cases for that thank you"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:42:05",
    "text": "okay I am next in the queue so I'll go ahead so we are talking about the carrying metadata or data in general in an mpls packet and this can be done in stack or post stack um some concerns I have in my mind is if the data is mutable and we put it in stack it might cause some Havoc and less of an issue if it was post stack but the concern I have is when this data is changing in flight from towards its destination but we still carry it in the in stock so one use case was you know for example um and not not only it's just an example um is getting timestamps um you know that you get stand that gets stamped as the packet is traversing a path so in this case you know the timestamps uh you know get stamped on in the packet and things uh uh in the in the stack uh get the you know get changed the stack it becomes mutable um there are other proposals not to do the the time stamping inside the packet I understand that but in general my point is if the data is mutable uh putting it in stock might have concern um okay I will let Greg go next um I agree with Joe because my uh interpretation of our earlier discussion"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:44:01",
    "text": "of M A and ISD and PSD options uh is somewhat different so my interpretation understanding was that what we discussed is that uh we'll consider ISD and PSD options and will uh work on a solution that does not preclude uh either of it so now we have uh an agreement and adopted the solution for ISD and um my understanding of the solution that it does not preclude uh future development of ESD uh I agree with tarek that there might be cases uh theoretically or in the future that would benefit from a PSD um metadata being posted um uh those uh will normally be discussed and reviewed and all the trade-off uh evaluated so I think that at this point I don't see any use case that we documented and adopted in our working group document M A use cases that uh mandate the use postal data cannot be addressed and support it using the uh adapted ISD solution for m a so uh we might go with the exercise of reviewing these use cases and any other uh practical use cases that we know of to see if uh any of it does require PSD and"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:46:01",
    "text": "cannot be solved with ISD so uh again as I remember the discussion of PhD scenarios that brought significant complexity and that's why we came to the situation we are where we are today so with we adopted ISD solution and PhD is being separated so uh again even when we have a possible PSD solution then of course that can be and should be discussed but I don't see that there is a dependency uh between uh progressing the ISD Mna solution and um PSD yeah discussion thank you Greg and Jimmy go next you can go on G you can go on can you hear me now yes okay I think they have had long time discussion about the pros and cons of PSD in ISD and we have a lot of understanding about uh they are not uh competing solutions that separate components of the complete solution some of the functionality can be provided by ISD and some other functionality requires PSD and I think Tarik just gave an example that something um put in the ISD will cause some problem and another point is for the ISD since the limitation of the size of the ISD space we cannot carry a large amount of data or wearable lines of data in ISD"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:48:02",
    "text": "and this also requires the existence of the PSD solution regarding the use cases I think we have discussed some of the potential use cases related to the PSD like the iom and also the that net may be another possible use case um and regarding the complexity I think I would have had the discussion about it the complexity in the meetings and also on the list both ISD and PSD will introduce additional complexity to the empires um uh technology and if we want to improve uh simplify the solution we can we need to look at those not just to the PSD that is always my understanding about how to make the right thing how to do the rising with assignment Network right all right okay thanks the rakeshore next hear me yeah yes I can okay so uh we have documented two use cases in the use cases I think there is one for the that net time time bound applications and another one is for ioam use cases for example iom there is IPv6 options defined there are two IPv6 options the destination option and the hubby hop option to carry iom there is there is a variant for example of doing a buy Hub recording of information uh it so for IPv6 so for example it's uh it's in last call and it should become RFC um and there is"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:50:01",
    "text": "equivalent functionality desired in mpls and in in case like iom where you are recording every information how by half PhD is the ideal place to record where each hop writes in some information and forwards the packet just like IPv6 so this is um one use case for PSD that we are interested in for the complexity part of PSD I think the the team have done good job in preparing one solution which is very similar to ISD in the sense that all of the encoding using uh seven bit opcode land and data associated with it uh are very identical so if you're doing parsing and things like that it can be easily implemented it's just a location where it is on the on the stack is different but it can be Parts quite easily because you can reuse the the concepts so it's just where the location is is it after the bottom of the stack or is it before the stack so I don't think is that as complex as as it is thought to be thanks Greg if you can hear me go ahead go ahead I want to note a point that um adding um operational State information IEM Trace option incremental or pre-allocated uh posted data or actually in the packet itself uh it's uh"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:52:00",
    "text": "clearly prohibited for for that net uh because uh increasing the packet size of a debt net with their uh non-uh client information uh it means that uh all their expectations of on-time delivery and will uh packet to us are changing uh if you look at that net architecture documents so uh even uh active OEM load on the network needs to be considerate and resources reserved so that in normal situation uh OEM synthetic packets does not affect data traffic so uh it seems that uh keeping OEM impact in that net to the minimum to the required minimum is beneficial and that's why I believe that um for the death net and extending that uh to mpls network in general using um IAM direct expert option uh is a reasonable uh balance and compromise because it allows collection of operational State and uh Telemetry information at the same time keeping the overhead of IAM in under control because with the direct expert IEM option uh The information collected can be exported out of that relative to their data traffic so uh again what I would encourage and ask is that let's not look at what we would like to do but uh what is uh useful and"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:54:03",
    "text": "necessary to do thank you okay thanks Greg um I'm next in the queue so I want to highlight and maybe get more clarification on when we say PSD PSD solution uh we are not talking about a parallel solution for carrying metadata for all use cases but rather uh we talk about PSD in combination with the existing solution of ISD so it it would leverage the work that we've done with for ISD but you know data would be somewhere else but possibly there would be some ISD and some data and some PSD data in the same packet um and we're not talking about a parallel solution that is independent of the ISD work thank you and I will lower my hand and give a chance to Rakesh to go next there is a i oam RFC has several Trace types that is pre-allocated there is incremental and and whatnot um what IPv6 draft is containing a scope to say that IPv6 will not support incremental where the size grows as a packet trousing so it's um it's kind of pre-allocated and it's a fixed size packet that will be um uh generated uh and uh so we we invent PLS the idea is to follow the same path so it doesn't like grow and and the same reason that what IPv6 did"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:56:01",
    "text": "so we would have the the parity of uh behavior and functionality with IPv6 in mpls thanks we thank you uh Tony you're next hi I'd like to disagree with both of the previous speakers uh Tariq I disagree that PSD would require ISD we've discussed that a little bit on the mailing list I won't reiterate all of the details here uh new Rakesh I'm sorry but I don't understand the relevance to IPv6 uh that is not a precedent for what we do if we decide we need increasing data space and PSD that seems like a reasonable place to do it thank you okay thank you and Greg your neck I'm glad and thank you for your comment because I agree and I don't I cannot find the relevance and actually why um with solution for um mpls data plane uh should uh replicate uh their solution uh applied to IPv6 so that is not clear also um I'm looking at IAM in mpls network as a method that provides certain uh information so in my opinion uh IEM direct expert is absolutely adequate in providing this information and keeping their idea of that this information is useful and helpful but not critical so that's a option that uses out of band collection of this"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:58:02",
    "text": "information is philosophically uh most uh attractive in my opinion so that uh yes there there is a original RFC that defined uh Trace options that use uh the data packet we can call it trigger packet to collect this information but then um in course of discussion that direct expert was uh defined and published in his RFC that provides absolutely same functionality in terms um in regard to collecting information so um and we have a proposal that demonstrates how uh their direct expert IAM can be supported as insect data m a so we don't have to support options that are not architecturally uh beneficial to mpls Data Network and we can choose how to provide this functionality in mpls Networks thank you okay great thank you I'm next in the queue so my question now um you know it's basically trying to respond to Tony and he's free to respond back or not but um are we saying that um if we solve the use case using ISD um when we propose or if we propose a PSD solution um we're free to solve the same use case in PSD um that's number one um so I think that is an important point that you know when you said they're independent ISD and PSD in that sense uh are we saying that I could solve the"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:00:02",
    "text": "same thing in different places uh that that was one of the concerns I had thank you and Rakesh you're next um so uh Tony I agree with you that if it is also fine to support the incremental uh and the size go grows along the path in mpls um yeah don't mean to discard that option so totally agree with you foreign was not suggesting that we duplicate solutions that was not the issue at all the point is that we may have situations where we may want to use PSD it's got different properties in ISD and some use cases may need those properties so there may maybe cases where we make it makes more sense just to use PSD why not just do that uh Greg your next thanks Tony so tarek to your question um as uh we had a discussion on um ISD draft m a header so when we found uh that uh the same functionality can be uh realized using two different uh encodings uh I understand that we agreed that it's a necessary complexity and challenge for uh implementation and we agreed that uh to"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:02:01",
    "text": "leave only one so I would extend that uh line of thought to your question and think that uh it would not be beneficial if the same functionality supported uh using two different methods so I would say that if we can solve a use case uh using ISD then uh these use cases so only unless we have a new use case uh then we can consider whether it cannot be solved in ISD and requires PSD so that that would be my view thank you okay Loa go ahead so comment on first IPv6 well I think IPv6 and what they done is a good input but it's not a directive so we learn and then we do what we need to do for mpls it might be close to what they did for IPv6 or it might be different but we don't know that yet on [Music] if we have the possibility to so scenarios we find a use case where we need PSD take that you can take that as a starting point and in that situation we find a use case where we can solve it with either ISD or PSD then I think we should pick the simplest one to go ahead with but it's not excluding a PSD and it is not excluding ISD thank you okay I'm back uh so I want to agree with"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:04:01",
    "text": "uh with uh Tony and Greg in the sense that okay so I agree with Tony on uh there are use cases where it's more suitable to do it to solve it in in PSD others in ISD um I would consider in the in that sense the PSD solution is an augmentation uh of the overall uh solution we're proposing uh um and there might be cases I agree with uh Greg you know that you might want to solve I don't know why would you do that but solve it in two places um I would challenge that my concern was the PSD solution would be so independent of the proposal or the solution we have for ISD that it can be considered an alternative in the sense the closest in my mind is our rcpde that we standardized and crldp and that time there was a you know uh two uh two proposals on the table um so I that was what I was trying to uh you know avoid in the discussion and hopefully we can agree on this one solution but you know it offers the solving or carrying the data in two places but it's one solution kind of and uh back to Rakesh yeah I just wanted to add one point uh to lower that uh yeah agree about the IPv6 context um only one one point about that is that if often customers having multiple data plane multiple networks and having different different solutions uh going from one domain to other domains and the complexity that brings will do the hindering of the adoption or even implementation"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:06:03",
    "text": "solution another theme for different solution for different data planes in a vendor environment is also um it's very cumbersome or costly right so this is just one motivation but again yeah we don't have to mimic everything here but there is some advantages I would like to suggest that we can choose a optimal mechanism not necessarily ISD not necessarily PSD but whatever is optimal on a per use case basis and that should be the criteria that we use to select which direction we go for a given use case now optimal varies per person so we get to have a nice discussion about that uh regarding Network complexity if particular end users are interested in minimizing complexity I strongly suggest they disable IPv6 that's not useful thank you next low are you next go ahead um I think I agree with what Iraq cash said so what we know that IPv6 has done something similar to what we are doing for mpls now uh we would benefit from understanding what we've done and what the problems are and then we go ahead and try to do the optimal thing for mpls thanks hey Greg go ahead oh well"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:08:00",
    "text": "um okay architecturally um yes I again I don't see why we are going into this direction discussing uh IPv6 uh cuts and bruises but uh observing what uh deployment of extension headers uh and uh how much concern operators have with them I think that that would be a good uh additional input for us to replicate this functionality in mpls data plane so and and again uh I cannot see how that solution would be applicable uh in that net and that net being one of their uh important and Deathmatch with mpls data plane so in that big one of their uh areas would be um uh uh considering the M A4 is uh important so I don't really uh see that using uh solution analogous to IPv6 extension headers uh is a good proposition for mpls that that thank you okay thank you Greg um okay going one two and three I don't see anyone in the queue um I will shift to the next slide um and it's a continuation of the previous slide really and it's an action on all of us so lava you want to speak to that and yes since I wrote it I better speak"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:10:00",
    "text": "um so this is if you have a strong opinion one way or another on PSD if you need if you think you need it to view it and you want it uh what you have to do is actually document the use case and then you need to bring it to the interim meeting for for discussion and as soon as you have as soon as you're prepared to take that discussion you probably better ask for a slot so we can put it on the agenda um and if this does not really happen then I don't know where we are then the I think the discussion will will stall um but as we said earlier if we actually make good progress and if we get to points where we can pull the mailing list for consensus we will do that thank you okay uh Rakesh you have your chance go ahead well documented the use cases we have a draft for PhD for iom and we also have a draft on the debt net time-bound use case with PSD as well so um we we can present that okay um but when can you do it I mean iom as early as next week okay I see uh we have another first Naval discussion also we have to uh"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:12:01",
    "text": "uh prepare uh yeah I need to say that before I say what I was about to say shares will meet on uh Tuesdays and finally agenda so you will only have two days if you request the slot for the next meeting so and we are aware of that this is a little bit awkward but we can't really yeah do it any other way so they can uh request as early as they can right yeah they can request but we can't decide on the agenda until Yeah Tuesday so but yeah we can tell them that they will get this lot even if we haven't decided I see but if they send the request as early as possible it's better uh yeah they're better earlier the better yeah okay okay I'll send in a request okay thank you okay good um I still have one last slide and before we talk about that um Dave is uh raising his hand so I'll give him a chance Dave go ahead thanks tarek I hope you guys can hear me if can you flip back a slide yes I can hear you and I will flip so what it just occurred to me is um you know this the bullet says here that if if you want need PSD document the use case I think a number of the use cases are already documented I I think what was meant and at least what I would encourage is if you go back one more slide that what needs to be documented from here is kind of a you know a case or or answers to these questions right for each relevant use case"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:14:01",
    "text": "I think getting answers to these questions will help us come to consensus more than just reiterating what's already been written in the use cases but I'll leave that to the chairs thanks indeed I mean the discussion was I mean I think Tony also a number of people pointed as picking the optimal way of solving the use case and it would be good I think Rakesh mentioned there is a use case couple of use cases maybe we have a to make a case on the optimality now why is this optimal and and answering these questions I think is very good I agree totally agree and and I don't see anyone else so I'll go back to the last slide I have and I want to reiterate that the interims are happening or they're already scheduled on a weekly basis so we have an interim next Thursday potentially um as Laura mentioned we will have a meeting between the chairs to discuss uh if there is enough slots uh or there's a need to cancel the the meeting um requests uh as early as possible are encouraged we thank you for doing that uh we already have couple of uh requests so that's a good thing as of now uh yeah we will try to respond as early as possible that we will make it uh you will make the slot that you asked for for next meeting but other than that what do we want to discuss if it's a chance to uh if you have other topics that we didn't talk about today um either you can speak up now or send us an email with the request"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:16:05",
    "text": "this was my last slide and it's an action on all of us to uh you know if you have a topic that is related to the interim meetings uh the topic You Know M A and relevant so please uh send us a request okay all right as promised at the beginning of the call if we finish early the discussion we might be able to give you back the remain in their uh the two hours so if nothing else I can stop the meeting and give you back the time remaining time uh any last words Loa Nick if you're still there um I'm still here no I think I'm kind of got what I wanted from the meeting and I will start preparing the share meeting okay so the last is I want to thank everyone who attended today and uh for having a good and fruitful discussion and hopefully see you next time we meet next Thursday thanks okay and thank you bye bye"
  }
]
