[
  {
    "startTime": "00:00:21",
    "text": "good morning everyone this is the best competition element working group session so yeah that\u0027s why we still use well not well we\u0027re cells they\u0027re already so even if you come are supposed to be aware of the IPR policy within the ETF you supposed to be aware of that even when you subscribe and restart to the unit of meeting so please take some time to be aware of the wounds on make sure you abide by them when you contribute to the hf so usual stuff the blue sheet should be running across the room make sure you have signed them down before during the meeting it helps us to track the number of attendees and make sure whether problem for next meeting and can accommodate every attendees need it Howie taking the minutes thank you Harish we also have you nothing golf connected to trouble parental please make sure that you come to the mic on the pink cross make sure when you have question to you the mic because we have streaming we are recording so everything should be hold by the mics and make sure you everyone can understand what you say remember to stay tuned and when you come at the mic also this is your football sore hari taking the minutes and people remote especially we have people attending remotely by the way one of them will be presenting later so this is not just Siri there are people connected from remote so how I said before how he has been appointed as the PCE working group secretary so thanks again Harry for agreeing to take that position Harry M is to among us they succeeded in helping flush the backlog of the PC document on other stuff PC working group so thank you for the help agree on it\u0027s likely that it\u0027s your last meeting as a PCE co-chair so thanks a lot thank you for everything work I danced everything and the terms from beyond the castle thank you [Applause] hopefully we keep seeing you here [Music] the meaning is as usual the many "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:03:24",
    "text": "documents that will be presented here that haven\u0027t been discussed on the list yet this is a pity you don\u0027t have to wait for a presentation to trigger discussion on the list many things can happen between the meetings so the list is open 24/7 please keep on trying triggering discussion there that\u0027s a way to make it all progress even between the meetings so it\u0027s very useful to force yourself to trigger discussion over there because that\u0027s one of the tools on the PC working we\u0027ll probably under use that tool the week it\u0027s been a while that we\u0027ve been set up that week in place seconds so correctly up-to-date and it allows us to track various cues for document adoption in the walk you noob walking with Blasco [Music] sharing responsibilities and so on so this is useful tool you may be interesting also to bring in your a test there if it makes sense it\u0027s open to anyone with an account so if you feel something isn\u0027t accurate you may also add from there the link is included as right so have a look at it it\u0027s useful info that goes beyond what the data tracker is already providing so feel free to look at and maybe comment implementation policy so we\u0027ve been already talking about that on the list as you should be aware of it is required that the working group define an implementation policy for the world they are defining and specifying so in the PC working group we\u0027ve decided that we should abide by this rule by including an implementation status section in each document so unless specific reason to be discussed means the the chair is identified we expect that all PC document include that kind of section and it is especially true for document occur close to the walk-in Blasco be aware that we won\u0027t start working with last goal without addressing this issue it\u0027s been already pointed out on the list review them in this situation so this will be a breaking point starting from now which is already a breaking point so please update your document we through this section it doesn\u0027t have to include a lot of things if there are few "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:06:24",
    "text": "things to do but the section must be there I\u0027m not empty of course so the agenda has been shown for a while also no major change note which is scheduled anyone wants to bash anything in the agenda okay we we\u0027ve been as Jillian said we\u0027ve been working quite hard to push the backlog out of the working group and the result of that is we\u0027ve now got a lot of documents that are beyond the working group since Park two of them came out as RSC\u0027s the ability to actn and the state for point-to-multipoint both of which have been a little while in the in the production so I thought but it\u0027s good to have them out then we\u0027ve got three more that are in the RFC editor queue so they\u0027re shortly to become RFC\u0027s the first of those the segment routine document is part of cluster 340 a cluster is a a group of mutually dependent documents that need to be progressed through the RFC editor as a block I believe that all of those documents are now with the RFC editor and and 340 is going to come out soon so that RFC will come the second one w son RW a is dependent on the gmpls document that\u0027s just a little lower down on the slide so that\u0027s all okay and hierarchy extensions are in with the authors to make some comments back to the DRC editor John and Laura lo Anderson since MPLS also had at least one document in that cluster 340 I have talked to the RSC editor and they say that this publication of all those drafts are six to eight weeks out oh well okay thank you I guess that means the the cluster is fooled out that they haven\u0027t edited yet yeah okay two documents are with the ASG they\u0027re "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:09:24",
    "text": "both actually really sort of back with the authors after iesg review and pending updates I think if there\u0027s no well updates they need to make but if any of the author\u0027s is confused please talk to the chairs and the Shepherd to move that forward and then we\u0027ve got we\u0027ve we\u0027ve scared our ad which is quite fun because part of this moving the backlog means we\u0027ve suddenly pushed rather a lot of documents through there are now six in various states with with the ad with the ASG I don\u0027t think I need to go through them all but they\u0027re in various states from needing updates after history discussion all the way through to pending a review from the area Directorate so quite a range we\u0027ve got two early Copeland allocations that looking quite safe they expire later this year but they\u0027re both progressing through the publication so we don\u0027t expect any challenges there and we have no errata in hand so now since they were working with documents on the agenda none of the authors asked for agenda slot but I thought we should put that and let\u0027s discuss our working with buttons that because those are the most important charted work that we have already agreed to progress on so let\u0027s go through their status predict WA T we have some documents which the authors in the past have claimed that there are nearing working group last call and as Julian mentioned the main gating point where they are stuck is the implementation policy that as a working group you all have agreed to and please talk to us regarding how to progress this since maybe this is the first time you are adding this so is there any questions we are here to help you out and some of the documents have already added so you can also refer those documents on the amount of detail note that that this is your this doesn\u0027t mean that you must have an implementation it just means that you must talk about it in the document and even if you have implementations that are coming or you don\u0027t plan to you can put that information as well in the dis section so start talking about it and then we can start progressing these documents the last document in the set is the gmpls document that got merged during the last last meeting a refresh was promised which is still pending which was supposed to deal with more editorial changes so once that is done I think "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:12:24",
    "text": "this document is also nearing working your plus call and I think surfer wants to say something yeah just any agree with the money if you need anything both this am available for helping with their document okay so now one document which got updated so let\u0027s look at the status of that document which is our PCP and one technical change was with respect to key where LSP ID key also got added into the LSP dB this is useful and make before break cases where the you may have for a temporary multiple LS B\u0027s so using the LSP ID as a key is helpful so based on that comment this change was done and rest of the all the comments are related to the RFC style guide and how to properly use the references or droughts and etc which were discussed on the list and all those things have been done as a status the early young doctor review of this document is also done but we do not have any implementations of this young model yet so if you are aware of this or are you planning to implement please reach out to the authors or on the list or the chairs so that\u0027s about the yang model some other documents which are not yet fully cooked but but we need to discuss one is the PCC see the PCC C document we did Maidan of the update was made and it was posted and they have added the implementation status discussing about what\u0027s what\u0027s implemented with respect to PCC see the second document is the native IP this was presented last time there is no update and I think mostly dependent on the movement that we see in the t\u0027s working group of the related documents we have the LSP scheduling refresh was made but more technical changes again I think implementation of this document is something that the authors would like so if you have plans for implementing this please teach out to the working group to documents which were recently adopted or the flex grid and the SRV six supporting piece up and the one document that we wanted to explicitly discuss was the enhanced errors this was an agenda in IT f-104 and it was presented after that we decided that there should be a guideline of all the future documents how they can use the enhanced errors and notification so the guideline is as you can see in the slide it requests that any new document if they are defining new error type or notification they should think about whether this error needs to be propagated in multiple domains and what kind of error "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:15:24",
    "text": "criticality condition they should refer so this is the die line that at least on the mailing list who kind was agreed on so if you have any thoughts on this guideline still reach out to us and we plan to either put this guideline on wiki or in the draft itself or both and the request would be that let\u0027s since this is our working of document and if we have consensus on this let\u0027s start making sure that all the documents which define new errors also refer to the enhanced error techniques available any comments on this good okay so the last slide from the status we know that you care about your documents and you may be asking chairs that when the adoption thing would happen we have a little bit of a queue happening here it\u0027s a pretty long Hugh wastes will slowly get to it our first focus was to get the working group LCQ happen and as you can see that\u0027s empty for us now but now we have a little bit like a no backlog at the adoption whole thing so your chairs are aware of it and we will get on this and in fact the adoption pole for the first document is ongoing now I ask from you would be that we would need to hear from you that it\u0027s we\u0027re not just doing this poll for for the sake of it we want to help whether the working group is interested in it you can always say that you are not it\u0027s doesn\u0027t have to be just support it\u0027s your choice of saying that no this should not be adopted and the working group effort will waste it while working on this document so but please speak out the silence doesn\u0027t give us the clear indicator on dodging the interest in the working group for various items rakesh from Cisco the PC path segment has both SR MPLS as well as SR v6 path segment right now right the the MPLS is a working group document but the survey 6 is not so I think maybe we need to sort that out for before we have adoption call for the PC part segment should discuss with among the authors and come back to us yes we already did okay so wiki\u0027s open when you make some decisions and you want to remove the document from the adoption pool cue and go back and work on it or whatever decision that you make come back to us and let\u0027s keep the wiki up to date so that all in the working group are aware of what\u0027s happening when daughters okay thank you let\u0027s start with the first presentation the first presentation is Mike so if I\u0027m not mistaking Mike it\u0027s a presentation to the PC working group welcome on among us so my name is Mike Koehler chef and "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:18:47",
    "text": "presenting on I\u0027m from Cisco presenting on behalf of the authors so the purpose of this draft is to clarify stateful piece a behavior that would leave less room for misinterpreting certain things and we compiled it as a result of basically ent C Interop exercise so the main kind of thing that we\u0027re doing is we\u0027re trying to clarify the meaning of what the state mean instead for piece up and how do you exactly manipulate the state how you maintain it and so we introduced these two databases the LSP database and the Association database so these are both stored on both the PCC and the PC and they have identical structure on the PCC on the PC and one thing we do is we update the RFC a23 one by saying that PC request is not mandatory for the PCC to send so this simple files basically OSP bring out so first we introduce this LSP database so we kind of have these five basic rules about what it is and so on the PCC the LSP database is modified kind of pretty much continuously by the PCC whenever it whenever it decides to signal a new path so and then on the PC the LSP DB is only modified by PC report messages so there is no other way that the PC can modify its house be done please and we also clarify that there is a two-tier structure to this database in that there is something called a tunnel and the Stono is a container for our species and so the tunnel is the thing that\u0027s identified by the POS PID and the symbolic name and there was is identified by the RSP identifier and I just want to note that basically these this wording of tunnel and LSD is up for discussion so SP stands for label switched paths but this applies to non labeled protocols and so perhaps saying path database is a better choice instead of LSP database so and we also introduce this association database so this one has is more it can be updated kind of both by messages and configuration on both the PCC and the PC and so each we we kind of say that each a so is a container for LS B\u0027s it\u0027s not a "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:21:47",
    "text": "container of tunnels so because if we try to make it a container of tunnels then it\u0027s not possible to do a make before break from one association to another because you can\u0027t say that you my re-up tell us P is in a different Association the current house and last is the the change we\u0027re proposing to RFC eight to three one which states that PC request is not mandatory because basically the PC you cannot really enforce this so we found that even if you don\u0027t send this request the PC the PC will still you will still react to your PC report just as well so it basically saves one message during state for bringing up or two messages doing stateful bring up so I think that\u0027s a good thing and this is the end of my presentation so every one of these time for questions [Music] okay sorry in a hallway sorry future Lea okay so one thing that simple comment if you want to have a different name for LSP I would suggest connection I always like this better than LSP for the reasons you just described okay and basically it is also better than path because but you would confuse passes computed paths which are not provisioned so allow the connection database would be a better term okay so this is more firm I guess a question for the group was like understand Nokia I think this is more of a question for the group we\u0027re diving board point to the fact that PC request is not supposed to modify state there are maybe implementations out there today which are doing reservation with given of course if it\u0027s a PC request you might not expect a report coming back so there could be time of mechanisms and other implementations to still hold reservations primarily in the use case of bandwidth so I\u0027m wondering as a group is that statement that PC request is is shall not you know modify the LSPD LSP DB is that something that should be a may or is that too restrictive or do we generally think that that\u0027s a silly idea it\u0027s no question for the group thanks hi this is Adrienne as a as an individual it\u0027s three things and be really careful about specifying the format of databases in implementations that makes no difference to "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:24:48",
    "text": "interoperability and what we do as protocols for the wire so I only and say what state what information needs to be stored about how it\u0027s stored is up to your competitors to screw up you want to encourage them to screw it up second point which was kind of just made I think it\u0027s too strong to say a PC is not supposed to create any state a piece he probably doesn\u0027t need to but there\u0027s this kind of concept of sticking state where you you make a request and you don\u0027t know whether the networks going to use that information but you kind of want to get ahead of the IGP just in case they do so think about that and the third one was 82 31 updates I\u0027ve got this little draft clarifying the use of bits if we\u0027re gonna make 82 31 updates we should think about whether we bundle them together or not yeah I just want to quickly just say about the peace request not modifying the LSP TV so I think there may be a use case where you kind of use the PC for OAM so say you want to ping like an inter domain path right and you just want to basically say you know give me some path right but you don\u0027t want to touch the network you don\u0027t want to modify any state in the network based on that like you just it\u0027s it\u0027s like you know you just want to probe the network right you don\u0027t want to modify it so I think that\u0027s why I mean that we said that but we\u0027re kind of open to whatever the workgroup says they\u0027re Hilah burger I agree with Adrienne\u0027s point about the databases you don\u0027t want to specify them as formal requirements but as a conceptual talking point as a way of characterizing the information that\u0027s being stored I think that\u0027s really useful it\u0027s good to have some common terminology so I actually like that and just don\u0027t make it that you actually have to build it that way the have you thought about protection paths and now you\u0027re gonna represent them protection yeah I mean there\u0027s just the association objective well you can there\u0027s there\u0027s different ways to model if you\u0027re thinking about it from a database representation and you could choose just to leave them uncorrelated and then you have to walk the whole database to find the Association you know which ones are associated or you might do some formal linkages okay I would say if you could write down on the mailing list in more detail than I think we can it\u0027s really "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:27:50",
    "text": "just think about how you want to represent that so it\u0027s it\u0027s usable information okay cool one thing though about the the database I think we should specify the key of the database right because like if different vendors use like if one vendor uses the LSP ID as the key and another vendor uses the tunnel ideas the key like you end up with a broken you know they\u0027re not gonna interrupt and then nobody wins in that situation so I\u0027d say that\u0027s an appropriate thing to think about if you are defining data models like yang models if you\u0027re talking about just sort of informative concepts it\u0027s fine to say that you think of it that way I don\u0027t think you can specify it if you want to specify it I think you have to end up with some foremost Asian language which we end up with doing yang I mean okay as you know Adrienne pointed out we defined behavior on the wire we don\u0027t be a defined behavior inside the node all right thanks eatle woozy from away I have a question for radiation you say that in the Association is not between tunnels but in teas we are modeling in Titan and modern association between Tennyson and be confusing is the limit so yeah just trying to understand why we have different viewpoints on different working groups right so this is basically you can have association between tunnels if every I was peeing in in tano is associated to every RSP and tunnel B then the two tunnels are associated but making it purl SP it gives some more use cases such as if you\u0027re doing bi-directional for example then the two LS B\u0027s there may be you know a real plus B which is associated to the real optimist be on the other end it\u0027s not associated to the current of us B on the other end so services agent again I think we have a disconnect on terminology that when you\u0027re down in the transport world a there\u0027s a double disconnect on terminology and not not the layer 4 transport the lion transport when you\u0027re down in the late in the underlying transport world a tunnel is a pipe in rsvp-te world a tunnel is this conceptual collection of potential connections we call LSPs right so it tells term tunnel is your turn LSP my definition of tunnel is very simple it\u0027s just the thing identified by the POS PID so your point is that the LS PB did the association between tan s is "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:30:50",
    "text": "model as association between all y LS PB on the Tumnus that\u0027s the way you address that yeah you can you can solve like in some cases it doesn\u0027t make sense to have association between individual LS B\u0027s in that case you just associate the tunnels by associating you know there are space yeah yeah I\u0027m not saying it indeed you can associate an S in that then you can do that by using all yellow speed or or not I\u0027m confused so basically just a clarification when we model T tunnel we basically saying that Alice piece that go on to the same tunnel like walking and protection Alice B\u0027s they do not meet any association they already I children of this tunnel and associated native lives for that when we say associated tunnels it means that there are tunnels basically all their connections or only working connections it doesn\u0027t matter but for example there is an association one supports one direction in data plane and another in opposite direction and so forth this is like a higher level of Association so basically putting everything into connection Association or I lost association it\u0027s actually confuses a lot of things okay so again LSPs that belong to the same tunnel they associated by definition their association object the tunnel ideas association object yeah and we\u0027re not trying to associate two osp\u0027s within the same tunnel typically that there\u0027s no use case for that associate a las peace between themselves because they belong to different tunnels okay they just unprotect the tunnels if they have a single LSP I\u0027m not sure you said them do your previous thing that we\u0027re somehow I mean it\u0027s not necessary to to associate LSP is among it within the same tunnel and I\u0027m saying I agree with you there and but but you do need to associate tunnels basically as parents or sometimes sometimes sometimes yeah and there are different reasons why you do that you do not associate them on the less P level that\u0027s what I\u0027m saying your associated okay you can bring that up a new in the meaningless and we can think of a solution thanks tarick from Jennifer I might all right so about the Association itself I just want to clarify you can have multiple types of Association right there\u0027s diversity there\u0027s carotid Ness you\u0027re so cold out goodness is one example where you want the LSPs of the same tunnel or possibly forward and reverse to be associated right right I don\u0027t think we should dictate that you cannot do it per tunnel or you cannot I mean LSP granularity is fine by me which is the fine granularity but one can choose to do it on per tunnel and in fact you know if you have diversity you want to always be you know this tunnel is diverse from this tunnel no matter if "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:33:50",
    "text": "you do make before break or not so my comment is not to go technical but I think dictating it raises the concern but if not fair enough I don\u0027t see what you\u0027re saying so okay thanks maybe we can go just out there Thanks yes I think the Association is for LSP but is the recipes can be across the different tunnels so that\u0027s how is modeling T\u0027s as well so I think what you\u0027re saying terminology wise it kind of makes sense okay thanks rubbish yeah I think there is maybe maybe this this rule it\u0027s the also as a continuum for ESPYs maybe that\u0027s left up to the individual also definition then I think a more generic way yeah thanks Mike Mike as you progress this work on I think a suggestion that I would give you for this like you know right now it\u0027s a mix of clarifying things mix off making changes into RFC eight two three one so we need to scope it a little bit better and maybe the things that needs to update eight to three one work with Adrian and we we scope it as a standard strat thing and the things which are clarifying there we and again when you are clarifying I think currently you clarify from the database point of view and you think of what is the database at see see what is the database at PCE but in ITF and in we should worry about what\u0027s on the wire so if there is any confusion between what people are encoding in LSP identify TLD or people are making mistakes with symbolic paths name and some correction needed there that is more important than how does an implementation stores the information the same thing with a SOG DB whether I create a DB or I it\u0027s a state in my LSP DB itself why does it matter let that be up to the implementations to figure out I agree with you that you know we should I understand okay ideally that we should be concerned about protocol on the wire stuff however in this case what Mike is trying to do here is clarify interpretation of those values on the wire so during in araba ran into that where the meaning of a certain number of the meaning of a certain name or the expectation of a certain name or number to exist or not exist and how it was used there was differences of opinion there and I agree so instead of showing it as a data base at rest we should show what\u0027s the message that the require the report message or update message should include so my kind of comment to that is it it doesn\u0027t matter what the message is so I mean okay maybe we are interrupting message is more important so for example what I\u0027m saying here in the first point is that the PCC DB is mod of PCC LSP DB is modified by any trigger it could be PCI update there could be a local computation it could be configuration so regardless of what triggered it like I don\u0027t need to specify it you know the same thing 3 the same rule 3 times I\u0027m just saying that basically it\u0027s the the tribulus common and you know your state changes in one way so we can discuss "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:36:50",
    "text": "that on the mailing list I think so I this useful work I mean we\u0027ve had various implementations interpret things different ways so I think is really useful if you\u0027re going to add some recommendations for what the Association DB needs to look like and proposed terminology for tunnels and things like that I would encourage you to look at the T tunnel modeling\u0027s work that\u0027s been done there\u0027s a fair bit of work that\u0027s gone into how the associations are specified for connections belonging to various Colonels across various technology so take a look at that before you make any recommendations in this topic okay sure thanks thank you much so you have a unified some interesting issue to you to work on here so please so what makes presenters is the first worker is state - synchronization between states for PCs and firstly let\u0027s briefly recap what has been done in these drafts so basically it\u0027s a yeah original motivation is to describe the procedure for the sync up function between the states of PCU communications and the objective is to make the deployment of pce in a more resilient way and we can solve the computation and loop issues for the dependent task computation like the diversity so basically we have also included a scenario so is written NPC for backup or to the load balance and we are also looking to the applicability of this mackensen into the inter domain PC and the hierarchical PC is nervous so this work has been discussed previously in ITF 100 which is almost two years ago so since the present her has a bad memory and I\u0027d like to reintroduce some of the key concept in the draft so firstly with har get all set up at this obsession between the state for PCs which is named as state sync session and the second object would be say to synchronize the RSP state between this the state OPC is using this session and "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:39:51",
    "text": "this kind of say synchronization can be applied to in both directions and only the incremental state would be required for the state single synchronization so that would be also risky because if you miss one of them or you duplicated some of the wrong state information that would be a kind of inconsistent data base between the PC NPCs so we also introduced the master and the slave relationship between the pcs so for multiple errors piece and one PC you can become the master and the other can be the slave and all the RSPCA is a kind of dedicated to the master pcs and we also have some minor contributed have to describe say the use a draft database portion to maintain the latest change and also we need to maintain the earth piece data from multiple sources and we use an example to describe a a kind of how this state of synchronization is done so we assume in the figure this is a time order of the three phases and we have one PCC connecting with two different pcs and there is a kind of synchronization request is between the two pcs so basically are as very beginning time phase we have the PCC trigger let\u0027s call it a dream message to both PC number one and PC number two but unfortunately the delay of the PC message delivery is different or Tuesday\u0027s to PC is so it is possible that a while is one of them is to reach earlier than the other so this problem would be somehow solved by using the states of synchronization sessions and finally the PC to will recorder the latest RSP state Korea I received from the PCE one before receives a responding message from PCC and then we suppose there is another changer that market has a yellow one on the slides and PCC also need to trigger the changes to both of the PCs and again it reach the PCE number one first or so out great thank you yeah so meanwhile when the PCC number one is propagating the the yellow message for the PC 2 is still receiving the message from the PCC so that which is a kind of not synchronized the state "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:42:57",
    "text": "but to give him the mackensen specified in this document we allow the PC number 2 to figure out which is the latest RSP state with different value and then the PC number to understand he need to ignore the the Korean War which is the old one so and finally there is a kind of late message from the PCC who if you see number two but that would not affect any changes in the in the RSP database so we okay we looked back to what has been discussed in IETF 100 and all comments has been clarified oh how the PC is interacting with each other and we have addressed this kind of problem by aligned with other state for PCs and hierarchical PC of work so this would be an important mechanism you for the Mokpo PCU session so we request to the working group to adopt this draft or and it\u0027s the protein to the adoption queue yes sir that do it now okay that\u0027s all for presentation any comments I personally feel that this is important some some of our recent publishing work like stateful HPC and actn work also referred to this document so this is if I have feeling that has not been seen by the right set of eyes yet so should we ask how many people have read how many people have read this document okay that\u0027s good should we check the interest so how many people feel that this work is whether we should be working on this document as a inside a working group okay so almost the same set of people and anybody has any objection on working group taking on this work none good good we will reconfirm anyway as our usual process things on the list thank you Thanks as always we open the technical contribution to how this work and there are some commands to be addressed anyway but know again nothing to prevent a motion to other operation this is how me again and this time I marked my name with a color so the next presentation is "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:45:57",
    "text": "about the extension or say for PCE to allow optional processing of the PC PC objects so basically we see this kind of discussion all the layers are talking about the processing of flags and it\u0027s kind of Seabury is a kind of mist when we migrated from City less PC to late fall and this graph to specify the usage of PFLAG and I flag in a piece of message so PFLAG is the semantic meaning is to indicate whether the object is must be processing or it can be optional and I\u0027ve Clara is a follow up flag indicating that whether the piece of speaker can ignore this message so what has been done in the States for PCE RFC 82 thirty one is they have specified the state for PCE saying that the usage of P\u0026I flag must be set to zero in the transmission and should be ignored on the received so the problem is the behavior on the pni flag in this object this object is somehow stated but see in the other object the specified so the specification is missing and we finally find that some of the object would be useful if they can have the pni flag set or not set so that\u0027s the draft that that\u0027s about the draft so we clarify how the pni flaps are used and to identify the optional objects and this is applicable to all the organs a PCE report update and initiate message off semi interstates for style so we also update what would be done if there are some unknown objects based on this kind of flats so so far we have categorized all the PCE into two different one can proceed as a peon I flag and the other cannot do this so it would be necessary to introduce a new flapper to indicate the capability and we use the state for PC capability are we and introduce relaxed format so if this speed is set then the PC you can process the P\u0026I flag according to this craft and "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:48:58",
    "text": "if this is now set then it will always ignore the pni flag so this it is worth noting that so the kind of relaxed flag need to be set by both peers I simply talked with juniper again so about the relaxed flag and the P and I when you say ignore is there a way to say best effort ignore like say you\u0027re doing exclusion of multiple addresses or links or nodes you want to go best effort kind of exclusion or inclusion the integral for the ignore means all the informations object will not be taken care there is a case where your computing a backup path know your your exclusion constraint is input yeah but that you want to do best effort kind of you know let me clarify I think our C 5 4 4 0 when we set the P flag in a request message we basically meant that PC is free to ignore it but it is allowed to process it as well so if so ideally what we usually do in this case if the path is found meeting that constraint we will give that path but if we are not able to meet the constraint then we will ignore the object yeah my point so this is best effort in my mind I don\u0027t want to ignore it I want to still consider the object but and on a best-effort so so so let\u0027s say diversity is you know computing to LSP two paths that I diverse I cannot find fully diverse paths they could be neat at one place I\u0027m okay with that is it possible it\u0027s possible in the diversity Association drop document so within that Association we try to handle this not at the whole object level oh okay the reason we\u0027re discussing this is in the modeling effort we did model this yeah my question is what happens is that we see while doing the path computation okay though there could be two situations it is possible to wanna say inclusion and come up with the path which is longer in delay that if you would orbit this inclusion allo and and get it a better delay okay so how do you handle the compromise between two optimizations one is following not mandatory inclusions and another provided like a birthday way I think you are asking how to balance "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:52:00",
    "text": "optimization between two different parameters yeah yeah how do you know so basically what this PC is supposed to do if process that was a choice ignoring the inclusion it will come up with a better delay but owner inclusion it it will be closer to the path that was specified but providing was delay I think this is a general problem for past computation and my understanding is the PCC can indicate effective objective function right so since multiple parameters instead of one so that is a little bit away from this document so what the modeling that we did in T right so basically the way we addressed this problem which is a big problem right away the resid as honoring this non-monetary inclusion as a base optimization okay the same as optimization like this delay and we provide basically the weight to the optimization then PC knows exactly what to do what would be the best optimization overall you might consider I don\u0027t know what can do cut it down with the flags but we can achieve this by setting our captive functions and balance between different constraint or using a kind of like a best effort actually that\u0027s an interesting point but that was beyond the scope of this very specific document so well maybe I should do something in the list only when we talk about these things before in the past but that\u0027s far beyond presentation so okay let\u0027s move back to slides and we given this our flap we can indicate the capability of the PC to preceding or these two flags and then we keep the definition on how to use a P flag and I flag so for the P flag firstly the semantic meaning is to indicate whether the object so with this flag is mandatory if the flap is set or it\u0027s just the option now if the flap it\u0027s not set so different message rule requests the flag is indicated apart by different entity in different messages so in PCI update and initiate message with PC is "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:55:03",
    "text": "entity who should indicate the PFLAG processing and PCE report manager this this black rupee indicate by by PCC and P equals one means the object must be taking into account and P equals zero means the object that can be ignored in the discussion from the etheric or the best air filter is a sub case for P equals to zero and four regarding was a flag so in the it would be effective being PC update and report message and when it is set it means the there is an optional object it proceeds is processed and if it is not not set it means the the object is not going to be processed and indicated by by by different a PC or PC in the PC update Henry report accordingly and it would be noted that in the PC initiated that there is a flag its minimis and should be ignored so with semantic meaning of the PFLAG and I flag basically its PFLAG it\u0027s the PC sees sorry the PC speaker need to check the status of PFLAG and the to process in so following a procedure flowchart so the first step is to check if the Platt flag is set and need to determine did decide whether the PC speaker is free to ignore and if the flag is set then that is II also need to figure out whether there are some unknown objects in the object er we and if there is because P flag is set and the PC must process so if there is unknown if there is unknown objects the precept should reject the request always I error message and if everything is known that would be a kind of normal procedure processing so in this working document we reuse the RSP error code TR we define the instead for PC RFC and we have not introduced NC new so the status okay the status is we we updated the the text by adding the dedication scenario and the state the problem space has been "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:58:04",
    "text": "confirmed now the mailing list and we believe there are other documented talking about other flats and people agreed although useful of the document so again we our request for the working group to adopt this work that\u0027s all for the presentation you come on from room and your other commits I mean since I\u0027m correctly in 1831 updates if I understand this correctly you\u0027re not proposing any change 282 31 you\u0027re proposing and an extension that people could choose to implement yes okay thing so but this one I think we don\u0027t you have some problem socialization to which even that on I think it is linked to a moral issue that has been raised Monday comin from turrican ego so glad to see some parallel discussion not necessarily linked to that graph itself but maybe also to diversity graft which is also tackling some interesting mechanism linked to tax question so please make sure that your use case is fine and we\u0027ll take that to the list of progress those may be in all the document on this one thank you so next presenter is Cheng Ying Chun Li from Maui my topic today is convey okay thanks conveying okay the bank vendor specific information in peace app extension for a state for PCE so basically what is than the specification information so the vendor information can be arbitrary or appropriate information such as than the specific constraint between during the post into computation and the price number uniquely identifies the organization responsible for the definition of the content and meaning of the vendor specific information so by definition this implies inequity in inability to interoperate at the functional level between the vendors unless the research there\u0027s some "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:01:05",
    "text": "cooperation right so the history of vendor specific a specific information is in RFC if 7150 it defined it that the vendor information objet and theory which can be used for I mean stateless PCE but in I\u0027ve seen a 74 and 770 it obsolete the previous one and you find some milk on point for the theories in this I\u0027ve seen the vendors information TV can be used by the precept object that allows option theories and also the vendor information objects support in his PC requires request NPC reply message but they but this RFC didn\u0027t mention anything of than the information in for state of all piece set so that is what we do in this draft we stands the extension for supports supporting the state for PC by including vendor information object in a piece app report and PC update and as well as this initiated message so and as well the TV was already support so what we have done in this job is we make some extension in the state of all PC messages such as peace report and this update and peace initiate so let\u0027s take a look up the format\u0027s of these three messages okay then questions and next steps so basically we could like to request the comments from the working group it did it is it useful and is it correct and by the way is there ready for working group adoption any comments no one so question of the usefulness is legitimate so begin to have some feedback on that correct I think so you\u0027re using some more different mechanism make sure it\u0027s properly supported all existing device it so correctness is okay for me a usefulness interesting to know about from the working group so if not today from the list that\u0027s not a complicated Pokemon so "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:04:05",
    "text": "ready please do we will consider it\u0027s useful to qualify your limitations or specification this is pretty easy to understand so yes I see my coming this is Mike Francisco because for example not sometimes some vendors you know they they kind of jump ahead of the of what the working group is doing and sometimes it\u0027s useful to just do something in a in the backward compatible way to signal something and there is also some things that you know may be very specific to a vendor that you know so on a signal so I definitely think it\u0027s useful thanks thank you [Music] updates 282 sort 182 81 as well yeah indeed triumphant I\u0027ll come here under now easier any initiation in the previous document that limited the unity of the theory harder message you know you have Mason and his tiara we had been put into you to to PMS or message and your uncle and they you a lot of Sri message so I think I just want to you know any leave shakes me in the kind of see reverse right yeah yeah here easy Ernie you something you now see 7 for 17 to restricted the tyranny POV you in other let me try if I understood your question correctly the 7 for 7 0 said that this theory can be carried in any object that allow optional TLV so that\u0027s why when we define stateful objects like SRP and LSP object we were able to carry the TLV but we were not able to carry the of judges yes so this document simply says that you can also carry the vendor information object not just the TLB okay yeah basically what we have done is we tried should do something that that that is missed in that I see yes so you stopped just run to make the vendor information object the P in care DD in the PCP exactly just answer I suppose this work "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:07:06",
    "text": "I mean it\u0027s beautiful and in my previous slide who are going to use it for what useful stuff so I think it should be progressing okay okay Thanks thank you for feedback so next presenter is Mike again hi this is Mike coalition from Cisco so I\u0027ll be presenting some brainstorming that we had about how do you a signal ecmp and UCM key information in kissa so we are motivated by the need to encode multiple segment lists for SRT policies some of you may know 30 policies they have these are candidate paths and which candidate path has multiple segment lists which have you CMP among them so I just quote the segment routing policy draft here so I highlighted that it\u0027s basically saying that the PC may compute not just a single segment list but a set of segment lists as a solution to the optimization problem so doing kind of our brainstorming we realize that there is actually two use cases here so one the first use case is when you have a single optimization objective and this was the solution to that objective is multiple ecmp paths and the second use case is when you have multiple optimization objectives and you want ecmp among those objectives so you want a signal both these are valid use cases and in fact they\u0027re kind of orthogonal which means that they can exist independently of each other so here I\u0027ll give an example LS p1 and LSB - you have different optimization objectives and the PCC wants to have a CMP among LS p1 and LSB - so LS p1 gets single path X and speak to get to ecmp paths y\u0026z and so as a result 50% of the traffic goes on tax 25 1 y and 25 on that so we\u0027ll see later that how we propose to represent this in Pisa so for use case 1 which is the single optimization objective yielding multiple paths we we basically propose three ways to or sir two ways to encode this and we "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:10:08",
    "text": "would need to extend Pisa to specify the maximum number of paths that PCC can handle so for example if the if the router can can install like 32 outgoing paths with UC and PU and it would just need to signal that number 32 and then the PC would reply with 32 or less unequal cost multi paths and so are two kind of options that we proposed here are basically different ways of putting multiple euro objects into the same LSP so option a would be to introduce this yellow attribute object and basically use it as a separator to separate different arrows so basically it needs to carry the weight and needs to carry the upper status for each using P path and can carry optional T of ease and then option B is something that drew suggested basically this is to reuse something from T to MP and here we we can use already existing objects to separate the arrows so there\u0027s already this this type of us to our us object that is actually very similar to what we\u0027re proposing so if we go with this approach we we just need to define one new TLD for it to carry the weight and basically this is what the the encoding would look like so you see arrow 1 + 0 2 they\u0027re both encoded under the same LSP and they\u0027re separated by these endpoints in STL a subject and basically the advantage of this approach of option B is that you can reuse the RB n F that\u0027s already there in the RFC and you just need to define one single TOB to use so use case 2 is a is a completely different use case so it\u0027s basically if you have if the PCC knows in advance how many objectives it has so if it wants like one path on red and one path on blue and once ecmp among those two paths then basically the LS the PCC will allocate different piece of tunnel and tunnel in the sense of my previous presentation for each objective and it would create some new Association type for example code EMP Association - by buying these tunnels together so here I give an example of how these two use cases are "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:13:08",
    "text": "orthogonal and they exist at the same time so I already gave this example I mean in the previous slide so I\u0027m just gonna give the piece up representation so if you have 1 LSB or so if the PCC has constrained for example it wants 50% traffic on red 50% on blue then we create like sp1 and I will speak to you and put them in a single Association but within the LSP itself there is the option to give to return multiple equal cost multi paths so that you could have you know 50 going on red as one path and 50% going on blue eyes as two paths so that\u0027s what this is and that\u0027s the end of my presentation oh and Peter can you go to the slide where you mention piece of tunnel okay to console yourself so one a can you go to one a the example yeah I think you have the Pearson yeah yeah I think you can still retain this existing vnf if you introduce a sub object to carry the ingress hop action okay so if we ever extend piece up to signal a multipath why a dag you could reuse the same sub TLV so and then that way you could still use the existing BNF today we do have precedence for a CRO very inside a production object as a second sub object so if you think of the load balance specifier as an english action you can just put it as a sub clearly so that\u0027s one comment like can you go further up this one way yeah yeah so when you say different piece of tunnel what do you mean here so I mean exactly what I meant in my previous presentation today okay Tohno is the thing identified by the PSP okay so there\u0027s a single pls PID you would create if you want to different associate us to different objectives you would create two different PSP IDs okay yeah that works thing just one clarification even if he do sub objects to do a ro list we still need to update our be enough because our problem is our report update message only allow us to put one Jaros object so Liz you have two options that one is today the semantics of ero would say "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:16:08",
    "text": "that you process the first one and if you see more than one year or you ignore the rest or you could use a CRO as for the additional ones and this and that fits your en of a arrow / ero followed by C arrows and all of them carry the same I think our piece of I\u0027ll be enough is little bit different so I discuss this with you and we can go over this shit hi it\u0027s Aaron again as an individual I\u0027m trying to sort out in my head how the weighting of traffic across this set is different from the flowspec work that we\u0027ve got in other words it\u0027s telling the system what traffic to put on which LSP is that is that a reasonable question to ask don\u0027t have the answer for you I think that\u0027s reasonable questions so I think let me reply actually on the mailing list yeah sure thank you John from Hawaii and my question is when I use the Association group 2 Association the least or the ero that we can beauty like ECM pou CMP daños and I think we have a draft in four as a policy in peace app was the relation between this draft and that draft yeah so basically there\u0027s two use cases right so in the first year\u0027s case you don\u0027t know in advance how many ecmp paths you will get you just simply say I can install up to thirty two paths okay and the PC then may give you one path or it may give you two paths or it may give you sixteen paths or thirty two paths in the second use case that\u0027s where you use the optimization objective that\u0027s why I use the Association object to bind the different Association objectives that\u0027s when you know the PCC knows in advance how many objectives it has in it that\u0027s when the association is used so you can really use the association object in the first news case because the PCC does not know in advance how many hours piece it it will cut the line of so on the same slide I heard you say the two approaches are orthogonal but can\u0027t coexist yeah I was confused to me the second example option second option is a specific case of you know the first option is a "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:19:08",
    "text": "specific case of the second meaning one LSP one optimization objective is a specific case of multiple SPS and each have a different optimization objective do you see it differently yes okay I am not clear if you can clarify I mean I\u0027ll give an example there so it\u0027s that\u0027s where what I\u0027m trying to say is you have to you have two LS B\u0027s here and each has its own objective function objective function strange objective function and constraints but if you wanted one objective function and one constraint you\u0027re free it\u0027s a special case of the I mean I don\u0027t see but you create to say you can install 32 CMP paths would you create 32 what I\u0027m trying to say it\u0027s a it\u0027s an operator decision to specify I want multiple or one I understand but basically the problem is becomes very inconvenient because say if your router can install 32 ec MPs then you would need to say create 32 empty osp\u0027s delegate them to the PC and then the PC you would give you maybe one path and there are say be empty so all the details and one policy I might choose to do one LSP one objective another policy I might choose do two of them two of journalist p1 objective you can\u0027t have two objectives for LSP that\u0027s that someone I said I said one policy one LSP one objective another policy to LSPs and two objectives on the same box and the PCE should be able to me there\u0027s no there\u0027s no policy your first of all right so that\u0027s why I\u0027m giving you an option where there is a policy so I\u0027m not sure where the policy is in terms of policy is something SRTP SEP is okay okay so what i\u0027m okay i think we regardless i think we should be generalizing rather than restricting and yes so this is the movies to is the generalization and for it i believe that they\u0027re both orthogonal and the only way to generalize it is can i apologize i didn\u0027t read your draft and I didn\u0027t even hear your presentation so my question is that say if I ask for say 100 G pass okay and can PC return an answer such drug that I cannot do it in one short but I can do it say in two ways one is 40 G and another in 60 G yes exactly okay okay and then and then you can use this as setting up for example a set of what Ovilus piece right that can collectively provide the there yeah well you can say I want like a hundred gig path and with certain constraint like you know going on some certain set of links and I also want like another "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:22:10",
    "text": "hundred gig path on some other set of links and that is use case too but the original use case that you gave is a basically if you if you request that you want 100 gigs but the PC cannot give you one path that satisfies 100 gigs so it would give you two paths back right and say you cmp among them can it give like a several options like for example either this two of these three something like that that collectively well satisfies one hungry G or it\u0027s just one this duel is I\u0027m I mean say I can do it in one short right but I can do either like 60 and 40 or like 300 basically that\u0027s that\u0027s an interesting I mean you could have like a whole bunch of different you know different solutions I mean there are solutions that you can choose yeah currently I mean what kind of we\u0027re thinking is to I mean you only have one but that\u0027s a good idea okay so consider that because we\u0027re also considering that okay thanks kiss me quick gesture so to adjust audience question the binding of factor T know is coming in BGP update as color and point so this is how you know which still associated with which fat here we are mixing a bunch of use cases and I think we should decouple them one of them sin get when you use PC to compute to know our number of tools associated with the policy rather than trying to provide segmented to knows because we cannot satisfy a particular number of constraints that two completely different things and mixing them creates lot of confusion and say it\u0027s different things I agree but we need to mix them in order to be general you know you need to become problem in order to sure but solve one problem and then every game thank you Mike so the next presenter is human so my name is human wit Kohli from Nokia I\u0027m new to this working group please be kind as the French say in Mexico good so this graph is about point-to-multipoint policy so just to give an idea why we are introducing this graph and I think on the unicast side we have done a really good job for the next generation "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:25:10",
    "text": "networks to be simplified when I say simplify I mean we are a controller removing some of the MPLS protocols but multicast is kind of lagging behind we do have protocols like B which uses the underlay IGP but when it comes to an MPLS transport as of now we really need rsvp-te point-to-multipoint MLBPA etc etc so just to be in par with unicorns we try to introduce this draft that uses a controller very thin layer of communication between the controller and the PC see we are starting with Pisa eventually we probably going to move on to other protocol su but basically the controller figures out the tree using bgp LS it has all the states in the network it sees the route and the Leafs it calculates the path from the root to the Leafs via a set of policies which I\u0027ll explain later on and it uses PCE to download or Pisa to download all that information to the PCC so basically what this will give the operators going forward is to bring the multicast in the same level as unique as from program programmability on the on the router itself so to do this there is a couple of objects or segments that we are introducing in spring and one of them is the point to multi-point segment so basically the simplest way to explain the point to multi-point segment it\u0027s it\u0027s a container that contains the route and a set of Leafs and it needs to be identified a set of parameters which you can read the draft and figure that out how the root and the leaf are discovered there is nothing new we can discover them via NP BGP procedures was at the entry and VPN procedures the RFC 6514 6513 all those discoveries can become indicated up to the PCE we are the mechanism that you guys already have and invented previously as you will read it in the draft or later on in these slides so there is nothing new here the only thing you gotta keep in mind is you need to understand what is a point-to-multipoint segment so the next part is as I mentioned point-to-multipoint segments actually contains the rule and a set of leaves obviously between the root and the Leafs there\u0027s a replication points and that\u0027s what the replication segment comes in in a simplest way to think about sitting a replication segment think of it as a forwarding instruction at each new at each no that\u0027s a simplest way of putting it incoming seed incoming label for a segment label for a replication segment that identifies the resource and then you have the outgoing "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:28:12",
    "text": "interfaces with outgoing labels that will connect you to the next replication segment that\u0027s it that\u0027s all one thing you need to keep in mind is pure replication segments they can be disjoint via a unicast SR segment if you will in that case you guys have already invented the seedless we use a Sibley\u0027s the the unique as is our policy to connect to replication segments together and our important thing to keep in mind here is replication segments they cannot be stacked why is that the reason for that is when you get to a replication point that you have multiple OFS outgoing or if\u0027s if you start stacking stacking segments multicast segments where you really cannot go through every single one of those labels to figure out which is the leaf disconnected on beach of\u0027 in malta in in multicast you know if you look at only the top of the the list if you will it will not give you the entire picture on that replication segment for all outgoing interfaces so this is why when it comes to the replication segment there is only a single label that single label on that note will identify the outgoing interfaces and the labels or the seats that are being used to the next one again this is only true for replication segments you can connect to replication segments via a seedless and unique ass as our policy so just going through the data path very quickly the source sends a payload that payload is the IP gets through outer a router a has a replication policy that says your to get to router D and E which are the Leafs your next hop is a replication segment c b.push c payload is on the bottom we send it the the packet to see C looks at the see the label C identifies the replication policy or the replication segment segment looks at their outgoing instructions the outgoing OFS outgoing interfaces figures out what is the label that it needs to push on each interface to D it pushes D to e it pushes E and it forwards the packet through the according interface to those routers the next one is fast reroute the PC can camp compute a fast reroute that bypasses the link between a and C that\u0027s via router G that fast reroute could be TI l fa it could be RSVP T it could be anything it\u0027s beyond the scope of these draft but you have the fast reroute that is sitting on the data path and you can achieve very fast fast readouts here\u0027s an example when there is a node that does not support replication segment on "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:31:15",
    "text": "the on the network that\u0027s not B and F as an example here so in this case is because PC that note B does not support replication segment they actually push on a label stack saying that C which is the next replication segment is at the bottom of the stack pushes B for unique hash unique SSR C and forwards that packet through B to C B pops a label C gets the label label C figures out what is the replication segment and forwarding information on C and forwards the packet that is what as it was in the previous slide going forward you can have all the good stuff that you guys have in unicast canada tad let\u0027s speed redundancy fast reroute etc etc we are using all the draft all the tools that you guys have already invented we are not trying to come up with new mechanism I think you guys have done a great job previously so we\u0027re just using all those tools all over again here\u0027s that high-level bird\u0027s-eye view of how the objects loop again some of the objects that are already there Canada pads you know nothing new the only part that I as I explained previously is you need to understand the point to multi-point policy and the replication policy the replication policy can contain multiple canada paths and this candidate paths can be used as LSP redundancy they could be end to end or aka global optimization if you will throughout each one of these candidate paths and for the sake of time I\u0027m not going to go through the details of what are the bits and bytes in this graph you can go with the draft one of the things that I want to specify it is that the RFC\u0027s that I put in there the first you RFC\u0027s they probably don\u0027t make sense to anybody there should be 82 31 I believe it\u0027s all right yes and the second one is 86 23 which is the new RFC that you just gave out so those are some of the current other sins that we are using we did try to change and introduce some very minor objects which were necessary as an example we are using the CCI object but currently in the CCI object you can send down the single label going forward we are using or CCI objects on multiple labels for the seed list for the outgoing interfaces because there could be multiple outgoing interfaces hopefully all business stuff are explained in the draft if they are not clear please send the email under a mailing list and the workflow I\u0027m not going to go through it too much for the sake of time I want to leave the the rest of the time open for any question comments that are there one thing I want to bring up is that from author\u0027s point of view there is one author missing which is by the microphone right now so I do apologize on that you\u0027ll be added "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:34:15",
    "text": "on the next one please go I Holman this is Tarek with juniper I\u0027m gonna go easy and effective SEO Marcy so Mike we did this cuss offline and I don\u0027t want to raise it debate here but we should be open to the replication segments on transit nodes to be shareable it\u0027s a it we will discuss this further and there might be reasons why not - I\u0027m open to them I\u0027ll leave it right there and that that\u0027s a very good question and and and I\u0027m I know you we discussed this but for the sake of working group I want to bring up there are some differences between multicast and unicast one of those differences is if everybody here remembers the old way of way we were doing the unique acid for VP RN even there was a subnet that was in a verse that was connected to a tunnel so a transport tunnel back in the days was really identifying a subnet itself we went away on the unique aside from this mechanism we actually have now a VC label or a rough label whatever you guys want to call it that the transport tunnel gets you to the end and then you pop the transport tunnel you look at the valve label or the the service label gets you to the to the service and then you do a lookup in that v RF and you figure out where is your IP going on multicast on fortune of behaviors the stock in the 18th centuries so it a transport tunnel a point-to-multipoint LSP can identify a specific SG so you\u0027re absolutely right in some cases we could use replication and reuse it but for the cases that that point to multi-point LSP identifies a specific SG within the worth we need to have a unique identification of that point moil multi-point lsv throughout the entire path that\u0027s it yes we will work on it try to figure out whether we can make it reusable thank you woman thank you very much I\u0027m thinking about that Shoei maintain some state of State on the replication note right when you say is say them not question so there is a state there\u0027s definitely a state on the data path and even depending on the implementation maybe even on the on the multicast or if they\u0027re there there will be a state it just really moved their protocol but the thing is if you use beer so just yes it could be feasible "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:37:30",
    "text": "that two different or multiple yes it will be a sub all is this code in a certain part of the topology share the same interrupt location state and therefore you you know might the replication policy but they might diverge you know later down the tree and so to do what you\u0027re suggesting you probably have a carrier tree or it can be policy context in the data plane engineer so my point is it is feasible but it comes at a cost I reckon sorry I cut the line in the movie yeah that is talking thank you so the next presenter is remote that\u0027s my mom you know she can be quickly out of time hello kami yes great I could model today I\u0027m going to pretend that you snitching to PC for SR pass protection so first of introduction we know that some of a critical real-time at the live traffic may be transported by SR pass for example we may have a surpass from where Punk to New York Stock Exchange which is to be used to send requests for buying or selling stocks we may also have SR past connection between operational role and polkas office which is used by doctors to do remote surgery we may also have some kind of as a pass to support life Ethan\u0027s life broadcast so for all these esta pass we need a fast protections so without fast essa protection we may have big loss for example for real-time stock exchange or trade if we have broken answer a pass then we may lost lots of money for example in the peer market the stock away going down very fast so bank may send a request to sell quick as quick as possible to sell stock before the mock market going down going down so in so without fast protection if SF has broken and then those requests were not executed faster so we we almost not so money so for what this case we will have big loss result faster protection "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:40:32",
    "text": "for SR pass so night speech so we\u0027re given over view about pass protection so right now we have te else fees so for T LSP is we have end-to-end fast protections we have incurred production we have a midpoint protection and then we also have equals protections however for SR plus we only have a few drafts which proposed to put fast protection for the only middle Point and the egress ingress so there is a need for provide fast protections for the ingress note of SR pass so next page so the extension for PCC for support has equal protection is a very good feat because right now we have PC extensions for essa passport on oh so he\u0027s very literate to extend the PCE to support SR pass English protections so next page so in order to provide SR plus interest production we need to send some information which is a lidded for english production to the bike hub equals node so the information we need to send to the bankable ingress egress not include bike hub as a pass primary universe node address in some case and also the description of the traffic which is transported by the SA pass in addition so essa pass may transport some service so those IDE of that surface which is transported by the s epatha may also need to send solitude the backup equals note so for this for some of this information the encoding we already have for example for the SR passed primary of us because we have extensions for the SR sake policy in that exchanger where we already have extensions for support as a passing coding so for pike harbors a passing coding which we can reuse those encoding for SR primary path so for the rest of them we may have some kind of simple extensions to PCE to support backup of support "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:43:34",
    "text": "image ingress protection so next page so before we send all the information to packable risk equals note so we also have Sankar we need to have some kind of ability exchanges banks ways to save time can we skip the encoding and directly move to the final questions it wouldn\u0027t help really not be the best time like we are running a little bit late so people can go through the encoding in your drafts so let\u0027s just focus on the motivation and some questions because the encoding is it was so much weight you psyche it okay so we need a comments and the suggestions of discussions for this this one so I think III raise some questions on the list as well so I hope like you can answer them a little bit more clearly and explain why we would want the backup ingress to do this protection and when the source is anyway doing the affection the why should backup ingress detect and I got the not a direct answer but I thought the your answer would be that you don\u0027t want to make the backup path active and only when the fail you detect the failure at that time you make the backup path active so these kind of use case if you think it exists maybe we can generalize them and we already do flowspec for identifying of what flow to go into a particular particular tunnel so if you have a particular use case maybe we can think of doing solving this in a more general way rather than just as a backup ingress that\u0027s just my personal without my chair hat on opinion thank you I think we need we generalize this one so have we presented some use the case in the draft and the pattern will make a more sense agree yeah yeah it\u0027s different so for orange I\u0027m sorry I haven\u0027t read the draft but it from first year it\u0027s in similar to the Protection Association is it really different or not okay so what VI what is V very why did you your voice is lower so yeah sorry so you were telling that you\u0027d submit out of the protection association so in this case what is the value added that you are bringing so you mean to which one have protection association protection we for let me try to answer "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:46:36",
    "text": "from what I gather the differences with respect to detection like primary getting failed that detection we never talked about it an association draft and this document somehow says that it\u0027s the job of the backup ingress to somehow detect the primary has failed and now switch the traffic that\u0027s what I gather I\u0027m not wasn\u0027t sure but just we can move the conversation along so if we allow that when will we have the second speaker ready let\u0027s go thank you for representation thank you let\u0027s present to give a present for my colleague on yeah all of them are not able to join a session and therefore this contribute for this project in so it\u0027s about as beautiful she see for assigning to demand for the over real there are some more passing has been done they are being dying I have in different working group so I just what I could to give an overview of this but I want to redesign that\u0027s try to save time and then next okay okay for this so I do it just give some analysis about what we could do the first amazing is a very direct and a possible association and signalizing is inter demand pass corrilesa or we can call it association now this is a different kind of a location of a past segmental it could be located by the past prior in the PCE or could be by child oficial she said and the english instructor we consider two kinds of scenario the facility in Terraria ii know i think i yes it could be pieces in unity throughout it could be stated for Casilla hierarchic a PCE scenario next for this slides away just gave us some analysis of the case that is the inter area case how it was this this I was kidding in the story area together we just try to use an association work what was this - sorry I was a few second in the together to a former and and I was he passed and next day some into a solution and the in this case is a different from the previous line in this case I would also try to propose to use a stitching liberals who try to form a end-to-end pass with the included into a s pass segment and the int sorry "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:49:36",
    "text": "intro yes and the inter yes it\u0027s a consisted of a five five of a segment in this scenario and this is a this draft raises a some give some over real over the absolution that we want to do by the way currently we did not give our extension that may be needed they also another companion Java Teresa is a part of the Association Apogee at retention which will be present in the later and for the next step we sing we will just to try to give some details loose and for the Peace app and and also we welcome any comments and discuss it yeah a similar question was asked in the SR when you presented this in the MPLS working group that why the path segment is being used for stitching so I don\u0027t want you to answer right now but this is something that I hope you can discuss in spring or MPLS whichever is the right place and then we can think about doing this work NPC because our main concern is whether this segment should be used for stitching itself that needs to be clarified before and now I also wear there\u0027s another similar to awfully working over the way have already talked about also that work try to figure out how to proceed next his good morning everyone my name is Ching I\u0027m here to discuss RGB extension for PC EP security capability support in the PC discovered this job is Aris are working to adapt and the basic idea is so now we have dcpl suppose we have a TRS supporter we have many different security capability how to reproduce these different ability to allow ECE to company with his PCC so a quick update actually this job actually is a DB extension so that\u0027s why it discussed in the Arisaka kukaku but it also references our GP extension for PC a discovery that we developed by the PCE working cool so for for this job actually we discussed in a Paris our working group when during the carpet option actually summer situations is to consider to add the tier theory for the key ID and a key name but to support that actually we required to update the obviously fake 50 88 and fifty eighty "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:52:37",
    "text": "nine and so that\u0027s actually we make this change actually and this get adopted in last night in November ITA meeting in Tucson 18 so here what we like arrays is we would really want to get a feedback from PC would go it was when we first bring up this draft that didn\u0027t get a lot of Attraction so we do to the concerns in iOS are but that we didn\u0027t get feedback from the PC so for the channel will make actually we require to update of C 58 89 to allow the advertisement that Tara\u0027s teacher several theory related to the security parameter so we have some feedback from Aris our Minister some some people really some concern whether we should advertise this and long RG period information is may impact the performance but the the benefited to allow advertisers kinda capability is actually you can really you know piggyback some security community to simplify the operational also we from also perspective we think actually you this kind of advertisement only you know take place out of the initial stage before you accept you the connection between PC and PC you so it\u0027s not a big deal actually to impact the performance so but we\u0027d like to hear the feedback from a CPC working Co about these kind of issues and for the second issue actually also relate to this first the issue that because some of people suggest that maybe we can make it a base for the FC 50 88 and 89 where them to write another document to define these kind of security support so we we we are flexible for these issues and we want to hear your feedback on this and in a minute I\u0027m actually you can come out and right now we can you can come on it is so wait we also can follow up how to deal with these issues so for next step we will look at all your comments and and also to chair we want to make sure whether these right a placing errors are or in PC we can go yeah comments thank you so so far working on "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:55:41",
    "text": "the external GPS so you make sense show me from Eastern with the PC working group with also for you event so it\u0027s thank for that back to the issue quickly because we won\u0027t have much time to go over them but second issue is for me under a set of rate equation either graph remains in the working group the way women are progressing is up to the reserve rule punchers and for the first question as far as I remember the limitation about further extension was imposed by the IGP your eighty working groups at that time so if now okay to move this limitation a scene from the PC standpoint it\u0027s pero to have this restriction removed Thanks so we move to our last presentation for today three four minutes thank you as I mentioned in last apprentice and it\u0027s a companion just that one it\u0027s about an extension to try to solve the interior case let\u0027s go directly into our case and here for this case with other propose to you the associate to try to extend the Association projector to describe EULA how to associate this RSP in different area together and this is a format of the association with us to use some flag of the tree indicate the source of transit and destination Tom I\u0027m going a little set this is I think this is the only accessing units document so next step we\u0027ll just want want to request involve comments and any discuss are you are welcome thank you regarding with previous documents I could write use name a chunk from Hawaii regarding the previous presentation I think it should be a information or drops because there are nothing to do with the extension right and that\u0027s it yeah eating from Holley cucumbers I think that Tibbets for the transmit SB is not necessary because if an SP segment is neither sauce l speak nor that signature SP it should be always the chance to meet else peace so I think that tip it is not necessary I can tell your comments to my colleague oh and maybe you can discuss on you meaning is yeah okay I think this this document also has the same question about the "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:58:41",
    "text": "path segments and I think the stitching the association becomes important if you use part segment so I think that\u0027s the key so for both the documents let\u0027s resolve that and then we can progress any other business okay see you in Singapore [Music] okay I would show this to my colleague I\u0027m not for me Oh blue sheets people "
  }
]