[
  {
    "startTime": "00:00:05",
    "text": "- the second commenting we always have about two-thirds as many people in the second commuting than we have in the first meeting so this seems to be true this time as well it\u0027s Thursday so I probably don\u0027t have to say all these things yeah not well and everything so on Tuesday we already agreed that we will massage this agenda a little bit and and move fazer early and because it\u0027s so hard to change my slides I decided to redefine time instead so 10:30 comes before 10:00 today so we will mostly talk about group communication multicast things like that for the first hour all the times are wrong here our Eastern Standard Time and Eastern Daylight Time anyway then we have we\u0027ll have a quick intermission for phaser and then we go into cinema and have a little I hope we have a little bit of time at the end and we also have a couple of ideas from Christian or to do at the end so any any other comments on the agenda so on Tuesday we celebrated our cat6 13 but maybe it\u0027s interesting to look back a little bit it\u0027s 2019 or 725 today so it\u0027s not quite 10 years but we it\u0027s going to be weekend on the 28th ten years ago we had the six low ab bob of which was pretty legendary because we had actual beer in a meeting room so we had an extra bar buff in a meeting room that was organized by zeg heavy who essentially is the man who who made co-op happen and it was a bob of in Stockholm so I\u0027ve no idea how much money since you know it has paid for that but fortunately I\u0027m bought that at some point so they got the money back it was an interesting bob off because there were at least five area directors in the room I think even more I don\u0027t don\u0027t have the exact count right now and that\u0027s where we decided to do the application layer for 6lowpan we "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:03:05",
    "text": "would start working on an application layer protocol and not try to define a transfer protocol and the reason for the letter was that we thought it would take ten years to do that now then those ten years are over so the transfer protocol would now be done and I would not be available but maybe a little bit too late to make a difference anyway so this happened 10 years ago and took about half a year until we sufficiently understood our requirements to either draft published on December 24th 2009 so you you either do things on my birthday or you do it on Christmas I think this is a good tradition we should try to pick up again the working group was established in March of the following year that\u0027s also a relatively normal period for the ITF and it\u0027s interesting to see that we actually got our draft approved four years after the initial bob off so I think that\u0027s already pretty good I mean given that we really did this from our cloth this this is an interesting development time and then of course we got held up for another year by a normative reference to a security area draft that was stuck in some absolutely meaningless squabble but that\u0027s a story on it so if you think about when co-op was was done the birthday of Webb that was 2013 6 years ago and then we just had to wait for a year for office politics reasons anyway I thought I would throw this in who was present in that first year I know that Klaus was making first comments on some email from him who else are you as president Peter was present okay so if you have any questions about who helped you you know who to talk to okay so let\u0027s go into the agenda and the first one is oscar group communication hi Marco Tanaka from rice to start an update on the group of scored draft now version 5 after the meeting we got a number of reviews and comments again that considering producing these updates among which selected ones we\u0027re now referring to a tentative update or observation of 7390 that we\u0027ve been working on with us was the intended document referred to in the first place for a group communication with co-op related thing in group of score already "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:06:05",
    "text": "we have been describing how to handle possible repeated or replayed responses on the client considering and the token is retained at given time out in order to process possible multiple responses coming back to the client and right now we are doing essentially here in this document using group Oh score features taking into account observers an exception to this and after some discussion we think it\u0027s actually better to move this this future to the new draft with ESCO as an update to 7390 so to delegate this kind of check to co-op itself and if we do that then it\u0027s just no need to do it again in group ascore then we have extended a bit the actual message protection part introducing two externally ATS used to be one only before for encryption and signature of messages we essentially extended the first one with additional parameters related to the context signature algorithm and his then we created a second one to be used for the signature process only where in addition we further added the value of the oscar option that they somehow protected also going directly to the country\u0027s insurer now we agreed already on further manual improvements on this encoding but the big thing is now we have two different external IDs also we extend pretty much the security consideration section a big new one essentially explaining why we are covering also us corruption now to practically prevent to make practically invisible cross group injection attack that was the result of very good and long discussion especially with challenging also the security considerations continuing with a number of sections essentially aligned with the respective ones you had in the Oscar document already there are a few open points some earn well where is before and not exactly close now right now we are mandating to implement it say it did say with the 2509 curve we wonder if this is the right choice if we should mandate more there are more details in issue 7 the data from John we mostly need feedback from deployers on this because from a street photography point of view we wouldn\u0027t make this big difference otherwise we would likely stick to the other curve then I raise again this point on the format of the Jim quick clarification on is on this "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:09:05",
    "text": "light are both of the algorithm is mandatory increment or just one of them one only if you can see four have one nine right now so the the interesting observation is that we have mandatory to implement algorithms in in the base call document and that is ECDSA pasted at the moment via twenty seventy nine thirty five and so on and if we want to move to a different set of preferred curves that probably should be done in a coordinated fashion so so I would say it\u0027s the correct thing to say ECDSA now but it\u0027s all it\u0027s all a little bit of a push to one small thing is it may be time to move to a different default and I don\u0027t have the answer on that and we were probably not going to discuss it today but I think it\u0027s a good thing to do a really a reality check again what what we can do in implementations today and very we want to see this go so my assumption here is that it\u0027s there is no overwhelming technical advantage of one over the other no talk no technical overwhelming advantage but once you have ensure chef to negotiate it and so that has to be foreseen also in the draft and if you start having loadable algorithms sync yeah so we need agility so that we will have to be able to choose it anyway there\u0027s no way around adjudicate right summary yes I believe for the last time this open point of the format of the group identifier we are given in principle total freedom about that to the group manager to define it but we are also providing an example as an appendix to structure the group identifier in two parts a constant prefix that never change and the network that is essentially incremented every time the key material is register buted in the group this makes a number of things easier and ensures by construction a number of good properties so the question is should this just remain an example that of course is evidently convenient or should we stress a bit more that well this is at least recommended otherwise we keep it just as an example please keep it as an example I do not cut it then new open "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:12:13",
    "text": "points cause we got to review on the very latest version from Ludwig yesterday thanks a lot for that and we\u0027ll process it and reply to the list but it was worth already highlighting few points from his review one is about the management of group identifiers of course by the group manager and right now we\u0027re saying that in the terminology section actually they should be unique just non normative even within the set of the whole of all the groups under the same group manager and the comment was well why don\u0027t we just demand that why is it not just that way now if it\u0027s different group manager there\u0027s nothing you can do fundamentally you can have collisions of course if the group managers are non synchronized and you just have to live with it and handle them at the application but under the same group manager perhaps we can actually use at least a normative sure to say that a sane group manager should not assignment the same time the same group ID to two or more different groups so this makes to me at least I don\u0027t understand why it\u0027s not a must they must be unique otherwise running things like Katy sees they\u0027re gonna be really really hard to preserve unique usually if within a single manager you you are permitted to provide your group IDs that\u0027s not to make people happy it\u0027s gonna make people unhappy enough if they are already if they feel alive just because they\u0027re different group managers because you\u0027re gonna end up but oh I got this thing and all of a sudden I need to go talk to the KDC to see if Michael McKean is real changed things we need to think about it Ludwig from Jagger must would make more sense to me as well so we raise this to the list probably okay another comment from the big was always Ludwig if group IDs collide authorizations referring to that group need another unique ID okay and another point from that it was about a security consideration section about key rotation where essentially "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:15:14",
    "text": "client and server are temporarily misaligned on the Austral security context they are using so a new context had been distributed the client still has still has the old one so his law in switching to doing one the client protects a request with the old context sends it and it gets the server when the server has already fully established the new context if we stick to that of course the processing of the server would fail and there\u0027s an error message returned but in the section we we are admitting though highlighting is not exactly good to do that the server can shortly preserve the right previous all context to try to process that message with that context in the first processing fails and of course this has a degree of danger that we described in the section and I understood the comment from Ludwig that this should be actually simply forbid forbidden not be allowed by constructions to say something good so oh damn it I\u0027m getting feedback from microphone could you know okay I\u0027ll try anyway so I think a much better solution but perhaps I overlooked some problem with that say you\u0027re this client who is using this old context and has just sent the request with the old context and then you discover this this new context why not just instead of saying you can keep old context around just say if you just send a request with the context that gets renewed then within a certain time frame you just resend your your request with the newer context that would be I think much less dangerous to recommend to do then keeping old context around for a certain amount of time trying to suggest I think you may risk double processing on the server if it happens to process both requests and if it\u0027s get fair enough if it\u0027s not yep Franchesca from from the floor also for implementations I think you\u0027d be crossing the security layer and the application layer because you need to know okay I\u0027m keeping that context I just repeat which means that now the application will have to send the second "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:18:15",
    "text": "request I\u0027m not sure that\u0027s a good idea in the other case it will get an error message back if you use the wrong security contacts yeah the case it from the host : right okay think about the security implications of this because it feels fishy we write the side effects that can derive from that both online if it\u0027s we want this to be an application policy or not essentially one thing to keep in mind here is I think we\u0027re trying to get at and that doesn\u0027t really work with ludwig\u0027s the proposal is that rekeying or making new contracts distributing them takes a long time possibly so there has to be a lot of forgiveness it\u0027s not like oh I just sent that and I got a new one well I better send it again it might be minutes or longer for everybody to get the new car so you this it\u0027s a difficult problem but but I think having the receivers have overlapping and accept either one within a reasonable time frame to allow everybody to get up to speed oh you\u0027re using an old key well let\u0027s find it\u0027s been ten minutes that\u0027s cool or even an hour or a day I don\u0027t care what it is that\u0027s application dependent whatever your security gun but you have to allow the protocol to allow a lengthy review process or redistribution I mean the more time if you haven\u0027t if custom government from the floor yeah to be here we try to limit the risk by defining a time limit and I think we need to do this here as well at that time and limit maybe add a year or something but if we have a way to communicate this time limit as part of a wiki I think we are as safe as you can get beautiful stuff I\u0027m not so much worried about the security as about the ordering of the messages because so messages should not be allowed on the vulnerability core set of keys and on the other box so if you have several key sets and you want to go to the new one then you should not allow any messages with the new city set before you have to lift out all vista up old key set otherwise you have an inconsistent message sets and you may have problems efficient applications jumpshot one of the problems we have in terms of dealing with key location is we do not currently have any sort of standardized way of a KDC even telling people that the key has rolled over it just kind of happens in "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:21:17",
    "text": "an ad hoc way I think we should not forbid the eff that the server to retain the old context but I think we should give it the option of returning a not authorized if it decides that the key context is no longer acceptable for his application purposes okay good and we have also good news from the hackathons we came here with three implementations from rice Peter and Jim we\u0027re an interrupt test according to a plan we can find here linked on the Eric\u0027s on github more results would be published on the list as an actual report we managed to cover most from the test specification all the run tests where we\u0027re fine somewhere remaining due to lack of time as to optional features to be tested the next a cat hopefully as next steps well we would like to of course amend the pending comments in the text and trying to wrap up also these open points after this discussion and possible follow-ups on the main list also we had to make some updating the text based on latest discussion with Jim about again the exact format of the external ad and just clarified that it\u0027s really up to the group manager to say that the form of the public is are fine they\u0027re consistent be using that group on top of this we think we can start considering to move the document forward to working with Pascal so these changes you have been talking about what would they benefit from doing another round of intro not the changes in the draft the Interop is now set to cause all the pending tests the final test plan yeah but you don\u0027t think these changes need to be tested when we get the interrupt we actually rolls the changes into the interrupt okay right already the encoding lady was contested in fact just missing in the text good so yeah that that sounds to me like we are moving towards going to Glasgow so what\u0027s the timeline for having a draft that reflects all this and we can do a few things next week but a submission is most likely interrogation actually yeah so in Europe of course we we have vacation period coming up which will be interesting for the class "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:24:18",
    "text": "because no French person will be able to answer that because it will be entirely in August but I think September is level okay so let\u0027s shoot for September as the working class go period of this great next then your next okay an update on this at other draws very much related to grupo score version 3 just as a quick recap we we thought of this thinking of a new device deploying the field has to join a group where communication is secured with a group of score and has in the first place to find out the group practically found out the group manager and its general resource to access the group and we talked about way to achieve this using the the core resource directory so the idea is that the group manager registers itself and it\u0027s joy resources in the resource directory and then later on a journey node can find the links to those joy resources and later on approach the group manager to join the group and this is by the way a landline consistent with the approach we have for joining oscar groups in a is in a separate document and what we use for the join notes here it\u0027s simple resource lookup so in fact looking for the jury sources of the group manager and this is essentially intended for a scenario like this where you start defining application groups as collection of resources shared by multiple endpoints and then you can map one or multiple application groups to a same security group in this case all score group that is the same set of key material and then of course you have a special request running over multicast we have two main updates in this latest version we had the very home session describing is step by step example aligned with real-life installation procedure in a lightning scenario with good feedback and input from the robin these are the list of steps occurring the stamp also a first macro phase with first steps where a commissioning tool essentially setups the endpoints the application groups and the security groups and in this macro phase this document essentially describes that for so the registration of the security groups then we have a second macro phase essentially the joining node is the main character and performance to look up on the resource directory to get the links to the to the gel resources and this particular document actually defines step 7 because previous steps are just inherited from "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:27:18",
    "text": "the resource directory for the sake of discovering application groups and their multicast IP address and then of course after that the join node can proceed with joining the group the second big update is that we defined a number of additional target attributes for the gel resource registered in the resource directory and these are essentially algorithms and parameters to be used in the oskol group so simply giving more information to the journey not for what is going to face in the group and this has two advantages we believe this fully enabled this approach as one of the approaches described in the ACE document about the joining to know very much in advance how the group works essentially in terms of algorithms and if you know that so in advance you can essentially avoid having any specific interaction about this with a group manager like explicitly or by a trial and error you have also second advantage upon performing this discovery the jury not can just find out that the group works according to algorithms that it doesn\u0027t support and can just decide to give up and forget about joining the group all together a few Willis a minor or open points about this we are defining target attributes here and of course you\u0027d be ideal to register them but as you know there\u0027s no registry to register target attributes like a few months ago Haim I started document or a wiki to collect existing target attributes here and there what they are used for and so on I like to believe with intent to think more of a possible registry and then I remember a few Corinne three meetings ago just mentioning it was considering to revise a few related registers about this so I wonder if putting all this thing together possibly that there is enough critical mass to think of a registry for target attributes I would like to as a summary yeah the ability consisted mostly on the full step by step example and new parameters representing the algorithms in the group and as a result of the presentation in Prague from the other pad notes it\u0027s time to start reading it in order to decide for adoption so we look forward to receive reviews that were promises were promised there plus more possibly an adopted document Jim shot question number one is this "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:30:24",
    "text": "expected to be used for pre-configured groups or not what do you mean with pre-configured the the commissioning system put all of the groupie material under the device and told it what it was doing and the there\u0027s no it\u0027s the situation where there\u0027s no KDC it\u0027s not covered yet in this document this is just about finding a pointer to the KDC in fact it handles the case where the KDC is not deployed yet actually because you can\u0027t observe the registration of the KBC at the results directory probably is like right but that\u0027s still the situation where you\u0027re planning to do using ABC right you should proceed later on with joining question number two as ace culture should this actually be in ace basically this is we\u0027re basically talking completely about ace or this is basically always work okay we start saying here because it\u0027s really based on the resource directory but and sure it\u0027s aligned with the a is draft but can support different types of KBC but if you think it can fit in ace and no strong objections to that so this child has an opinion on that resource directory is an application we have defined here the call working group but not everything that uses that application has to be defined in the cover group so given that the the the subject matter the content of that registration is mostly security stuff I could very well imagine doing this in the yes looking question number three we had a a side meeting on coral this week and one of the things we talked about was we need to define some at Ace grammar for coral do you think this is a reasonable document to be putting that in since it basically should run in parallel with the width but the lake format stuff yes though we need to think a lot of details Francesca bromine from the floor it would be used in this document for sure if the coral was defined it\u0027s the reasonable thing to define it in this document not not sure I would assume "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:33:27",
    "text": "that basically the coral language and the length language would the coral language would be a superset of the link language is my assumption beautiful stoke it\u0027s not that I prefer link format of a coral or vice versa but I think that the people who might use it in the future in the short term say two years that those will be more used to link format than to coral so if you want to encourage the use and I think link form it should be a part and a coral and second language mm-hmm customers agree also know people who have made comments please take a look at the end or pad and if your comment was captured correctly thank you so we understand correctly there are still pending reviews in principle to be waited for and does this can be moved ways well we can just do the work wherever the thing is at the moment so I have no idea what the ace chairs think they need to do to pull this over whether there needs to be another adoption call how you plan to handle that but we don\u0027t have to wait for anything of this to happen we will just go forward so you next job is to make the videos right I mean it was just the comment was relative to the sense of language says we need to decide on a work the group adoption huh maybe if people should read the document comment on it okay so I think that that\u0027s all the questions we as chairs need to ask I think it would be a good thing to have this data model for a so however you want to call that so that\u0027s certainly something that we would be interested to look at as well and I also think we need to it\u0027s very bad strategy to correctly handle the corner transition without dumping Ling forward on the floor just yet Thanks so we are six minutes behind schedule but I think that\u0027s okay because we have flex time at the end so I think "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:36:27",
    "text": "you are next yes yes mark again this is a new work we talked about defining multicast responses especially as observed notifications we we thought this to rely essentially you have the observers to 7640 one is an unicast registration request and you get after that and notifications over unicast in the update to 7390 base we are actually defining well you can send a registration request over multicast able to target multiple servers and you will you will get from each of them unique as notifications so we talked of the next step what if you have many clients observing the same resource on a given server in the end for the sake of performance you would like to have that server sending a multicast notification to all those client and once and of course multicast responses are not defined by now and mostly because of the issue due to the token binding not to mention security this is true in general the moment you have many observers on the same server but we have a very practical use case that was discussed at the hallway meeting we had in Prague covering different aspects of pub/sub including this one is it possible to make it more efficient through multicast and there were four proposals and number four was the only one that was considering in fact moved the cast responses that of course don\u0027t exist they all have the advantage not only to use multicast for the sake of performance but also to keep subscribers client only essentially of course you need to solve the same general problem especially of token binding and possibly security the contribution here is accessible defining observed notifications of multicast covering the the management of a common token space that is intuitively managed by the server that communicates a common token value to all clients as they register is observers the resource and to be considered for all the following multicast responses also we describe how to you want to deploy security use group of score to protect those multicast notifications essentially indicating the clients how to be same consistent externally ad for all those responses yeah I think it\u0027s interesting because "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:39:32",
    "text": "[Music] tokens which is our word for request identifiers a client namespace inquire so when you say they are managed by the server is very weird because a client might be talking to multiple servers so you would have to have these servers coordinate on that log in space yeah of course another problem with observe and mighty health response is that multicast this cannot be reliable so it\u0027s hard to do remote your consistency without doing some form of keep a live thing but I think that that\u0027s easy to fix much I think managing the token space is more difficult nd the interesting observation years of course that the client of a multicast response is the group it\u0027s not a single node the the entire group needs to agree that this token relates to the request that somebody put in for the group so that\u0027s really an architecture of you and I stop talking now and come back to it but that explains why why I looked at it in understanding STM\u0027s is on that particular comment on the client management of the tokens I think they are what matters here is that we defined tokens for I mean tokens token and the the scope of tokens is also related to the to the addresses involved and so far the all definitions that for tokens related to addresses where the client is the unicast and things are a bit different when the client is a multicast thing so we may want to have an extended definition of of who is responsible for the token management in that case so it\u0027s it\u0027s it\u0027s a case that is not defined yet so we will have to come up with a good definition there and then is something that will we\u0027ll probably need to do in a larger context that and only this document yes so you just said this sentence that had the words token and extended and you may want to remember we are extending the token right now in another place so is that it\u0027s um no no not not in the sense of extending the length of the token but extending the definition of where of "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:42:33",
    "text": "where it is coped to something where it\u0027s not defined yet and we will find we\u0027ll find ways of talking abut we\u0027ll need to find ways of talking about the scope token for both yeah in just four cases where right now it can\u0027t be there at all and when we have it there then we\u0027ll need to define the semantics for that and the semantics or the unicast case we\u0027ll probably not directly be extensible there so they\u0027ll be different there because the situation is different before Klaus so if I\u0027m not wrong this slide is about hinting and what the problem is and then we have more details about the how this draft is trying to solve this problem so if this is more comments about how can you do that then maybe we should wait after otherwise go ahead I want to briefly explain why this slide makes a lot of sense to me as an approach and when we define the original group comm draft we were quite possible for a while why does it actually mean to do a multicast request I mean yes you can easily send a multicast message that contains a request but what does it mean in terms of rest and at some point we came up with this fiction that is basically we are sending the same identical request unicast to every member of the group and then of course we would as per normal co-op specification get a unicast response for each and we just optimize these many many identical unicast requests by using a multicast message and said my the fiction is is actually unicast requests there just happened to be so this makes a lot of sense to me because it\u0027s using the same fiction essentially there are lots of clients they\u0027re going to receive notifications and so each of them would observe the Resource Center request and if each of this guy on sends the 100% identical request including the token then you can optimize that using a multicast message this is where this proposal came from at last ITF I think we had this discussion in the heck aslam well yeah this was presented and yes we now need to find out how we get all those plans to send the same identical a unicast requests as so we can optimize it but using some kind of token names facing us all like Christian separation extending the token with your namespace no I think we can figure something out because the fiction makes a lot of sense going was trying to say is that as long as possible try to stay within this fiction and the problem "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:45:33",
    "text": "with the multiple cast responses that the client gets it when it\u0027s member of a multicast group so the fact that the client is member of multicast group may be somewhat orthogonal to some other member of the same multicast group putting in a request to some server somewhere that that server then starts to correspond to so the question really is how does this group get coordinated okay thanks I\u0027ll continue giving a bit more details on the two aspects separately so I first thing without security focusing on the token synchronization a few assumptions first we are assuming here that the client knows that that resource observe is that server we assume that the clients note the right multicast IP address to listen to just nothing right now about possible discovery problems that can be solved somehow differently anyway and thinking also grupos core we assumed that all the clients and the server have already previously joined the right of score group and that can also be discovered well you saw how the token overriding is essentially enforced through a new co-op option override token that the server includes in the first unicast notification sent to each client of course indicating the very same value to any other following client to come registering to that resource so it essentially replies of course with the response justö can value matches the token value of the request but then it\u0027s saying from now on you\u0027re going to get multicast notifications that will have the token value I indicate in this option and this is the token value for this observation overall I don\u0027t go into details when it comes about proxies but we have a section in the draft describing how this can just be reapplied hope I hope and Yuki you can keep consistency all the way back to the clients this option needs to be class Hugh for a score essentially because of the possible presence of proxies that can take away that instance and include their own one and of course the side effects of that is just the same you have for a proxy messing up with a main token field of the coop message an example here the registration of the first client approved by the server that replies indicating a value of F in the override token option it easy a client to registers and the same option with the same value is included by the server and then you have a multicast notification that has FF s token value "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:48:35",
    "text": "and all following multicast notifications will have the same token value and this essentially makes it possible to to keep a matching and the correspondence with doing the observation of each of those client and the resource under observation to keep things a bit safer we are defining a tentative set of ranges of token values that of course are open for discussion and changes servers and clients that support these mechanisms should consider these ranges in the sense that the server must use one of these talking about is to be specified in that option as overridden token values while the client must never use one of these token values for outgoing messages with the exception of the observation cancellation and this essentially makes it possible for clients to keep a few things apart so observation served with multicast notifications and regular observation or just regular exchanges request response wait so I think I see some skeptical faces in the audience so maybe we should start with the questions on this part comments and then we move on to the security part Klaus I don\u0027t really know right now what to say except to make disgusted faces my solution but I want to rule out every other possible solution first before we would do something like this Kristen I\u0027m says I\u0027d like to come back briefly to the to that fiction of the unique custom messages so this is something that I\u0027m not talking about the range of token values because frankly I\u0027m a bit behind on reading up on why we are having a letter in there but the the token indicated back is basically the server saying I imagined that you could have sent this man from a multicast source address and would have used that token and of course you can send from the multicast source address but if you if you had then you would have used that token and I\u0027m now sending I\u0027m also sending observations they\u0027re based on the assumption that such a message has such an original message has arrived earlier yeah this slug really raises a red flag because if you think you needed that then you\u0027re doing something wrong you said it\u0027s just "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:51:35",
    "text": "a little bit additional safety message but really the fact that you start thinking about that demonstrates that something is not yet right in the architecture and I think basically we have to think about this group client or client group or whatever that that is tied to the multicast and we need somebody who stands in for this group I normally would use the word proxy but that has a different meaning so I cannot use it so I\u0027ll say it\u0027s standing so that the the entity that represents this client group manages the token space for this triangle and what you are saying is we could use the server as the entity that does that it\u0027s not not a worse answer than any other except we have to make sure how that the server actually gets into a position to talk for to speak for this triangle and that may actually be a security question in the end so maybe we should forget the other slides and then revisit that issue but I think that the main point I\u0027m trying to make is that really the multicast group and the set of clients would have joined that multicast group that is the entity we should be thinking about and how this client group makes decisions and there is no problem then delegating decisions to a particular entity but it really needs to speak for the whole a client group and not just for a single service service can still do that but it needs to be in a position to speak for the entire Jim John except for the fact that I have no idea how to fix the process the problem is there did you looking at the possible solution of the server advertises in the resource directory I am willing to entertain this observation as a multicast observation and here\u0027s the token you should give me for it the first off yes the second no but it makes sense to consider just Francesca question for Klaus when you said want to rule out other solutions first before we do something like this where you specifically specifically talking about reserving range of token values like the application reserving ranges "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:54:35",
    "text": "I noticed operating mechanism where you first get your own token back and then it goes okay double mechanism okay thank you very short answer is why I don\u0027t like it is because you if this overriding process might easily fail if you lose messages and so on so that\u0027s the start when I started raising my eyebrows and if I\u0027m that I on if we have all these considerations of like what custom mentioned we need somebody to send some entity to manage this coordination and we also have questions like when we when all observers go away because they are no longer interested how does the server know that it should stop and then this simple module of one entity that it stands in for the group it\u0027s not very reliable again because if that one entity goes away because of the network error then the whole group breaks down and so they asked us to of problems and we need to solve all of them and it\u0027s not easy Christine I\u0027m just we briefly earlier already discussed the possibilities of having the reliability how do you know when everyone is away on topic that but that would indeed need respond a massive to multicast that is calm that will be sent all like every every tenth event or so that solicits sometimes it acts from still interested clients but that is not aligned with the current multicast um the current multicast reaches the doubtful core generally the the point of multicast is the network is to prune all the branches that have no receivers so when sender sends to magic has group that nobody business to in theory that is pretty inexpensive because that will all be followed by the next router in practice of course it\u0027s bit more complicated and also it\u0027s seeded consumer server resources so it would be nice to find out so in various reliable multicast protocols we have techniques for doing route management so for instance you have random members of the group respond at some point to set the parameters for this randomness you need a group size estimate that group size estimate can be derived from the current size estimate plus a measurement of how many actual responding which works well unless you have big transients in the "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:57:35",
    "text": "group size then of course you get implosion Zoar periods when you think nobody is there there is still somebody there and so on and so on so all these are problems that have been solved for reliable miracast but what what we tried to do here was not reinvent multicast so everything we can do to scope the problem that we don\u0027t need these mechanisms would be good but it may be that in the end we find out maybe this cannot be made to work without inheriting at least some of these packets going back to this question how do you as a client find our to depth a notification is attended for him and what request relates to if we add the security layer with Oscar and all that stuff and we securely manage the members of the group can we maybe piggyback on that to identify what a notification relates to yes no I don\u0027t know just a numbers I\u0027m not really convinced that we have this problem because while by the time a client is receiving a response automatic on on a multicast message by the time it needs to it it will be aware of having requested something from that particular server and if it hasn\u0027t been in really ignored because it\u0027s a road multicast but it will come from a particular server and will be scoped to a particular multicast address and with that the tokens are managed within the server or with an whether the stand-in is and I don\u0027t see how there can be messages where there is ambiguity on on which requests they related but the the promise that this particular client didn\u0027t put in the request the point is in an Oscar group you can have many servers so what would you piggyback a group token for what server the token doesn\u0027t have to be unique and an entire namespace of the plant it just has to be unique for the security context and maybe we can manage the tokens for the security context somewhere centrally I think we need to take this we need to continue so this is very interesting discussion I don\u0027t want to cut it but we can take this off list as well only ok this was on the main point "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:00:36",
    "text": "of overriding the talk and then building on this you may also want to add security through group or score and the whole point becomes aligning all those clients to be able to process the next coming multicast responses and the approach we adopt was making them use or making them able to build the same external EAB this way we have a new co-op option also included only in that first unicast notification to the client upon registration the option specifies two values essentially let\u0027s say x and y x is the sender ID of the server in the oscar group y is the sender sequence number of the server in the oscar group in a particular moment when the observation request from the first client has come then that value is consumed and not used anymore by the server for any outgoing message secure with that security context given this - fixed in time values x and y the point of the option is telling all the clients when you get a secure multicast notification and you want to verify it build your external ad considering X as a request KD and y as request partial ID and those values will be the same for all the following multicast notifications coming from that server for that resource and this can definitely be a must be Class E for score because it\u0027s really intended to be and to end between the server and the clients an example with security we don\u0027t need to go line by line through this traffic just to set some some values that the parameters involved but essentially we assume a client one and this has already no score association client when they separate you know score security Association and C 1 C 2 and s are already member of the same Oscar group so building on the example of above the token of the writing is just the same we have a second option that the server includes in the registration response to the client specifying five five zero one where again five is the sender ID of the server in your group and five zero one was the sender sequence number of that server in the score group upon getting the registration from this first client fiant one in fact right after that number is staffed by one so it\u0027s consumed when client who registers in fact same talking of a writing same option with the exact same values then the multicast notification comes "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:03:37",
    "text": "protected with a group of score the red frame was supposed to be around the token field by the way sorry the point is that the clients will verify this response building and externally ID considering five and 501s signaled in the option returned in the response to the registration to verify this multicast response and all the following ones coming from this server for this resource so essentially at the first unique identification to each client is also bound to the following multicast and deviations from the server in a secure way so as a summary this was about introducing multicast responses especially as observed notifications addressing two main points first one really co-op related synchronizing all the clients on the same token value to be used to be used in all multi identification x\u0027 and also enable the usage of Grupo score to protect those multicast notifications so of course you immediately gain the benefit coming from the usage of multicast and in the particular case of pub/sub application you can keep the subscribers clients only very good discussions already we look forward for more comments or reviews yeah we have had the most important parts of the discussion already so I think we need a clearer model of who the players are clients of group multicast group but may or may not be exactly the same thing and if we have clarified the model then maybe we also can clarify the mechanisms that realize the model you know right now I think more reviewers wouldn\u0027t help as much because we still have fundamental problems so right now I think it\u0027s more useful to have some ideas how to recreate the required modeling in this context and curves knows how to do that I think we should use some of the core interims yeah to this and since many of us are based in Stockholm we were discussing having a full-day workshop even on this topic and maybe we can put that on on the day where we have a core Durham so we could first try to clarify things and then go into that interim yeah but everyone disagree then there "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:06:39",
    "text": "was model that work very well for suit where where they had a two-day hackathon in Berlin that ended in the SOOC interim that was really useful and and we could try to do something like that as well okay thank you thank you yeah so we have you used up almost all of our flex time hi ESCO so you\u0027re next no no hello I think you hear me well again okay then I\u0027ll start with the next presentation so from Marcos who lost money now going back to basics and maybe shirts shirts lines yes thank you so setting me up date 0 1 this is also just a recap from basically the previous active presentation of marco gave so we have this draft intended as a normative successor of the experimental ourseives 17.0 we want to position it now as a standard strength document I refer to the old one as much as possible or used content from there also it should be the standard reference for communication implementations examples are shown here so this kids californium and the co implementation and in the scope of this draft is really coop group communication using UDP IP including the latest development sort of means for example or I shall observe and both unsecured and also a group Oscar secured location is covered well in the previous draft 7390 that security of nodes in the present yet we also want to have principles for secure group configuration and list of huge cases so we\u0027ll go to the next slide Thanks so what we did is there are three slides on the progress and version one the drafters updated using part of the review comments and more updates based on the review comments are pending so already many thanks to reveal if yours for that I think it\u0027s quite useful to have that the scope has been clarified I will come back to that in presentation what that means we made a decision to copy over some content from chef 390 and this also gives the opportunity to update that content wherever it\u0027s in order to fix more issues in it also there is a more detailing of the ah score group key management in section 5 "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:09:39",
    "text": "- 1 and a new structure is applied where use cases and all informative elements are moved to the appendix that means the main body of the documents will be normative text hey let\u0027s go to the next slide so also we have a bit more detail on the different type of groups that\u0027s already came back in an earlier presentation in this session just now so there are different types of groups you can have what is called now a co-op group let\u0027s find out the network level using multicast address and port there\u0027s the oscar group defining the security also with its own ID and an application group so this can be any agent specific ID what still could be done in this draft to also detail bit more the relations between these group types one example is already shown on the bottom so Joe\u0027s here one a co-op group is basically associated one oscar group which covers two application groups that used the same security and the same as others and same fourth or they can also be many other relations you can also have everything one-to-one or many different from so I think that will be useful to to mention that okay then let\u0027s go to the next slide so what we also detailed more is how to use multi cars together with observe and together way the block wise transfer specifically the block one option so this slide shows two kind of cases of that top one chose serve so multicast makes an observation to entire group all the group members now adds the client to the service list and start sending back a unicast notifications for the lower part not just put post or fetch the use case is basically efficient distribution of large files specifically software constant so you can imagine client pushes a block to a group and then individual servers respond back while writing this we found this to be a non-trivial case and many exceptions like rotation of locked eyes that get lost example and so it\u0027s getting already rather complex with some yeah open items in the drafts currently so we have to make a decision there so tsuki really spin out is behavior to a new idea because it will otherwise slow down the progress of the current one which is not intended okay so this concludes the updates to graph one what we added now the next part will be about the scope "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:12:40",
    "text": "for the next slide so this is of update you scope when you approach so we have now marked this document to obsolete the RFC 7390 so before that was updates the reason to do this is that it was remarked at standards track document that updates an experimental RFC would be kind of strange it would lead to an clarity what is actually negative what is experimental because the previous one had only experimental stages so to make it clear we should start you document that actually it\u0027s the previous one and then we should copy over any content we wish to keep and update it as well that\u0027s at least most clear so to avoid any confusion on that we can still point to the experimental rest protocol but it\u0027s in 1790 you can say that that space experiment we did not intend to make that normative and people can still experiment with that from that\u0027s no problem at all anybody playing with it no the reason it\u0027s people are all not where he was looking so maybe another strategy is to it\u0027s a pretty clear the experiment is completed we can also do that course there they can go at with that okay so this is 90 and then the next slide so have other updates that are not so surf and ice RC specifically so I didn\u0027t mention already before what these are plates are so there are specific uses so multicast yet with block wise we have to put post or fetch will work on option and these are not yet defined in the RFC so that\u0027s why it isn\u0027t update really she\u0027s also articles now on updates remarketing 72i through the purpose was to renew our client request response matching rule but I think it will likely be removed again because after I read it again with the definition of coop client I think it\u0027s not needed to make any of it it\u0027s already working in the intended by itself we don\u0027t have to go to that\u0027s character okay and then let\u0027s move on to the next site oops so what we want to do is complete the processing of the all "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:15:41",
    "text": "the review comments and maybe come backwards more fixes or questions to the revealed also implement the decisions of also resides now to spin out this one function then that should be removed from the kern draft and made in circuit now and on the lower end of course completed document so we have to still copy over remaining sections review them again of the content if needed fill in some open interested dvds and if anything we have to possibly add missing points so there there are ways constantly asking for input so if everything is missing then we\u0027d like to know about it i think there is no direct need for document reviews now this version people can go ahead but I think the coming zero to update where some of the above things are implemented it would be useful to have again more reviews of this okay so this concludes my presentation for any comments or questions or good ideas rolls welcome welcome now on the mailing list yeah and also thanks for allowing this remote presentation that\u0027s extremely handy for me thanks yeah so what is what is the temperature reading of the room do we like what we have seen a few nods a few slow nods but I think the overall feedback is good so I think we are we should be encouraging you to continue this work and maybe we actually can make a decision in the next few weeks that we consider the experimental the experiment on the experimental interface for group management as completed because we are not aware about orientation but of course we should do that on the list that might simplify things but what is the timeline that we are thinking about here "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:18:55",
    "text": "so I think about yeah maybe by next ITF thinking yeah if you have excursion become a working on documents now in the room who would be interested in reviewing such a document I\u0027m seeing Jim Christian Klaus yeah and cost that\u0027s good so we have interest in reviewing in the world so again I think that that is signal thank us Co X so we are now 30 minutes behind schedule and the the next item the next thing is well cool okay so this is the fire craft this joint work with ilpo p110 so for those of you who probably don\u0027t remember what fire is all about it\u0027s an alternative RTO and consistent control offering for co-op so as an alternative it\u0027s just like cocoa it\u0027s optional to implement so for those implementers who think they may benefit from from more efficient of recovery in in presence of corruption as well as more safe consistent control so those improv implementers made in implementing it it\u0027s in we have implemented for leap co-op and experiment experimented with it and we have published the results in kokum december last year so basically the first sanity check off that it works and behaves like the intended and and provides the the internet results that have been done as far as we know there is at least one independent implementation upcoming and and and also the experiments hopefully this happens and it\u0027s all welcome to get more experimentation on on this quick history so the tea was first published about a year ago so the pre before the last montreal meeting as a tradition is in "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:21:58",
    "text": "the transport area new consistent contributed in the ICC Archie for review and it was also on the agenda for Corbett there was not enough time to present it so we published it zero one person in just before the Bangkok meeting we added zero code and some small clarifications and presented it in core so it was discussed here and then waiting for the baddy group eruption it expired and we just to refresh the document and updated it a couple of weeks back so nobody vacation so baby from the author\u0027s point of view it has been stable for one year now and about intended studies this is a little bit maybe different that so that\u0027s already happened here in the decor so in the transport area for the new consistent control work the transport area is very conservative so inherently almost all work is intended as a standard track but there is the the tradition and and actually the rules that are described in RC 50:33 that is how new conditional control work should be handled in IETF which is that all work should be first published as experimental to idea being that that that we get enough experimentation to ensure that the mechanism works and it\u0027s safe for the internet and that is a step then once this has happened the enough experimentation has done has been done then did that we moved to the standards track and we think this is the right thing for these to do the same thing because these his SS really conscious non control work so the Western insist is ready for working group Arab eruption yeah we discussed this at the last meeting where do we do mr. meet last hug I don\u0027t and we we had said that the problem we had before with group adoption that we didn\u0027t we know what what the IPR declaration really was that problem had gone away we now had a detailed IPR declaration but of course still everybody had to figure out whether that detailed IPR declaration was something they want to live with or not so that that was the kind of what we went out of the Prague meeting with and yeah we could have done a wagon road option call right away we didn\u0027t do that so people have had about four months of "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:25:00",
    "text": "time looking at the situation and I\u0027m just wondering do we have new data or we already get new data by actually during the the work group adoption call so has anybody looked at this into this and has a position whether this is an IPO declaration we can live with so I see one person nodding I reckon I am I had a look at it looks fine good two person two people are nodding so it looks like we should just do the adoption for now great so let\u0027s do that okay thanks so next is a ton of anybody can help with the minute taking since Ari was one of the two thank you thank you sir somewhere here okay good sentiment data value content format indication quick recap what the whole graphs about this all was all represented at the last IETF but to remind you so this about binary values in sentinel data records we have this VD field then you can basically have binary bits and bytes stuffed in you base64 encode it in in json or you put it as such in Siebel format and that\u0027s how it looks like as the example shows in the slide the red part so this draft one presenting the idea was that we could indicate as a content format of that data so it\u0027s no longer just arbitrary data makes it easier for especially middle boxes or other systems outside of this single sentiment exchange to I understand what\u0027s going on in the data so the idea is that we add this new field called city where we can indicate the content format for example here you have basically four encoded sibour array with two values inside it and because it says city is 60 receiver can easily figure out its eeper it should be decoding that was the background what we discussed already in the last IETF that it\u0027s useful to have not only the content format IDs but also the string format that then you can express any kind of high content types and content coatings that are possibly not already registered as content formats however as we learned "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:28:01",
    "text": "in the discusses the previous ideas if we do the obvious thing and just register basically three different fields for these three different purposes it gets a bit complicated on you have various different since how we can use them and especially if you define because you cannot have in the same record both the string format and and a numeric format cuz they would be unless it\u0027s conflicting it gets pretty messy with precedence rules and how you undo one or the other so what we did after last night if we look at this problem and try to figure out would be a cleaner way solve this and it seems that the best way we could come up with is that okay we would use only one single field CD field but it could have either a numeric or a string value so there\u0027s a couple of small complications to it one of them is that in the content coding and and media types you can have they\u0027re two different separate fields when it comes to HTTP and we would now need to actually put the both piece of information in a single string so what we are suggesting in this trash person is that we would have this add suffix index so you could have for example text a CSV at GC so that would be away on a single string to express port and the media type and the coding of that type or if there\u0027s no content coding you just wouldn\u0027t use that time tenancy exactly identical to the to the previous proposal so that was one part of it attenders the second part it would have been again natural design that you would have either a string or a numeric value or for the cinema field value however as Colin pointed out there\u0027s a bunch of complications in that approach so one of the kind of original design ideas of sentiment was that all fields have a single fixed type so that\u0027s what we have for example the field for numeric values and vs through field for string values the benefits of doing it this way around that you have more efficient to parse if you do it in high speed you don\u0027t need to do type checks of what kind of values the string or ISTA it\u0027s the integral in there in the value part you can also generate parser code more efficient for different languages and if you\u0027re storing this in a database with a simple schema again it gets it it\u0027s simpler to use it that way so then the question was how could we go with this numeric and string formats with a single field well the obvious solution is we express the number as a string so I\u0027ve been talking about with some of you here and this idea for me I usually get some raised eyebrows when I mentioned the first time because it kind of feels like we\u0027re design however when we\u0027re thinking about this more kind of from practical engineering point of view it\u0027s rather small overhead in in JSON "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:31:01",
    "text": "format basically just put quotes around and you\u0027re done in Seymour format yes it\u0027s going to be a string and instead of Ewing so you lose a few bytes efficiency on the wire however these values you at least how we envision them being used you don\u0027t really do any any arithmetic soren like that you basically just compare is the city what I expected it to be or perhaps sexy the city matches a small set of values that you\u0027re expecting so it doesn\u0027t make that big a difference what are you doing string comparison or a and marek comparison it\u0027s a small overhead but but not a maximum so that\u0027s why it seems that that would be the best way forward so that\u0027s basically the update on this traffic and then a bunch of questions to the group so first of all are they any concern so using this string value for content formats so we are using both the numeric value and the string value in the same same field also this new format where we\u0027d say use this at content coding soon that\u0027s I think that\u0027s the first time we are doing that kind of a design is there any concerns on that style we did check that add character is not one of the characters that you are allowed to use in content coding or media types so it should be safe as a delimiter but of course we can it\u0027s a nice bike sure to think about what would be alternatives for that and finally one minor issue that we discover is that this we have two ways of expressing fields in sin ml the ones that you must I understand and once the ones that you don\u0027t need to understand and if you want to force the receiver of cinnamon to check that it actually understands all those fields you just put an underscore in the end so we were not sure if we actually need this underscore format in this case but then thinking about this except this morning I did realize that you may have a case where a single sensor is ending with multiple content types and actually alternating between sending them and in that case actually would be critical for the receiver to see to understand which which type it is it this time so it seems reasonable to also define the must understand field probably that wouldn\u0027t be used in majority of the cases usually would be just a simple hint of something is anyway known but there are some cases where might be useful so you might as well define in this draft or an register both verses and then finally is there anything else that we need to do before going for last course so any comments on any of these issues "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:34:05",
    "text": "[Music] just moving from the floor even though I\u0027m singing records on this right that the problem would be real chairs that you are so involved with all the drafts that at some point you don\u0027t know any longer whether you actually so would you ever I think there could be say some applications where you\u0027re just like okay this is just in case hint and if there\u0027s something let\u0027s say you have a some security well let\u0027s say some storage box in between that\u0027s like would prefer retest or everything but then wouldn\u0027t need to actually understand whether this has some relevant semantics or not I have a hard time understanding how an originator of Senate would make that decision that probably would be up to configuration so it would be out of kind of configuration to do that whether you would actually include it there or not this is totally and utterly I admit but but when you were looking at the prefixes your at V if a numeric value and vs for string and when I see that in languages or definitions it just it it introduces cognitive dissonance because if in s is a string value what isn\u0027t a numeric value VN so I guess the reason that it says V was for efficiency you say what say one byte in JSON there but that\u0027s actually that\u0027s already in the RFC so that\u0027s something we cannot cannot change and pretty much is majority of the use case are using the V so it kind of made sense to optimize one byte from there I want one of those design decisions okay so what I\u0027m hearing okay makes sense to have them monitor to understand kind of raised the same problem we ran into was a web where we have elective and critical and then at some point we found out that\u0027s good for in systems but what about proxies and we came up with safe and unsafe for proxies and use use him to believe that storage nodes for instance what read to must understand fear in some form I would depending on the application yes depending on the application so you could have a storage system and Ali said okay dump everything as such and I likened or storage is try to do sanitization maybe transformations that may need to do but now you would have at least the capability to indicate that way depending on your application needs just numbers I think that where as soon as the storage system does anything like concatenating to send ml files they must "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:37:05",
    "text": "understand their options in there understand what the resolution rules are you find in such a way that you can apply them without understanding creates yes but we have already considered and must understand fields that do things like base time offset and that sets the time for each next record to a second later than the last one and those were applications that were considered for must understand rules that are laid out okay so I guess we have a violent agreement on adding they must understand because we\u0027re gonna need it in any anyway for purposes and their stall that\u0027s not really cost in specifying and then it\u0027s up to the application application logic whether that is needed in in certain applications or not and maybe we should add some more think about more clarifications how that is used with with different systems okay then anything on the order to index I don\u0027t see anyone running on the mic so I guess that\u0027s it\u0027s fine to do it like that I\u0027m looking at our ad and this could become a pattern we may want to replicate elsewhere - oh let\u0027s see this looks like an hour elegant hack so I need to check what they allowed characters are I said I\u0027ve never seen any media type of that science so I think that\u0027s Pablo cake they are not allowed for media types but they might occur in permit us the thing to the left of an ED sign is the content type or the media type so I understand now I would somebody just parsing it as a media type be confused by this I mean I need to think a bit more about yes the point I\u0027m trying to make is if you actually want to pause it you have to look at the double quotes so any media type parameters that are to the left of the edge might have headlines but only in quoted parameters so are you saying that after this drink you might still have media type parameters you know they\u0027re there before so the thing to the left of a net sign is a content type and a quantity video tire plus optional parameters so you might have optional parameters before the add sign which contain a string a quoted thing with an ED sign in it say you can have I don\u0027t know SIL example but text plain text flash playing semicolon just as equal utf-8 at deflate okay the preferred example this is pleased to add an example then at least I will very "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:40:08",
    "text": "definitely tell you whether this is a good idea or not sounds like I will generate a few examples on how they could look like does beg the question why not just create a see e to go along with the CT that was the designing the yeah don\u0027t like parsing it as a string I don\u0027t like parsing I didn\u0027t like the string is a number because I always you have to figure out is this a number who are you right in that you probably won\u0027t even say is this a number you\u0027ll just say is this 40 do I as a string yep um and as long as the numbers are small then the overhead is not as you said is not a bad idea but if the number is 4932 that\u0027s for octet snot is you can put that in an integer in two octets but I think there they are small numbers so we\u0027ll leave it at that but and but if you don\u0027t control the number space if it\u0027s from somebody else then it might be huge and representing that as a string is not efficient yeah very good points a couple of answers so it\u0027s the 16-bit number of space so yeah they can write 65,000 on the other hand if you put enough data that you are using them structured media-type probably your VD is already like tens of bytes or maybe hundred bytes yeah so then a few bytes here may may not be a big concern but but the original point yes very good point that was our previous design then we then we realized that you\u0027re running the problems cause there\u0027s interesting how waiting is how interwork if you have base value of one eight one let\u0027s say from the numeric area another then you have later a new base value from the string kind and which one are you ten supposed to be using so you could come up with rules okay this one has the precedence but wonder if you want to go back no you need to undo the one that has precedence we don\u0027t really have simple way of undoing base values yeah you could set it into undefined value etc it starts to get a little by little rather complicated rules like how do you work on if you have two different things defining the same thing that\u0027s why we went in this version of the craft for the design where it\u0027s only single field defining a a single kind of parameter but yet that was the one you can check out the previous draft how it look like yeah yeah so yeah pros and cons and and yeah I fully agree I mean this time this number as a string also concerned me and many of you who I actually talk with this about this during the week but that seems to be kind of there and I hate to call the sweet spot but their engineering compromise that makes more sense yeah then Oh No there was a slight "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:43:10",
    "text": "afterwards yes so I can I can talk to you in the other issue so it\u0027s it\u0027s nothing it\u0027s not not really about this nml city but it\u0027s about base values and must understand values in general there are some potential complications because you know you can define your base value as something you must understand or not and not don\u0027t need to understand and your regular field as a same same way so here\u0027s at least a set of combinations with this imaginary foo sin ml field and how its each of these records resolved is perhaps something that would need to be clarified initially unfortunately I don\u0027t have a clear answer that right now we kind of discovered this issue two hours ago there\u0027s no need for clarifications very clear how we resolve this it\u0027s just not useful yes so yeah we probably need to clarify a bit more clarify the clarifications but just a quick heads-up for everyone um if you want to if you\u0027re interested on working on these together do do let me know so I was trying to punt this by saying it\u0027s always must understand but maybe that doesn\u0027t work anyway so you asked for work last call we cannot work last call a document that is not the working document so the next step would be - selfie oh is it on the 17th I think oh [Music] and I think we had a bunch of people plus-one yeah we should end up here so you\u0027re right okay yeah but I think this particular problem needs to be thought through and bring you to read the example yeah so should the next version be bankrupted went well if the adoption went through which I cannot decide because Remy did the adoption called and the no step is a very good document and we progressively spin this once to address the issues that came up okay sounds good thanks others okay I just I tried to be fairly short okay um this is my own slide so this is one issue that we discovered when working in OMA on on version 1.1 where "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:46:12",
    "text": "we so we had sentiment already in the original version 1.0 but as you know the specification in the ITF central specification was released as RC and everything was great and when we did our consistency reviews as part of the what we call one that one that one we found out that our examples were not correct were not in compliance with the specification and the way as you know the way how we use out or the data model works is we use this object object instance and resource a notation with a numerical ID so you see that in the example below and what we missed was that there\u0027s this base name concept which always has to be unique for each specific sensor reading or each specific sentimental document and so you see you see an example on the top the base name here is for example the urine and we have a couple of ways to uniquely identify a device and then there would the resources and an object and object instance and resources would followed and afterwards but the consequence of this is of this design decision in cinnamon which we unfortunately didn\u0027t realize home or realize much much too late was that we now have to carry this base name with the fully identifying the endpoint name using a your eyes we are using in each of the measurements and that\u0027s our kind of a fortunate because it obviously means that we are wasting a lot of bytes we are just sending the data we use sentiment as an encapsulation technique which is a fits our purpose like from from from that point of view because it allows us to take a bunch of for example readings it allows us to put a couple of for example if it goes into the other direction a couple of requests into one into one cinema document and ship it off to the client and sort of there\u0027s only the client-server interaction so we don\u0027t need to carry in each payload uniquely identifying information so we had a chat in our in our club and and reached out to some of you last week also at the joint ITF ion TF ome meeting and the idea we came up with was wouldn\u0027t be great if we could define a local base name that has local semantics semantics but doesn\u0027t require us to carry always the global context so if you ship it off further for example to something else you could of course still use cinnamon and you could then enhance it if that makes sense in your context or if in "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:49:13",
    "text": "your context you require to have that global space this global uniqueness property then you can still do that but the local base name would be an alternative okay with the consequence being that we save a lot of bytes one other thing which I don\u0027t have on the slides which only showed up very recently it\u0027s not captured in the document and we\u0027ll need to do a little bit of homework with Ari and Mochan and and in others is we we have cases where we send for example if we create an an object on the device then we would send that but currently that requires us in a way how the the the local base name and also done the normal base name gets constructed to control path we required the full sort of like the complete string to be present but we don\u0027t actually necessarily know on what the inst object instance will be that the client would allocate so the server sends something create a new object so for example that an object could be let\u0027s say I want to instantiate a lightweight m2m server resource also I want to add another server to the configuration of the office of the client so I don\u0027t know what object instance ID the client will be using of course I could query him first and ask him like what\u0027s the most recent one but even then there\u0027s no requirement to have consecutive numbers either so that creates some some problems with the current resolution scheme and so we need to do a little bit of thinking there as well so dia there\u0027s a little bit more than than what I just said and it was only discovered very recently unfortunately so here I\u0027m basically suggesting to enhance cinema with this local base name to essentially help us to get the specification in in in line with the RC or with the functionality does that make sense some of you stares at me like you have no idea what I\u0027m talking about that\u0027s much better of course there are a couple of ways of doing that and pro pros and cons there but I think something along these lines makes a lot of sense yeah yeah two observations here one this probably would need to be simpler be Landin not a bien all just effects this one single record "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:52:14",
    "text": "following it was but I think the more important observation is we do have the idea of base UI in rest and we could actually tap on that I mean cinema has judiciously avoided using it but that\u0027s because cinema originally was meant for a certain area of replication and opening a new area of application may require doing that yes fully agree and there is a another draft I suddenly on monitoring Chris and I have been working on this based in pointer and indication so that one is going that direction that you could indicate what should be the based based thing over there they\u0027re having it posted on on the core mailings there is an upcoming IPO declaration and on that draft at once once that\u0027s done I can I can post it on the core mailing list but yeah but there you can basically indicate with the new field that okay here\u0027s what should be before this base name and then it becomes unique in the context of anyone who receives that and then when you are forwarding for example to let\u0027s say like I see a sentence you said I understand that you can easily test our resolve those records that then it becomes a unique so that\u0027s alternative way of doing that maybe something we should be exploring how can but I\u0027m but I think the problem is very bad I mean we need to solve it get alignment and and also save those bytes in the wire so the take-home message would be we accept the issue we want to resolve the issue but there are some some alternative approaches we have to look at and what\u0027s the timeline what when does that need to be fixed yeah ideally yesterday but you understand like we obviously need to work on the details and and look at the alternative ideas to make sure that we actually get something working right now and we didn\u0027t have to create another sort of ref of a bug-fix release of our specification to make sure that this is in line because currently we essentially don\u0027t properly use cin ml and i was it just didn\u0027t realize this actually is violating there but the reason for having the mosque there is something that we don\u0027t actually get in in light within them so in that sense we\u0027re okay as long as we\u0027re confined in our own little space of course long-term that is not a good solution we do wanna expand those records to various different autofocus and a standard so and really background on this why it is a mosque that you can easily use in various contexts but now you have a probable única in fire you don\u0027t have to start generating one on the fly when you first NBC the back so that\u0027s the kind of background there but "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:55:15",
    "text": "um let\u0027s work on all night on a solution here guys great so we don\u0027t have five minutes left for 15 minutes of agenda and we are do this the usual way so the working group meeting will last for another five minutes and then we will have an unofficial Albury meeting for the other items so let me quickly about talk about the unit\u0027s thing which also is something that kind of was based on input from from a customer Sto again cinema has a units registry that actually seems to be quite useful for many IOT applications so even though it\u0027s originally just for cinema it\u0027s being picked up and now the problem is people who are picking it up already have data models that have their own way of dealing with units whence animal is pretty straight with units and says use SI units and if you want to use scaling use the number for scaling and not the unit name and so on but that doesn\u0027t mesh with the existing data models and we\u0027re talking about several hundred data models here so this is not a trivial effort to just say oh we\u0027re throw them all away and fix them to do unscared as i you and of course there\u0027s also the problem that in many cases we are actually shipping around integer numbers even though Jason is nominally floating-point so if we have something like microseconds or micrometers milliseconds or micrometers it\u0027s a bit inconvenient because you no longer can use integers so we move this back and forth and at the end we decided we don\u0027t really want to break sentiments clean approach but instead we add a secondary registry of secondary unit names with a big hood not on top of it you should not use that except if you have a reason for to use it and so this would essentially have four columns a secondary unit name so this is the relaxed version a cellular unit name a scale and an offset and there would be a proscribed from your how to translate between the secondary unit and and a cinema unit so the details are in the "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:58:15",
    "text": "draft but seem to me that this is a good way forward and we can keep cinema clean but we can also have this little backpack where we stuff things that are based on an order data marts so I think that\u0027s about it on this I see nodding so yeah this is currently an individual submission by me so if we want to do this we have to go through the usual steps and that that\u0027s probably also something that we want to do relatively quickly so oh and I can\u0027t use it so please please have a look who in this room cares about things like units Hana sorry Tomas lots of hands lots of hands so can you please all have a quick look at the document it\u0027s not long the three pages or so and and see whether we\u0027re on the right track thank you yeah this ends the official part of the meeting but Christian had a few ideas for things we maybe should be discussing so we are now in a hallway meeting and if you haven\u0027t signed the blue sheets please do so well the hallway meeting is the perfect place to discuss those things because they are more targeted towards people typically around core than actually being things that would become working group items or if so then they are a bit far from that my idea here is to give just um inform you and ask feedback from you because this could be relevant in things that are coming up later so one of those items is that it would be great to use shake for for compressing co-op options because the time and again people come around and say that there is a particular thing in co-op options that doesn\u0027t really express nicely for me or that\u0027s bloated so that if that\u0027s whether that\u0027s people complaining about well-known protocol name bland names are long I\u0027ll rather have specifier things at /c and then get into big discussions on art or whether that\u0027s protocols that include numbers in path options those could all be generalized if we use the work that is in Schick and just give guidance on how to derive new options to to have Schick data in those options that would then expand out to existing options with pretty straightforward semantics I don\u0027t have a draft on this I don\u0027t intend to start one unless more use cases crop up where people actually say okay I\u0027ll need this for that and "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "02:01:15",
    "text": "then I\u0027d be happy to kind of to the groundwork part and whoever comes up with a use case to do the motivation and and particulars but this is when do you do those use cases may be useful to have an idea where that context actually live so this is based on static context again and each use case would need to recall that there is a good place to keep that conduct yeah and I figured that context would be encoded in a in a high counter in the high option number but still the context definition needs to recite another thing that came up and that\u0027s even even less a working group item related is that I\u0027ve worked with a quite a few coop libraries and there seems to be a pattern of interacting with coop messages so this is not about the kind of high level I\u0027m having a rest implement a rest engine there but the low levels of I\u0027m processing observation I\u0027m processing a score those things I\u0027m gathering I\u0027m gathering those those kemon methods as part of an Oscar implementation in the context of the rat operating system but I\u0027d appreciate if library authors could come together with me and maybe we can work something out that is that could become a common pattern and ease portability of of intermediary processors and the last item is that creepy about it that could become a wiki somewhere yes or if we sufficiently agree that this is something that is starting to get stable and we actually want people to use we could also turn this into an informational or C you could could do that if there\u0027s interest in I\u0027d be happy to a company should start with the we yeah that\u0027s so current currently currently it starts with the documentation of the Oscar library that is describing that but the the idea is to migrate that over to through the more general case but speaking of wiki\u0027s um I\u0027ve started a co-op FAQ page in the in the co wiki I hope to collect answers to all those questions that pop up time and again on the mailing list like can I can I just send an empty observe if I don\u0027t know the value yet can I Elad the uriah host option and for many of those things we don\u0027t even have a good answer yet but at least we can collect the answers that are there and point people to the right discussion rather than asking answering the same thing time and again in the lightweight m2m issue tracker where it doesn\u0027t really belong or on Stack Overflow and just have this as a dispatch dispatch place and place to collect typical questions so if anything of that is interesting to you or you\u0027d like to contribute I would very much "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "02:04:15",
    "text": "appreciate that yeah I think they need to be disclaimer on that thing that these are answers of individuals that is in place there yes really good effort and I also would be happy with if it really is just an FAQ in part so at least know what those questions are even if we don\u0027t have a perfect yeah and so for them if if this point in time if questions pop up there and we don\u0027t have an answer then there\u0027s no answer yet great thank you [Laughter] you "
  }
]