[
  {
    "startTime": "00:00:09",
    "text": "okay I love it when a plan comes together at the very last minute so Jared are you gonna lock the doors so that we\u0027re all locked in here together thank you all right we are here for IDR we have an hour to get this done and then we reconvene tomorrow so we\u0027re going to start a start now one two three go hopefully there are blue sheets circulating please do the right thing I\u0027m supposed to push this button here there we go we\u0027re getting toward the end of the week so you\u0027ve noted that note well many times but nonetheless please note it I can\u0027t actually believe how many times I shouldn\u0027t even confess this on an open mic button how many times I saw this before I actually went and read the RFC and you know what goes worth reading the RFC okay so here\u0027s our agenda for today this has been a eventful week for the chairs anyway and that is being reflected in today\u0027s agenda and tomorrow\u0027s that have somewhat gotten rewritten on the fly so just a couple things to set up talks that are coming later in the in the session one is that you know we have been presented to several times now about route leek solutions from two major groups of authors I think last time we talked we talked about a it would be awesome to take you guys who are almost converged but not quite and try to get you converged and we\u0027re still almost but not quite there is you know as in everything else in this game there are there\u0027s semantics and there\u0027s syntax right and we love to talk about syntax we\u0027d love to dive down into packet diagrams but we\u0027re really trying to push to come to conclusion on what the semantics of the solution are going to be it would be our our belief it the chairs belief is we\u0027re just about there and then after that there is an interesting discussion they have about syntax so reruns talk I\u0027m hoping we\u0027ll focus primarily on the questions of semantics and I\u0027m hoping the working group will engage either now at the mic or later on the mailing list to help us settle any remaining open questions and "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:03:09",
    "text": "then we can build this intact stuff later the syntax stuff is potentially a very attractive bike shed I would prefer that we not paint it in this meeting today but just you know in the interest of full disclosure the chairs and the author\u0027s had a meeting was it just yesterday and I don\u0027t remember who was responsible for throwing this idea out it might have been me or might not maybe it was Alex I Oh like you know we talked in the past about doing this with the community instead of the path attribute and maybe we can really do this with the community and a bunch of configuration and make it into a BCP and send the whole darn thing over to grow so maybe that will maybe that that maybe that will come back to haunt us but it\u0027s a bike shed I would prefer not to paint right now but Kher wants to tell us what color it will be I know I\u0027m just waiting for you to get done because I have a question on the slide before this okay yes kate patel arcus not meaning to be rude but this is a question for chairs I think the presentation number four there was a mail out of the mailing list that this is not going to be adopted do we still need to present this thank you for leading into my next slide I didn\u0027t put him up to it I promise so another interesting thing that has happened over the last well a couple weeks during the working group adoption call but also in the hallways and meeting rooms here is you know we have had it fully bludgeoned into our heads that number one multiple working groups are interested in topics that you can generally lump under the heading of auto-discovery different people want to autodiscover different things but there\u0027s a whole lot of overlap between it some people have very maximal proposals some people have very minimal proposals with interesting names so it was also clear to us as we said on the list that we don\u0027t have consensus to move forward with a particular proposal and not only that we don\u0027t have consensus on you know I hate requirements documents but we don\u0027t have consensus on what our requirements are so in a perfect world we would have realized that a few weeks ago solicited or prepared a talk on requirements comparing and contrasting all of the proposals with a multicolored grid but it\u0027s an imperfect world and what we have is a prepared presentation on the proposal that this group has been discussing for a while and also we invited Randi to give Randy Bush to give the a talk that he gave previously at LSB R which is which is oriented towards LS PR but I think it it sets up a fair "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:06:11",
    "text": "number of the requirements points pretty well and you know so that that should get be enough to get us started and then we can move forward to you know potentially hash things out that are at an interim does that answer your question care I know actually so if I can make a suggestion this is just pretend speaking for myself if we don\u0027t spend time on the solutions that are already decided by working group that we don\u0027t want to progress that would be super your suggestion is noted but we\u0027re not taking it off the agenda but we will move through it as quickly as possible and I think that you know will respect the fact that it\u0027s not an adopted proposal well so do you want to speak to this okay so now we\u0027ve come down to another thing the chairs want to confess is that we\u0027re looking at the BGP data model it looks like it\u0027s it\u0027s been nmd aid network management data store architecture it replaces the old model in case any of you know there was a model proposed by another set of authors but they haven\u0027t gone forward with it when they found they wanted to have it they must have it MDMA we\u0027re going to go to working group last call at the end of the meeting so when you take a look at this draft please it\u0027ll be a short presentation but beware we are going to go to the working group last call with that I think we start our presentations just Jeff you probably notice that we are also working on policy model that is not open country it\u0027s ITF and it has to work together with BGP and there are some inconsistencies in between would be really good to meet insulting ru is our TWG finished with their routing policy model there are 60% 50% 162 maybe it since we started maybe it would be time to put that on a hot burner okay so shall we start with route leaks do we know it\u0027s as good as it gets okay Shriram would you like the clicker so good evening so we we met the two sets of author teams mez met in London we had a good meeting then we discussed continue "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:09:13",
    "text": "to discuss these things through email we made some progress but as John said there is agreement to a merger solution but not quite a complete agreement so what I\u0027m going to do today is so we have the draft and the changes will happen still it is because of the considerations of attribute versus community and and other issues we had we had so we have the draft and also a design discussion document please take a look at both of those and offer some feedback so quickly like what\u0027s going to happen in this talk is that I should mention to you that Alex and I had the opportunity to meet face to face several times this week to go over the subtleties and the details and so it\u0027s been a very good conversation between us and lot of things clarified and we have the kind of two team leads from the two drafts so I should mention that there are some things there where we have reached better understanding how to do things between the two of us and because of that some of the things in the slides may not be quite accurate or we don\u0027t quite have agreement on those and point those out so we have design a design B and also the EO T C so I want to mention those three things the the code that the current a or T C proposal as it was the originally OTC so between what we are trying to do here is that each AAS in the path inserts what we call our LP information so it could be in the form of InDesign a the a s number and an RL p-value to indicate whether the update is being sent up to a provider or to a customer or a peer so depending on that it will set a zero bit or a one bit and InDesign being it\u0027s simplified a smaller it occupies less space less memory in in this nothing is set when the update is being propagated up and s number of the sending a s is inserted when the update is being sent to a customer or a peer and originally your TC design is similar to design B except that it has room for only one a s number so the first very first areas that set a bit indicating it\u0027s going to a customer or PL that that stays so that\u0027s the difference in so accordingly as you go from left to right design a to design v2 the originally or TC the amount of memory the amount of processing potentially decreases and the "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:12:17",
    "text": "complexity decreases but as but with design a and design B there is more information that that\u0027s being propagated in the our LP and because of that the in terms of being able to detect multiple leaks etcetera there is better functionality and then there is a trade-off also like I mentioned before with respect to the memory so in this slide I I don\u0027t want to speak too much to it because it\u0027s kind of a busy slide but the basic idea is that on the left some things are happening that that could happen in practice and if you look at a s4 it can receive an update which has a route leak indication already set but yes but for whatever reasons s4 doesn\u0027t have an alternative and Desai and because it\u0027s coming from a customer on a customer interface it for life in order not to cause unreachable ax t is for decides to accept and propagate it as well then it goes to a s5 and at a s7 there are two routes being received one from a peer and another one is that leaked it goes down into the customer towards a customer and then leaks so with more information in like with with design a or design B you can tell more as to what happened both at leaks but but one is more egregious than the other that kind of a thing in this is important so Alexander brought up this example where if you didn\u0027t have route leaks you just have the traditional BGP in this topology you could have persistent oscillations if you if if the the providers p2 for example prefers P threes route over its customers and and p4 prefers P ones P ones in that case if you if you do go by something like local pref and that happens then you would have persistent oscillations and the same thing once you bring in doubt leaks and you just go with a local proof without looking at the path length for example then again you could have persistent oscillations so there are a couple of ways to solve this problem you you would prefer p2 to you you would like three to to prefer the customer route over the provider route in order to not have the persistent oscillations in case both are leaks and for that p2 has to be able to know that the route from p3 is a leak and out from p0 is a leak and it has to prioritize the customer out over the provider route there are a couple of ways to do it one would be for example to check whether p0 is is in the path of the provider route also and if you know that then then that then you know that it is a detour of the customer route that is coming back through p3 and if you know that and both are leaks then then you would prefer the route through the customer but Alexander has thought "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:15:19",
    "text": "about it quite a bit and there is a proof purple possibly a better solution where you would have addition to the our LP values you would have another attribute or value that is carried in the update which indicates for example p0 will say that I saw a leak but I don\u0027t have a choice I don\u0027t have an alternative route so I selected it and I sent it to the two providers but at the same time it has this additional attribute or or information in it adds to the update to indicate that I it was a leak but I still am still propagating it and with that information p2 can now set the local craft to zero on both of these routes and then it will go with the longest path and it will make the right right decision right selection and and we can avoid the oscillation so like with that I can skip the next light because I already covered that so so that\u0027s pretty much it in in brief so main thing we want to focus today is if you have some feedback on design a or B well great but that may change because we are considering very likely moving to large community so we would like you to focus more on the I mean on today if we can get some comments from you suggestions about attributes versus large community perhaps we can focus the discussion on that thank you that be exactly the opposite of what I was hoping for but that\u0027s okay go ahead oh yeah I take apart some Cisco Systems about a year ago I put in a draft for another solution to this which it sends a large community that says these are my up streams and it sends it to the neighbor only so that way if that neighbor gets one from somewhere else it can check whether that upstream is there or not so did you see that I mean I was going to present it but I didn\u0027t have enough time to update it link\u0027s Alexander can possibly commit he has an ASP a new chart I wonder if there is an overlap between maybe not you but guys I\u0027m gonna I\u0027m gonna call it here the the chairs really need a specific feedback that sure arms got and that\u0027s a a great discussion with sure um but not on the question topic the chairs want to see do you see if that was if that was if that was what you\u0027re trying to say in a different way please say it we just want to know is there utility for the additional information we\u0027re talking about what\u0027s there if that was part of "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:18:19",
    "text": "your comment I don\u0027t want to halt it I just want you to be specific for the chairs Alexandra is in for one of the authors so I just want to highlight now why we are going to move from attribute to the community the idea behind it so attribute is better but it will take years before the software will be shipped and stars configured and so on so on and so on now we have ASB which is much more powerful that anything that we can get with our shield community or whatever it is because it\u0027s also capable to detect not only mistakes but also malicious activity and that\u0027s why we decided that we need sattell in place as soon as possible and just before before we will have a phase if we will have an attribute or community attribute at the same time HP will be delivered it will make no sense so at the same time we know the limit zone of the communities so it may be stripped there will be some issues for sure so please comment it\u0027s a so it\u0027s it\u0027s not a choice for the draft some kind of strategic choice for the whole prop so please that device really Bruges arcus and I AJ luckily communities are very strongly authenticated and integrity checked so so that was a joke go ahead please job Snyder\u0027s MTT less snarky it\u0027s no difference for attributes like these and we don\u0027t expect the ROP style attribute to propagate very far it\u0027s more of if it happens to pass for you you can benefit would you say attribute propagates a longer distance and community yeah but the point for for this pathology to be effective is that it doesn\u0027t need to propagate very far so I probably gates in the limits at radius there\u0027s already benefits I would like to close this conversation right now I\u0027d like to encourage people to take advantage of the in-person time we have left to have hallway conversation or you know over dinner or whatever and I would like to encourage people to review the draft specifically with an eye toward the semantics and not the encoding there are two different you know design a design beyond that bullet there you can very "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:21:21",
    "text": "usefully provide feedback about you know if you feel like the additional overhead of the one versus the other is warranted there will likely be changes in the encoding this coming down the coming down the road fairly shortly thank you thank you thank you sure I\u0027m sure um I hate to ask you to put that yeah area Church er cool good afternoon folks my name is Caleb Patel and I\u0027m gonna talk about the yang model update if you have a new draft for BCP yang models which is now an NDMA compatible we have removed in this draft particularly all the dependencies that were there on the open config models brief introduction if folks are looking at what NDMA is so RFC 83 42 is the state machine should be fairly clear and most of the extensions that were there in base are already covered in the current draft whatever is defined in BGP extension drafts need to be taken care of which is the next set of changes we will be doing again in a separate document that also includes the support for VP LSE VPN and a to VPN l3 VPN address family changes in model right yeah and I believe that\u0027s all I have it\u0027s pretty straightforward the AC Linden this is a quick one we talked about offline where you are going to change it to augment IETF routing protocol basically instead of being at the top okay thanks and all I was gonna tell you was that the model compiles thankfully so we like to take it to last call if possible after that change though yeah for sure then in the region Cisco same comment as AC about it needs to be linked under routing model under control 10 protocols and second question is do you plan to define BGP rib data the pyramid structure yeah we can extend it in this one or next no it has to be in the main one in the base on Y so I think that is completely not there right now so hopefully I think before but what last call and the third is the our PCs are not defined PCs are pcs the clear actions yeah I think the clear should be taken it off on a separate track because the base model is only there to cover the base "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:24:23",
    "text": "functionality if you will with the configurations okay thank you and the last question is the policy extensions for services you mentioned that a number of extension models yeah so I assume that if they require any policy extensions for example bgp evpn or VPLS this base BGP model has a BGP policy module so looks like the extensions for policy also will need to be thought about so the base model has just base policy modules in here right and for those we have taken care of for all the extension extended policies would like to take it over into the extension struct and progress the work accordingly that way at least be a base set of functionality moving forward sure so looks like if I get it right all the extensions will define the bgp extensions plus the policy extensions together in the extension module yeah all right okay so thank you and we\u0027ll be looking towards you to help us out as well preferably since you ask all the questions sure we can discuss here just to summarize what was the one addition you felt had to go into the base model be really quick Himanshu from Siena we questioned on what kind of extensions you are including for bgp evpn and l2 VPN Saffy Saffy support and any bgp parameters that are there esoteric - EVP ends ok dude does the bgp evpn model has - because there is a separate yang model for I mean we will work with the separate yang model if there is one to see that it\u0027s routing compatible and fits into the overall BGP framework so we are happy to let that drop progress separately if need be ok but it needs to be done somewhere then there will be no overlapping no we don\u0027t I don\u0027t think we expect any overlap oh and if the works done somewhere happy to just document it and be done with it right now looking for extra work to be done here okay let\u0027s coordinate on that yeah thanks so much hey data pipes from Cisco are presenting extra in the communities okay "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:27:26",
    "text": "extended why extended we\u0027re making the extended community longer and the reason for this is that we\u0027re going to be able to write the code very quickly because it\u0027s just extending the extended communities it\u0027s just taking the extended community code and just adding little bits and pieces to cut and paste it and change the size by 24 bits 24 updates and why is it fixed length well again because we\u0027re gonna roll out the code quickly we do not want to make a variable length because we\u0027ve seen what happened to me wanted to variable enter takes 16 years to get something variable thence through the ITF and it\u0027s still not through why bigger aha we we have a and when you what I\u0027ll derive to order derive identifies you want to take existing identifies and sticking together to make water Matic identifies and to be able to fit those into anything you need more space so that\u0027s why that is and it\u0027s a specific case we needed that was in a VPN target to put an ESI and an Ethernet tag ID and a is number to give up all in one spot in the current extended community there\u0027s not our space so they have to be compressed or find new identifies which is not good for what I confit okay now I added added a couple more things right so we have transit of a non-transitive extended communities there\u0027s been some issues with that there\u0027s been in several cases where we have wanted to have community communities and extended communities go a few hops perhaps but not throughout the whole internet right so leaking a community throughout the whole in in there accidentally is a big deal so I thought let\u0027s take let\u0027s use two bits for transitivity and so we can have four different transitivity so now the first one is administration transitive that means it\u0027s transitive within a set of guesses that are perhaps owned by a single administration now to make that happen we we configure we add a configuration to the neighbor ship that "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:30:28",
    "text": "is in the same administration but they fault there\u0027s always a different administration okay the other one would be a one-time transitive that means you can send in a community to your neighbor a s but it will not go to the next neighbor is so it\u0027s just one time I klo which er sale that was an example of of the case where it could not be made transitive over more than one hop in because it was not able to be done BTP persistence has not been specified for ipv4 address family just because we couldn\u0027t contain a community properly so one time transitive would have fixed that the RT constraint because if we have a nuke extended community with new rap targets in it right we need an ERT constraint so there were several possible ways to handling this so this is not nailed down but I preferred and some other people here seem to prefer to have a new RT constraint address family and so then so it\u0027ll be nearly exactly the same as the current RT constraint will just filter the extra extended communities where the regular RT constraint filters the regular extended communities but now since we had a new address family I thought oh we have some other problems with our key constraint and something that\u0027s been there for quite some time it hasn\u0027t been solved is what happens if you put an RT into regular unicast ipv4 or ipv6 update because RT constraint wasn\u0027t specified for that address family it was only specified for VPNs so if you have it in a non VPN aiders family what do you do so there\u0027s no clear answer for that so in this one I just put an Fe selfie into it to say for the specified Fe Safi we are specifying this RT constraint also there\u0027s no reason why the route target value actually has to be a route target it couldn\u0027t be any extended community and it would just work just fine so I remove the need for it to be an actual named real target okay are you close to the end because "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:33:32",
    "text": "we\u0027re close to out of time oh yeah okay um this is detail are just the types we have a a species of people see for ipv6 specific evpn specific a a specific doesn\u0027t need to be troubadour for bike this is enough bytes in there here are the a VPN subtypes you can go and read them in read them in the draft and I need to mix questions Patel arcus what happens if the working group thinks we need 30 bike community six months later we will define a new officer fee for another RTC yes okay so if that\u0027s the thought process my suggestion would be we I know why what was that wide or a flexible communities container and it\u0027s a working group document I suggest we leverage this over that therefore their way we only have one Safi in future to worry about other things the code changes now that you explained earlier in in the presentation that the whites being too complicated to implement suddenly becomes very simpler okay Jeff as I think you know what half my comments are gonna be sure we can take the bit of the white communities the container we already did the refactoring initially if we\u0027re looking at large we could do that that\u0027d be one way to look for it let\u0027s stick to your presentation though what I would like to be changed out of your minimally for this to move Ford I\u0027d love that you did transitivity yay let\u0027s do that you\u0027re doing fixed bytes I don\u0027t like that the fact that you happen to have some union in your data structures that makes you wonder have the specific size that\u0027s your implementation I don\u0027t have that my implementation let\u0027s not do that if you put just that field at the beginning of it so that we can variable-sized them and say that this type must be this size and you can know do your parsing that way that\u0027s great I\u0027m happy with that done do those two things should be just FYI line is closed after job na na variable-length it takes too long to write the code it takes too long to specify I did the large community okay so hey guys no you know food fight about this on the floor your your various unreasonable positions have been Nokia I\u0027m very confused about your statement here they were on the slide you\u0027re saying that the the new router targets are to be used in addition and not as a replacement is "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:36:33",
    "text": "they intend I mean this statement I guess is valid until all your EVP MPs support is community karina at that point you can only use the the extended community I mean the XX in the community and not the other one so when you you end the migration of all the EVP MPs you can actually get rid of the external community only if only there extracts than the community otherwise there is no gain right yeah you can only use the new ones if all of the EVP MPs understand the new ones and only those yeah well basically there will be no conversion between the old and the new I mean you could say let\u0027s if there\u0027s one that doesn\u0027t understand it will convert back to an old one but I wouldn\u0027t do that so I would only only put these in if all of the peers that need to know need to understand them to understand them right okay thanks I mean you could you could but it makes it complicated yeah but I guess there\u0027s no I\u0027d like to have people if you want to make a comment make it into the mic and by the way mic line is closed if you\u0027re gonna hey wait if you send both on all the peers there is no gaining because then the main advantages stay out - derivation if you still need to configure manually the other target yeah so everybody needs to understand all of the nodes in the network need to understand then you have your gain job Snider\u0027s NTT I wanted to comment on the transit ii aspect because i think you\u0027re highlighting on a broader issue IDR and grower faced over the years I know that caterer and and Jeff has and others have put out drafts in about rancifer T specifically I would like to remind the working group that the reason the large community ended up not being contained within what was - back then called the common header or the common container is that we could end up with a situation where it would be a legal construct that a large community may or not may be transitive and from an operator perspective when we went to market saying this is just like all the communities but it\u0027s bigger that also meant that we wanted exactly the same transiti so I\u0027m not clear on what the technical solution is like you do here so the outcome of what you define here is entirely reasonable I would love these features be really nice if we have pieces of encoding that would either stay within the ASN or just one hub but how we solve this as a working group will be a challenge "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:39:35",
    "text": "because if you put it on the attributes itself it may be too broad and it will cover everything contained within the attributes but if you do it per community or per color or kerfing that may also not be ideal but we have to keep in mind what users expect and when we talk about for instance extract standard communities or large communities people associate transiti with that and that we need to think ahead of pushing this to market on how we think the audience will perceive this yeah I understand is there\u0027s many possible ways of handling attributes code thing okay you know what this one is my I\u0027m gonna have to cut it and ask you guys to yeah thank you so we\u0027re running about ten minutes late and I would like to ask Catan if you can catch us up okay so I\u0027ll go really fast I think problem statement is known I\u0027m going to skip this some so I just focus on spend a bit on this slide which is really the requirement that we had in mind on this working on this draft we\u0027re looking for a neighbor discovery mechanism for BGP and which runs on top of ipv4 and ipv6 so you know it can work on any of this make any I could be for v6 or dual stack and you know supported authentication mechanism for security focused on BGP requirements because we have lldp and BFD for lioness and other discovery so we just look for the BFD part of sorry BGP part of it but we wanted to make this extensible for signaling of BGP information the queue requirement was for auto discovery of neighbors and bootstrapping for BGP TCP sessions between directly connected nodes based on feedback and even requirements we wanted a separation of discovery and liveness for BGP neighbors so there is a discovery part of it and maintenance of the adjacency and then based on feedback the liveness an ism is optional and can continue to leverage bgp keep alive BFD fast external failover features and there\u0027s minimal changes for integration with the bgp PR FSM and no changes in the bgp "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:42:36",
    "text": "protocol operations so I think many of you I hope would have already seen this so I\u0027m going to skip through this really fast to catch up there is UDP hello message is sent on a per link basis and we exchanged this so this is a hello message which is used useful UDP port 179 and it\u0027s sent to link local addresses so it can be used over both ipv4 and v6 there are the key TL ways that are used here one is the peering address so that the directly connected neighbors can learn the address to which set up the BGP TCP session then there is a link attributes which indicates the IP v4 and v6 addresses and identifiers so that the link can be described accurately in you know BGP LS but also we can do some other checking like subnet matching and any other policies that we may want to keep there is a neighbor TLV which actually includes the discovered neighbors and their status this is to ensure a two-way you know acceptance before bringing up the BGP peering over it because the session neighbor may be rejected for some policy reason there are certain optional tlvs T one is the local prefix TLV this is really the prefix route that needs to be programmed via this neighbor discovery mechanism to ensure that there is reach ability between the loopback addresses when doing the peering you know over them it\u0027s required when the pairing is done with interface addresses this is an adjacency state machine just a quick overview of that it\u0027s very similar to some of the you know link protocols like OSPF for example key thing is that there is a verification ensure to waste a kitten\u0027s let\u0027s skip the state machine and so I think yeah I think mainly what we were hoping for was he captured in your first few slides which I think summarized requirements as you see them and that was very helpful and the details of the proposal are needed thank you yeah it\u0027s Comic Sans time you know um link discovering liveness "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:45:37",
    "text": "what do we really need we\u0027re here and we\u0027re trying to discover our neighbors okay hi IJ is building a second medium scale data center with 6,000 racks how can we route in something of this scale OSPF is okay to 500 nodes is maybe a thousand they\u0027re limited because they repeatedly flood everything this is your cloths on OSPF or is is thank you Miyazaki BGP is great as updates are infrequent it only signals change okay it scales because of that it so therefore this is probably the major reason it\u0027s become common in large-scale data centers but ecmp can be wider than heck okay so discovery and topology become critical the problem is discovering it okay so a little religion first if anybody can help me attribute this by the way I would really appreciate it there\u0027s the Union standards the accumulation of all the features everybody wanted and intersection standards only those things everybody absolutely had to have I\u0027m a fan of the latter when Russ Housley was talking to the ITU for the ITF he said let me understand it you add features until the nose stop and they said well we don\u0027t like to think of it that way but that\u0027s in fact what happens so let\u0027s not do that what are the must-haves we want to discover the nodes and the links between them we want to discover the link encapsulations on those interfaces and only on those interfaces we\u0027re not trying to do routing we want to maintain layer 2 liveness and Su and I have a confusion here and what I really mean is the layer 2 is up not layer 3 you\u0027ve got being BFD and other things for that but if layer 2 changes it needs to be signaled very quickly and then a northbound API this whole thing was done for BGP SPF there are other paths "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:48:41",
    "text": "security I\u0027ve been told data center ops don\u0027t think of security at this layer I don\u0027t think that\u0027s reasonable and some have finally spoken up um certainly we need authentication is my neighbor the person that the note that I think it is is it authentic kated to talk to me over this interface do we need an integrity that I question but this is one of the things that may drive the PD use over 1500 bytes why do I care about that wait a minute non features routing data BGP does that up the next layer up access to I GP databases this is discovering liveness not routing I contend you don\u0027t even need an IDP you just want the length not transport you want discovery in liveness to push up to BGP SPF it\u0027s got to be usable in massively scalable networks it may be used for other applications and it should be simple it should be extensible so that we can add authentication maybe link costs etc etc John I\u0027ve been discussing adding what\u0027s the flavor of my labor my neighbor is it a spine is it a leaf etc so I think of that as colors and we might have two of them the other fonts so I can have magenta Comic Sans um it should be simple it should not have IPR and I didn\u0027t have enough room on the slide to include simple again why simple is because we\u0027re here to produce implementable understood and securable standards not build our resumes and I feel really nastily strongly about this and Rob Pike one of the fathers of playing nine and other Dell lab stuff had this to say just two weeks ago that the high goal of software engineering is removing the need for features so one of the candidates we have in front of us today we have lldp we have something like is is link discovery Alvaro tossed edge control protocol over the fence at me and I think he regrets it because I\u0027ve been teasing him about it ever since bgp neighbor under discovery you\u0027ve just heard that song and something that I\u0027ve "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:51:43",
    "text": "been working on with care link stayed over ether LD pre is an I Triple E protocol and now the magic number 1500 appears he could want a big PD you and you hit IPR okay it\u0027s a bit complex it in some circumstances it won\u0027t go through a switch in others it will what do you really want here are the nodes switches in which case you really don\u0027t want it to go through a switch it does beaconing but not keep allies it\u0027s viable okay is is discovery at least it\u0027s a an ITF protocol it\u0027s complex enough the BGP LS was invented so people who are allergic to link state databases can see it in a different form I only read BGP D so please translate the is is and OSPF LSD B\u0027s to me this is pretty silly is is not common is is is not commonly implemented right on mstc devices RFC 1812 I think it is host requirements didn\u0027t include is is it was OSPF edge control protocol it\u0027s a transport control by eiope Triple E it\u0027s really a transport it\u0027s layer to transport it does flow control reliability non reorder neither its reinventing PCP thanks Alvaro at least I got to read something BGP neighbor auto-discovery is introduced in ITF very new needs the peering address to get the peering address it\u0027s a s base can\u0027t use other identifiers not really discovery at all it\u0027s configuration and then it doesn\u0027t maintain like this link state over ether was custom made for the LSD our job let\u0027s be specific very bare-bones brutally simple only this does discovery in liveness it\u0027s new that\u0027s those bgp SPF and NOAA measurement and monitoring tools and that line kind of applies to too many things here so this is kind of what it looks like and let\u0027s discuss it I think the only thing I mentioned in the LSB ARP was the ESI is protocol and by the way since you said l2 liveliness I would throw my other time limits coming he\u0027ll either make it or you won\u0027t with the life I mean that\u0027s it layer 2 "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:54:43",
    "text": "we gonna go home early you that hungry so we do have a few minutes for conversation yeah I I guess really what I said at the beginning we we have I mean sure we don\u0027t normally hum in this room but let\u0027s home how many hum if you think the general topic as presented in the last two presentations and others that have come to us of discovering in the BGP context is one that this group should work on and hum if you think that we should not work on the topic it\u0027s very quiet ok ok I heard a little humming but very little so that I mean that was our impression I guess the other thing that I would like some some honey ratification on is it is the chairs impression that we are at the beginning rather than the end of defining what we think our ID ours requirements are for discovering we don\u0027t think that we have a solid set of requirements yet so I just like to get a home if you pretty much agree with that statement that we do not yet know what our requirements are ok I heard some humming hum if you do think we have firm enough requirements to start writing a spec okay that\u0027s interesting that\u0027s you know pretty close pretty close so yeah actually it was a trick question because in either case that means that you would like to participate in a interim to nail down what those requirements are half of you have got some requirements to bring to the table and half of you have got a interest in evaluating the requirements of the first half and now I would like to open the mic Jeff has two points in reverse order so Randy\u0027s motive Randy\u0027s motivation for presentation is partially due to LS VR that has a liveness requirement we do not have that piece that may bias the solution if we\u0027re trying to be general second comment is I think that the majority of the solutions they\u0027ve been offered in this space have significant overlap so I don\u0027t think we\u0027re really that far in terms of the actual requirements I do think that we have a few details like the yellow TP draft for examples out there because we thought we had a specific limitation that we needed to know for data center "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:57:43",
    "text": "type equipment that the general bgp solution doesn\u0027t I don\u0027t see that as an obstacle I did you see that is you know one of the things that needs to be answered i ka patel arcus I agree to what Jeff says the only thing I would add is if we are going to take this work we probably want to think of this work with an understanding that this has an applicability to M I miss DC\u0027s but can be generally applied and could be applied even beyond BGP in certain cases Allah think bfv like mechanism materia which is more generically applied so have a surgical insertion point from a network perspective in mind but make it a generic sure and I\u0027ll just cut in to point out that of course LS VR has their own requirements and the ad has I think very sensibly asked you know the chairs of the two groups to get together and basically said you know can\u0027t you people figure out how to bring forward one instead of two things so we we have had some requests not not a hard requirement but a request to try to come up with unified proposal instead of two different proposals that does do almost the same thing yeah Rajeev oh sorry definitely this at least surrenders analysis very useful um one thing that hit me was thinking about it that most of the large-scale data centers that they are being built or going to be built a predominantly gonna be around I P basic so hope that\u0027s the case Randy said that I mean if you make that assumption I don\u0027t make that assumption would be useful to leverage something that we have in ipv6 and they were discovery does it check does it pass all the marks not sure would be useful to have at least that we added to the analysis AC Linda there are specific there\u0027s the requirements have a lot more than that that\u0027s already been being done there are implementations that use the ipv6 router advertisements to peer on the link local address and then use RFC 55:49 to do both ipv4 and ipv6 yeah okay so so what my question suggestion was to perhaps expand this list and add ipv6 as well ipv6 NDP to be more specific okay and I actually also want to you know take privilege to respond a little bit and just say you know although this this grid you know is what it is and it\u0027s a useful grid we should keep in mind that you can have a set of requirements that are then met by a set of technologies they don\u0027t have to be met necessarily by just one technology one protocol yeah "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:00:43",
    "text": "AC Linda I just like to point out to this group that Randy\u0027s like liable eNOS requirement is not bgp session liveliness so don\u0027t confuse that we\u0027re not trying to we\u0027re not solving that with this it\u0027s liveliness of ipv4 ipv6 and possibly other end caps on on the link it\u0027s ok liveness of the link for very selfish reasons I would rather the IP ID are not take this up because L SVR has a nice constrained problem and I like working on it this group can expand to the interplanetary universe and drive me crazy for years we love you too a lease agency Cisco with respect to the lldp option I\u0027m wondering whether jumbo frame size have been considered for lldp honest we think that we\u0027re gonna go over 8 9 K in size so I believe Brandi had a bullet to that about IPR and greater than 1500 bytes and blah blah blah I thought that IP is with respect to the segmentation segmenting it to the multiple pieces not using a single jumbo frame ok well I guess I will defer that to people who know more about it than I do um so here will take your comment but I I want to point out that we\u0027re out of time so yours will be the last comment sure I\u0027m just gonna reply really put to our list comment up jumbo frames is good to have but not necessarily D way of doing it and then as Randy said there are other issues with lldp where you know it goes to a switch you may not want to you may not want this information to go beyond 1/2 so putting extra constraints seems like adding more complexity here so ok and and with that we will close the meeting we probably I\u0027m almost certain we will try to schedule an interim to talk about this topic thanks everybody and we\u0027ll see you tomorrow "
  }
]