[
  {
    "startTime": "00:00:32",
    "text": "so we don't have a chat and Marco cannot connect to meet Echo okay yeah sorry for that I didn't know that we will have chat offline I think uh yeah I'm learning um but uh I think I will write the Secretariat after this meeting and ask to create a chat for us since I think we don't have because we are not working group but well for next time hope we have one sorry is this a new thing since 118 or I think for iot directorates yes as far as I know we couldn't use before the data tracker meetings tabs uh based on my understanding it's like that but well now we know that we have this issue and hopefully next time we'll be fixed yeah sorry I missed the 118 so so that was still WebEx back then or was WebEx yeah yeah okay is the recording is out there yeah okay I think we can start I will proceed to share the screen can you see my screen yes yes"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:02:01",
    "text": "okay so welcome to the directorate prf meetings H please um H know that this meeting is aligned with the note Wells we are not going to read it but H please read well uh this dra agenda we are to first introduce a reminder of for the iot directory reviewers then we go for to an overview of the it and irtf working groups and research groups and then if there is new plan activities iot activities and if someone else want to provide some updates on others sdos that would be very nice some comments on this agenda okay so H just in case that uh we cannot drop uh the names please add your name here as attendees so ADI do you want to proceed sure thank you vess so just a quick reminder about the director reviews and as you know like the reviews of of I andf documents with I iot concepts are one of the key tasks that we have at the directorate and um what we have noticed among chairs is that when we request um for reviews from the director members sometimes we do get this answer that hey h sorry I'm not expert on this topic of the draft so can you please assign someone else um of course some sometimes that's a valid answer but we're think it's it's a worth reminding that you don't need to be an expert on the specific topic or even you know partically well informed Beyond a a regular IDF attendee about that specific topic you are here because of the iot expertise so when you're asked to do a review of the document you can do a general review uh of the of the whole document if you wish but your point is to focus on the iot related aspects of"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:04:02",
    "text": "that draft and um and course all of you of course do have iot uh expertise that's why you are part of the director so that shouldn't be that much of an issue so of course with chairs we do usually try to assign those reviews based on who we think would have also you know more domain knowledge of of those uh documents um but but often times we do notice okay either that persons or personal persons are already author of the document or they have been actually already active participants in the work and perhaps not a best candidate there for a review for another opinion so often we do basically a best effort assignment we think okay this person perhaps next in the line would be the right person to review and um when that happens to you when you do get a document that doesn't fit your expertise don't worry the right right approach probably would be that read it as a generalist but when you find the iot specific Focus think it from iot point of view and really focus your review on those aspects any questions or comments from the directorate on this topic okay so if no any comments yeah let's keep in mind that for the next time you you get assigned and of course do reach out ask to chairs if you have any further questions or comments on the topic or we can Al also discuss in the maing list if you want to somehow uh adjust our process here thanks back to you in thank you Adie uh okay we proceed with the reviews of the ATF and irtf working groups so six is closed so for next time this is last time that we be displayed here next time will be deleted for next time then six low Carls s okay hello uh six low we meet in the next ITF um currently we have four working group documents uh one has been submitted to the isg for publication"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:06:01",
    "text": "it's the ip6 ND multicast address listener registration for which we have recently received couple of reviews from the general area and transport area and then there are three other working group documents which are in earlier stages uh which are path aware semantic addressing for llms which has been updated since the last ipf also updated is the transmission of Chik compress package over 15.4 networks um by the way recall that Chik is the main product of the lp1 or now shik working group and also there's the IPv6 andd prefix registration draft which has been updated but mostly uh has been refreshed and there there are two other individual documents that will be presented as well in Brisbane first is generic address assignment option for six lopan and D this is related with uh the path aware semantic addressing document and the transmission of IPv6 packets over over short range Optical wireless communication which is actually IPv6 over a2157 which is a technology for visible light communication great thank you very much um comments or question for cards okay thank you Ace Long team okay animal th yep so let me see what I was writing right so yeah we'll have a a one hour slot in Brisbane um so we're we've been um since 118 continuing to work through GitHub and weekly site meetings on the active working group drafts and uh close significant number of issues and then of course unfortunately new issues are opening up from reviewers and from our own view of of the world and so"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:08:00",
    "text": "this uh these these drafts have kind of because of dependencies with authors become our next cluster even though it's it's now not in in RFC editor so we've got the uh brusi alternative enrollment protocols other than EST um we've got the um additional enrollment options through a manually managed intermediary an agent uh to enroll these iot devices uh and then we've got the uh constrained version of brusi uh with voucher and the and the joint proxies and that all culminates into the um RFC 8366 bis which is our um draft for the data model of our uh enrollment artifact the voucher um so in addition um we've kind of moved all this discovery with the DNS and grasp and seore out into a new draft we adopted haven't posted yet that was just uh shortly after the deadline for 119 uh and we've passed um three of the documents to to the area director so that's of course also a little bit delayed because of Rob Wilton retiring from the role um voucher um Crow cloud and the grass distribution um there's one more document we'll need to talk about with the authors um so yeah we have limited attendance locally in Brisbane so we're probably going to ask the working group if we should have another interim maybe at the end of April so that it can still be determined through the execution of Brisbane um if if that makes sense uh to get more people um from the working group to discuss and yeah so I mean as as an example of the bigger open issues is that we we were one of the I think one of the or the first one that was trying to use Yang for um modeling um not a management uh plane API but um a digital artifact the voucher and that doesn't seem to have catched on so far I think we've identified only one other draft"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:10:00",
    "text": "that's trying to do this so we're still missing in the industry any of the tools to automatically convert um Yang into the Json or cboard that we want so one of the painful discussion is whether we're going to rewrite the draft to uh use instead cddl as the spec language instead of uh Yang so hopefully I'll get some good opinions about that in Brisbane okay great thank you very much toas comments questions okay SDF Michael Nicholas anyone else have some comments on this hdf yeah just uh quickly mentioning that uh the main product of the working group um has completed the post working group last call process Ing and should be shipped to the isg any day now and with us having our current Charter completed of course the next question question is uh recharging we probably will talk about that in in Brisbane but we uh also have an interim focused uh on that uh for April great thank you very much carsten could you Contin h c sorry yes um hello this is Christian um yes sio will meet in Brisbane and there's something that I'd like to invite um many of you to that is um we have a 90-minute slot and we are dedicating the first 30 minutes of that to doing something more tutorial is um because a lot of tools are coming up or mechanisms that can be used are coming up for for seore to use seore in documents um so if you're even even if you have don't don't have strong opinions on on the details of CRA but you using it in your specifications um"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:12:01",
    "text": "please feel please drop by um and of course we also have um intro meetings and those will continue um in in the time between the meetings uh there are a few documents that we have around especially because we are trying to do things in kind of small small chunks that do one thing right um time tag is close to completion in the RC edq or is in the rcq um free dos on mostly on grammar stuff are still in another working group last call but will probably go to the isg because some of them are just in there because the the main grammar changed so I prefer to work as call that again um and then we have a few clusters of documents so for example uh we do have a pack seore that is uh now about feature complete in terms of how are things used um so that should be approaching working for last call soon we have a whole topic on on serialization determinism where one item is to have a common encoding and building on on that there's an application profile that um that users might op to um work on cddl is ongoing just as well um so there is the part that is there's one part that is approaching completion completion um in the working group so the the working group last call documents contain a lot of cddl um modules will need probably one more around for the authors but then this will also be one of the tools that you can use when using cabore in your uh in your own documents and then that cddl ancillary um block shown here contains a few more documents that um are in kind of in the pipeline towards um towards becoming possible working group items and then we have of course not only the work on the language itself but also on applications uh where DNS over uh DNS serialization is an active working group item and also other working groups for"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:14:01",
    "text": "example core and in area um are um are using zra and specifying tags on using formats that's about where we are thank you thank you very much Christian com comments or questions okay cor ksten Marco hi hi uh this is Marco uh so we have two documents very close to publication now um both with the editor Target at has been with the editor for a while but is now waiting for a tool issue uh to be solved while um cored from the corcon cluster um is really in Ed State and then we have a document that recently entered um isg review and is scheduled for uh I think the first tat right after uh right after brisban uh in the working group we also have a number of advanced documents still waiting for um shepher R up uh Oscar group young library and uh four more that completed their working group plus call and two of them core comai and core href are expected to get into a second one soon uh but selecting some major work happened in working group documents uh in the last period uh yeah documents from the coron cluster for completed core seed and advancing uh cor comi uh advancing uh HF already mentioned above uh close to get into a second working group plus call uh the protocol kudos for updating uh King material for uh Oscar and another document adopted last year on Oscar used not only in presence of proxies BU at proxies uh which in turn includes the possible um protection of the same Co-op message with multiple um Oscar layers uh we also have two new working group documents one adopted end of last year"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:16:00",
    "text": "uh group com proxy uh on using proxies specifically uh when you use Co-op for group communication and Oscar ID update is the result of a split out uh from Key update for Oscar above uh on a specific streamline protocol for updating uh the identifiers uh in oscore um other than documents uh there has been a recent discussion started by Cen in the core mailing list pointing in turn to a discussion uh restarted in HTTP uh B on link local names uh that can have implications for uh Discovery for constraint devices and we quickly discuss that also at the latest cor interim meeting so if you're interested on the topic on using mdns for discovery for no Discovery uh please check the discussion and contribute um we used to have regular uh meetings or design team meetings uh in inter meetings and we'll meet in brisban for a 2our session uh and after that we plan to resume with inter meetings regularly uh inmed April then every two weeks until ITF 120 and that's about it great thank you very much Marco uh comments or questions okay thank you co there are some chairs Matthew mik ialo or someone else has comments on Co that want to share no okay we proceed with de net low Janos or [Music] some no someone that want to provide some comments on that net"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:18:01",
    "text": "okay iot Ops Alex Hank okay someone does want to provide comments on iot Ops okay for Lake malissa stepen uh someone wants to provide some comments on like okay elwick well was conclude in January someone want to provide some notes on this um yeah the one um ofan document that that didn't find a home yet is the 7228 bis work the terminology for for constraint node networks and we have a new draft that is already in a state where we could ship it but maybe we want to take a little bit more input and uh we are uh looking to uh put this into iot Ops right now the draft updated draft is not out there because of some data tracker hiccup um it was submitted in time but data tracker didn't like the fact that awig is closed um so um yeah um I think we will discuss this in in the working group meeting but there's lots of other interesting stuff in so so please go there okay thank you very much Caren just a a point on that one um a reminder that area directors can override the the the timeline uh the"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:20:03",
    "text": "publication so if you if things got stuck talk to your ad yeah the the it's before the a directors right now but I can imagine they are very busy at the moment so it it's queued up for review by by the a directors according to data trigger yeah that might be worth a quick note just to to to let ES might be busy but you know you want to have the documents out as early as possible thank you okay thank you very much Elliot and Caren additional comments okay rats Kathleen Nancy net someone's want to provide additional comments on rats okay Ra was conclude and that hey can I just add something in the rat's Department yes um there's uh currently an independent submission for arms architecture as a rats extension it's never too late for reviews to come in for that um it is let me give you the the URL for it I'll put it in the oh I can't put it in the chat the chat's down at least for me um but if people are interested um they can contact the independent submissions editor uh if they'd like to review and I would love to have reviews thank you could you add into the notes please instead of the chat yeah I'll do that thank you for the for that idea thank you thank you very much Eliot additional comments okay so the continue with as we say that net took the work from row so"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:22:02",
    "text": "for r h we will not meet at next ITF but we have uh regular interim meetings we try to have them every two months next interim will be in April May uh based on the toodle and then for our work our Ripple and our projections were submitted to the isg and then the work in progress we have R NFD mopex NC extensions enrollment priority uh we are looking for reviewers for enrollment priority so if you want to review it please let us know so that's is for all comments or questions okay H shik Alexander Pascal someone yes yeah perhaps I can give a few comments on that um yes pleas so shik is not meeting in brisban but plans to continue with by by-weekly interims there are few uh active working group documents and one item of discussion has been the shik architecture draft where now there are Concepts like a shik session and a shik header being discussed and recently there's couple of uh recently adopted uh group documents one is a protocol number for shik and the other one is shik for icmp okay great thank you very much C additional comments or questions yes Elliot uh not for this but in between shik and skit there's skim and um I don't know that we have anybody from skim uh terms of the chairs on board uh skim is a system for cross"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:24:01",
    "text": "identity management um and in there there's draft ietf skim um devices which extends uh the cloud uh cloud-based provisioning uh from just users to now devices as well that that document is already a working group document and um is getting on it's it's probably heading towards working group last call in the next month or two great thank thank you very much for let us know so we will take a we will invite the chairs to these regular meetings and and add it to the template thank you very much additional comments on Kim or shik okay uh the next one sit is sit um supply chain Integrity transparence and Trust harnis JN well I can only contribute that they like to be called skit okay great thank you um additional comments okay sweet David so I don't see David here so I'll just uh step in this is Russ um now take Dave Taylor off there he is he is no longer chair um Dave uh retired for those of you who don't know he uh and so he stepped down from all of his uh leadership roles um anyway uh I stepped down from a chair uh one meeting cycle before Dave did and now Dave Taylor did and now Dave Walter Meer is a single chair he's uh um really"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:26:03",
    "text": "close to finishing everything um as uh I put the status in the in the write up of each of the um documents all of them are in working group last call or later except for one and uh that one uh once it passes working group last call they'll be able to send all of the documents to the isg okay great thank you very much Ras for the update additional comments or questions okay tip T Nancy Sone want to provide some comments on tip okay so H for the RF work uh research groups coin Jeffrey Eve Mari Jose someone's want to provide some information on coin okay thanks to S res group Ari Ken I can comment from here So the plan is uh not to have a a usual meeting in the next iepf however we do plan to meet at i1 121 and also discussing if we should have a meeting in 120 and we do have this time an a physical interim meeting coming uh on iot security topics it's going to be in Paris on May 21st and 22nd collocated with the hackaton on on lightweight IOP security that is hosted by inria and you will find more"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:28:02",
    "text": "information and registration link uh in the meeting notes the registration is now open as usual free of charge uh also remote part possible so if you are interested on that topic please do join us on the documents for thinking RG um one of our documents the IOD challenges and functions is currently at the RFC editor Q uh we do have three research Co crafts which had minor updates over the last few months the application attacks using Co-op the taxonomy of operational security considerations for manufacturing inst keys and thrust anchors and also their guidance on restful design for iot systems and we do have a a forth document that is being developed that but doesn't update for this round the um boostrapping security for iot and that's all for things in Archie great thank you very much additional comments or questions okay thank you uh so now about the new plan ITF on irtf activities iot activities do you have some information that you want to share yes so actually and this segment in particular would be great to get all of your insights because there perhaps there bus or side meetings or such that are not widely known uh would be great to hear if you know of anything happening either in pris Bain or you know between the meetings um I guess this is one of those useful segments that we can know provide added value here in the directorate so please anything go ahead and comment or comment now or can also write later in the notes"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:30:01",
    "text": "so I'll I'll I'll mention one thing um we're trying to have a site meeting on Thursday in in the morning on Enterprise and to me all the Enterprises that are active are kind of struggling to find you know their their common design criteria between you know um what's evolving in their OT space and their established it space right I think U you know we're seeing that in mobs where you know you typically also don't have the division I'm not sure if we're calling a mobs network with all that video equipment and iot network um I mean for us iot typically came from the lowend battery driven stuff but uh you know expanding more into um iot these these networks that uh have big campuses manufacturing and so on so um that's that's why we're also trying to explore that Under the Umbrella of you know what what do um operate s that call themselves Enterprises uh CS overall Network challenges I'd be very surprised if that not um very much relates to their iot usage thank you thus this sounds very interesting do you have a link for more information yeah I'll I'll I'll edit yeah just just just the normal side meeting room at 88: a.m. in the morning and uh well just make it very open invite to to say you know if if if you're calling yourself an Enterprise what's what's your challenges in the ITF what would you like to see us do better on that and uh yeah if that turns out not to be iot related sorry for bringing it up here but um as I said right I mean all the people I've talked to that was so the title is Enterprise Network yes great thank"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:32:04",
    "text": "you thank you very much additional comments or questions okay um is now next topic will be someone wants to share about the other iot sdos that you have you may have information about uh not not exactly stdo but there is a cost action research thing starting on on Next Generation uh networks and their security I'm in there I'm trying to represent uh kind of to bring in ITF experience in order to avoid inventing things new um I'll P I'll past post a link to what we have already um not sure if that's relevant precisely here that would be great thank you very much much Christian very nice additional comments okay if we don't have additional comments I think we can conclude the meeting thank you very much for your assistance and this um well recording will be well available in YouTube we will let you know so thank you very much and have a nice day and save trip to the ITA thank you for thanks to all noakers travels thank you very much all noakers yes bye bye bye thank you"
  }
]
