[
  {
    "startTime": "00:00:29",
    "text": "for for e"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:02:08",
    "text": "should I send a reminder to Ted good morning go guys we have uh our regular attendance now is everybody connected with audio and can you hear me yes hi guys I can hear you wonderful good morning again and just to get started this is uh sixth interim and um we think this must be the last one before we go for face tof face meeting in Vancouver um essentially the idea is whatever we discussed today after that all the changes we can make to the document and publish it for people to um review it before the and then have it ready with cut off deadline in mind um note well note well we will continue to follow iatf policies and guidelines so please be careful about what you say and share on this virtual meeting all right this is where I stop D do you want to add something"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:04:01",
    "text": "oh Daren disappeared all right uh Ted go ahead how do uh do you want to do the same format uh share the screen and go through issue list yeah that sounds fine hang on a sec first I have to actually get up the issue list okay all right so I will now share my screen brace yourself okay so uh sorry to interrupt Ted I'm I'm back folks M problems and Karen I didn't I didn't want to add anything uh agreed last one thanks Ted and everyone for getting this far yeah all right so then the question is where where do we start um last time we saw our heroes uh so I was going to add a state machine but I haven't done that yet so I don't think we really make sense to talk about that here uh we had been working on this one let me just see I don't remember how far we got so there's three commits [Music]"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:06:02",
    "text": "know there's a way to look at this H sorry quick question Ted are you sharing your screen now and you guys not see it I don't see it now does anybody else see it I'm seeing it I let mein let me do rejoin rejoin back so I think this one looked like it was hopefully finished not by me uh I I sort of thought we'd finished it I just um I'm trying to figure out a way to actually look at it yeah so I know there's a way normally there's a way click on this branch is three commits ahead just click on the three commits sure there you go all right uh here we go we only changed one file scroll down y oh here we go all right great okay so let's see so we changed terminology to glossery which was sort of unrelated uh this is it's really hard to look at it this way hang on a sec let me just uh okay so um um it might make sense if we're going to actually look at stuff I also have an emac window that we can that I can share but unfortunately I can't share my screen so we'll have to stop and restart so I'm just looking at the emac because it's a little easier to read them these diffs um well actually I guess the diffs aren't that bad um so so we had I think we had finished uh dealing with router advertisements on"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:08:00",
    "text": "infrastructure and then the question is is our router advertisements on the stub Network good because we've now added this um yeah I believe we were done with this part yeah I'm just so if that's true then um is there a reason that we haven't just uh committed this and closed the issue Let's uh let me just kick off the poll request and uh um we'll double check it and acknowledge and close it okay you'll do that did you try XML for you did I try what oh no I I did not get a chance Karen yeah that's that's right so I did not um but uh yeah I I will in the background as we go on with this meeting okay all right so we can forget about issue 36 uh so issue 37 more details on DHCP V6 PD renew rebind conditions and ail change so uh so I think Esco you're is Esco here Esco is not here all right so let's let's leave this until this goes here um okay so this was also open by Esco okay this one was open by you Kieran uh stub rer deprecating its onlink prefix seems under specified did we already talk about this one last time yeah yeah so you ended up opening another issue for this okay so uh right we need to have an explicit State machine for the St rowter on link"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:10:01",
    "text": "prefix so all right so so that's the thing we need to do um let's see what other stuff we have this this is not exactly lwh hanging fruit um consistent terms for the flag bits I think were we maybe we did that yeah so all right and then use consistent caps for terms um these are trivial editorial things that one of us can just do um so the security consideration section right now um at least in a little bit about ra guards so some text has been covered there okay I'm not seeing a security consideration section in the document just missing it am I looking at the right document there is not one right okay so so we definitely need to have a security consideration section um it's not clear to me I mean we talked about things we could put in it last time I guess maybe there was a poll request with with this yeah here we go um oh no that's just a an issue no that's that's not an issue here we go okay so uh so uh this document has no actions"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:12:02",
    "text": "uh right um yeah so I think this this is good as written um but uh so we could just merge this um I know there were some other issues but since we're tracking those other issues as other issues we could just merge this and then do that the other issues as a different poll request does that make sense yes okay so that's not the thing we go okay so we should be able to just do that and hopefully that means that we got to change yes okay okay great okay so now we have a security consideration section excellent and we've closed an issue this is very exciting and the issue has gone away from the issue list which is even more exciting okay so decide on the stub rer flag bit position is really not up to us so uh or that is to say I think we've already done a call for option which at this point I think has"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:14:02",
    "text": "enough yes votes to have passed um and so yeah guess I guess yeah So the plan is to just keep that one open so change stub router to snack router uh I mean this is a trivial editorial thing I don't think we need the whole working group to watch that happen um I had a note about ipv4 host communicating with sub hosts okay so this would be a good thing to work on um is that does that make sense yeah and which section will this go to right so I'm just looking at so we have a section that says providing reachability to ipv4 services on the stub Network so I'm assuming that that the ask here is for something in the introduction because we don't mention ipv4 in the introduction at all um yeah but then uh introduction will become um more verbos or more complicated if we start um that they can receive connection from I'm okay with the first part but the second thing that receive connections from that requires an explanation which can be outside introduction all right so what we have in this in the section on there's a section called providing reachability to ipv4 services to the stub network uh so stub Network routers must be capable of providing that 64 themselves and must be capable of discovering so maybe the right thing to do here is just clarify the goals of the section because right now this section"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:16:02",
    "text": "provide mat 64 it just says they must so uh I'm going to just uh let's see uh let me stop sharing this and then start sharing emx can you yeah thanks oops okay can you guys see this all right fuzzy bigger is that better yeah okay so um I'm thinking that we just need a new paragraph here uh sub uh snack might as well use the right term rely on IPv6 uh to support enable routing between links which would not be ip4 due to the lack of uh"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:18:13",
    "text": "okay so there we have our motivating paragraph does that address the issue this does not say um the direction that um you said we can receive from ipb vs4 but cannot send to ipv4 that was the issue okay so all right so let me add a little more text uh actually maybe it would be better to say uh there was no easy way"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:21:24",
    "text": "okay I'm now getting very verbose so we can potentially pair this down um but basically this is this is really making it clear right like like basically we're uh"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:22:03",
    "text": "so the purpose of providing ipv for connectivity for snack hosts is to enable for okay okay so we now have many paragraphs about this I I think this is actually an improvement I don't actually feel like this is a waste to talk about um but it does add three par yeah uh it only thing that comes to my mind is that should we split the section between ipv4 services and ipv4 host um does that make a difference or is it okay to keep them together well I mean a service an ipv4 service is a service on an ipv4 only host we should actually we should say ipv4 dason Services uh only um objection I have is where we have written that uh there should not be"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:24:01",
    "text": "any host in the infra infrastructure Network that can't communicate with the host if you consider the security framework we may not want to allow all the hosts to talk to the stub Network um the reasons might be different but uh so that's that's really out of scope here though right okay right like we're not actually we don't have a security framework for this like we're we're goal is is to make it possible for hosts on infrastructure to talk to hosts on the snack Network and vice versa that's the that's the purpose of this document that's not to say that there might not be a security uh addendum or something like that but basically we've been assuming that uh that we don't need that for the infrastructure network uh and that that if there is such functionality uh needed some where the place where it's going to be needed is at the um at the edge so in other words uh the RFC 784 router might well prevent communication from the internet to hosts on both the infrastructure Network and the stub network but uh but we don't have we don't have an explicit function talked about in this document for doing the same thing between the stub Network and the infrastructure Network um we we've talked about this before and I think we concluded that it was reasonable to leave that out of this document um although there certainly go ahead yeah I think I was over reading the term communicate so reachability is fine but communic I look at communicate slightly different than the reachability that's why I had this confusion oh so in other words you're the distinction you're drawing is that there's reachability in the sense that we know how to send a packet as opposed to"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:26:00",
    "text": "there's communication in the sense that we are able to get a packet across that connection yeah actual communic back and forth versus just the reachability so I like the heading that we only talk about providing reachability but when we are writing this paragraph we used term communicate with host okay this is this is starting to look I mean these this this is now uh we're we're we're delving into weasel words here um I I feel like you know I I I I see your point but I feel like this is making the text harder to read and it's not clear to me that it's actually like the point of writing this text was really to get people to understand what we're trying to do um so uh maybe it would be better to just add clarifying text like I I kind of like oh let's take it this way that this is a good starting point if I come up with some improvement I can suggest the changes later on uhuh okay yeah I mean the thing is it's it's just so out of scope right now uh any kind of filtering is out so out of scope for this document that that having text in the document to try and support that feels like it's just uh making our life needlessly difficult oh"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:28:01",
    "text": "that's fair okay so uh if you're okay with that um let's see okay what's the name of this issue uh issue number 58 I'm just looking closely at this commit to make sure there is there any weirdness uh so document uh just add the original text all right so I'm just creating a pull request here"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:30:13",
    "text": "okay and then uh if you guys are okay with the change that we just looked at I can merge this hearing no objections okay no OB mic unmute is working okay uh all right so I just merged it uh which hopefully means we have one fewer issues now let's see if that actually worked it looks like it did okay so I'm G to once again go I'm going to go back to issues so Karen if you can uh reenable sharing for me okay so remove text that allows the L flag to be zero I think we did that didn't we there's a pool request for for that so uh linked to this one right okay so you can click it on the right if you want to see I think all right okay so this appears to not have conflict so the change is the exception we're deleting this text so the a autonomous configuration flag"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:32:03",
    "text": "you you uh okay uh must be set and the L flag all right so we're changing that to this the a flag bit okay good so we got that must be set and the Y flag that must be set link ler Technologies yeah so that's what we agreed on so uh should we just merge this yep okay okay for me all right let's merch it all right uh okay so guess just go back to the issue tracker all right so we just did I don't remember what number that was but um Position St router require to stop sending Ras when in state suitable why okay so uh when entering the state the router must discontinue so this is right all right yeah so this is a good point we still need to send Ras so we can send routes yeah so that seems to be uh something to correct yeah so what should we be saying here so let me just look at uh okay uh all right so there's a couple of things"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:34:00",
    "text": "to say here uh so State suitable we may still have a deprecated prefix so uh when a new host appears on the a sends an initial router solicit it does not receive a suitable on PR it will not be able to communicate consequently the sub router must monitor router solicits and advertisements to accomplish this we have two complimentary methods router staleness detection neighbor unreachability detection router must listen for router advertisements for each suitable route uh that okay so this is fine um if an RA Beacon interval arrives and there are no router advertisements has suitable prefixes then the router must move this interface to State begin advertising okay so yeah this is just wrong um the sense in which this is wrong is that we're um we're not uh basically in I think in this state machine in all of the states we're going to be sending router advertisements so got State advertising suitable we've got State deprecating uh now we've got State okay so so so in state suitable"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:36:05",
    "text": "um so we don't actually talk there's actually a state that's that's or a a kind of a a statey thing that is missing from this section or from this yeah this whole section which is do we have an do we have a stub Network um we're just assuming that we always have a stub Network um and that there's a prefix on the stub Network and of course that's not entirely true um we might not have a St Network or we might not yet have a prefix on the stub Network I don't think that's a huge problem um what I would suggest is that in state suitable that we only send Ras if we have a route to a prefix on the stub Network um but but that's for other states as well right uh well in the other states we'd be doing that anyway so so I guess what I'm saying here is that uh we actually need a separate section here which let me just let me just sort of add because this isn't really part of the state machine um let's see purpose of State machine is St at all times one of new host Ares is able to acquire okay so uh uh so you guys aren't looking at my emac window right no let's switch back to emac oops s can I make a quick suggestion here uh so um the the way I say I was"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:38:03",
    "text": "actually also looking at the implementation we have and open thread as like these states we track but uh there are basically multiple States I think as was Ted was also mentioning right there is a state of do we have anything inside the stop router and that triggers us to send Ras because we want to basically advertise an RO the other state is like onlink prefix manager have we are we advertising the unlink or is there already a good unlink on the network that like we can use and then there is a third state of or third like let's say thing to track is of do we have any deprecating prefixes which may be more than one event in some Corner case AG cases yeah so so let's let me let me write some text here and you can tell me whether you think this makes sense abon because I think you're you're exactly right um so uh so the first thing to say is um during all of the states mentioned here except for uh State unknown um the snack router is expected to okay so here's the so I'm going to actually just contradict this test text directly right now um so St router is expected to treat the inter the in the infra structure interface as an advertising interface as described in"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:40:01",
    "text": "here so the reason I'm saying this is because I think that in all of these states so the the possible exception is State unknown I'm not convinced that we should even make that exception but the reason I say that is because if we don't know what the state of the infrastructure network is there's not much point in advertising a route um and if we advertise a route a route to the stub Network during State unknown uh we're going to have to read vertise that ra as soon as we come out of state unknown if we need to advertise an our and so it's just going to mean that we're going to send a whole bunch of extra multicast that we don't need to send in very short order so I think it's okay to wait until we escape State unknown before we start sending Ras hence this is why I'm saying this so during all states except for State unknown the snack router is expect Ed in state unknown in order to avoid sending uh an RA uh there are two uh sets of information if neither"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:43:00",
    "text": "so uh and and this gets to your point Aton that these are actually independent of the state machine like basically we just whenever we know of a prefix a route to a prefix that we should be advertising we advertise it um uh so in uh I I made that clarification whenever we have a reachable which is to say not link scoped prefix on the smack Network we include uh an Aro option in the ra on the infastructure Network"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:44:00",
    "text": "indicating that that prefix is reachable through the smack router uh thread has a type of prefix called a mesh local prefix which is a uh it's a it's a Ula prefix but it's not it's link scoped so it won't work um for routing so therefore there's no no purpose in advertising it we wouldn't want to advertise it that's why I made that exception yeah it's mesh scoped you could also say there's also mesh ITF yeah I mean I don't know is is there is there an ITF term mesh scoped as opposed to link realm local it's now called so that's the mesh scoped one and that's the official term interesting um [Music] soorry if you say not yeah I think you were saying not link scope is also uh link local is not good but also realm local scope is also not good yeah by definition uh so you could also work with a scope number so it's like uh scope number is four or higher so it's basically admin local and Global and okay this is we're talking now about multicast address Scopes correct yeah that's right yeah but it's I think the same coping mechanism was uh yeah defined for unicast addresses although IPv6 it's not uh not really used apart from link local and the rest is that's fine though uh so so that's great this this gives us something to refer to um so [Music] uh uh"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:46:12",
    "text": "[Music] [Music] okay so so we now have RSC 7346 um is a reference for this and so that should make it clear here uh we include an Rao option on the infrastructure Network to include to indicate okay uh uh it is important to note that it is possible for a prefix to be advertised and then withdrawn on the snack Network but sorry for an routable prefix to be been withdrawn but [Music] uh for it to still be valid and for there to still be some"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:48:01",
    "text": "communication occurring using that prefix in order to avoid uh prematurely interrupting communication uh the snack router must advertise must maintain a list of prefixes okay so that's a lot more aast than we were being before but I think it's good um and so I think Aton correct me if I'm wrong I think this addresses your concern at are you on mute hi guys can you hear me now yeah oh sorry sorry I think what you said makes sense okay all right so um in the interest one one more suggestion before one more"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:50:01",
    "text": "thought came to me um regarding deating prefixes um we may have the situation that we are advertising the onlink prefix ourself as a as a like stop router and have a deprecating prefix as well like the corner case that I see possible is um like in the thread we say the onlink prefix that the devices the the devices advertise is generated from the uh extended pan ID of the thread network uh it's not likely but it's possible that the extended pan ID of the thread Network gets changed and I think how to handle it in that case is that we deprecate the old prefix and then start advertising the new so we can be in this combo state that have we are advertising and we have an old one that we also replicating okay looks like that is now dropped oh I dropped this ligh can you hear me I can hear you yeah me too oh can you hear me now yes well that was fun sorry about that um yeah so so Apton I think you're talking about the prefix it's advertised on infrastructure right the online prefix it's advertised infrastructure correct correct okay so so what you said is right but this is the wrong section to talk about it no no I know correct okay no but just seeing basically like we have this notion of these Estates that are exclusive that like you are either in deprecating estate or in adver like I think it's called advertising state but I was saying that like there may be this combo state that I have something to and also something to like there is a dicating estate as well oh so okay so"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:52:02",
    "text": "you're talking about when there's two prefixes yes um so the only thing is um in that case there isn't actually really any need to continue sending that prefix like either a host has it and has an address on it or they don't and so you know we of course we want to send one ra that explicitly deprecates it it right but we don't have to continue sending RS deprecating it so but you're right we have to we have to address that we have to say how to do that and that's that's a good point because like when I originally wrote the code that I that I did for this like years ago um I uh I just would send you know every time it was time to send an RA I would send an RA deprecating the prefix again um and if we're an RA anyway then it's not a bad thing to do that um but it's not strictly necessary um so my code right now actually only includes the the the deprecated Pio the first time it's deprecated and then after that it doesn't send it again and the assumption is that that any host that is still using that Pio is g to you know is going to see the new prefix that has a longer preferred and valid Lifetime and choose that prefix anyway so we don't actually need to worry about it yep I agree I was thinking the same that like is there any value in continuing to like like include this at Pio on the uh like on the infrastructure side so yeah I'm I was looking like why we added it my if I'm not mistaken uh this was uh more to but basically we're tracking this prefix that is being deprecated uh more so that uh like earlier we had this model that we advertised the full prefixes on the stop router and the stop router side we said hey I still have route towards this uh"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:54:01",
    "text": "old unlink prefix that existed before so that's why we were tracking it before but now we have simplified it at least inside of inside the thread side to say use the default route or use the UL route to Encompass everything so you don't need to we don't need to explicitly remember that hey I still need to uh like advertise the route on the stop stop router side that this route was is being replicated so yeah I think we can actually simplify a lot of this logic yeah I mean so in the case of um what we're writing this document is if the stub network is as a Wi-Fi network just because or you know basically just like an Ethernet or something just because it's it's it's a convenient way to talk about the problems that we face so I think we need to have a uh some text in the document that talks about what you just said because I think it's important for the uh for the the constraint Network use case and then for the ra use case we actually it's fine to just keep advertising all the routes probably um but uh so let me see all right so so we just added all this text here and then that means that uh I'm going to just delete this text about uh must discon Dre since you dropped out you need to share your screen again oh I'm sorry I just I don't know why I dropped I I went downstairs to to get some coffee I guess my Bluetooth failed and and Meo decided that that meant that rather than reattempting to use the Bluetooth it was going to uh uh just Dro me completely so sorry about that anyway so here's the document we're back um so I think I can just delete this text now like I think this text is is actually just not needed anymore is that right yeah the discontinu text that that can go I think uh yeah I did have a question about the other thing um you mentioned the realm local multicast Copa"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:56:01",
    "text": "yes and you mentioned hey it's for multicast and then I thought it's more in general but it looks like it's actually defined for multicast only do this update RFC basically only defines it for multicast so that means we don't have a basically real local or admin local unicast yeah so all right so then again I think yeah let's see um so it's basically reach reachable is correct I think yeah yeah it looks like maybe let's see RC 407 is not updated so that's the most recent one so scope zones each interface each link own indices this is super unhelpful uh yeah it's doesn't look like it's really finding anything no this is useless all right so I mean it's not useless I'm sure it's very useful but um well says link local and Global scope is the yeah contents of this document in rfc4 I'm just trying to see if there's any so they have yeah there's a later document that talks about site local but that's not what we want either that would be equivalent to admin local I think so yeah I think uh you're right we should probably just uh I mean I think it's"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:58:00",
    "text": "clear enough like like to my mind uh there isn't actually a meaningful distinction between mesh local and Link local on thread uh the reason I say that is because I know that the the the idea is that the the each hop in the mesh is being treated as a link on thread from the thread vernacular but from the ITF vernacular I don't think we actually need to make that distinction like like you know all of us doing thread work already know what we're talking about so if I say link scoped here I think people will know what that means and I think like we amongst us who do thread work also know what that means like we know that we're talking about mesh local here does that make sense yeah should be okay to say link scoped link scoped here I think actually if you think about threat it's based on six lowan and that has a model of yeah link local at least what what that means and that is dependent on how the routing is implemented so you can have the yeah there is a variant possible where the whole mesh is treated as a single IP Link and there's also the the model where each hop in the mesh is treated as a single link and you can have hybrids even between the two so it's uh pretty complicated but okay we don't need to dive into that here yeah I think I think that's not we're not we're not we're not making people smarter by by giving more detail on this um yeah but now link local should yeah should be the reverse basically so it's anything that's not link local then okay so whenever we know of a reachable not thank you yeah scope is not link locable pre prefix we include an R okay so okay"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:00:07",
    "text": "okay and so this is issue 60 all right so uh let's switch back to the um the tracker again all right so unless anybody object so I'm going to merge this okay there's another issue closed okay so um wait I thought we close that no looks like the closes didn't work so I'm going to just"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:02:03",
    "text": "uh see yeah I usually do write it without the S so close yeah that's probably what happened in the description body also not in the title so yeah Le should work as combination yeah all right we're making progress this is exciting um okay so we need to specify we already we've now done that uh okay so we okay so uh so we still need to do the other bit um so um oh Esco since you're here um let's see more details on dhcp6 PD conditions"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:04:02",
    "text": "okay so this is actually interesting this came up uh we have a test for this in our test Suite um so uh so right now the way that the Apple implementation of this works is that if you get a prefix delegated um and then the adjacent infrastructure link changes uh we don't change the prefix on the stub Network necessarily um and so this is interesting I don't know I I think that what would happen is that the DHCP V6 PD client would attempt to renew and if it got a response back from the dhtp server saying you can't use that prefix anymore then it would stop using it but if there's no DH gv6 server on the link then it's not going to get a response back and so it's going to keep using it um and we had a big discussion about this like two days ago uh and concluded that it wasn't actually a problem and then in fact that it's better not to change it because particularly on thread changing the uh the prefix that we advertise is actually expensive and we don't want to do it unless we have to so uh you know one thing that could happen here is that you know the link could change in the sense that like you know your router goes away for a while and so you know IPv6 service potentially goes away on that link temporarily and then comes back and changing the the uh off uh the off stub Network routable prefix um in that circumstance doesn't really help us doesn't do any good uh and potentially it does harm so so we concluded that we should just keep using that prefix until the lease expires at"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:06:00",
    "text": "which point we're forced to change prefixes uh so did you guys kind of get what I what I'm talking about there yeah for me it's okay uh roughly clear yes yeah okay so uh so I guess that to me means that the answer is um so first of all we don't actually really talk about the mechanics of a dhcpv6 PD client here that is to say in the document and we shouldn't but you're right that we should have a reference to it um and uh yeah there there is some new text also uh in the update of 8415 right I'm also referencing that here in this issue so it's uh I think based on our feedback uh that was also changed in the the bis documents okay so uh now is so is a section reference you added here to the B document um yeah oh it didn't include a section number I think there could be that it's just same one oh wait there is reference yeah there is a it's only not a number but it's the name refreshing configur configuration in see where it goes to it's 18 to2 it goes to okay let's see if that's a thing 182 it's the same no section number yeah 18 to2 that's good okay so whenever a client may have moved a new link prefixes May no longer be appropriate is reconnected sleep change access"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:08:03",
    "text": "points so there are some new content uh placed there especially the last one is is added the last one yeah the bullets was last bullet else if only Network information was obtained from the I mean the one on top okay sorry that was yeah there was a couple of more things added but that was one of the example conditions uh when the prefix could have changed so it's basically network interface disconnection events followed by connection events right yeah and so when it detects that it may have moved to New link and have obtained addresses should initiate a confirm reply any responding server yeah so that actually covers the case where we switch to a different DHC a different IPv6 capable network with a dhtp server um if client has any valid delegated prefixes must initiate rebind Cent is only if not associated with should yeah so this is the last part is not about uh a new link but that's actually the existing link there is significant change on there in the available prefixes right aspects so uh should initiate a renew reply confirm reply or information okay so uh and then um so let's look at this one it receives no responses before the"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:10:00",
    "text": "process terminates should continue to use any leases so yep I think that covers what I just said exactly yeah okay all right uh so let's see if we have appetite for actually adding some text here um yeah yeah at least the the specific section or or sections could be referred to and the idea was well maybe we could do that in the bis refer to the bis document and you get the updated versions with more details about these change conditions yeah the risk always with this is that if a section is added the section numbers won't match but I guess if we refer to a specific version it should be okay um okay so uh still the same numbering here they they decided I think to keep the same numbering well it's not really a decision it's like it's you know what they what they what they did is not add any sections so which is fine but that's that's the challenge so all right uh I'm going to switch back to emac again really wish there was a way to share two windows all right so uh let's see so using dhtp V6 if dhtp prefix are both available then St must attempt to acquire prefix using the prefix by contrast if the prefix generated uh"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:12:00",
    "text": "okay um for"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:14:25",
    "text": "for for"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:16:32",
    "text": "for so if the client provides a new prefix actually this is maybe redundant okay should supposedly replicate the old prefix uh at the same time that it"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:18:08",
    "text": "first wow that is can you guys hear that yeah I hear I hear that all day normally at home oh no neighbors sometimes a week long that sucks it's not that loud for all right well so hopefully that won't last too long um so the not bad on our end good all right pretty bad on my end uh I got the door closed too all right so let's see if I can continue thinking while this noise is going on so the stack router must not use the prefix uh okay if the prefix uh the DHCP V6 PD client uh determines that theix being provided remember what the name is that we use for UHA link prefix"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:20:04",
    "text": "now there's a question should we do that as soon as we see that the like like the the the PD prefix might still be valid um I think in this case we should behave pretty much the same as if we'd gotten a new prefix from PD if the uh actually I'd like it I I think we should not in this case we don't have an explicit event it might just be that we're not able to get a new prefix right now and so it probably makes sense to just continue using it until it expires but there Comes A Time like if it's um you know let's say let's say normally we're asking for like a half hour lease on our prefix I think I don't know if that's actually true uh if that were the case then I would say after if we get to within six minutes without being able to successfully renew the lease then at that point we should deprecate that prefix and switch to the Ula prefix does that make sense um thinking about it I think in the text Val it in the first sentence so uh that the reads as if it's only happens when pre the old prefix is no longer valid yeah but it keeps using it until it's yeah really time and then something has to happen or maybe well so so in in the case of in the case of a replacement prefix we actually do what I think is the correct Behavior because we have a clear indication from the work that the old prefix is deprecated here right like we got a new prefix yeah that tells us that so we should stop advertising the"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:22:02",
    "text": "old prefix um which earlier yeah that's right yeah so here we in the case that that uh we don't get a renewal uh it might just be that the the dhtp server went away so uh yeah and it reads that it switches at the end of the period so when it's really not valid anymore it will yeah but that's that's that's basically pretty abrupt so I'm thinking uh it is unable to renew its lease on the prefix uh on see the current so so this is this is our signal from the network that we're probably out of luck so less than 20% of the remaining lifetime of the prefix is remains then the like that that gives us a little bit of a little bit of Runway um so we don't just automatically deprecate the prefix just because we weren't able to renew it once but if we persistently can't renew it then we deprecate it um and then uh all"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:26:32",
    "text": "for so that might be overly prescriptive because uh I think we care less in the case like if we if we have a stub Network that's just got a regular non-constrained Network as the snack Network um then it's perfectly fine to just advertise two prefixes on the snap snack Network and you know the cost of changing prefixes are relatively low on a constrain Network EG rad um that's not the case so uh so I think in the case of of thread we do want this Behavior but in the case of like Wi-Fi or something we probably don't um I don't know that it's really important to make that distinction though I think this is pretty clear and I think it'll work in all cases so does anybody object to that no objections no okay I think had a thought about you"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:28:03",
    "text": "mentioning the yeah the 20% of the remaining lifetime in the paragraph above that I was just thinking like oh there's probably some rules in the uh 8415 document and B document also about uh yeah when the client should renew such a delegated prefix lease there is at least the word lifetime is mentioned like uh lots of times more 130 times there's probably something there but I I don't know the details well yeah so I think there are some constants mentioned somewhere let me see if there's there's uh there server controlled uh yeah time mentioned about when to renew the lease at least that was somewhere well well there the salmax RT but that's for uh reducing solicit traffic and there's the infax RT um those are those are actual options somewhere I thought there was a list of constants see if I can find it yeah there's also the 1824 mentions that the server controls the time at which the client should contact the server to extend the lifetimes on assigned leases but it's something with related to timer it just says timers but mentions that the server has control over the times controls the time oh through the T1 and T2 values yeah that makes sense but uh so at time T1 the client initiates a renew reply at time T if time T1 1 or T2 has been set to zero the client May uh add its discretion it must follow the"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:30:02",
    "text": "rules defined in section 14.2 in certain cases T1 and T2 may be zero uh this is an indication that the renew and rebind times are left to discretion of the client however they're not completely discretionary when T1 or T2 are set to zero the client must choose a time to avoid packet storms particular it must not transmit immediately receives multiple IIA options pick renew and rebind transmission time so that all IA options are handled in one exchange if possible yeah that's all good um yeah so that's not really giving us any meaningful guidance um so what we could say is that uh okay so we've got oh time out yeah so um so T2 there's some good docu good text in here about how to pick these values but uh let's see okay here we go so um"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:32:09",
    "text": "this is actually this text is actually kind of dumb um there's really no reason to do uh exponential back off for renews um what you should do instead is just periodically send a renew during that interval uh with a substantial Gap but that's not what this document says so I might actually send them a comment about this um so it's not actually saying what values to use for T1 and T2 I don't think let's see yeah so it looks like something that the server uh sets right or can right server sets it but but um let's see I'm just going to uh the time interval after which the client is expected to contact the server uh this is not giving any guidance as to what these should be yeah that's something that the server implementation can just decide right config even so it could be configured in a good way or or a bad way MH [Music]"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:34:07",
    "text": "this is interesting I'm a little surprised that this text I don't see any text that says how to figure out what these should be okay here we go T1 timeing roll yeah does it say okay uh server selects T1 and T2 values to allow the client to extend the lifetimes of an address short periods of time recommended values are okay here we go 0. five and 08 so that that's exactly what I was so so basically instead of saying so so I'm I'm looking this is section uh 21.4 almost at the end of the section it says to use um uh 50 so T1 is 50% of the least time and T2 is 80% of the least time which actually corresponds exactly to what I put in here which might be why I did that unconsciously so uh let us say instead of T1 uh instead of 20% uh so in the case of the dhcp6 PD client is unable to renew the lease on the current uh and the t2 for the prefix assignment xra Target"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:36:17",
    "text": "section equals 21 oops 21.4 so in the two two time of the prefix assignment has been reached then the snack router must deprecate USR prefix and again advertising you prefix so um uh so the only problem with that is that actually it's possible that when we do the rebind we'll we'll wind up getting the lease will wind up being renewed in which case deprecating it wasn't necessary so um it might be better to say um and the time between the t2 interval for the prefix assignment and the end of the lease has been reached so that then would be roughly 90% instead of 80% so for a 30 minute lease that would give us three minutes which I think is reasonable what do you guys think we just wondering where it is 30 minutes comes from is that a kind of common thing or uh so I can't"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:38:06",
    "text": "remember uh using prefix delegation St router St provider your prefix lifetime default 30 minutes that's where it comes from okay so thinking I was thinking the more about the the lifetime of the lease actually so right the point is so uh it's not not this value uh I guess Al so do we actually say 30 minutes in here anywhere I mean do I don't even know if that's really necessary um now maybe longer is better and yeah I mean I don't see any reason uh so do we actually say gives you more more time just assuming to renew yeah I was assuming 30 minutes but um but I think it would be reasonable to say uh you know to to just not specify or we could say uh let's"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:40:03",
    "text": "see uh BP v6p client can specify uh can request [Music] particular lease for the DH P6 delegated yeah I'm just looking at the lease times of my home router and what what is shown there and it goes like up to 24 hours yeah I don't know I don't know if the devices ask for 24 hours or or they get it but that's what you see in the table like remaining these time yeah that should be fine so um I think we um do we does anybody feel like there's anything else we need to add to this section right now can't tell where that silences nobody thinks so or I think it's pretty complete in way like at least it answers the request very well yeah okay all right so I'm gonna just make a a PLL request for this then and I think we can probably that can probably be our last thing for today since we're pretty close to the end and we've made actually some pretty good progress today um so here"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:42:01",
    "text": "let's yeah there one thing I just wanted to say uh about pool requests not related to this but there was one open one to fix the build actually by moving the references section so then the make file works again yeah I think if if you have a poll request for a simple editorial change you should just do it okay um yeah like some of the stuff we're doing here is actually like real content so yeah yeah that's right yeah all right so this is issue 37 and that's going to be more details on PD and this is issue 37 is this okay here's our poll request okay and yeah it looks like this actually let's see if it closes the issue yes it closed the issue okay good so we're down to 21 issues this is progress"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:44:02",
    "text": "um all right so um I feel like Karen and Darren you know correct me if I'm wrong but I feel like we've uh we now have 15 minutes left in our time slot and uh I'm not sure that it makes sense to open another one uh no I think I'm happy to close now um St any new section um this is as I said this is the last virtual before we meet face to face so offline what can we do because before the cut off we would want to upload the latest version yes so what I would suggest is that um we uh so our cut off for submissions is uh let's see two weeks before 21st let's say roughly around 10th of July or so yeah 10th of July said uh cut off is here we go sub Mission cut off is the eth okay all right so um let us uh maybe so to so we've been kind of doing this Thursday thing um the cut off is a Monday let's say um Thursday what is that thday next week will be 27th and the one of 4th so the fourth so let's say on the fourth um and maybe you guys can track this issue I'll try to track it as well let's try and get all of as many like you know I have some stuff assigned um there are some editorial changes that I"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:46:01",
    "text": "think would be straightforward and we should just do like the snack the stub router to snack router change um I think Esco you had a couple of editorial things that you wanted to do that are pretty straightforward so maybe if we could do all of those and then um uh it might be auspicious if somebody other than me did the last minute submission but maybe that could be done on that Friday so like whatever is in before that Friday goes in and and I think you know we we have uh We've accomplished a lot in this interval between itfs and so I don't think we need to feel bad about uh you know if if all we had was what we have so far that would be great but let's see maybe we can get some more done before then yeah I wouldn't mind just cleaning up editorial uh from the issue list so that we have core cont related stuff to worry about after the idea yeah so one thing I would say as a protocol is before doing a change assign the issue yourself so that we don't wind up having two people accidentally do the same change yep and just create the pr which will so we merge anything we will have PR so that that takes care of any conflicts MH sounds good yep that's okay thank you guys um we started with DCB stuff so that means we are making a good progress and uh see you in Vancouver then okay thank you again bye-bye bye thank you"
  }
]
