[
  {
    "startTime": "00:00:04",
    "text": "I "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:04:41",
    "text": "so welcome this is going to be the soot ball we\u0027re currently working through some technical issues with the AV so we\u0027ll get started as soon as we get that worked out okay if you\u0027re sitting here looking for something to do we are still in need of a jabber strive and still in need of a second note-taker so is there anybody here that\u0027s going to be in the jabber room they\u0027d be willing to monitor the jabber I\u0027m here okay thank you we have one note-taker right now can we get a second note-taker so we have an etherpad the link is up there but it\u0027s a regular anything that pad to the session and so if we get two people to be updating the etherpad is there a second person that would be willing to watch the etherpad or send us their own notes afterwards don\u0027t care which note-taker volunteer note-taker volunteer you know we already have one and when you\u0027ve seen a backup note-taker who said I\u0027ll do it thanks Tim poke [Music] "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:10:17",
    "text": "so I think we\u0027re about to get started as I mentioned earlier this is a suit the proposed working group that was originally called Fudd we changed the name in in the interim since I ATF 99 a tie ATF 99 we had a side meeting in which we we began talking pretty intensively about the the Charter our hopes today is to to continue the conversation and actually work on on on refining the Charter as much as possible so suit the goal of suit is to standardize software update capabilities I\u0027m one of our primary goals for this effort is as to come up with something that will work with constrained devices we\u0027re specifically trying to target class one constrained devices that have 10 kilobytes of RAM and around a hundred kilobytes of flash by capability this is a working group forming okay so we\u0027re we\u0027re working on fixing the AP so that the slides also show up on me deco so just bear with us a moment the blue sheets are on their way around we we have a couple of note takers Tim pulk and and Mike Rosa have both offered to take notes for this session and Stephen Peng heart will be in the jabber room as our Java jabber scribe so thank you to to all of you for volunteering to help so my name is Dave Walter Meyer my co-chair for this effort is Russ Housley unfortunately Russ couldn\u0027t make it to this event so Dave Fowler has as a graciously offered to step so thank you Dave "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:13:20",
    "text": "okay great could someone confirm that the slides are visible on on me deck oh yes great thank you okay so next slide please so this is the the ietf no well I\u0027m sure you all have seen this at least once when you registered this is just a quick reminder that that this is a meeting under the the IETF rules so any any contributions that you make are being contributed to the idea this is our agenda for today so we\u0027re going to focus on I\u0027m going to do a read of the proposed charter text then we\u0027re going to have what we\u0027re hoping to be around a 45-minute charter discussion if we end up going along we\u0027re going to focus on on the Charter instead of some discussion of some new work items and then we\u0027re going to wrap up the meeting with a quick review of our proposed milestones and talk about next steps um any agenda bashing okay I already talked about this we we\u0027ve dealt with that okay so Charter Review so we\u0027ve had lots of conversation on the Charter over the last few months since I ATF 99 it seems like most of the focus has been on a fairly narrow portion of the Charter text so we\u0027re going to be talking about that in a little bit the Charter so far has been through internal review with you know initial is G and IAB reviews we\u0027ve gotten some feedback on that currently it\u0027s scheduled for currently the the process of external review has started on the Charter and it\u0027s scheduled for the 11:30 tell a chat so we\u0027re hoping - I get the Charter wrapped up fairly quickly so that so the things can progress so during this review of the Charter text there\u0027s a few things that that we want you to to focus on primarily we want to know that the the Charter text is clear or not and we want to work to clarify any any concerns with the Charter we want to know if the Charter captures and accurately the work that is being proposed and we want we want to make sure that it\u0027s work that we can we can move on fairly quickly one of our goals for this this proposed effort is to is to produce something in a "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:16:22",
    "text": "fairly short amount of time so that we can influence software updating capabilities in the industry so one of the things that that we would like to not focus on for this initial effort I\u0027m is to define a transport protocol for exchanging software updates so the work that we\u0027re going to be doing is largely going to be focused on a manifest mechanism that allows verification of the integrity of a software update targeting of the software update to a given platform and origin are being able to verify the origin of a given software update so with that I think we\u0027re going to flip to the actual Charter text oh can you call on it and I just ask a quick question sure ELISA Cooper when you say we what do you mean by we yeah so we so this has been a point of conversation I think in some of our early meetings around around this efforts there\u0027s something that we\u0027ve acknowledged in some of those early conversations is that there\u0027s a lot of existing work going on around defining transport mechanisms there\u0027s a lot of already existing transport mechanisms out there for software updates the discussion that we\u0027ve had to date is largely focused on the fact that we don\u0027t want to further we don\u0027t want to create yet another transport solution I\u0027m in this space the one thing that has been missing through a lot of the current efforts is is a solution that would provide the capabilities of a manifest format and so the discussion has really been around trying to focus on on those aspects so we are the you know the participants that that have been working to define this charter okay so this is like you with your your your proponent hat on just it\u0027s just like it was a little bit unclear when you when you say that it\u0027s like and this is a little bit of a novel process as well because there\u0027s AB off but the Charter is already out for external review so I just wanted to understand it\u0027s like this is you and your your personal opinion is that this is what we are not going to do as opposed to some other version of we sure sure okay "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:19:23",
    "text": "Thanks yes calling : Europe okay I\u0027m a little bit unclear when I\u0027m actually connected but hopefully I am here yep we see you and hear you perfectly okay so I want to ask about this defining a new transport versus selecting one that\u0027s using what many people have proposed so a big group of wheat me that does not seem to be the same is that we good that the most important and exactly she taught me how the interoperability group between a advice its firmware skirt and that there\u0027s several transport protocols that are used there and that our architecture in fact I believe the current Charter that\u0027s before the the is she actually does talk about the framework for getting the inflecting one of those I agree we do not find new transport I could we do want to discuss which ports are you the architecture and framework look is that out of scope I think that\u0027s one of the questions that we\u0027d like to talk about today which is you know how do you existing transport relate to the contents of the manifest so I think this is a Dave speaking from jerk I believe the discussion is that defining a new transport or a transfer protocol as out of scope but discussion of use of existing ones and how you might use them without changes is in scope and I see Dave Walter I\u0027m not not it so does that answer your question coming yes it does that\u0027s very clear thank you okay so so I\u0027d like to move on since we\u0027re short on time to discussion of the Charter so I\u0027m the read through the Charter please if you have constructive comments about changes to the Charter let\u0027s let\u0027s hold those until we actually get to the discussion portion of this focus only on clarifying questions relating to the Charter please so the Charter says vulnerability is an internet of things devices has raised the need for a secure firmware update mechanism that is also suitable for constrained devices security experts researchers and regulators recommend that all IOT devices be equipped with such a mechanism but there are many proprietary firmware update mechanism mechanisms in use today there is a lack of a modern interoperable approach to securely updating the software and I have T devices a firmware update solution consists of several components including a mechanism to transport firmware images to IOT devices the manifest that provides metadata about the firmware image such as a firmware package identifier the hardware of the package needs to run on run dependencies on other firmware packages as well as cryptographic information for protecting "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:22:24",
    "text": "the firmware image in an end-to-end fashion from our image and and also a solution consists of with the firmware image itself so RFC 4108 defines a manifest format today that uses the cryptographic message syntax to protect firmware package packages so more than ten years have passed since the publication of RFC 4108 and greater experience with IOT deployments has led to additional functionality requiring the work done with RFC 4108 to be revised this group will focus on defining a firmware update solution for class 1 devices and as defined in RFC 72 28 that is IOT devices with roughly 10 kilobytes of RAM and roughly a hundred kilobytes of flash the solution may apply to more capable devices as well this group will not define any transport mechanisms a June of 2016 the internet architecture board organized a workshop on Internet of Things software updates which took place at Trinity College in Dublin Ireland the main goal of the workshop was to foster a discussion on requirements challenges and solutions for bringing software and firmware updates at IOT devices this workshop also made clear that there are challenges with misaligned incentives and complex value chains it\u0027s nevertheless seen as important to create standardized to create standard building blocks that help interested parties implement and deploy a solid firmware update mechanism I can pause there for a question yeah Alan Joe and I have a clarifying question on the class one device is it assumed that this device has enough energy to actually do the transfer itself in 72 28 I couldn\u0027t find anything related to supply of energy that yes I believe the assumption is yes thank you so continuing on with the Charter in particular this group aims to publish several documents namely an IOT for a more update architecture that includes a description of the involved entities security threats and assumptions and also one or more manifest format specifications so we\u0027ve had a couple of interesting discussions on the mailing list focused around some text on what the initial work of this working group will be I\u0027m going to read first the text that is actually on the Charter that\u0027s on the data tracker and then I\u0027d like to read some text that was proposed by Paul Hoffman I believe the the second paragraph the text proposed by Paul Hoffman might be a better place "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:25:24",
    "text": "for us to start the the conversation today so the first paragraph which is the text on the data tracker states that the initial focus of this group will be development of a manifest approach based on CMS and the asn.1 encoding this work will result in a revision to RFC 4108 that reflects the current best practice practices use of the asn.1 encoding is desirable due to existing as1 support in crypto libraries used within current IOT operating systems the group may later adopt alternate manifest formats using other serialization approaches for example see Bor so the text that that Paul Hoffman had suggested is the initial focus of this group will be development of the contents of a manifest once there is general agreement on the content the group will pick one format and its associated cryptographic mechanisms to encode the manifest and scroll down so then the Charter continues by saying this this group does not aim to create a standard for a generic software update mechanism for use by rich operating systems like Linux but instead this group will focus on software development practices in the embedded industry software update solutions that target updating software other than the firmware binary for example updating scripts are also out of scope the group will aim to maintain a close relationship with silicon vendors and OEMs that develop IOT operating systems so I\u0027m any clarifying questions on the Charter just a few Paul Hoffman so this is not about my text this is about something else but it sort of feeds into this RFC 4108 seems to take up a big place in this that this is for revising at subject I\u0027m not sure that that\u0027s at all appropriate the IO TSU workshop barely talked about 4108 4108 is a format that is standardizing the IETF but it wasn\u0027t done in a working group I mean it had plenty of input a bunch of us in the room actually you know we\u0027re part of that yeah but that doesn\u0027t seem like a good place for starting just because it exists so I would suggest that we might also consider taking out anything about 4108 especially because the early work that we\u0027re seeing isn\u0027t 4108 ish and it doesn\u0027t have the same properties that 4108 even said about itself so I\u0027m you know in case other people are saying oh but 4108 is this or that I\u0027m not sure that we want to nest thoroughly have a focus on them right and I actually have a discussion point on that for later on yes I want to run "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:28:25",
    "text": "again could you please show the bottom of your text which part just scroll up up oh well I just want to see the last the last paragraph last line of glass right before the milestone right go down okay sorry okay yeah you say target of dating software over BAM the firmware binary but so my implies there\u0027s only one binary one of the things we\u0027ve been talking about is the fact that there may be multi-part updates that are shipped as a single updates but that update multiple things you can I think when you\u0027re suggesting something like that right yes something like that yes I see I just give you an example like on the camera you may have a firmware for the camera body and another piece of finally another firmware for the lens projecting the charger this place we can do live anything if there\u0027s ease to do it that\u0027s right Bret Jordan I like Paul\u0027s text and I think that is a good addition to the document and I do fully support this this effort so noted thank you Eric not mine so falling on to what allowance saying that yeah I think that people are what what seem 4108 and I\u0027m which I think applies more generally is you have multiple pieces of firmware because it\u0027s the soft radio that\u0027s a separate chip whatever right microcontroller and it has a separate piece of firmware so so I think that that generalization is easy a necessary one I don\u0027t understand what a script is what what I script this as opposed to a piece of a binary code just because of you know whatever byte encoding is of something that is Python as opposed to something that\u0027s interpreted by something else which happens to be the some instruction set that seems like a rather arbitrary thing I think that the key thing is that we shouldn\u0027t actually this is not building a package upgrade update system like we have in traditional operating system China or the rich operating systems and it\u0027s the fact that it takes a small number of pieces of software typically there are compiled things but I don\u0027t see why that\u0027s a hard requirement that they can\u0027t be interpreted by something I think this is actually a little bit related to the teeth relationship we\u0027ll get to later but I hear Eric arguing to essentially delete the mention of scripts because you find that more distracting than helpful right and so that would be Eric\u0027s suggestion hi this is honest I want to respond to Eric\u0027s question um I believe this was added in response to some email traffic on the question of whether the use of JavaScript like dialogues or Python like dialogues is in scope or not and and I believe the "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:31:29",
    "text": "confusion was in the end that we want to start with something sort of more restricted in scope than updating sort of cherry script or micro bison and so on on those devices I believe I believe that that\u0027s a more pragmatic approach for what the market does today while they are indeed some experiments and effort on going to have some very sophisticated IOT devices that can actually download code from various different places and execute them alexander proof so I\u0027m just going to say on another topic about the text proposed by Paul Hoffman I like this one better than the other please okay so I like better to take proposed by Paul Hoffman here and I think that it reflects but all the discussions that were on the mailing list before actually we get it I heard I saw lots of people I should say I saw a number of people arguing on the list that there are things in here that they disagree with and I haven\u0027t heard anybody picking on the text or posed by Paul and so so far I think there is uh okay yep okay people in the in the room I\u0027ll go to you in just a second here so far I have not yet heard arguments against Paul\u0027s text and so we\u0027re leaning towards a rough consensus unless this room and this meeting actually changes that so David you\u0027re up yes just one quick clarifying question about the the part point we were out earlier with the firmware binaries I was wondering about the scope versus the trust of execution updates where we have a slide on that that we\u0027ll get to in a second to generate the discussion oh shit there that should be fine I want to hold your question till we get that slide yes okay then you can welcome to get back in a few so I\u0027m gonna move on to you uh you\u0027re up we don\u0027t have audio we see you soon uh I don\u0027t think your audio is working if you want to put a check question in the jabber room our jabber squad strike and relay for you thank you so if there are no other wait a second Casey has I was just going to say we can come back to his question probably a little bit later during the discussion portion so let\u0027s let\u0027s switch back to the slides and start the discussion portion "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:34:29",
    "text": "I know back back it\u0027s the relationship to TV oh yes yes so I think actually the next part of the discussion so one of the things that we\u0027ve been talking about the fact that there\u0027s a tip-off this week and that there is a potential relationship between the two efforts so Maya Davis going to have some conversation on resolving that relationship okay so it\u0027s been some discussion both offline as well as on mailing list for cheap and the mailing list for suits out of know for sure but certainly on the mailing list for chief about what\u0027s the relationship can we share mechanisms and so on and so if you\u0027re not familiar the on Wednesday there\u0027s another Boff which is a teep off and a large portion of you if you\u0027re in this room it would probably be interested in that one and so that one here\u0027s the little description it\u0027s about how do you get code into a trusted execution environment okay so since it\u0027s very relevant to putting code on things that\u0027s kind of the relationship there okay now it is also in the category of having a draft charter and it\u0027s a working group forming vows of the buff on Wednesday as I talked about proposed charter text okay and so when talking about the scope of them now is the right time for both suit and teeth to say what\u0027s the right charter text for both of them to make it clear what\u0027s the division of labor should they both be chartered as working groups right so okay here we go so if you read the draft the draft charter text posted on the data tracker for both groups you\u0027ll notice there is some overlap okay and so this week is the time for us to clean that up and and reflect whatever the community thinks is the right relationship between those two so if you do a compare and contrast of the current wording not the one that we just edited right but the current wording that\u0027s post on the data tracker for the two you notice a couple of things that are sort of the compare and contrast the first one is that the charter text for a teep focuses on code of their installation of code into a trusted execution environment regardless of whether it\u0027s for IOT or not okay I mean size to use cases is there a use case in the non IO to use case but they\u0027re both sort of listed as being in scope for the tea because it has a trust attitude around okay whereas soot focuses on installation of code into an IOT device regardless of whether it\u0027s in a te e or not okay you say okay well there\u0027s a little bit of overlap if you only look at the first bullet okay which is if it\u0027s a te e inside of an IOT device and it\u0027s in the overlap right if you were to only look at first bullet again this is current wording the last questions ought to get to is what should the division of labor be what should the text in either of them say and we\u0027ll have the same discussion over in the tee off because if we conclude that the suit charter is fine and the TPR tertex should change that\u0027s the Wednesday discussion okay second thing that you notice if you read both of them is that the t p-- text talks about how do you get code there the first time but doesn\u0027t currently continue text about how might you update "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:37:30",
    "text": "it and the suit text talks about updating but it doesn\u0027t talk about how it gets there the first time okay maybe that\u0027s by design okay point is one is talking about how do I get code the first time and suit talks about how do you do updates if things that are already present okay that\u0027s the second thing that\u0027s sort of different the third thing is actually the one that I said I had the bullet on in the in the question that we had a second ago across meet echo which is the text that\u0027s in there talks about you know apps and firmware but what I think we really mean this was getting back the scripts question okay I think in a side discussion we concluded that what T focuses on is not the stuff that\u0027s used to boot as the stuff that might be installed to run later on and so that\u0027s what we mean by an app and so on a class-one device there may be no such thing for example right because all that ron\u0027s is there is what comes up at boot whereas suit focus is on sometimes it uses the word software in the Charter text sometimes it uses the word firmware in the Charter text and sometimes it uses software or firmware so if we were to go back to there you do a search through some places it says software some place that says firmware some places it hasn\u0027t or okay now the proposed intent of what we think that people mean is that suit focus is on the stuff that\u0027s used to boot and so when we say firmware we mean sort of the piece of code that\u0027s in that class one device comes up a boot and you\u0027re trying to flash that or update that whereas teep is not about that at all that\u0027s about things like things that I grabbed from an app store okay which is clearly not sort of the firmware stuff okay so we can figure out what the right terminology is but I think that the intent at least our understanding of those who have commented on the suit and teep stuff is that that one is we believe disjoint between the two okay meetings where the the the OS like firmware versus the applications that run on top of it after boot okay now maybe we can clean up the language and stuff there but and the intent here is not to have a mic line to talk about the terminology unless there\u0027s some really trivial wording thing to do but I don\u0027t want to that\u0027s not the main focus the main focus is what\u0027s the right scope okay now that you\u0027ve seen these three different things how they overlap or don\u0027t overlap when you put all three axes together okay now if we go back to the suit text is there anything that we should change to make it clear or about what the scope is for what suit should do versus what teacher do if they\u0027re both charters working groups okay so now the question here is what should the work split be and so what\u0027s the intent okay what do you want the intent to be and then what if any changes do we need to make in the suit charter text to reflect the intent so let\u0027s first talk about what do we think the intent is of what shoot should do versus teach to do so I think there\u0027s another difference which you\u0027re not covering which is sort of what does validating mean in these things and I think that that tip has a more complex model in that space right where there\u0027s more parties involved in terms of who exactly signs what and who "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:40:32",
    "text": "sort of is authoritative for what and you might have things like that in suit as well if if there could be cases when there\u0027s someone that signs the manifest so there\u0027s a validation about again against some sort of route of trusts whatever security Association depending upon the mechanism and you might have a separate one for the actual firmware you download if that\u0027s not part of the manifest itself potentially right but it\u0027s still a lot simpler than I think what what what keep is trying to do so I think it might make sense to fly that as one of the differences as well and then saying okay if there\u0027s some sharing going on there and you know but or is this just sort of yeah yeah I know among the cheap proponents there is a thing and the teeth list was mentioned gee it sure would be nice if we could maybe share some of some of the things that suit is doing or Mike do might be applicable to us so maybe a manifest format or something who knows but that\u0027s really for teeth to discuss as to how much of suit stuff would be relevant to them but they don\u0027t want to reinvent stuff that would be in suit if it were reusable but right now it\u0027s unknown whether something would be reusable honest um I like your proposal on the work split the fifties apps versus firmware and maybe that requires the chanta text for example sure you agree or disagree I agree you agree ah maybe maybe the language for example suit as we changed the terminology after or the name of the work of this effort maybe wasn\u0027t that appropriate because it talks if it gets leaves the impression that it\u0027s more generic than it\u0027s actually supposed to be um certainly a generic enough name that leads people to believe that there\u0027s a heavy overlap with yes in in in case of deep um when he was proposed in Chicago at the BOP it was um the primary use case back then and still is the use of in smart phones India if you look at the Charter that we just David just read it talked about the real world and a normal operating system versus sort of IOT operating systems and in a for example in a trust zone based EE we actually talking about two operating systems they are not just one one big one like Linux but also another one a real-time operating system so that would be a bigger but of course the IOD terminology is it\u0027s often very confusing but you have to put it there in the Charter somewhere to attract the right audience but IOT has such a wide notion that some people refer to mobile phones as IOT and some people not so so that makes it makes it a little tricky there\u0027s also somebody in the meet echo I don\u0027t know who is in line next hi do you hear me okay I totally agree with Dave that we yes man let me have to clean up our language software Briss versus firmware and things like that also agree with haniss and that we need to be careful to "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:43:34",
    "text": "actually use the IOT lingo because these are the people we need to talk to now I had one specific comment about what they said with this focusing on like this boot differentiation I think it\u0027s a it\u0027s a it\u0027s an it could be a nice differentiator with teep but if we look at the the actual solutions that are currently developed for firmware updates the bootloader aspect is completely different from the image and might create a you know a wrong impression that you\u0027re actually updating the whole binary that\u0027s working on the device including the bootloader which is actually not the case so I\u0027m not sure how you know if we can really use this aspect of booting as as easily as as you suggest it to differentiate that but it\u0027s for Mike thank you so I don\u0027t want to derail the current conversation but there are some delayed questions about the Charter on jabber so at some point I think for the people on jabber we\u0027d like to go back and voice those comments right now let\u0027s do that after we finish this topic this one make sure didn\u0027t get left behind thank you Fergus you have my comment I\u0027m not on Jabra but I would like to get in the same queue on the Charter okay so so here on this question I really like the way you boiled it down and for me it also comes down a little bit to on the the exact Charter that we\u0027re talking about in suit so isn\u0027t the manifest like the contents we\u0027re going to put in the manifest like is this the first topic here and if it is maybe it is something that cheap people can just say okay well you know these all these things that the suit thinks that the suit guys defined in their manifest well maybe we should support it and you know and in future versions they see exactly how these two relate to each other I mean I I like very much this separation between apps and firmware you know but this is like going down into exactly how the process is going and so forth but if we are limited to the manifest file and say okay you need this information and you get something that has some cryptographic information assigned to it from this place I think this is something that could be pretty generic and teep sips seems more like of with a larger scope and so it seems like a much focused on IOT so for me it\u0027s a pretty clear separation if we if we limit to the manifest of the information we put in this manifest file and that that\u0027s why we have been talking about on the on the suit list about narrowing the scope to "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:46:36",
    "text": "something that we can easily understand too quickly while we learn more about the the broader space so I\u0027m going to summarize what I\u0027ve heard so far and then we\u0027ll probably go to the jabber so far I\u0027ve heard support for changing some language potentially in the suit chart so focus on feedback for suit as opposed to feedback for chief where potentially changing some language regarding the third bullets about no software versus firmware and maybe updating the language there somehow to reflect the intent which I think people I her positive feedback about the intent of the third bullet I think people tend to agree with the the way that we talked about it before I did not hear anybody arguing that the suit Charter needed to change any way to address anything in the first or second bullet the chief charter may need be but what I\u0027ve heard is that if you update the third bullet nobody\u0027s asking for any changes after the third bullet changes because there\u0027s already a division of labor between there whether there sounds like there\u0027s any overlap on the first two bullets is not as important because the distinction is on the third bullet that\u0027s what I\u0027ve heard so far I\u0027ve got that wrong let me know because otherwise that\u0027s what I see is kind of the emerging feedback from the room so unless there\u0027s any are comments on that then let\u0027s go to the jabber queue yes yeah that\u0027s what we\u0027re gonna go to the jabber queue neck so whoever is a jabber scribe please come up going to meet echo oh thank you sorry I thought you said Jeff David go ahead yes I just wanted to bring up an interaction between the part of the Charter describing class-one devices and the issue of teeth that I would certainly see that a device that considered class one is probably not going to be able to have space for a separate trusted execution and other image but if suit was covering larger devices I could see an IOT device having a separate trusted execution with those kind of requirements of multiple signatures and those kind of things that would be coming from teeth I just wanted to bring up that interaction there on the Charter David you used a word that I didn\u0027t and that word was separate okay in a class one device it might be that the whole thing is the trusted execution of our mind there is no untrusted execution environment so in other words there can be different types of class one devices and you\u0027re right trust last one might not be separate but it doesn\u0027t mean that they wouldn\u0027t necessarily have a Trust Act use environment but the third bullet on here is the one that says What\u0027s in scope for which one at least from what we\u0027re talking about right now okay which is if you\u0027re talking about a class one to buy it only has a truss execution arm and that\u0027s the firmware that would be in suit but might actually entail some of the interaction and review from key people if this is the right direction to go but I think that\u0027s a good question to raise but that\u0027s how I read it anyway I don\u0027t know if people have comments David do unresponsive ice were maybe the images actually are separate but they\u0027re still both firmware and would that be "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:49:37",
    "text": "considered t p-- or suit as far as scope would be the question I would raise I\u0027m looking at the David Wolter Marcus to say is a class 2 device as updating firmware on a class 2 device considered to be in scope or not right now the proposed charter text says that it is out of scope and you\u0027re asking is that the right thing actually I don\u0027t I don\u0027t believe it says that it\u0027s out of scope I believe what it says is that we are focused on focusing on class 1 devices but if the resulting solution works for more capable devices that that\u0027s okay - all right so that was a Kathleen as ad saying exactly what Dave said so thank you Chris ruling I want to follow up on David\u0027s comments I agree I disagree that class this should be limited to class 1 devices in real world exploitation since the the draft leads with vulnerability patching as security guy all of the IOT botnets out there today effect class 2 or 3 I two devices nothing affects the class 1 so it\u0027s not really solving problem yeah right I agree so I\u0027m co-chairing the tip off as well and I think what I\u0027ve seen on the teeth Bach was they would love for it to apply to other things the teeth would apply to you which are not necessarily class 1 so I think we\u0027ll verify that on Wednesday but my expectation is the teeth off will be very happy to hear that you are not scoping it down to only class 1 okay anything else David or shall we go on to the jabber comments no that is it okay thank you yes so uh that\u0027s us even jabber scribe you\u0027re up so these are comments that are on the Charter so if the chairs are ready to go back to the Charter give those okay okay so I apologize for the reading of your name but these are two comments from su Haas Nanda Kumar the first is why are you why are we restricting to one encoding format once we agree on data format would anyone like to comment on that so um my take on this is if some chance one devices are obviously fairly small devices as you mentioned and the code that we are talking about here is code that goes into the bootloader it needs to swap out it needs to pass the things it needs to need to also have security security code and then it needs to sort of make sure that everything works and falls back to an older image if if things fail so ideally from an implementation point of view we don\u0027t want to provide many different formats "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:52:39",
    "text": "on the wire because we need to provide the passes and since the bounces here except externally are provided data the obviously super security sensitive and that requires a fair amount of time so if if there\u0027s a oh we should standardize everything that comes to our mind in terms of format xml json everything and plus the security mechanisms along with it I think we would be a little unhappy because we have to provide that source that\u0027s that\u0027s our long now I\u0027m just saying me take over you\u0027re in line behind yari so Paul Hoffman because you asked so there is history in the IETF of crypto working groups that produce more than one format for the same thing and they failed misery so just for historical reasons I would say picking one you know it has always has always worked better and in the one and I\u0027m sorry I don\u0027t remember the name of the working group that did - that it did a asn.1 and adjacent output it just everyone agreed it was a terrible mistake afterwards okay so before we move on are the rest of the queue we do have another jabber comment that came in earlier so get that and now this is also from assuage Nanda Kumar this is would like to add text on architecture for how to find the server to get the firmware and how to download it I think that\u0027s more of a comment than a question hello yes go ahead I like to answer the initial question that I asked about the encoding format I\u0027m not suggesting that we need to have multiple encoding formats supported by the device but the Charter itself should not basically say that the device could do one format of encoding or support one format of encoding the device can do one butBut but the server that provides the manifest can support multiple formats if the device does not do yes and not one but it does seem or you should be able to get that for version of the manifest from the server because server supports multiple so my question was more on why are restricting the encoding format to be one format that was on the encoding and the second question was more on the transport mechanisms like how do we get the firmware to the device and I think the Charter should talk about like like the earlier discussion that cousin had about the transport mechanism that using the existing transport mechanism mechanism how do we find where\u0027d we get the firmware from and how do we download it at least the Charter should have some some text on that and how do we solve that in this working group Thanks "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:55:40",
    "text": "[Music] yet yet told a second um so I find the charter to be fairly imprecise or you know helpful to figure out which type of features in the architecture would be in and out of scope it just refers to this wonderful workshop without you know pointing to a particular you know set of output that would be you know a guideline the initial text that basically says okay we want to do a solid firmware upgrade scheme and here are the component it consists of I would kind of contest that those components are not sufficient right so for example one of these things that I think is totally necessary for a solid upgrade is an automatic downgrade unless you know some external verification has happened that the new firmware is running or methods to query what bloody keying material you need on a firmware that will be accepted by the device because it\u0027s not on let\u0027s say the standard vendor you know key material requirements anymore but I you know keying requirements downloaded by the owner so I\u0027m questioning the original framework as being sufficient and I don\u0027t understand how I can determine from the Charter which of these type of features are with the current Charter allowed to be discussed in the working group so based on some of the conversation we\u0027ve had so far its capabilities and IOT devices are not ubiquitous and in that regard to some some may have the ability to do a downgrade as you\u0027ve suggested and others others may not that that\u0027s one reason why we haven\u0027t constrained the scope of the work you know to two devices with specific kinds of functionality martin then you\u0027re even Cowen\u0027s after yaari than a lot right martin some on Thomson I wanted I want to sort of ask about the the process we\u0027re following here because it seemed like we got a bunch of questions about the the rest of the text Paul made a comment about 4108 and we haven\u0027t done anything about addressing that we also had a response to to Fluffy\u0027s question about the transport and the conclusion there is not very well supported in the Charter as it stands right now the it says will not define any transport mechanisms could be read to imply the conclusion that Cullen which received from that which was to say that we\u0027re not going to touch any transport mechanisms at all where my reading of response to the question was that we will perhaps select one or some subset of the existing transport mechanisms and use those in some fashion and so that needs to be clarified someone so I do know the process that I\u0027m using for editing is if they\u0027re still big mic line then I\u0027m waiting to hear what other people say to see whether that was one person or whether there seems to be you know consensus or strong disagreement and so I put in a question mark in those "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:58:40",
    "text": "two places to say oh those are kind of pending open questions to see I can\u0027t tell until we drain the mic line okay so what do these two these issues all remain open well I would like them to have direction by the time we finish this meeting all right I don\u0027t want to have direction before I give other people a chance to speak sure okay yeah so I believe this this work is interesting and useful and and should go forward I did have one comment sort of relating to some of the issues that were discussed in the IAB workshop on this topic for instance if I have the situation where I\u0027m an enterprise and I order a set of devices from a manufacturer and I would actually like to have ability to update both myself and have the manufacture update system support cases like the manufacturer now staying in business at some point and I think that\u0027s actually worth putting some texts into the Charter about not not the specific case but something along the lines of supporting you know a diverse set of software sources and permissions I looked at the architecture draft which was nice but he had a slightly different model in mind it had like an and relationship between permissions I was kind of hoping for an oral relation so that\u0027s a suggestive simple suggest innocent for an addition to the charter thank you thank you : Europe so I think this good is easy we talk about this what percentage of the actual hate are we talking using I mean I don\u0027t a lot of sense to say the point of work you know it\u0027s the difference between lota for you and most of being based it would be to complete you know at the time the pollen well then your argue really sir audio is really choppy it\u0027s hard to understand okay let\u0027s try this again it\u0027s interesting my audio was that much different than the previous time the the topic I was trying to get as this class one device I don\u0027t understand what it means for the Charter I think we\u0027d have to be clear about what percentage of the device through the bootloader used if we\u0027re going to say it needs to work on trying to sacrifice the price I never talk about the size of the bootloader then then a clock one device for the specific restrictions and the example I give if you can\u0027t differentiate between using pot you know whether to eat loader is 5% the device representing option "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:01:40",
    "text": "then the device makes a really big difference and it\u0027s just this just chartered totally arm okay so would you agree on changing that you agree or disagree I think we need to discuss that okay but I don\u0027t want to be blown off later or on we run out of time to discuss that which seems to be the reoccurring theme here on the mailing list from last month so I\u0027m not sure I got all of that but what I got from it is you\u0027re also at least in part arguing in favor of making sure that the scope is not restricted to class one devices did I get that part of your I don\u0027t think we popular like it and we certainly don\u0027t understand what was clicked into a class one devices you need the charger to say and you can boot order to run on devices bootloader could have these types of resorts and knows not my class what not since the IOT but instead say whatever we think that means or not about the system do you care what number or how much RAM it needs to be I think we just need to be specific about it and we\u0027re what we have right network using so it looks like when we get to haunt us who\u0027s to back in the Mikey\u0027s gonna offer our suggestions Ilan next and feel free to jump back in the queue color so Alan Joe and I have two questions the first one is is he a selection of a type of identifier for this type of device that is updating its firmware in scope for this working group or not louder speak up oh it\u0027s hard to hear I\u0027m sorry is the choice of a type of identifier in scope for this working I would say it I don\u0027t think the Charter says one way together I think it it would be in scope if it\u0027s necessary to do one of the items that is mentioned so the architecture and the manifest format are currently proposed as being in scope and so I say identifier discussions would be part of those it would be a separate item in itself I see like no chair nodding so I think that\u0027s the current intent anyway I would maybe suggest to clarify this and my second question clarifying our way saying that they are in scope say what I didn\u0027t understand what your specific suggestion is if you if you have one well the device will have to identify itself to figure out what kind of from where it needs to download like so we has some an agreement and what is the identifier format I think we\u0027re saying is I don\u0027t think we hear the argument why it needs to bubble up into the dirt or text yet as opposed to just be in the document for architecture and the dock for manifest or documents or whatever I think that\u0027s what we\u0027re asking yeah is "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:04:41",
    "text": "there a reason that needs to show up in the Charter text because it is the scoping question is it big enough or whatever great because we\u0027re not getting why it\u0027s big enough to appear in the Charter check and my second question and maybe you would have the same answer is we\u0027re talking about a transport and if I like to discuss about a mechanism that will allow for the selection of more than surely multiple transports will that be in scope or not I missed a word out of there are multiple transports and so we said before that at least what we\u0027re hearing on the list and here is that discussion of how to use existing transports parentheses like how you might use collab or ACP or something under the covers as in scope defining it means that discussion about should you be capable of using HD should be capable you didn\u0027t collapse you\u0027d be capable using something else perfectly in scope the architecture the Charter text does not have to preclude that it just says we will not do a new one we\u0027re not in the we\u0027re not a transport area group or a transfer area group or applications or whatever this is the security area now if there\u0027s a difference between creating a new transport and adding a mechanism to select which of the many existing transport that\u0027s correct you have comment on a couple of points um one was on on the Arias question of it needs to allow updates of devices other than their manufacturer and i think the problem is that the manufacturer is a little bit used in a very generic fashion because they actually four devices they\u0027re many manufacturers in in that picture is you have the chip manufacturer maybe multiple of them because you have multiple chips and different components oh these are all manufacturers you have guys that put your board together your PCP manufacturer you have the company that actually develops the product with maybe an OEM that provides the device and so on and so on so who exactly is allowed to update what are is a policy decision and I don\u0027t think we we can cast this into a specification as such that there will be that there is a decision on what firmware the device accepts fine for installation is it\u0027s obviously something that will come with as part of the security mechanism so I I don\u0027t think that that needs to go into the into the chart that takes to describe on who is allowed to do the updates on the column does that make sense you\u0027re saying something that\u0027s not in the Charter right now doesn\u0027t need to be added to the Charter great thank you the other point that Cullen raised he talked about the bootloader and of course they\u0027re different designs on on boot loaders and if you look at the slide deck that that was updated uploaded from from my presentation in the appendix it has a couple of design decisions on how people are designed boot loaders and the bootloader in general is part of the whole sort of class one class through these categories "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:07:42",
    "text": "and these classes shouldn\u0027t be taken to in my opinion shouldn\u0027t be taking to literally like in terms of the kilobytes but it\u0027s just a rough indication that we are that there is a difference between some low-end microcontroller versus your high-end server or or your laptop that you have if you are smartphone they\u0027re just different capabilities and if we managed to design something that works specifically well for your Linux based device that has some software distribution platform like docker that\u0027s a very different software a big update mechanism with very different requirements with very different players we need to talk to then going and talking to some iot operating system developers so I think the community is differently as well so in in that sense I believe while this class definition is not the best one we have ever come up with I think it\u0027s sufficient for for the purpose here that\u0027s all I think I I didn\u0027t listen actually I would like I think it might be useful to pull on on the things that have a question work on here I think would be useful to do a poll on to see if our sense of our comments is correct or not and so I think some people still been waiting like Eric and so if Eric not mark so as I read this what we\u0027re delivering out of this group when I read manifest specification I read that as something that flows into the device and I think some of the things we\u0027ve touched upon is about capabilities like the case of you know it\u0027s this thing capable of of an downgrading or falling back to the previous version of the event whatever and it seems like as part of that we should make it clear that we need to have a way of some sort of capability discovery right that that that should be explicitly stated capability of discovery of what of what the device can do to can it fall back to the old version or not for instance there might be other ones but yeah and maybe this is just a few bits that represent those capabilities but but still having a place where you put them might be something done we should make manifest format those have that but I think your main point is a palace of capability discovery and not about noting the capabilities of the firmware itself and so I put the placeholder here in the architecture discussion as the placeholder to capture your calendar yes next all right Zhang Kui I\u0027d like to see this group focus more on on the discoverability of update servers and the transport mechanisms used and less on trying to make upgrades interoperable between "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:10:43",
    "text": "devices a lot of what is being specified and what I\u0027ve seen so far around how exactly an update is formed I don\u0027t think makes any sense in the IOT environment the the differences that I\u0027ve seen in IOT devices are so vast that anything we do is bound to fail in that space and I really don\u0027t think that the IOT vendors give a crap about what this group says I think on the on the network discoverability side and on the transport side the IT folks that are sitting in front those devices and are trying to manage updates going to those devices do very much care what this group has to say I think on the device side we\u0027re probably better off with a simple BCP describing things like how you do signing and encryption or that they should be there at a minimum the rest of this just seems like us spinning our wheels I think in terms of time check I think we have 20 minutes left if I remember right now so I think we need to clothesline and we do need to do it all have been in the lines we need at least two alcohol I think Hannes we can call time right before you yep so Paul Hoffman so a a very short proposed update is to the group will not define any new transport mechanisms I think that that would have cleared up most of the transport questions and then actually I\u0027m the person for me just had said about discovery I think discovery is extremely important and I think there are plenty of discovery things and you so it could also be the group will not find any new discovery mechanisms but but that makes it clear they might be in scope okay anything with a question mark I\u0027m going to run through and get a sense of the room on each of these so list that\u0027s why I want to make sure we have enough time so Troy Alexandra Petrescu I would like to add a question mark on the class one terminology because I work with a particular manufacturer of device that when I when he says class 1 class 2 class 3 it\u0027s a laser class device and it\u0027s not a IOT class device okay so I strongly questioned this terminology of class 1 class 2 plus 3 and the second one is I would like to echo maybe a third time or a fourth time I said in there no you don\u0027t hear me class 1 on our question that one plus one plus two plus three because I know class 1 class 2 laser devices got our IOT devices and are not class 1 plus 2i o T devices okay do you understand me if not I will send them yet the second "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:13:46",
    "text": "comment I have is that I want to echo maybe a third or a fourth time what was said in the queue that we don\u0027t know what is an IOT it\u0027s not that it\u0027s just a small device okay I work a lot with IOT and I see I I saw those know them arm PCB mojo from small device up to big platforms like IBM IOT platform okay it\u0027s a big server is a data center okay this I or T term this IOT term is really a big big misunderstanding that in this chart that continues to be reflected ok so I would like clarification what it means IOT this is honest that\u0027s not defined IOT but um the point I want to actually talk about what\u0027s Shawn\u0027s comments on stronger point because we really need to move on ok I\u0027m trying to refer to chance comment earlier that the IOT manufacturers don\u0027t care about what this group says this group doesn\u0027t yet exist so it\u0027s obviously difficult for them to care about it in there are some so far on the mailing list we had a couple of people who produce operating systems IOT operating systems and they seem to care enough to participate and and we had David speaking earlier he works on MCU but-- we had Mia Manuel he works on the riot OS we were we have our operating system M addressed Huawei has an operating system and if we manage to reach out after we created such a group to reach out to more ayat the operating system vendors then hopefully they will care but of course it\u0027s hard to say up front before we have actually started whether anyone about the outcome of the would run through and see if I have correctly captured the feedback in the room on their charter text and we won\u0027t necessarily do the word smithing right now but I want to see if we have captured the intent correctly and then as you know chairs maybe we can go off and do the words nothing to try to match the so let me know if I miss a question mark I\u0027m going to start the talking down the question marks the first comment was we want to reduce the text about 4108 I heard people saying that it should either not mention or mention only and passing at best as opposed to concentrate on 4108 I\u0027d not hear anybody arguing to keep 4108 text and so I think the intent is to remove as much as possible the scoping of text around what we will do with respect to 4108 okay I think I\u0027ve captured that correctly if you disagree that you think that we need to keep text pacifically about 41 away come now I heard very tiny homes and so if you think that we should remove all text of 4108 please hum okay and that was not a binary question because in between there is leaving some "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:16:47",
    "text": "text and passing right and so if you think it is useful to leave 4108 text in passing but not say that we\u0027ll do an update to it let\u0027s don\u0027t mention it please help okay so I think I heard slightly louder hums in the second well pretty close between second and third is about the relationship to class one devices and I think I heard people saying that it should not be constrained to class one devices and the text should be updated to make that clearer that is not updated this is the part that Dave summarized and Kathleen nodded and so I think they have a pretty good idea of what they want it to say with respect but I do not hear anybody arguing they should be constrained to class one devices as more the point is not about constraining things to those one devices but doing things that any solution coming out of here would be capable of applying to a class one device it is not solely for class one devices but it shouldn\u0027t have a dependency that would not fit on a class one device that is the intent okay I see is not the next one is about what is out of scope and so we talked about not defying any new transport protocols I think we wrench in this a couple times that use of transport protocols discussion is in scope when we talk about architecture defining new ones is not and the related point that is both up here and down here so I\u0027ll ask it now is the notion of how do I discover the place that I get stuff from should be in scope I heard people arguing for that I think even the manifest format proposal includes some discussion of that inserting the architecture would and so I think the intent is that this discussion of discovery is in scope but as Paul I think was Paul that mentioned new discovery protocols are out of scope is that what I\u0027ve heard I see Paul nodding I don\u0027t see anybody jumping up that they disagree with that if you disagree oh that wave or something if you want have something to say on that Martin yeah maybe you can say address the new question separately from the discovery question so that we can talk about the discovery thing okay fair so would you like to phrase the question for me then so I I think the point here is that we\u0027re not going to define any new protocol mechanisms for the delivery of the images what\u0027s out of scope is new protocols for delivery regardless of whether it\u0027s for prints were discovered right and then we can involve discovery at legislature I think it\u0027s not clear if everybody has the same scope of discovery right I think most people think of discovery of a server where to download from and I\u0027m I\u0027ve been talking about discovery of the capability of the device or what it needs you know that from which will be signed yes that\u0027s actually a separate bullets that throw us here is the capabilities of the device and that\u0027s separately of discovery of update server and here they have discovery of update "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:19:47",
    "text": "servers mechanism I haven\u0027t yet gotten to that one so we could I think it\u0027s useful to do a homme on on on on defining new transport mechanism so I would like to pose as the question should we avoid the development of you transport mechanisms yes or no for yes please hum okay for no please hum it\u0027s definitely much louder on yes mentioning it in the Charter as opposed to leaving to the documents the notion of the architecture or some other way of can help us things I put it as a place within the architecture a way of a description of the capabilities of a device or some notion that says how do I discover and negotiate the capabilities of the device we\u0027ll have to figure out what the right wording is but the question is to the charter have text about the capabilities of the device being sort of key to the to what this what the group will do so if you believe that we need text to talk about capability negotiation or discovery or whatever the right term is something in that category if you think we need text to address because right now there\u0027s no text dimension says right if you think the Charter text I\u0027m not sure if its capability of the device right it\u0027s just whatever is necessary for successful firmware download I think those are the bounding criteria the question here is whether you think we need charter text or whether the Charter is okay in the absence of list and leave it to the document okay that\u0027s the actual question okay so if you think that the charter needs text about this please hop if you okay if you think it is sufficient to leave it out of the Charter but into the architecture document discussion please help okay I heard hums for the latter so I\u0027m going to leave it in here amenity no on this one servers here we go maybe the last one during this discussion is the notion of should the Charter constrain us for having one manifest including format or should the Charter not mention any constraint if the charge doesn\u0027t mention the constraint that means it\u0027s up with a working group to make that decision post charter that\u0027s in the Charter it means we\u0027re who did from having that discussion so if you believe that charter should constrain us to doing one please hum if you believe the Charter should not have a constraint and should not mention this and it\u0027s just part of the working groups work to decide that please hum okay I heard a strong home for not mentioning the word one here record that and I\u0027m hoping the note-taker will also record that to the figure will figure out some wording that "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:22:47",
    "text": "does not constrain us okay that is the end of my question mark things is there any other things that we want to poll that I have missed Haidee are we missing anything if we should be coming forth display on the Charter yeah yeah yeah so sorry I think I missed the discovery question did was I not paying attention or yes oh yeah probably what did we conclude I believe don\u0027t redo it tell me what your answer was I believe I believe we haven\u0027t addressed that question and I believe the point was that the Charter should should suggest that we allow some flexibility around the discovery of servers for retrieving for firmware updates um is it I think you\u0027re right I think I actually didn\u0027t ask that as a question I should so thank you so I think the question is if you feel that the Charter as opposed to the documents if you get charter should mention that we will do work on discovery of update servers I think that was how the original comment was phrased if you think we need to have some charter text about that okay and there might be multiple reasons to say yes multiple reasons to say no the question is should we need to do we need to work on any chetan charter text updates if you think we need to have a charter text update please hum if you think we do not need a charter text update and it just goes into the discussion of actual documents please hub okay I hear it as being the latter that we don\u0027t need charter text it\u0027s perfectly fine to leave that to the discussion the document thank you um this is Hank I\u0027m I\u0027m at least a little bit confused to be that covered the first discovery question actually I think we yeah say that we will not define any new discovery protocols uh so because the not also not and some go to go buy any new transfer or discuss some term that means either one it sort of is agnostic to what we won\u0027t do sorry which types of protocols we won\u0027t do that that\u0027s what I captured is the intent of that one I think the the only point is with you know discovery and capability those things that\u0027s more communication than just a mechanism to transport firmware images right so I think how you might use an existing one gets a little bit fuzzy so it\u0027s kind of nice if the query thinks that we don\u0027t have that text in the Charter because that can be really hard no no but the point is that anybody can reject anything about "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:25:48",
    "text": "capabilities and and discovery in anything by pointing to this first block a firmware update solution consists of right so I think that is too constraining that text a firmware update solution consists of well okay says several components including but I mean that that\u0027s that\u0027s where things like discovery or capability you know discovery of service capability of devices that would be additional communication aiding proposed change yeah yeah if the answer is a Canadian but not limited to time on the Charter discussion because we have one other slide before we do that we do have one last proposed change from jabber I\u0027d like to read go ahead this is from : Jenny it\u0027s proposed change the architecture should provide a way to discover the firmware server that is a proposed change Collin Jennings on chatter not sure where that text fell in the Charter text column maybe if you could point out where that fits in my head that\u0027s the text that Colin was proposing there and so do people think that Colin\u0027s text should be added to the Charter please home you might not know yet because I sense the room before was that no but if you think the answer was no that the tent that the Charter text does not need this to be mentioned exclusively it\u0027s okay to move the architecture document please home a bunch of people either didn\u0027t care didn\u0027t understand the question say it slower okay Colin proposes the following sentence the architecture should provide a way to discover the update server or some wordsmith variation thereof do you want to have the firmware server okay yeah we\u0027re just trying to capture exactly we put in the cheddar and okay there we go sorry can you explain the difference between discovery of update servers and the art and the discovery of firmware apparently no in two minutes we can\u0027t yeah and we\u0027re gonna have to take that conversation I was wondering whether this would exclude cases where you actually push the firmware to the device and there\u0027s no updates over other cases where you have the server pre-configured and it gets the server from the averages not an uncommon case that\u0027s why in my opinion it\u0027s better to say less and leave it in the architecture document discussion because I like to you don\u0027t have to make "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:28:48",
    "text": "sure that those deployments I included I\u0027m not against having the possibility or an optional party near I think I believe that is a valid argument for arguing for or humming no on that question so a and and I\u0027m sorry I thought that the hum on discovering of update servers was a yes when we just went through it that came back as a no no not on call her at the original question of update server is not firmware servers okay I people believe that the architect that my recollection here maybe note-taker helped me verify my co-chair is that discovery mechanisms are in scope for the architecture but we didn\u0027t necessarily need specific text in the Charter to say that that\u0027s correct okay I have two yeses that\u0027s okay great so they\u0027ve wanted to then go to our last legs we\u0027re almost out of time and so I might in affected Dave here wrap up that\u0027s a yes yes so uh so we\u0027re going to gather immediately after this and and and start working on addressing all of these changes to the Charter probably within the next you know next few days we\u0027ll have hopefully real soon we\u0027ll have an update updated charter I back on the list so that we can continue the the Charter conversation so I want to have a brief discussion about how we might move forward with this effort if if it\u0027s chartered so if it\u0027s Charter will obviously meet at ATF 101 but is there interest in the room and we weren\u0027t able to actually have much conversation today about potential solutions and architectural concerns is there is there interest in the room and having a virtual to start to discuss that I\u0027m seeing some nods can I get a show of hands if who might attend we have maybe 20 people okay yeah prescribing additional hands easy okay okay well it sounds like that\u0027s something that we should look into more than 25 left thank you thank you um so uh so with that I think we can we can conclude this bomb so thank you all for coming [Music] "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:31:52",
    "text": "you "
  }
]