[
  {
    "startTime": "00:00:06",
    "text": "thank you meetings all right okay okay agenda materials okay [Music] well I'm on this thing that says interim but doesn't I don't see how how I'm going to uh how your you download some slides hold on one second all right so if you clicked on the meeting and then there should be wow it says interim 2023 and this is this is this uh heading slides but nothing under it read Echo meeting materials folder is just 80 off your local system uh sorry well Dave uh there's a budget so if you do an interim schedule one way um it does all of the magic behind the scenes and sends it out and if you do it from another way that's also recommended"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:02:00",
    "text": "on the website it's broken and I just filed that bug so I'm populating the materials kind of as we speak well I don't know how to do it so let me get back to the meeting yes if you well Dave if you send the slides to me I can I can upload them and I can do yourself okay I can do that eventually need to get them all right sure all right I can do that uh let's see all right let's see all right let me uh go here Gmail Brian your slides I didn't manage to upload them after they rather rapidly created this intro meeting entry in the system for me which I appreciate thanks can you hear me yep yes I can maybe not a uh Chris can you hear me yes we can hear you I don't know if you can hear me all right I just sent the uh the slides to Chris okay no it's Gmail and we know the Gmail is the devil all right you know what I mean most of the time I don't have any problem with Gmail but for the you know man when it when it decides no I don't know how to make that get better"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:04:04",
    "text": "and I'm gonna display um oh well that's interesting it says nothing is ready there's a glitch in The Matrix uh probably because this meeting isn't connected to this interim correct never mind all right Dave it'll probably take a few minutes for me to get yours uh slides when I get them I'll be ready slide hey Chris hey you can hear me I can I've asked them I can hear you before to be fair uh why didn't you respond I restarted all right I've now covered up like every window with with the PowerPoint so you guys are just gonna actually see um something you're just gonna actually see like a whole desktop because or maybe not because it's not gonna let"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:06:01",
    "text": "me do that is it a screen share is being started foreign that's okay to do this yeah I sent the email out I'm not I'm declining to use a note taking tool since it discarded all my content from the last meeting and then prior meeting all right this is really going to be complicated [Music] for sharing slides all right Dave David if you know how to like Jam something in there super fast into the meeting materials please do share do what okay it was share screen yeah well I can do that but right now I didn't ever permit my browser to do that should I say yes or no since I changed my mind um I mean you can say yes my browser that I'm logged into the meeting with doesn't have permission to share my screen um all right let me let me say yes now although not to to uh to belittle David Black's uh you know capabilities or or wise counsel"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:08:03",
    "text": "um this is going to be a little boring since the three chairs meet weekly anyway attendance here I'm I'm the only I'm the only non-chair maybe I should I can't figure out how to share it yeah all right hold on I'm gonna drop so I can share and then I'll come right back okay excuse me"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:10:07",
    "text": "foreign okay I got you know this is not ideal but this this is gonna have to do it and did BP leave to fix his browser as well I guess all right I can remember how about this David black can you read these"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:12:02",
    "text": "do you see anything yeah they're a little small but I can read them well then you know what since you're an audience of one that's good enough oh fine all I got to do is expand the window I'm staring at a 32 inch monitor might as well use it for something I can do that okay now I now see it all right all right now if I could just find Brian hello I guess this means we're the only ones coming I guess yeah we're all gonna talk to to David really because we talked to ourselves to each other yeah there you go I'm gonna cover this so I think everything on here is fairly uh self-explanatory um the big thing is we're looking for more feedback on the layout um draft so um obviously we're with with no with no um you know comments on the list we at this point planning to bring it to San Francisco and and talk about it I'll try to get a review at by that time yeah I mean that's a promise um so we restarted the all right Brian's I can stop covering his chair as soon as he uh he's good to go um so I will cover the last two because"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:14:01",
    "text": "they're super easy right so the last call on Parallel NFS uh enough response it was good in the room so um we'll be moving that forward and out of the working group and the same thing with the um RDMA extensions and Brian if you're ready I'll let you cover the state ID bellsted as I've been calling it although I don't see him with with Mike or Video available all right um so I'll just cover it right if it is offline okay so uh since we talked about this yesterday David black this is really just for you um got a new revision out on the lease list in response to the previous last call um which we think answers everything so we're restarting another working group last call for it uh two weeks so we hope by the time we get to San Francisco we can uh say that that one's moving forward that's the update on documents unless there are questions I feel like I should just write the minutes and be done with this meeting in a way okay I'm gonna stop sharing that and then I'm going to start sharing yours Dave fine thanks that's it okay yes I see it all right"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:16:00",
    "text": "so um a central part of uh of the RFC 5661 this effort is this document RFC 5661 this so on to the next I think I think we move on to the next slide okay overview is why are we doing this what's in it and some attempt to get discussion started but we only have one person here but anyway any discussion that you have David will be appreciated but let's let's go forward all right so we started out with a certain number of motivations for this document for this group of documents really but we're focusing on this one now we need to separate areas that were common to all minor versions and now historically the the v4.1 said well this is a Thailand separate protocol blah blah blah but that turned out not to be true internationalization was a thing the was was different secure security is pretty much should be pretty much the same for all minor versions and uh also the extension process anyway so what what we have beyond that we would have had a ton of variety of reports and I think we've got most of those there are a few left uh anyway we also want to have a solid document that describes uh NFC 4.1 so we don't have we had a number of additional documents we had a a with 5661 we had 80 81 and then we also had Tom haines's document 8434 and"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:18:02",
    "text": "that can no longer be a separate time we haven't won a single document uh and we had I say unsatisfactory I don't know what the adjectives and satisfire covers it uh treatment of security there's no threat analysis in any of the documents and how us this is presented just does not convey all the problems I did not convey any of the props it just says it's an optional means of other authentic authentication and it's not it should not be recommended or should not be optional says gee you can take your choice without negative consequences but uh I don't think that's the case and it's not a means of authentication despite the fact that the says that right on to the next next slide okay uh as a result of our discussion we now have lidocs internationalization 06. is uh is is a working group document has been for a while uh we don't there's not much discussion on the list but we're not having an art art review which we had some trouble doing but I've been but the target date for that is now the 14th and we'll see what happens uh now security the secured document went to some sort of adoption call and then that was delayed and we and I think we need to plan on how what we're going to do about that uh in fact one part of that is that while we're doing these adoption calls Cycles uh document expired and I think I have to at least within the next week repost the the current uh"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:20:03",
    "text": "individual draft and then we'll use that as a basis to decide on what we'll do about an adoption call uh another document we have okay another document we have is RFC 5662 Biz it turns out we knew a small number of changes that and I've been meaning to bother Brian about getting an adoption call for that but that hasn't been a big issue it I don't I I think that will just go through once we uh do the appropriate scheduling because it's like it's like 10 lines different and then we have RFC 8178 that is already an RFC but we need our new document to clearly indicate that is the definitive uh uh definition of extension for all minor versions and RFC 8434 I've looked at that and I think we have to figure out over the next few drafts how that incorporate that in the RFC 50 to 61 bits on to the next uh on to the uh next slide now in the process of doing this I had to have the task of reading documents and they actually found some some things that had to be done lots of uses of RFC 2119 terms not in court with the definition despite the fact that every document has this thing that says it does that but very few actually do it and there's a lot of confusion confused terminology to clean up I found out in this last draft use client there's one place where it uses serum client under to include the verifier one time it doesn't also there's uh the definition of the word"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:22:00",
    "text": "verified describes one of like six different things that are different and that's been changed and fixed up uh there are a number of we Implement director we we Define directory delegation and no one in in implemented it and we had at a previous meeting we discussed G what's wrong why are we so so slow handling and I think part of the answer was that nobody had implemented uh uh directory delegate direct delegation and notification and that has to be written people who have have like including Tron and say well it doesn't work because it doesn't do this that and the other thing and I have to be clear of what it does do and what it does do and that is not that is discussed in the appendix but it's not there's no text for that and I think that might be something I'll do in the O2 uh then there's a big session about section about memory mapped IO and locking and it's discussed I haven't it's I've I've revised that no one and if you'd like to look that that'd be a good idea and if you have some comments I appreciate them anyway on to the next next slide all right I think this this this has gone out this is how you you're not most people are not going to read the 650 600 600 to 700 page document but the diffs are are manageable diff with between RFC 881 and 01 is kind of bad because it's artifacts in the sections move around but but but you do that is explained independent all those changes are"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:24:00",
    "text": "explained dependencies B1 through B3 and that is helpful and then once you get to that point uh it's pretty easy to compare to Darcy diff of the dash zero draft and the oh one draft all right on to the next slide okay and going from 880 8881 to draft zero zero we headed we had caused a number of sections because I needed to have an introduction to the update as well as an introduction to uh nfsb 4.1 and that caused that so uh also we had to adapt to internationalization being done in its own document protocol extension been in its own document which is already done and Security Buildings on that we had to address a lot of variety of reports like tons of them there are about half a dozen left and uh we got around the thing where way back when someone decided was that the optional actors were recommended and that doesn't fit and in fact RFC 7530 says well this document uh uses during recommended except as it's defined in RFC 2119 except for this case and I don't think we want to do that anymore I think we're just switching from recommended to lower case recommend and then as as a way of keeping track of these changes as we move forward to get to that but there are three appendices one is the nature changes be it the status of various changes and C is the issues issues required for the"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:26:01",
    "text": "all right I've seen you've done this make make sure you put a sentence in somewhere explaining the use of lowercase recommended um and what and and what it means okay yes all right I can do that yes I I think that that okay yes okay yes so that that's fine that should be done well you just have to look in the dictionary okay as opposed to uh Capital recommended we have to look at the irtf documents understood in the tradition to that effect that'll help that'll that'll help the reader as not every reader is going to automatically grasp the use of lowercase was intended to avoid 2119 meaning okay yes uh I'll try to make that clearer that that's that's on my must do this for O2 all right now on this slide I'm going to talk about what have have I done from zero zero to zero one now Troublesome thing this has to do with this Capital must is it says You must wait for the response but lots of people including the Linux client and every other client on have when you control C you don't wait and right now we have a situation where you it says must and nobody follows and that's not accessible so really the really meaning of must in in RFC 881 is it would be really nice if things worked out work this way but they don't work this way they can't work this way no implementations do it so that can't go on all right another thing is the"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:28:01",
    "text": "discussion of end of of uh of uh of reach of of retry and because we had exactly one semantics retry is unnecessary but there's no reason and it's not a good idea but they have must not in in the existing documents but there's no gestivation for nothing it really means this is a bad idea what it is and I think because people felt strongly about that it turns into must not but that's not okay so we use the phrase and we continue to use the phrase EOS for exactly one semantics because you can control see something you don't have exactly one semantics what you have is at most once a minute EOS provides ability make to make sure you don't do things twice particularly if they're not an item potent or or modifying but we have to be clear that what we do provide is exact at most once and then I I rewrote the section about memory mapping and locking I think it would go and take too long to explain all the things that are wrong with that about that statement I've listed in here and I think I think you would look should look at that in in the old document in the new document and if you find the problem in the new acronym please let me know okay let's go on to the next next next slide all right I found some terminology things that I mentioned before scribes client owner in one case would use uses it to meet the the string plus the Vera IFR and one thing in one place it uses to mean uh just the string so I've distinguished recline owner which includes both and client owner ID which"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:30:01",
    "text": "is the string and I think there are about 500 verifiers there's the the right verifier is the uh reader verifier is the verifier on uh on client instance it's called verified there's a whole bunch of them and there's one definitely in RFC uh 881 is one definition and it's just confusing all right I found the pnfs terminology need to be thing because you know we have these uh in some places refers to storage protocol a data Pro protocol and uh in some cases data server which is appropriate for file servers and storage device which is appropriate for for Block device so I created the generic term file data provider and do it and data protocol rather than storage protocol and the discussion of control protocol because it's in uh in in Tom's flexible file he says he doesn't have a control protocol but the text in the current RFC 881 says every yeah anything you do to accomplish the need is can is control considered control protocol so I now have clarified that so distinguish between those that don't have a separate control protocol that was another thing that was in the clarification based on what you've done on the pnfs terminology is there anything Kristoff needs to do to the nvme pnfs draft I don't think so because I haven't done it yet and my document will become an RFC after his and I don't want"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:32:04",
    "text": "a situation where we have to go back and change the terminology of all the existing uh scuzzy documents so no um I think it should be clear that that is not necessary we have to obviously the first item has no effect and I would hope that the rest what you're doing is sort of clarifications um that don't actually require any terminology changes uh in right right yeah yeah okay that's that's another thing that should make clear that this is only going forward okay all right all right all right I think we can go on to the next slide now I've tried to read it uh reorganize the discussion of pnfs security but I'm not done what is needed is the thread analysis and dividing pnfs uh layer types into three one is the uh the one the files layout and the flexible files layout in what he call in what Tom calls the tide coupling mode that one you basically have enough material so so you're not requiring the client uh you know you don't have to trust the client in the same way that you have to do on on those that don't include RPC in the store in the did access protocol uh now I I'm I intend to start working"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:34:02",
    "text": "on the thread analysis of being a disability organized based on whether the data protocols uses the RFC and we have to have a discussion of control protocols in some cases it's essentially no because you basically you have a cluster server and everything that happens in in the control in What's called the control product happens within something and you have to make sure that no people can't a people have no access to it and Google cannot somehow get control of one into the other and and subverted so that that's what's going to be done done in the uh in the uh in the uh when I get the thread analysis for for pnfs all right let's move on to the next the next slide all right so I now have to consider what's in draft two so I think I have two suggestions from David they're clarifications and then there are two items in appendix C2 a clarifying director delegation and need to work required persistence now if you read the description of persist of uh persistent sessions you'll find I think that what this what is described is simply depending on how you interpret it but that needs to clarify what it really requires and what it doesn't require so one of the thing is it says basically says everything has to be done atomically and you can't do a compound autonomically sensibly and if you do it"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:36:00",
    "text": "you're going to ruin performance um and uh so to me it it looks like it says this is essentially even though it doesn't use those words but if you tried to do it you couldn't do it uh so I think I need to make two things clear one is what is the real animistic requirement and the second thing is there's some discussion of a server restarting in the middle of compound and how the uh second instance will in instance of the uh of the uh of the server would complete the compound which doesn't seem to me how I don't see how anyone could do that and it doesn't give you an option to do anything else to say look I do this much of the compound and I didn't and and after that couldn't continue Dave we have a question from Chris yes what's your question yeah so I'm just curious about the threat analysis part so I don't want to interrupt the parallel piece of the conversation and the automaticity um the compounds but I would be interested in and you know like hey who's going to participate in the threat analysis what's the approach should we reach out to the security area directory well I think I'm going to uh draft what I can draft and then Reach Out hopefully out from the security here but I don't I don't think we're in a position to say okay we have to write a thread analysis please do it"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:38:00",
    "text": "they're not going to do that one through that it's not right to ask them so I'll have to draft something which I'll probably will take probably a month after uh IDF 117 but after that I think we will be interested in both review comments or help I hope it can be done by something other than the official review path which doesn't seem to work very well uh generally the security area is willing to kind of uh okay actually haven't been the victim under that bus before uh send security area folks into different working groups to try and support like kind of within the working group structure itself without just kind of setting it over the wall as they review this okay that'd be good so uh well I know I'm not going to be prepared before 117 but I think I'll I'll draft some notes and we'll have something to discuss with with the security team okay okay uh well okay so get back to the current slide well we do have a few remaining Rod of reports and we have to do those and I've been putting them off but I have to do it and back to the lowercase recommended version versus lowercase recommended it doesn't seem like that's right although officially um uh according to the current spec every option every attribute which is not mad terrorist is lowercase recommended although some of them"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:40:00",
    "text": "it's recommended and you really have to do it although this is true of mode and owner and group those are officially optional slash lowercase recommended attributes whereas the same is true of some new attribute that uh is putting but I I think there's a there's levels of recommendation and I think we'll have to be clear on what we really recommend and and get away from that formula which says uh well we recommend you do all the actions that you you think you can do which doesn't mean anything but I think there are a few that are really essentially optional if if I'm a client and I find a server that doesn't support load or owner or group or Apple well I just can't use it it's not optional in the space in the sense that there are other other attributes are are optional even though it's I know recommend Capital recommend is wrong appears that lowercase recommend is not right either but as they said well hang on a minute um so from an abstract plain point of reference and I'm going to put that in put that in here as the disclaimer because we're going to get lost fast if situations as you describe it which is um that Mo things like uh mode and group will cause clients not to work with the server those aren't just recommended those are required in that if you don't do it you know our ability isn't going to happen all right so I think so I think I think you're welcome to that but that that's"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:42:00",
    "text": "something that the working group has to discuss but I think that's the writing fully agree but if situation is as you've described it which is if you don't Implement these really really important ones the clients are gonna are are going to walk away that isn't just recommended that's required so I think you I think you wanted it with three ver with with three levels you wind up with uh required or must recommended it which you might want to want to move over to to a to an uppercase should so you're not using the same word with different capitalization and then you can have a um lower case recommended for all the rest and maybe some are truly optional but so he's so sorry I um I've I've just made your life more complicated okay all right it's fair enough though good point all right other things that need doing is the last thing on this on the slide so let's move on to the next slide uh just tell you that I'm gonna like pull the con from you in about 10 minutes or so so that we can just touch on the agenda for 117 time wise it's time checking all right well okay I think these are anything people want to discuss and this was intended for a larger audience but it applies to whoever who's here if you're you think there were any problems with these with these appendices do you have any comments regarding the differences and I hope we'll have that on the list rather than here and what are your other priorities for O2 let's move on to the next slide all right things mentioned no one but not yet done director delegation I think I'm gonna start drafting that persistence issues I mentioned the"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:44:01",
    "text": "Persistence of also there's some ambiguity about whether when a server restarts he can have some way to communicate to keep locks persistent and avoid the grace period and I think um that might be controversial but I think my what I'm going to do is is include that as as a proposal and O2 and see how people like it all right let's move on next slide anything else that I missed if and then also this is this is this these slides have gone out to anybody I think it's best if there are issues with what I've done so far it's best to scare describe them on the on the working group list and then we'll discuss it maybe with these small amount of time in 117. segue into what what Chris will discuss and um I hope we can just get those resolved because I I feel you know some of the biggest part is already done and I did a ton of the zarata done and I think I've done considerable stuff beyond that and I know what uh I'm pretty sure that I know what else needs to be done all right let's move on to the next slide all right this was this was this was my hope for the process of the actual process will be decided by uh by the chairs after uh after IDF 117 I think"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:46:02",
    "text": "we got to continue discussions of this document on the way to working group last call and submission and we can do that it means like 117 although it won't be that much time for it and interim meetings which we will have after that and um we the majority of the discussion happened has to happen on the work group mailing list lift now I think there's at least two two drafts before I would think about recording but it may be might be three anyway that's the end of the slides okay I'll turn it over to Chris now right any any more feedback before I stopped sharing this one all right and then this is the notional agenda for 117 um and I was hoping that there'd be more people who want to bash this um we should be able to say uh you know that we're shepherding some of these documents as we get there I don't know if there will be any final conversation on bells did at the meeting the uh layout I think should be you know that should be we should be able to say where we are outside of working group at that point RDMA extensions so hopefully we'll"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:48:01",
    "text": "get something from talpy we'll do a Reach Out um I think I think we're gonna have to talk about Security in more broad terms and our approach to it I appreciate Dave's willingness to um put a big bullseye on his back and attempt to write the threat analysis and and the outcome of that I think we should have a broader conversation about how we want to approach that and what it might mean and how we think about kind of protocol structure for that topic going forward I think that should be a conversation there um internationalization efforts hopefully we have some interaction well so hopefully we have since um uh I guess technical interaction to to discuss at 117 with regards to that and John if you want to add anything uh on that uh Feel Free at this point and then I mean it we obviously participation for this interim is is really poor I will admit I I found the bug in in ietf web space I have reported it earlier this afternoon which is also how I managed to get a interim meeting approved and announced in like 10 minutes before an actual interim meeting um but I mean if if this is because the main topic of conversation was 5661 this uh we're gonna have a problem because we will need more review and and oversight then you know uh debut doing yeoman's work just on this document what am I missing on the agenda items because without feedback this is what"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:50:01",
    "text": "I'm going to publish in the next day or so um probably a reportedly in for a meeting oh fair enough good good point and future interim meetings expectation uh maybe leave that for the end yeah because we want to group them together this was supposed to be this is supposed to be a regular Cadence but not this more participatory meaning um that I've picked a really poor time uh and and people will come with me at culpas and tell me if only we're at some other time I would have done it right but let's put it on the agenda at the end there and so we'll beat the snot out of it make sure we get to it I thought I thought you had you ran the survey and everything I thought everybody agreed to this okay can you change internationalization efforts to internationalization move forward plan yes I'd like to walk out with the next steps seems okay to me all right"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:52:06",
    "text": "okay got that feedback I will take it and react accordingly all good updates Brian did you take notes for this I mean the meeting's recorded and I took notes as well yeah can you send me your notes I took notes um I did take notes but I'm going to scan the recording and um augmented my notes because there was a there was a few places I was actually paying attention a lot uh so let me uh send me your notes and I'll combine this and I'll push them up okay okay I mean I took them by hand so I'll have to type them up uh just take a snapshot of it and send it to me unless you right like uh toddler yeah snapshot is sending me thanks all right I saw John's comments in the in the chat and this is you know chance for Alibis and uh you know any kind of uh before we end this enormous going on here I'll put a note in you know John I saw your comment here um I lost audio two or three times and I just bought and I rebooted my computer because I couldn't even make anything movement um and I'm on a Chrome browser instead of safari this was a pretty uh complicated meeting to join okay we have video but no audio John"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:54:03",
    "text": "um yeah I lost audio a couple times finally signed out and signed back in again but uh certainly did hear a lot of the last part of meeting okay so I know we have to use meet Echo for ietf can we use meet Echo and something else at the same time you don't actually have to use medeco for there are advantages shares point of you know like do the announcements that it didn't do um you could do an interim with any Tech we want all right let's let's peel off and talk about this because this was a little bit I never have problems on readings and this was a little bit wild today all right anything else Chris Dave no I'm okay all right I move that we adjourn great second in thanks guys yep thanks for for coming John and David okay bye everybody bye you're interested"
  }
]
