[
  {
    "startTime": "00:00:06",
    "text": "yeah we\u0027re looking at it in the very that\u0027s the idea we\u0027re working at it in the practice yeah and I mean do you know that\u0027s how I first got introduced came to our conference and saw my speech on multi-dimensional Cheney which is kind of my idea kind of think about it more like this graph you know a grid rather than a linear change structure with kind of multiple parallel processing channels with their own stayed in them kind of do you need to make sure that all of that data is so that seems like a no-brainer I guess you could you say Marty between one another you\u0027re assigned a different channel based on the capacity and then you\u0027d have kind of a proof of stake to consensus model on top of that that links them together to creating the horizontal grid right and that is levels cookies multicast groups yes they must I guess where you stand and then we\u0027re working on you were integrating this in a list so that\u0027s what he co-authored this piece yes so we\u0027re working on funny "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:03:10",
    "text": "you say that because the mapping system being distributed and having the key kind of having a key system in there kind of like hell on the routing where you just that\u0027s kind of the idea but is the recorder the database is here and it\u0027s basically signed off and passed to this person and this person is here and then the interpretation a lot of that on the core layer more than necessary I have time all right you have to be in Terry yes that\u0027s what I was going to go online yes you know where you can basically discover yeah yeah resource discovery and then you can check and balance them off with one another no you\u0027re talking about a little bit of proof of work on each request or something sort to prevent Dawson oh that\u0027s the idea remember checkpoints takes you once you get to a checkpoint state then you don\u0027t need to have that\u0027s where then you just have the checksums or your list your skeleton and you can verify those text lines and then you can understand them and you can just hash it all the way up back to that checkpoint if you want to get everything and then you can verify that checkpoint hash fits within the scope of all of this so you just choose your validation level and your security level it\u0027s the idea we\u0027re working on three point on I don\u0027t think they\u0027re gonna be called block chains in the future right but I think a lot of people are rushing to market cuz it\u0027s so competitive and we\u0027re just okay we\u0027re here cooperating and learning from you guys\u0027s mistakes and we\u0027ll get there it\u0027s not that complicated it\u0027s fascinating area bring the implications in network the token is the big thing to when you tie a token to routing infrastructure tight token to data and so therefore you have currency "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:06:11",
    "text": "and data tied together in a type of system that\u0027s the real plate let\u0027s get hello hello let\u0027s start welcome everybody this is the least working group you can see on the mean scream that I was not well which you accepted when registering for this ITF so basically you agree that whether whatever you say today here is a contribution to the ETF okay and issue by any chance you know an IPR that applies to to whatever we discuss here we are supposed to tell us okay the usual pointers to the various material I\u0027m Luigi anona here\u0027s Joel Halpern we had the cultures was him in the front row at mound second row in the front that our secretaries will help us technique note okay quick update on the status of the documents so we have the usual introduction document has been def a few years we missing just a reference will come later on this is actually the document that came back from the is G in order to switch it to to stand attack we have the signal free document which is now in a RFC editor queue so making progress and we have the the truth to B\u0027s drafts that we hope we are close to to working group last call we will talk right after all that will give a presentation yet that doesn\u0027t make sense to to be making a very stupid question but does it make sense to site have the best documents in the intro the newbies documents gameday intro yeah so but I\u0027m not sure how much we can do that because actually the document is there in the RFC a little cue just missing one single reference so it\u0027s pretty far away very very well take it we should take it I 100 baby believes is just a temper assemble a so it\u0027s not so their agenda first today we will start with appointed about their these documents then we have this GP the young model and vendor-specific al-kahf okay these are working to defense and then we have of you know working group items we will discuss with publishers subscribe we we have to switch to presentation actually "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:09:13",
    "text": "the map server originated SMR and the lease control plane for ila okay so to let Tom Canberra to attend a presentation and then we will continue with two presentation about the Graham based Lisp analytical telecommunication network and the corresponding BGP routing and then Dina will give us two presentation about a decentralized list mapping system and an update on the mobile network okay any comment on the this deal I had a comment about the best documents so there was no mention about Lisp sack and that seems to be the only reference that the introduction document is waiting on and that interaction document has been waiting for a thousand days yes the status of Lisp snack yeah we discussed this already last time when we took the document back the basic idea is we switch it to standard track what this is pretty but we make sure that is coherent with the B\u0027s documents so once we last call the beast documents we do a proof read the security document and we ship it our associate the introduction documents depending on the best Akeno right right now it\u0027s just referencing our scene the idea is that RISP sack will reference the beast documents on solid we we ship first the Lisp sack from my perspective we did a good job if we push the B\u0027s documents is just a proof read that all everything is fine and we push it as well we\u0027re right behind do you think the best documents are going to move fast depends on you know I mean if they\u0027re gonna go to draft proposed stay on the first right is that all we need to get the introduction in this sector move forward and I mean there is G now is a little bit overloaded but they do what they can and that was the reason of the question they\u0027re overloaded so how long do you think it would take you\u0027ll get it through okay eh the problem is pulling something from the RFC any our cue to say change the text so that there was a reference to these it\u0027s not we can\u0027t just change the references we\u0027d have to change the text and I\u0027m pulling something from the RFC in here to change "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:12:13",
    "text": "the text means that has to go back to me working group last call IETF last call is cheap so that\u0027s the problem it\u0027s procedural it\u0027s not so easy there are no more comments I\u0027ll bet you can start so I\u0027m going to give the the changelog for both these documents so next light so first for the data plane so we had many revisions so it\u0027s 5 seems last IDF in Singapore actually revision number 12 was posted today like a few hours ago and I\u0027m summarizing all the changes including number 12 somehow I\u0027m trying to start from more important to to less important so the first one is that we move services metric map request from data plane to the control plane the second why is that we went through all the routing locator a charity section and mechanism that are not explicitly that a plane were moved to control plane and and some of them should go to an oil om document then we also they did the section on router locator selection stating just that that a plane must follow what is stored on the map guides meaning that you\u0027re taking the contrary different weights and you follow that and how we set priorities and weight is up to the control plane then we remove section 16 17 and 18 which were mobility considerations the primary considerations and treasurer considerations and this text must be placed in a new OEM document and then there is a bunch of other comments so we remove for reference to research because they don\u0027t make sense anymore and this research has been abraded on we made it compliant with 21 19 and 90 needs we went through many many many little changes you can change you can check all the divs then we move the control import from the data plane to the control plane because this was really wrong we also removed PA and P I provided a great at of all I\u0027m provided independent definition since they didn\u0027t make sense because this was related to the the for free zone sky with the use case we also many commenters commented on the definitions and we ablated that we also dated the text regarding encapsulation and decapsulation regarding the dscp field and this is the last change for "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:15:14",
    "text": "today this was followed following and Regis comment we provide that an immanent is required forever lock-in set of per destination we remove the clock sweep section which is related to how to update the ad to error of mappings and this text again should be placed on a new OEM document and then some reference went from normative to informal so regarding the Contra plane three versions since last idea our last one was posted yesterday so we added the control plane poured into Ayana because this is a control import we other told the tags regarding routing locator authority from the data plane that I just mentioned that we removed same with search it map request and same with air lock glory so pretty much this text that went from data brain to the control plane and then also many many of these other changes that check you can check the Leafs and different clarifications on the tapes and on on several paragraphs that you have a list here and that\u0027s pretty much it okay I have a question about oh yeah oh yeah away and actually when you plant you plan to err on you back when when please and will your am document get pushed along with these two at the same time or is it gonna slow these no no technical discussion on the text we are moving through this just organization or Vella of the things so so the plans remove all three documents together salute okay meaning that all three including away that daily because to expect what procedures what if we agreed the B\u0027s documents are ready we can last call the this but or a.m. we have to call for adoption so we follow slightly later I mean it\u0027s not okay then we should discuss our young it is the right thing to discuss it if you have something to say yes so to meet iterative it hard to contextualize so let me try to think how to express that so let\u0027s say that we take the mobility consideration section or traceroute consolation so that it is very hard for me how to fit that text into a new draft without the right contact organization what we have the right context ization do you need one what I mean for me it\u0027s pretty pretty simple in you use more you freelance introduction that says that "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:18:16",
    "text": "Lisp is defined in data plane with 30 B\u0027s console plane 33 B\u0027s and in this document discussed all the things that are in the middle let\u0027s say a management administration etcetera till it and the you add if you what I really want to be picky the reader is supposed to be familiar with the other joints then I have a problem with the expectations are regarding the reader considering the title so if I entitle a document list over again I expect to read about the whole spectrum of what means operation and management of list and then I what I found out are three sections which are very narrow regarding three different aspects let\u0027s say that without an and the other one and then I feel a little bit but this so I have a problem with the title really and what people should expect in the type you have a different suggestion about the title I don\u0027t have any suggestion regarding the type I my problem is that yeah we can do that but then that that should not be over this how were these these that so I agree with Albert 100% and it\u0027s it\u0027s hard to decide with if these sections are really OAM or not traceroute probably is but putting the mobility section in here is totally counterintuitive I mean I think we should put the mobility section back in the data plane because it\u0027s a general because if you want to gently seat if you want general description of mobility you\u0027re not going to look in the OEM document argument you put it in the introduction document but that\u0027s it no mobility is about XT ours that\u0027s parallel datum plane that\u0027s moving around and it\u0027s a general discussion that it sets up for list mode the question that leads me to wonder whether you need the text at all if all of state is laying groundwork for the actual global solutions and isn\u0027t actually providing any change in the normative behavior then well it\u0027s creating expectations of what mobility is when you say sorry service don\u0027t need to worry about creating expectations about what mobility might be able to be handled by less well you that\u0027s people should read the section and make this decision because there was a lot of Scotland put a lot of thought into writing that text and I don\u0027t think we should lose it because people have different expectations of what mobility is changing service providers is a mobility event that happens once a year possibly versus being on a high-speed train changing your outlooks and that needs to be set "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:21:17",
    "text": "up somewhere so people knows that this mobile noise - auto training\u0027 problem and like the multihoming document in the deployment specs are trying to solve the service provider problem the I agree but III mean nobody wants to lose the text nobody okay it\u0027s just a matter to do to be clean in the structure of your document set maybe there is no perfect solution but for sure I wouldn\u0027t put a mobility in a data plane document okay because it\u0027s not that a plane is suggesting it\u0027s better in the Orion than it is in the data plane we could discuss it\u0027s oriented the right title Lenti let me think a little bit about it maybe not maybe will for me it\u0027s I\u0027m not shocked about you using or oil and as a title to be honest we should possess this usually has two working group on the list and see what a different title that\u0027s a very fair concern photos of this is Fabio proposal for title could be consideration for lease deployment ability and try so let\u0027s decide it makes more sense of this let\u0027s find the deployment drive considerations is the tournament considerations right we have to check but yeah yeah but we will it\u0027s hard not to overlap in the total but so make sense if if we if we agree somehow that the title awayi\u0027m is a little bit unprepared and we go for a different title then I volunteer to write what we can do is this afternoon I sent an email on the mailing list stating that we wish there are concerns about the name the one discussed right now something where our mobility deployment and trace consideration anybody complaints adding body has a different kinda suggestion and by the end of the week having the decision what do you think okay is very happy about this okay that\u0027s the cut that measure yes next playthrough from Buckingham ok wait problem I know presenting about Lee\u0027s GP and I get this to be easy with you so this is the status very quick status update there is a list of the toilet changes that were saying thanks by Luigi and those are "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:24:18",
    "text": "being introduced it in version 0 1 there is one technical comment opening that also came from Luigi and I think Dino\u0027s comment about backward compatibility so I have two slides the next to slide proposing out to address that and the idea is to use the same logic that are used for cat6 t1 the descriptor and also on status update I just wanted to you know just let the working group know that there are 2 implementation of the GP that are open source in FDI yo + depois so here is the idea on the proposal so the problem is how to handle the case where there is a mixed deployment and some of the router are released router and some of the router level is GPU now at least GP capable drought so looking at it it seems to me that this is exactly the same problem that Li script is addressing right so when we basically send the least encrypted packet in a network the receiving router may or may not be capable to understand the packet so English crypto what happen is that because of the negotiation of the security Association the ITR knows that the ETR is capable to receive the encrypted packet so it seems to me that this is the same problem here if we have a way for the PPR to signal the capability to the idea that it would be capable to receive GB extensions then we are done and so the proposal is basically what Dena was suggesting and say let\u0027s add the one beat to the multiple data plane l calf and the cleat is basically saying that the idea is capable to receive GPE extension and and that\u0027s it and so that\u0027s pretty much very simple extension this is RFC 80/60 so probably I think that from a literal point of view the lead GP draft will basically request to address a new bit in that in that in that aircraft the question that the race was do we need a different bit four weeks land in list EP I think so because we Lisa P we want to preserve you know their additionally stitches that we have in the in the GP extensions this is the text that we have today that we want to basically change and here I don\u0027t know some comments I heard this morning when I share the slides we thought that he was pointing out that this may be even little bit too tight because really you know here what I\u0027m saying is that the idea has to explicitly acknowledge the capability and I\u0027m saying that the more people that are playing that calf type has to be used there may be deployments "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:27:20",
    "text": "where everyone can do static configuration I think so maybe trying too soft and 11 language a little bit there but saying that you know they the idea can they they attea their idea can basically check for support for multiple data planes and the music yesterday reached algorithm just clapping what are you saying right now my point here was that we should definitely use the multiple determinants have to to detect or to be sure if they\u0027re if they XT on the other end suppose this or not but that\u0027s something that we don\u0027t need to use if we know for sure be a configuration or is that that the GP is reported so four cases are when we are not sure we can use the ELCA for other cases we can avoid that completely and that you know I think a better language can be used here to express that death intent I like this language but I believe it by configuration or you can have other means so to add some say configuration or maybe you\u0027re an expression so I have another question I think let\u0027s go to the other slide first I think I\u0027m done yeah so I think if we agree on this direction the next steps are we need to allocate the G beat in that aircraft type and I think this can be done in the IANA consideration of these of this drug I need to update section four to address what we discussed include luigi\u0027s editorial comments publish a new version and I think that then if you know everybody\u0027s happy and maybe you know proposed a release GP formats call I have a clarification question now with this G bit okay you have the a way to understand whether or not another unlocks course GP now assuming you support if it\u0027s not okay you you use let\u0027s say legacy least vanilla least if it supports GP how do you deal with the nonce and versioning you want to keep it the way it is that due to shin okay just to not because now I know that there is a company so I can use the shortcut version of nonsan versioning and to add to a comment based on what you just said if the encapsulation types returned by the et are all the data planes that\u0027s supported by it well all those bits will be set so you don\u0027t have to say if the G bit is is not set and if that encapsulation type comes any other data planes you don\u0027t have to say use the default the only time you use the defaults from a 1630 is when this elk calf has not returned because "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:30:20",
    "text": "you have no information about any data planes accept the default one right that\u0027s all if there\u0027s not a match between one on each end okay well good point that might we should maybe check to see if the text says that yeah so related to the same point since we have to change it to add the G bit should we take an inventory of all the popular data planes like maybe right like add the I bet for aisle a since it\u0027s becoming fashionable no no no it\u0027s not there and then the question is show your little ones we think I think each individual draft that is proposing a different data plane will have to take care of that right like this one for GP is doing that there is Annihilator after maybe the aisle 8 yeah that\u0027s just fine but I\u0027m just wondering you because we\u0027re gonna have to choose the elk calf documents so maybe we just want to change it once and still or start the registry process right because we want to do from experimental to but anyway so so we\u0027re gonna each of the use case documents will say I need a bit that\u0027s fine you go ask the registry but then we have to do we just keep a document in the use case documents and does and then the elk calf document doesn\u0027t specify the bit so we have to yeah I would say every documents requested bits I know we can yeah no consideration Diana supervise that that no comments soon so this symbol only so and we you start that process or something that makes sure that there is no conflict all right right okay I think that\u0027s all for me okay so the document is pretty small I would say so that there are just few things you have to fix Syria is very short so for the last call we should have the the new version of the document but we could sense the room if there is out but then we will proceed with a last call on the mailing list okay so for we assuming all these changes will be done okay if you agree stand to go for working the platter last call and disturb Mandi stone please hum now thank you if you have any objection and you think this document is not ready please are now so silence for the record seems there is consensus though so we will wait 0 1 and then we\u0027ll go for last call on the mailing list okay that\u0027s the "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:33:29",
    "text": "model okay my name is Rashad and it\u0027s a quick update on what\u0027s changed in the yang model since last time so one of the versions I think between a5 and a7 was just a refresh but so the changes are mostly minor to comply with six 287 bits for those who are not aware that 67 bit graph is basically the guideline for how yang draft should be written there\u0027s we\u0027ve added some text we\u0027ve changed some copyright information and stuff like that so nothing really major and in terms of the yang itself the only change really was changing some counters from 32 bits to 64 bits we need to work on we need to do quite a few more changes so the security considerations section is pretty empty right now that\u0027s very important we need to change who yang version 1.1 the yang itself will not change because of that and also we\u0027re going to be adding a few XML examples which will validate using yang lint also right now the way the model is the list is at the top of the tree and the guidelines is to have this as a control plane protocol so we\u0027ll have a new identity and we\u0027re going to augment the control plane protocols existing model which is being modified in 880 22 bits right now and also we\u0027ve done a comparison with some of the data which is in the list nib 7th RFC 70 52 and we\u0027ve noticed that there are a few things which are missing in the yang model the major things are the three things identified here for example we don\u0027t have anything to map a VN I to a vrf the Mable has an iid to vrf table we don\u0027t have any leaf nodes to explain what them up to identify what the map cache limit and map cache size are and also we\u0027re missing x times for stuff like what was the first registration in the last registration any idea so those three things are things which are in the memorize though real quick question this Deena do we have to have an ID to birth table mapping could we have a ID to interface mapping and the verb is implied from the interface be it logical or physical and does that help does that help with this or you trying to see how ID maps to one interface maybe I\u0027m missing usually versts are configured on interfaces physical or virtual so if I these are just done in the pillow away "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:36:29",
    "text": "you can infer from the other not just write each other phases the sign of Earth right yes so you map an iid to each interface and because there\u0027s never a many to one relationship between virtual interface there\u0027s always one the one so there will the one the one relationship maps for all three so yet so many interfaces can belong to the same verb yes so how would you not do one okay which interface will you choose of your own out of your many now when our packets received on an interface yes you know what iid it is so you know it\u0027s a map request and map-reply on decapsulation you you D capsulate and you get the basement ID from oh you\u0027re saying on D capsulation the instance ID you have to know what you have to know what the routing table they look up to find the interface oh so it\u0027s on the decap site got it okay sorry this is any other comments so also we\u0027ve been a bit slow in updating the yang mal also of the plan anyway the plan is to I was asking this the plan is to do those updates fairly soon not wait until beginning of July okay excellent thanks I\u0027m not signing in blood I can take some of the blame on the young village as well solar service we know Spanish are always late so this is one data has been promising why we TPD quite working group with his surprise for me so this is a story of the of the drop basically we were submitted in Eurasia we adopted no document no ghost and many people commented on the lease support in the document and it\u0027s a quite straightforward extension to work so no no technical changes have been interesting documents innocent very innocent missing we have some internal testing on this at Cisco that was good if you take a look at the drafts you see that this just define a new archetype that sue then shouldn\u0027t be any any pronoun taught so we would like to see if there is a support and a working group to move this "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:39:30",
    "text": "to Taurus coal because we don\u0027t see any other work that needs to be done on this on this document just to clarify you\u0027re on my review there are very strict comments III think the totally editorial okay so there is there will be a new version of the document but technically zero changes now I\u0027d like for the other document we can test today to vote for look for consensus and then make the last call on the mailing list with the new version of the document okay so concerning window specific karakov if you think that this document is ready so to be published okay please are now time some noise if there is any objection and you don\u0027t think that the document is ready peace on now so silence sore seems there is consensus to move it forward thinner more active more energy please in their own mess aw but the conclusion that we hold on the rest so but guys if you want this time but when you need to hear from people on the list silence means we don\u0027t advance things for the new version of the document and then ask on the mailing list okay so another quick update these four pops up we are now investing on o2 in this one we have gone through a few different changes so it\u0027s not that a safe harbor but almost we submitted in August last year in total we did a revision with some comments that we got from people comment nothing nothing major in the yesterday we will be send this we were coming from ignominy known from the under modify and with outdated the document to reflect that and we would like to highlight that this document is now being referenced by four documents one of them is self CBGB\u0027s which is one of the important documents and we have running code in this person ethnic Cedeno and the guys in the open are out there listen they\u0027re also working on others we speak so the question we have is if we saw that of this any comment from the from the rule "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:42:33",
    "text": "on the document no okay just one generic comic a fat Saudis used in the iCard off that we will talk later and so that is kind of one use case it is driving adoption of this pops up feature okay okay let\u0027s see if there is energy in the room okay one comment for support that\u0027s seen a free multicast stuff can make use of pops up as well especially when we\u0027re using star comma G trees because what we do now is we notify s G by looking up the s in the mapping system to find the ITRs but if who we need to notify is not where s is and so that I think Victor that\u0027s going to make Starcom G work better okay so if you think this is interesting work and this document should be adopted by the working group to work on it and later on hopefully push it for publication please come now you\u0027re improving there those nice so if there is any objection and you don\u0027t think the working group should work on this item piece are now silence or this time was clearer there is consensus to adopt the the document we will take it to the mailing list a lot of presentation from me today okay so this one is a bit more interesting this a draft that we did a long time ago before the departure document and now as we saw it seems that there\u0027s some contention on the working group to move forward with what\u0027s up this document MSI you need to this mouse is the commenting what this implemented right now in open daylight in an open source controller that isn\u0027t went in this an issue we\u0027ll use in in civilized in diplomas so the question now is we we want to pass up but this is being used actively right now so this is what it has been in running code and in production for some time now and it\u0027s been used to kind of have a absol ike support we\u0027ve been Alexia\u0027s so we don\u0027t we don\u0027t think that this will move to the working group because pops up is what I focus on I "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:45:35",
    "text": "believe but sorry handle this because he is documenting this running code so maybe one way to to close document is to move it to informational so I would like to see the opinion on the working group on this yeah just one comment the the point of this drafted that it doesn\u0027t require changes to XD ours as defined by lease / FC 6830 so that was why was implemented in this way I don\u0027t know - three years ago and the documentation was done because there is a public implementation of a daylight so people were asking a how do you implement this feature so yeah I definitely support with Alberto is saying right we we want to move forward Europe sub and future implementation will deal with app server specified in the other draft I think you know just to leave this as a document we can make this information are then and leave it there for future generation then what - pops up so quick on I mean making the document informational dozen doesn\u0027t solve the problem on whether or not we the working group should work on it informational doesn\u0027t mean I mean said that the one one easy way to make it informational without the working group working on it is a individual submission then you push it as an individual submission to the RFC editor and the editor will ask us the the chairs what we think about the document and then it can be published and we stay around as this with the reason is there is implementation so we won\u0027t just mean from the community there is this implementation in this way but the way to go is the bone any comment is welcome you know this is do you know does the document suggest that this was an experiment and that it suggests to use the pub/sub as a solution but we could include that in the yeah thanks Tina okay so there\u0027s not separate there\u0027s two different things there\u0027s informational and individual as informational there\u0027s some technical things that need to be tweaked and put in the ref word the other pointer and the working with could publish an informational or document that clearly says this is not the preferred solution but it is the more compatible one so for transition you can do this for individual the working room has no saying they\u0027ll be asked is this a competitor and as long as it says explicitly this is the not preferred option but is published for information you can publish things as individual "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:48:36",
    "text": "drafts that\u0027s a different they will also be informational but it\u0027s a that\u0027s the independent submission drive path and that\u0027s a different game what I thought was being asked about was for the working group to work on this as an informational document so so question for the test what do you guys think is the best way to move this forward based on what we just saw in this life well I looked at the document during while you were talking to refresh my memory of it I think there are some things that mean if you if you want to move this forward there are things that need to be said about how the map servers will know who to send this information to because there\u0027s some state assumptions that are implicit that need to be made explicit but if you do that I have no problem with with the kind of clear statement that was just discussed with the word who were publishing it and I therefore prefer to see us work on it so it\u0027s a good document from the working group about steps along the way is the last one for me I promise so this is the most interesting one out of this document that we published for the idea that talks about how you can use the least control plane with an ila plane as you will now with the split with the PCs and so on now the control plane they deplane are separated and nothing prevents us happily it\u0027s been it\u0027s been used for the data planes in there in German condition nothing prevents us from using the least under play with any data plane of our ship so this is not introducing any modifications in either the release for the ila architecture but rather discussing how you would use the distance of painting when you have an ila later plane in place you don\u0027t see thumb here but it would be good if we can there before we finished off and comment as well so basically and I\u0027m not working actively and in LA besides this de stuff so so if you have questions on ila you can refer to Tom Paris Teresa both on Thursday evening you can attend if you have interest this is Sunday focusing on the least control plane specific aspect for Friday so for those of you that I\u0027m not aware is a data plane and the follows they ideal obviously philosophy but instead of doing encapsulation is doing other stuff formation so you take an ipv6 address and you split into one part is gonna be the locator the other parts may "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:51:36",
    "text": "be identified well the locator may change the file is gonna is gonna remain so the same ideas we further ideal of space but this time use maybe BC services and doing everything inside the single activity a service so another point is that in the draft that is right now we are using the version of the de la the mission of a la that is on the internet area a group and Tom just a me one right before the idea that we were not you\u0027ve seen what right in our document but the spec is basically the same the new version the AI na 0 1 is just covering some stuff on on its last 64 so that\u0027s that\u0027s kind of a lengthy this is I took them from the presentation that Tom did that Singapore just to illustrate de la for those unaware again if you have any particular question you want to learn more about la you can refer to took him but you can see here the concept of keeping the identifying aesthetic and then so in Al Andalus consul of seer a standard identify representation which is what endpoints would use so in in our lives world this will be kind of in the area space and this would be in the airlock aspects so devices on the ad space will be used in the desert I think again this is our case in LA there are some exceptions on different use cases may use different different ways of talking about the energy use case and then when they when the packet has to leave the space and traverse that workers face the surfer they would be replaced with the locator part that this row table on the on the undulation and so on well a Q\u0026A in annihilators of the legatus other story this is a topology that Tom used to represent the de la Sol there are components that we could try to map to least in diversity which basically you have the Daniel a note that is where they host at us to use the earlier horse is running an acquaintance of knows but itself within itself so let\u0027s say that this would be our being at the center has some containers that are on the S phase and before they led the horse they are really versatile employee lane traffic these could be endpoints a mobile phone selected t9 in a TV network and then you go by La Rose the devices that serve in a in an economy canonical ila is respected to to translate they they a "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:54:37",
    "text": "lead to a locus which if no one has done that before in the past so now talking about of the roles of the different these devices in this scenario with what you have both elegant list this is using some of the ila terminology but he\u0027s not the proportion of the finally made sense of unleased so anima somatic cell is MSM are nothing nothing new that needs to be done for for ila but basically to put things in context and where you have both things which device as well so the missamma as you can imagine is restoring the the mappings they identified rockateur mappings for the domain oh that\u0027s in a later safer for the south which is basically have subsets or USB the the mapping sector of different devices and then is supposed to have a complete map pass for all the mappings in the domain and in the case that you use in you can say that if ascribe to the MST map to get all those mappings or to complete your map cache or they mr. Mallen la route there are located so they pass access to to a limitless another asset and this is something from from from ila in general regulation fleet is that it announces or they announced the prefix into the underlay so if I lean now is not able to translate a packet into into violet it can just for were the sir packet into the under lid and it will be attracted to an area route that will it serve in a study for path for the debacles ever say so if you don\u0027t have a mapping you can always for whether they not just like the packet into the underlay and I then they know for the proposal is laughs we know that has an incomplete mouth cast and abilities on the man we will discuss a bit later on how the summarize not much but just a clear picture daily note is supposed to be the one having the 10 points and for this now we use I only know or I\u0027ll a horse simple suitable so we say I Ellen no so it has a much not much for us if the end points are directly within the I\u0027ll a node or a attach outside and we assume that the eyelid other will not have end points but again this is just for for I find explanation and is not a constant architecture or other protocols so the only thing that we are kind of introducing here which is not changing the architecture at all and actually something that working group is that we proposed a new archetype to represent the identifier the locator and the sir prefixes on ila with inattentive would "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:57:37",
    "text": "have three subtypes to go for free service and the reason we use split seat aircraft type for this is to be explicit on the length because in in LA is not identified on locator length is not fixed so usually you have SP by the middle so 64 64 but that\u0027s not that\u0027s not a requirement of the connector so you can have different lands in the imitation they on the right I put an identified on a locator like in the most common for but the length again is no fix so you don\u0027t need to to look at the at the bits here because it\u0027s just to represent this particular example but this can be any number of bits same here so we use a specific app attached to the resident and also to give this explicit meaning on the mapping system so if you have this circle scenario you know that this is this to be use in devices and also to add some metadata read that on the on the drug we use both in directive sigh I\u0027m in the in the locator site one comment that we got under this for instance was that we could use I just abused for this which I completely agree the question then is you may run along the way into some Travis if you start having deployments where you may have different look at the plans or when I lay maybe only part of the first act but you have some other data planes and we are using the dis control plane to - amal or if you have the zombies that you require and lemon needs so you can not allocate those him directly in ipv6 also in using ipv6 other set without any ELCA then we need to discuss what do we return in the locator because the locator is only the upper part so you can you can send the lesser address to the mapping system and then return the locator we with the either identifier or there are other options ICD no there because he already implemented this on his map insistent you want to comment on this part in particular okay so you\u0027re saying being explicit that it\u0027s an Iowa address is important because you may have multiple uses an ipv6 address but I would say annihilate annihilate system is going to look up something and probably be configured with a seraph Excel it\u0027s going to know what it gets back is going to match that there\u0027s a good chance that a lisp xtr may want to look up any either a so prefix or an ipv6 to get a locator because maybe ila is running over lisp overlay as well so i think depending on who does the lookup they know how they\u0027re going to use the information and it comes from and the lookup comes from different sources so i don\u0027t know if you need to distinguish it unless there\u0027s explicit ila "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:00:38",
    "text": "functionality that has to be conveyed with the address and and that\u0027s what I thought your comment on the mailing list was is that there\u0027s specific information but I don\u0027t know what it is okay first I do agree with what you\u0027re saying so I\u0027m not against you see in ipv6 here my point was if we start deploying this and we start a disclosure of an equally as it goes along the line we may stir seen places what it\u0027s not clear and even even if someone is asking and you know who is asking maybe those guys are seven different deployments at same time so that could be a reason for concern on the road and regarding the explicit ila metadata let\u0027s say in the draft we have two by two bits that others may it may appear is to distinguish identify when you are doing ideal or come up in the solution on when you are trying to to resolve the endpoint address to identify because there are some cases in ala where the others that you use the Senate and I\u0027m sure that you are aware of that the others that we use as an identifier through the network it\u0027s not the address that the endpoint use so in this case in this case the endpoint is using the standard identifier presentation others mm-hmm and this is the one that ila understand second Thursday in other cases you may have different others and then need to be mapped in some sort of these so this kind of a twisted process that you can combine into one and to distinguish those lookups you use just one example and in the locator and every day we use there is a zoom in ila is doing some smart League regarding the checksum so you don\u0027t need to recompute the exam scenarios you mean there has to be conveyed with the mapping so the remote STR contained the other guy look I don\u0027t need you to to real computer through the adjustment of the checksum because I know that in the underlay the no one\u0027s gonna drop this packet and I am being able to understand it right so you may prefer to say that guys don\u0027t waste your resources on doing their time because they will term think about this feature yes I guess a gratuitous feature so the two solution are not mutually exclusive let out so I didn\u0027t lead yet the death but I mean you seem cool could be documented and with discussion like you are doing that says look if you are in some scenarios ipv6 is okay it\u0027s enough you don\u0027t need more but you need more for a list of reason or because you had "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:03:41",
    "text": "a certain class of scenarios Jerry it\u0027s what you can do with al Kahf I don\u0027t agree with that because if you give too many options to the implementer they\u0027re going to wonder why it\u0027s needed and if they don\u0027t do this special use case which is not that you have to find they\u0027re gonna say do I need it and then you\u0027re gonna have interoperability problems because some vendors are gonna support only ipv6 so we\u0027re going to support the other ones go support both and we\u0027re gonna have to add another encapsulation type to the ELCA in the future for those cases Amada because so why don\u0027t we create it when the requirement comes rather than now in guess with the future that\u0027s fair as well but but maybe tom has features that he wants to convey in the mapping where this is gonna be useful when we just need to get an authoritative source to tell us that we see useful here but that one can comment on particular each part with this seaberries is nowhere in this architecture now is that you may need or no need to do the checksum adjustment right so the CBDs conveying that in the in the in under plan so that they said of saying okay these guys configured through their judgment or not yeah you can carry that information on the on our basis for next year and it can register that in the oven system another SDR said you can use that but it\u0027s not the haps along the way that have to recalculate the checksums it\u0027s the ila and nodes and they already do it within the protocol before they do the transformation it\u0027s not mandatory that they do it so they can do it but if they are configured to not do it they don\u0027t need to do I thought it was required because it\u0027s gonna be you think they don\u0027t need to do it because the sir prefix will be on the source and before the app before the transport gets it on the destination and you know that it can traverse fine from implant you don\u0027t need to do it because it\u0027s not no one first of all it\u0027s a transfer layer check so I\u0027m not an IP header checksum so the underlay is not even involved in this so an ipv6 doesn\u0027t ever check some minutes header so hop by hop doesn\u0027t mean you have to consider this as an option it\u0027s only it\u0027s only before you hand the packet to tcp on the desk or and to the transport layer on the destination that\u0027s all right so it\u0027s a pseudo header checksum for the transport layer that\u0027s all is that that this could be a industry mandatory but again this "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:06:43",
    "text": "is a discussion so if people definitely consider this to be a requirement a mandatory as I was saying before we see two places where where this can be helped can be can be used and held in the error solution the basic one is when you need to resolve identifiers so you need to find out either for identifiers and that\u0027s the on the left and then our case that that we see is that sometimes were saying disk is melee where dude on me well you don\u0027t have a directly they they identify that they\u0027re gonna use to yourself and to get the rocket so you may need to do a prayer translation on the further identified so in those cases you can do this as well to ask for further in the fire and I wonder what you can get the locator so you either do this as a twisted process or you collide everything into a single step then how the signaling looks like when using the the daily data play and I need staff here too this is the standard list the next one is something that we have is passing on on the list that is how I in a also considers doing things but basically how would you do is you have an island now that is same person traffic to another island no you need to resolve the mapping for that so you see no more requests you get a my reply now meanwhile and that\u0027s why here no can send the traffic to the underlay they\u0027re out there is not seen the Senecas they share profits so it can track the traffic and translate it while the island knows on the left is retrieving the map another notion is to present here to drop it as we so different options on how to do wide visa kill yourself now why is the napping is some daily know that it can direct itself and carefully there the traffic from one area now to to the other okay nothing to do with each other besides that they are now in this case which is something the thumb is the specimen on the list with us is that do haha do prefer that instead of resolving the the map into there and not by but you directly send the traffic to the Underland so the nav route router will catch it and then when it sees a pocket that is "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:09:43",
    "text": "not being trusted it sends a message back to the LM not in this this message will be modified and again this PC this could be discussed here but this is already supported in impartial to send modifies to two guys as well as the configuration of both allows sure a quick comment I I\u0027m not sure I\u0027m had to check but in 33 beasts at some point we say that a mix TR should drop any unsolicited not notify we may be absurd because we have split test that says that if the configuration allows it so that you need a specific configuration and if you may accept I don\u0027t mean you cannot do it you have to be clear that yeah that goes against the specific no but could not against a thing it\u0027s not documented on the three B\u0027s but is documented on this pops up stronger we have to check but because we 6830 beasts at some point I have to check me this memory but we say that any map notified that is not solicited by a map registration should be dropped now he here you are going against that should Russia so where we extend okay okay you allowed so this we G that text doesn\u0027t exist because a map a map notify was originally developed to notify and it was also overloaded to be an act we decided we could use it as an act at the same time so there\u0027s no such yesterday it is unsolicited nap notify but it has to be because you want to be informed when something changes so signal free uses it pub/sub uses it and then being an act to map register is just a bonus I guess right is the UDP participe as you guys know leased by default goes over UDP but nothing to run it over TCP and actually there is a split in the specification on reliable transfer for lease that if you have had about just in place you can leverage some features that we found on that rock the another point is is what we were discussing a bit before on the i/o rather I\u0027m after work location so if you have that since the early router is supposed to know the Marines in the in "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:12:44",
    "text": "the domain or in the side you don\u0027t need to subscribe to la rata to the premise map options for this custom is that you can post to destination ila note the mapping when you see someone request in the mapping ourselves I mean the the source mapping so there\u0027s available when the difficult in the same map server and under the place to the discussion would have no way of the share prefix and so on and underneath as well if you want to have this locator is of faces man that I chose this is this is the slice Ron from being on the implementation that we did on on his map server so you can see the file a can of the least I see thumb that so excellent sorry I\u0027m like at a question a couple questions so TCP versus UDP mm-hmm I\u0027m not entirely familiar with with how that works in a list but I have some ideas for ila when you\u0027re using UDP is there some sort of state that says which map servers you might send you a map notify or would you it would you accept I\u0027m not notified for many maps or there must be some security there right so there\u0027s a 50 CPI would just have connections open up to whichever map-servers I wish to use right right so my first comment is Tom he has a requirement for I\u0027ll amped to run TLS over TCP so we have to make sure that if our tcp has security in it number one and then to address his issue is if you care about a mapping any map servers locators can change and therefore any map server can give you a map notify and the map notify that sent is sent for their unique nouns but there\u0027s no authentication of it right now you could you we can extend the ECDC the ECDC a draft to say that map notifies can be signed and then the receiver of the map notify does a map lookup in the mapping system to get the public key to verify the not notify so i don\u0027t know if you think that satisfies yeah there are different ways to know we\u0027re saying so that those are points for for this customer at will discuss on tour alliteration on this so that\u0027s fine okay so let me if i think that\u0027s a good introduction let me generalize a little bit so so UDP is is the predominant use case today or is a tcp in these domain but I guess that question depends on "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:15:46",
    "text": "your deployment so you can use either of them well with both okay so so like do you know was saying FRA la if we go with a like a lot of we have a lot of redirects it does become the issue of security and having that TCP connection gives us that much benefit the other part about TCP that I suggested and I know there may be some implementation unless but using something like rest and just upping the whole control plane look more like a data center type of API controlled protocol as opposed to a low-level routing protocol Smita sings to to think about no I don\u0027t think any of that affects the primary packet format or things like that but I am concerned about the security especially of UDP I will say that no that\u0027s that\u0027s especially honest that\u0027s that\u0027s good feedback and all those details we can we can discuss because at the end is what people deplaned is may care about so those Haditha that we shall discuss on the on the rafts back so the question for the working group is if there is a rest interface is done is that an implementation that\u0027s done or does the working group have to specify how it\u0027s used API use right now is following like our base patellas no there is nothing to do with the ITF right and sure the ITF get involved in in defining I mean available and should the this working group or any ITF working group do that the point is that it will certainly help adoption right in the sense that if you are the arrest API for the mapping system I guess that for the typical developer of ILA application it will be user easily to to use right I mean they will be drawn to probably use the REST API rather than having to deal with yeah I think the question is what we know as like the idea to be involved into this or do we need a like a standardized and of REST API for list huh well but I but I want something that standardized right obviously so then the answer may be yes so so I\u0027m perfectly happy I mean the list control plane seems functionally complete but trying to map that into the broadest use case I think if we could get it over rest that would be quite helpful also I think the "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:18:47",
    "text": "difference between UDP and TCP this day and age I\u0027m just seeing a lot of a lot of use cases for TCP this really isn\u0027t a routing protocol anymore it\u0027s it\u0027s more like a database and I think matching that might be helpful yeah so just said the deployments in production using both UDP and TCP plan so we are we\u0027re both cases being deployed and used in industry now and I think the driver for TCP r2 from what I can tell modern security has been the size of the mapping so whenever the size of the mapping is big rather than having a lot of UDP requests you know even a TCP section and make it a little more reliable so okay so what the size of the mapping mean because I did look at some of the list formats and they were if the mapping system has to be used in the context of the 5g system I think the framework for those could be reused from what 3gpp Hansen he was saying I think that would be I think that is emerging from the conversation in the DMM working group with regard to support for mobility is that and there was one of the goal of writing these this draft right so I think and it was clear I think inside the working room because we did the separation of 68 1368 30 beats exactly with the intention of having a control plane and values at a plane so what I am observing is there sir I think now times are more mature and and people even I\u0027m working at least but to play the clock right and EMM the DMM work for 3gpp I think it\u0027s a great place because it\u0027s basically showing that you can have at least control playing that that can support mobility for ila one example and that you know we just speak a lady because you know we like Tom and is very vocal in supporting its I is a very good source for learning about it but you know you can pick pretty much any other non panel location separation protocol and apply to it right I\u0027m thinking to asabi seek so you know whatever other that the plaintiff is proposing the MN probably works with with support for Lisa I just had a comment question regarding the rest API is isn\u0027t the issue just you have met "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:21:47",
    "text": "content rest conf you have a yang okay model which is like a standard and the job is done or do you need more I\u0027m sorry well that confuses standard rest countries is to the mic if the yang gets standardized then you\u0027ve got your data model and your protocols which are all standard so I think you\u0027re good hi I had a comment about you know your being back on what can you say about the placement of the mapping system in the 5g I will encourage you guys to up there is a document that we have published in another SDO which actually explained very clearly all their interactions between the Mme and older 5g architecture and actually I would like to discuss with you guys and actually make sure that we ensure that all this work can be leveraged it\u0027s already there so I think of your knees actually reference in doubt and actually I would like to work with you guys if you want to spread their head of this document or why don\u0027t you send a pointer on the mailing list where we can find the document someone comment on the applicability I agree that it would be nice to have one mapping system that could cover all use cases one thing that I would point out if for instance you\u0027re using a mapping system within a closed network versus using a mapping system and a public mobile network privacy security in our service are very very different and I think I raised that issue on a list especially denial of service that\u0027s going to be a tricky one so we know that whenever you have a cache for instance so we know we need to cache to scale in most of these mapping systems that\u0027s going to be a target of denial of service attack at some point so these are things that I think we just have to consider for the broad use cases I\u0027m not saying it anything specific to ila in this case but definitely want to see some really solid explanations for why then our service isn\u0027t mitigated for instance yeah as you know that\u0027s something that we are aware of of course and we\u0027re actively looking into and that we have discussed different options to approach that so this so this is one when we got rhythm denial denial of service attack to the control pain we\u0027re working on we have work in the past on solution for that we\u0027re planning to to release a document explaining how you can solve that and you will see all the details but to me the main point is that this kind of infrastructure where you can sakura-chan a control plane they\u0027re very common in NT and there are main stations around so it\u0027s a very very important with many well-known solutions "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:24:54",
    "text": "since you might subscribe to a lot of different ideas that are spread across thousands of map servers they don\u0027t need to send you a notification itself something changes at that time that the TCP connection is established you have a three-way handshake delay that will cause convergence problems and you can\u0027t do the same priority because that means every map server we have that with TCP connections everybody together in the Internet this is not a scalable solution even though the big data centers of the world have thousands of TCP connections this is over what orders of magnitude please okay so this is just an update on the ground-based live document which we presented in las ITF in singapore the drawers renamed by the way so just a reminder about the where this work is coming from the ICAO is proposing to replace the existing services with a next-generation ipv6 based infrastructure for air traffic management so the draft itself hasn\u0027t changed but the the authors the co-authors of the draft which are involved who are involved at the ICAO at the last ICAO meeting which I believe was in March okay sorry so first point was the there was some evaluation done by a third party who were comparing a list based solution using open overlay router and the Eroica solution the main difference which they found was that there\u0027s initial packet loss with less but what Alberta Argos was referring to when you don\u0027t have your map cache and there was none with Europe so that was one of the major major things at the last ICAO key meeting and also the co-authors of the draft from frequent is they presented the solution so we if you "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:27:56",
    "text": "know yeah and in an insipid point and in their case they do care the initial packet loss we discussed the packet loss with them and dropping the first you know pocket or two pockets is a big deal in that environment the next ICO meeting is going to be in May we\u0027re going to give feedback the feedback that Fabio has GSK described about how the initial packet loss can be avoided using an RTR for example and then the feedback the frequencies co-authors got was they really want to understand how this supports multicast and somebody named TBD is going to be presenting there to see how that actually works and we\u0027d also like to get some comments from the lisp or group so just a reminder that draft itself is a it doesn\u0027t it has no extensions to the protocol it\u0027s only informational but it basically describes how this can be used not environment but it\u0027s all be good to get feedback from the workgroup and coming you can send your feedback as well on the main Easter is really fantastic there are two things you can help I mean one is multicast and Deno okay and initial packet loss I mean there are some solution and as a working group we can help you to list a few fabula as fabio said that then it\u0027s not is not something that we cannot avoid so an implementation could always queue a packet and send it it would be non spec compliant but if it\u0027s that important an implementation could decide to do whatever it wants you know and if they want to receive old packets because they don\u0027t want to drop them so be it right why is not spec compliant I don\u0027t think we specify your policy what to do with the first well you could be right we might say we don\u0027t say must drop I don\u0027t know so we say should you happy with that was yeah years ago our discussion on that and we said implementation-dependent now common practice as far as I can say is that we dropped and it\u0027s not a must we can do something else but okay so maybe the maybe the specs soft about it but all the implementations do ignore mark I know about one implementation that hasn\u0027t been open source yet that does keep a cut so just like our up or any other protocol you can keep a cut for a while right you don\u0027t want a kid forever and in this scenario our understanding is that number of packets is it\u0027s not "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:30:57",
    "text": "being preferred so it\u0027s so that seems feasible for this use case just for the plug so in this is not a public network it\u0027s like very me control traffic or something closed and so the point is can we have a dos attack coming from the outside that\u0027s the little point that because why we drop so is one reason is not to fill the buffer of the queuing of there now if this cannot happen so that you\u0027ve really safe to it too so as I\u0027m going to be a clue suki network but Fabian remember the details more than I do but there\u0027s also it\u0027s not just one okay network there is maybe the North American power there\u0027s a European part and how do you connect those get together and those kind of things so it\u0027s not just a simple slab networks but the security thing has definitely come up with few times in discussions so Viktor Murano so just to build on on the conversation that\u0027s going on in the room I\u0027ll encourage the group to to really have a read it\u0027s it\u0027s an easy read and it\u0027s a lot of food for thought you will find implications also on the applicability of the pub sub that has been proposed you will find implications in this multi regional network or mobility thought on how you would do that best or some proposal on the draft but it\u0027s not necessarily immediately using things like DDT so there\u0027s a lot of thinking that that can go into this so so I think if nothing else it\u0027ll inspire maybe even some other drafts so please all read the draft now we have a remote presentation actually thread we come remotely under stage I will put this do you have me now Luigi yes we do okay so some history about this draft is that it was first presented at the lisp working group back in in Prague IETF 99 and it\u0027s called a simple BGP based mobile routing system for the aeronautical telecommunications network there\u0027s going to be an IP prefix per airplane the airplane is a mobile internet of things a BGP based routing system in a hub and spokes arrangement with a core autonomous system in the middle and hub autonomous systems out at the datalink service provider sub networks mobility of traffic engineering and the stubs stable routes in the core and it\u0027s multi link capable so where you see the airplanes having multiple links into the aviation data like sub networks that\u0027s the multi link aspect of it next "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:34:00",
    "text": "chart I\u0027m still waiting to see the next chart there it is so in the edges we have what\u0027s known as the Aero ipv6 mobile networking services again the airplane is a mobile ipv6 network I could have millions of addressable Internet of Things entities onboard and it can connect to multiple data like simultaneously like SATCOM L Dax AeroMax 4G 5g and others we have traffic engineering for inbound and outbound datalink selection some of the data that would be carried would be C PDL CCS per controller pilot datalink in occasions and it\u0027s a essentially a commanding control for your traffic controllers to talk to the airplanes voice and video might go over comm and we might spread traffic over different datalink types based on the traffic type we can use multiple links simultaneously replicate traffic across multiple lengths for fault tolerance but the most important thing is that the airplane can always be tracked by its my pv6 prefix and communication sessions survive mobility and data link data rate lake handovers next chart please still waiting to see it it\u0027s a lag here I\u0027m sure there\u0027s some delay in slice yeah and the the main architectural change since the last version that I I gave in in Prague is that we developed a new architectural a construct called the arrow proxy the arrow proxy sits at the datalink subnetwork border router and it acts the same as for an enterprise network web proxy so inside the datalink sub Network the client airplane interacts with the proxy in the same way that it wouldn\u0027t interact with the server in the outside world outside the sub Network the server interacts with the proxy in the same way that it would interact with the client and ipv6 neighbor discovery control messages are proxied in the manner suggested in IRC and i40 861 so that\u0027s that\u0027s the main architectural change and it\u0027s it\u0027s it\u0027s a big component of the architecture now the diera proxy and and that\u0027s all I have for presentation materials as as Rashard just mentioned we did have this discussion that the the last ICAO meeting and there\u0027s going to be another meeting coming up in May yeah in in Montreal to talk more about the arrow and the Lisp approaches okay there is an in comment under a question no okay thank you very much Fred thank you "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:37:06",
    "text": "Dina this works without severe it takes few seconds good to set up the weight with this at least in my case now it\u0027s too long so what I did last time was I just okay we presented this this morning in energy and it\u0027s just kind of a repeat it was high-level because not everybody was familiar with lists but I think you guys will so Colin and myself got together and said how can we bring applications these centralized applications together with a network layer that can be decentralized as well and that\u0027s the basis of this talk we\u0027re going to talk about how we can be centralized the mapping system and it turns out that we have the ideas are relatively simple and most people will get it and we didn\u0027t have to make any protocol changes you have to make some implementation changes depending on what set of protocols you use okay so the problem statement is what if lists best X TRS didn\u0027t have to depend on a third party in other words go out and talk to map servers in a mapping system what if this affects the hours could multi-home in Rome to inform each other about there are look changes rather than being notified by the mapping system and what if xt hours could be their own mapping system okay so let\u0027s build a purely democratized into centralized control plane and as always in my presentations green\u0027s green is the IV\u0027s and red is our looks when we refer to address our links so everybody in here pretty much knows what the manthang system works like this is just showing how the east and south lisp sites are registering to the right mapping system in the north and west are registered to the left one and how the mappings between the eid space two locators here are registered and we know that we\u0027re depending on infrastructure that\u0027s inside the internet or in our local space so what can happen though is that maybe these sites have better connectivity and usually it is via wireless and so maybe the south and the east on the same Wi-Fi network or they can communicate through "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:40:07",
    "text": "local towers because they\u0027re geographically close or have some reference of locality but what happens if we have a situation where they really don\u0027t have internet access so how could they keep roaming how can they keep keep changing their outlooks and notify each other so they can keep encapsulating in these backdoor networks that can run so as you guys know today is that basically when we register these mappings we basically send a ID prefixes and our look mapping and we send it to each one so they\u0027re configured as unicast addresses and me either do it via UDP or we do it with TCP and pretty pretty straightforward stuff that we\u0027ve been doing for a long time so let\u0027s see if we could decentralize the map server okay what if each xti was a map server themselves and what if each xtr could map register to each xtr the mapping system would then always be synchronized because they\u0027d be all telling each other all of their mappings and then the xtr could be a map resolver for itself since everybody has synchronized mappings you don\u0027t have to go to an external map resolve you just have to basically send a map request to yourself or do something internally if you want to make it faster so let\u0027s first define a mapping system and what a consolidated or decentralized mapping system could look like a consolidated mapping system is identified by a multicast group let\u0027s say let\u0027s just make that a fundamental definition and then the the XT hours that are part of the same mapping system will join the same multicast group there\u0027ll be receivers of the group because they join it and they\u0027ll also send to the group so it\u0027s not all one-to-many it\u0027s a many from any sort of multicast relationship the map registers are then sent to the group in that therefore all xt hours that are joining to that group will receive the mappings and then we get efficient distribution of these map registers because if the underlay supports multicast the XT I was only sending out one map register and the underlay is replicating or kidding to all the places if the underlay doesn\u0027t support multicast we could do head end replication by using signal free ignore thei cast so what happens there is that the map register from the control plane would be sent down and the data plane would know if there\u0027s underlay multicast or not and when it\u0027s not it would do an SG lookup according to the signal free spec to find out who all the etrs are and it would head and replicate the whole okay this seems to be a slight difference between what\u0027s in a draft and what you just said and that this seems to say there is a multicast group that is all the XT ours are just very analyst mapping system yes the draft seems to talk about the XT RS forming peer groups and for a multicast among those peer groups and this is the peer group is all the X TRS okay peer group is all the XT ours yes I have concerns about the scaling it up but I at least understand how it works so if all the X tears if "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:43:07",
    "text": "want to encapsulate well let me explain how it works first and you jumped jumped ahead right let me explain how it works and then I\u0027ll answer your question so here we have three sites that are on the left hand side that are part of the same mapping system there one three and five and the registering there eid-prefixes based they are all join to multicast group 224 one one one they send their map registers 2 to 4 to 24 for 401 image mapping in the mapping system the right-hand side is just another set of XT I was doing ipv6 that are building their own mapping system okay so that\u0027s fundamentally how it works so in this case mapping it to the spec we would say that 1 3 and 5 are all part of one peer group if that wasn\u0027t the case and we wanted one in 3 to be only in part of that peer group and 5 would still have connectivity the XTS 1 and 3 then all we would have to do is send map request messages to the multicast group and when you send man 3 quest messages to the multicast group what happens is 1 \u0026 3 would receive the request and they both would respond so there\u0027s ways Joel that you can not be part of it and have the peer group just be a set of map servers so we specify in the spec that a map because can send to a multicast group what we haven\u0027t specified is n messages come back is that a good bad thing can we scale it better because there\u0027s no election mechanism between 1 \u0026 2 me to say I\u0027ll answer the map request or the other one so do you guys cuz they\u0027re using anycast instead of multicast for their request the the problem is if you are in a situation where you have the internet and you\u0027re using it what we wanted to work for also is in neighborhoods that maybe you can all your connectivity is lost to the system and so you need to auto-discovery each other because XT hours are going to be added and deleted and so by using any unicast address there\u0027s no way you can auto discover things don\u0027t forget normally how we auto discover things is using multicast later use directory services well if you use directory services you\u0027re depending on the third party right so if I am always configured that you\u0027re my next-door neighbor and along he\u0027s going to use you as a map server then we can use our and then Padma has another neighbor that is a map server and we use the exact same IP address and therefore it\u0027s anycast I\u0027ll get you a key we\u0027ll get your neighbor right and so we could do that but but that means you\u0027d have to reconfigure coordinate I mean we want this to work just like a cryptocurrency where work of a peer-to-peer network where everything is pretty self discovering like mesh networks that\u0027s the whole point we\u0027re basically buying the applications from the cryptocurrency world and trying to build it here now it kind of looks like a routing protocol but it\u0027s really "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:46:08",
    "text": "not because it\u0027s done over the top for just multi casting things with efficient distribution right tell Robert so when you talk multicast you\u0027re actually talking real a multicast in this case right the the XT ours Class D addresses or FF : : / eighth and ipv6 and so the multicast service model is available for this control plane yes okay so my impression is multicast may or may not be available in most networks I worked in two really large provider networks in hand I know a lot of provider networks don\u0027t have it yeah you missed that so we\u0027re doing something different there right my point there if the underlay does not support multicast we can do head end replication by taking multicast packets and encapsulating unicast that\u0027s with this signal free multicast does okay so if I\u0027m doing that replication then what\u0027s the point of multicast if under a map-request why not just send it to one because you don\u0027t know who to send it to see the thing is is I need to send you a map register but I don\u0027t know your are low well the whole reason I\u0027m running the mapping system is because I want to discover your outlook so you\u0027re trying to register here trying to register with everyone simultaneous only everyone who your are looks are essentially and when they change you you know what happens if they miss the unreliable multicast messages you send them periodically or you want to or you run a reliable multicast transport protocol which could be added to this in the future yeah but you start piling on contacts I can understand this in a small case of a moderately small set of things which want to use lists which are all on a common fabric which supports multicast so that all the scaling properties working all the benefits work but as a general mechanism this seems like it\u0027s going to need so many complexities by the time you\u0027re done for the general deployment case well we\u0027re not saying not saying as a general mechanism and I\u0027ll show you the use cases for targeting okay but the draft doesn\u0027t tell you what these cases you\u0027re targeting what what\u0027s that the draft doesn\u0027t tell me what these cases your company fine well you try to keep marketing materials out of the draft right yeah but I leave usage okay I had a small question here how you discovered the multicast group you had to join the multicast group is how an excuse and now I have to join that\u0027s configured for my configuration but if you could configure that you could configure something else keep 1xt are running all the time and give his address you don\u0027t know if the xt arm is gonna be on your side of the partition or not that\u0027s the problem if you pick if you always pick somebody then you might as well just statically configure all "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:49:09",
    "text": "the are looks and the map cache entries and don\u0027t even run a mapping system and that can be possible too but if you configure static mappings with our looks and they want to move around and change there are loops you have a problem so that\u0027s why you need multicast for the dynamic discovery okay what are the benefits well the XT our end on each other and they already do if they want to talk to each other so it\u0027s not creating a new dependency the truth there\u0027s no authentication there\u0027s no there\u0027s no there\u0027s no authenticated delegation you can all you can authenticate to each other as participants yes but you don\u0027t have any delegation or authenticated delegation of the Aggies in the system so if you use our ECDSA draft the instance ID is part of the signature so you can verify the signature so if somebody if you try to register that to me that\u0027s a different approach from authenticated delegation okay you\u0027re allowing what XT hours are allowed to your you\u0027re basically not creating an input filter on saying I\u0027m not going to receive something from that neighbor over there even though I don\u0027t know if it\u0027s Joel or Luigi right the thing is is you will register by signing the map register and then I will look up in our database the public key and I\u0027ll verify the signature to make sure that it\u0027s Joel that\u0027s allowed to join this particular multicast group in this instance ID this this other second demon dimension you need to know the multicast group okay by configuration and you need to have the public key all the people that could potentially join this group so am I wrong you do and the public keys are registered and they don\u0027t have to be authenticated registering a public key is harmless right the question is is using it and what you\u0027re verifying that signature data is what\u0027s the precious stuff that now we found that today a question of scalability because yeah such mechanism but for beep deployment is complex understand so in this case there\u0027s no third party trust or dependency that exists other than and each other and the map-request is the map-request lookup is pretty low lane sees because it\u0027s a local operation you don\u0027t have to send it to a third party could I finish a slider or do you have a question yeah it\u0027s on the second are these are better than the second bullet point nor throw party the way I understand it and maybe I\u0027m wrong is that actually you have full trust right you are trusting all the participants on your multicast group there\u0027s no way to verify what they are telling you all they are right or not well if I want to make a phone call to you and you tell me your phone number I have to believe you at your phone number if I want to talk to you that\u0027s why yes you yes you\u0027re trusting each other but if you want to talk to each other you have to make sure "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:52:09",
    "text": "who you want to talk to is the one who\u0027s giving you the mapping but you can verify that with the signatures right but how do you verify with a symmetric how do you verify so how do I know that do I\u0027ll integrated for a certain week okay so let me explain how so our role in a neighborhood we lost Internet connectivity we want to talk on our radios to each other where in some signal range so we know that we can get packets to each other so what happens is we all register our public keys to this multicast group address and so they what we what the what we\u0027re registering is a hash of a public key to the mapping system with public-key and these are the nets and that\u0027s happening just without any signature this is like a configuration what\u0027s the the hash of the public key how do you receive it by its by configuration you create key pairs up front yeah and then part of running in the ECDSA authentication draft that Eric and I published you you sign it using the private key or some signature data that includes the hash of the public key and the instance ID and then that map register goes to the other everybody and they verify it by looking up the public keys that they have local in their database because it\u0027s been distributed yeah but they are division of that map registered is done with the shaky right so you need to authenticate who is registering right it can be done on a shared key or no key depending on how open you want it to be right everybody in the same neighborhood that plans on having a crater or earthquake or something could be pre-configured with the share key if that\u0027s not there you\u0027re gonna say anybody can register their public key and the answer is that\u0027s fine they can but it doesn\u0027t mean it\u0027s it needs there\u0027s nothing wrong with Jen registering a public key to the system other than you\u0027re worried about that Eric and I can say they probably keep it they need to be you right right but you mean you have to guess it too right you have to guess my public you guessed I registered another a public key that I just generated associative 85 a key and I\u0027m telling everybody at MB no and then everybody what\u0027s dino is Dino the eid yeah no because if you register if it\u0027s registering ipv6 address that\u0027s the eid as well okay because in the EDC in the public after you are using a ID that are public keys yes okay but what you are registering is a Kryptonian the crypt of Eid is a hash that was okay that was oh so you guys are saying that if I was registering an ipv4 address it would be a problem okay okay "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:55:11",
    "text": "XT ours then build and send one map register for NXT is so that\u0027s important because the distribution is being done by a routing layer versus building separate messages so really the control plane it just has to build a single message even though it\u0027s going to many places the distribution is being done at the network layer a management is pretty simplified because you have all it by accessing one XTL you can get all mappings very similar to link state protocol so you don\u0027t have to you know rest into all the so because today the mapping the third party mapping system is a shard where each map server is doing horizontal partitioning of the of the mappings so if you wanted all the mappings in the mapping system today you\u0027d have to go access all the map servers I don\u0027t know why anybody would want that but I get well depends if you want to sell it I guess you could so this is pretty much like peer-to-peer networking but it\u0027s being done at the network layer okay so here the high level use cases we believe that this can go with cryptocurrencies where maybe mining pools could be associated with a multicast group and and we want the miners to be in their own mapping system and it\u0027s closed and authenticated maybe we want certain sets of wallets to talk to certain miners or certain peer-to-peer networks so we think we could do all this without relying on a third party emergency networking is the use case I just mentioned where you have a neighborhood where you lose there\u0027s a hurricane or earthquake and you lose connectivity to infrastructure but you have wireless connectivity and you still want to roam around between if you have local LTE or Wi-Fi direct or something like that you want to do that in data center applications and IOT edge computing stuff we\u0027re going to find micro services that we\u0027re going to launch containers bring them down and they may change whether they may move while you bring them up and go down and so we might want the decentralization mapping system to me among those things we think there\u0027s going to be some use cases for deploying routers and stuff in space where we think there will be some software-defined satellite type applications that we could use this as as well and it just kind of falls in with the general shareable economy apps where you want to pay for renting out resources to people either bandwidth CPU whatever routing frequency or whatever so we did this in a brief demo we used three thousand containers Joely Joely we used three containers each running whispers that xtr and the doctor the docker container stuff did not do it multicast in the bridging we actually had the bridge turned off and so the XT eyes were doing head end replication just to show that we can use the retrieves that they actually had to be pre-configured with the addresses of all the other X TRS absolutely not how could "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:58:14",
    "text": "they replicate to something they didn\u0027t know watch xt is register okay so the demo where the demos doing is they the XT arthritis tur ipv4 eid-prefixes and a name as the div okay so here\u0027s an example of the first container and n1 does one on 1/32 and to dusty so you see they\u0027re all sitting there so this is showing the result okay and I\u0027ll explain how the result is achieved this is the second one that obviously has the same set of entries and then this is the third one well what happens to twenty four one one one because that was the only thing that was configured was the multicast group and so what they did is they started sending their map registers to 224 one one one now how you would strap it is you first send it to yourself and then that gets added to this and then once that happens all this guy needs to know is about one other guy and that\u0027s we have even one other guy how does he learn anybody else by myself all you all you have to do is one other guy let\u0027s see you need huh you\u0027re saying there\u0027s a circular dependency yeah he got out of the circular dependency I believe you did yes but I can\u0027t guess how so the way I did it first was I first so the map was configured to be 224 101 27001 rawhide kay so we sent the register to ourselves and we got the first and then I can\u0027t remember the configuration because I evolved a couple times I\u0027m the same well we were trying to show where we were using the list beta plane to solve the problem as well but but yeah clearly if two 24:01 when one was available on the on the local area network which it can be you know a lot of times these radios were in layer 2 so maybe in the emergency situation you just defend them but you don\u0027t want to really necessarily depend on the layer to overlay that would be a bad thing and that\u0027s not we\u0027re not doing eval to overlay here to realize multicast it\u0027s doing the layer 3 ok ok so this is just showing here that when they all join to 24 so this is just showing that for the our looks once I have to have them I can replicate how do "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "02:01:14",
    "text": "you get them in the first place sorry so for the question of comments take it offline because we are over time our contact on the mailing list ok thank you very much see you next time immemorial it\u0027s like these caves get the run towards yes "
  }
]