[
  {
    "startTime": "00:00:09",
    "text": "and I have a cocoa chair what a helpful thing I can but not out of the speaker I want to hear you out of so let me see if I can switch that yeah my problem on my end let's see make sure it was working hello Alexis we'll let people trickle in for a bit longer"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:03:03",
    "text": "foreign to get going boy the delaying on muting is impressive yes um why don't we get going um I hope everyone has had a chance to read over the note that I sent out yesterday and if you haven't looked uh Brian Carpenter mentioned that he's not going to be able to attend uh so sent his own comments on those um we'll start by mentioning although I hope I don't have to display that this is an ietf meeting and therefore the note well is in effect so all of ietf processing procedures including I well"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:04:00",
    "text": "it's not an IDF meeting actually it's an rswg meeting but we operate under the note well which means that you are participating and contributing and IPR rules may be engaged as will um uh Behavior rules and all of the other processes and procedures that we engage in if you've got questions about that let me know otherwise basically Russ and I chatted yesterday as I mentioned with uh Ecker to sort of do the transition to the new chair and welcome Russ thank you for uh jumping in on this and congratulations um and as far as interim for uh today and tomorrow we are basically going to open the floor to discussion of this sort of broader question of what we want out of stability out of archival out of presentation formats um my impression for the past month or so is that we've been dancing around sometimes talking across purposes and so I'd like people to sort of hone in on those questions that um I put up in that message yesterday whoever wants to jump in we can use the queue or you can just unmute your mic and if it gets messy we can go to the queue but um Joel go right ahead thank you Pete you did raise interesting questions in that email and it made me think so thank you to start with but I'm not at all sure that the questions actually get us where we need to go because where I ended up was"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:06:01",
    "text": "thinking about all the ways the hypothetical you laid out could go wrong having nothing to do with the question you were trying to raise because the difference between pre-generated renderings and we're going to render them on the Fly for all of them has very different impacts for how things go wrong in other regards and I simply have trouble therefore using that as a paradigm to figure out what do I consider stable I do think we had agreed that re-rendering when Rel when useful was okay that was in the rules we wrote before that we didn't say just we render them all the time I don't know if that would fall within it or not because I'm not sure it's a good idea in and of itself and therefore I'm not sure I can get to would it be within the rules thank you and and you know I I put the hypothetical out there that way simply because and notice I I did say in hypothetical let's say that the the um that the production Center discovered determined that it would be a lot cheaper and a lot more efficient and that it would be incredibly useful right we were going to premise that what I wanted to get an idea of from folks was whether you thought even in that scenario it wouldn't be a good idea for other reasons um Jay go ahead thanks so I didn't have quite the same um view as Joel but I I did I did feel that about the first question um the questions um two three four and five I thought were um good questions but the one I had too many sort of um oh what about this what about that how about those hypotheticals"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:08:01",
    "text": "that that was the one that just seemed to be really stretching the um hypothetical bit um so uh it's a more understanding about what you thought you were getting at with question one would be I think helpful for me to understand it so um question one was the was the thought experiment right um what I want to what I was drilling down into was um at least from Martin's proposal and Martin can correct me if I'm wrong at least from Martin's proposal my impression was that he sort of considered presentation to be simply um you know what people will read day to day but wasn't the essential thing that we need to save um the essential thing that we need to keep stable the essential thing that we needed to keep stable was the XML and Martin's document was talking in terms of what changes could we make to XML that would be acceptable and my impression started to become after some of the discussion that some people felt that no presentation formats also needed to be stable and so I wanted to drill down on how essential was presentation to format format to people um and maybe there's different levels but sort of to get into what is the policy statement we want to make because the policy has always been the XML stable period and nothing further and I wanted to see if we could drill down a bit so go ahead Jay yeah so um thank you so ultimately I I feel that these questions are in in an inadvertently coming from the wrong direction that they're coming from the view of The Producers rather than the consumers um and that we you know the the big"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:10:01",
    "text": "issue I have with a lot of the things we do about the RSA editor site and our publication is that we design it around the producers not the consumers um so it's what do consumers need and what the consumers want that are the I think the more important things are nailed down and that then drives down to some of the answers about these questions I think doing it this way around is um which is problematic for me really that's all not to say I'm not willing to do it I'm very willing to give you answers in triplicate if you want about these things but it just feels like the wrong direction fair enough um Elliot go ahead oh that's good Jay because for a moment there I thought you were you're going to be shy or something so uh thank goodness for that um I I mostly agree with Jay uh but I was now I've been trying to understand you know in the conversation sort of where Mark you know I think where the where Martin and I think also Karsten and others are are coming from you know there's a I I think there's a a desire right to increase sort of feature velocity and to provide that feature velocity across you know the existing product line when we can and at the same time right there's there's also uh a need for the tool chain to be um uh to be able to do to do that such that you don't keep you know so many Forks of the software that you don't know how to you know fix old stuff and I I feel like that a lot of the discussion has been coming from that and so before I go answering questions I I just want to get that out that I I see that as a root issue um for you know where where it comes into conflict with some of the stability discussions that Joel and I have been have been talking about and you know"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:12:02",
    "text": "just to add one little bit of flavor to that um I I don't mind us talking about wanting to get to say a place where we have that feature velocity but what I am a little concerned about is doing it too quickly so uh if we if we do things sort of step by step I think that'll be at least a little more palatable I'll stop there just to listen to I know Eric you have a probably similar view to Martin maybe different nuances and then I'm dying to hear what Martin has to say and I'm sure Alexis you have plenty to say here too so thanks Elliot go ahead Ecker and and welcome to the uh land of being able to make whatever comment you feel like without having to be neutral exactly I'm preparing my complaints with the chairing um um you know offline um so um I'm not sure I'm ready to answer these questions just yet but I think I wanted to maybe try to see if we can level set on some some general understanding so I think um the first thing I would say is I think like what people consume and what their authors basically review is one of the presentation formats now probably not all the the people consume all of them obviously the authors in my experience review one um um and maybe glance at the XML but I don't think like you know I certainly in the entire time I've been I mean I'm in ITF I don't think ever hey Richard myself the XML was like doing what I thought it was a success by running it through the formatter and seeing what the output was um so I think that if anybody like really disagrees with that I think that you could still speak up um um uh so I think that's just like I think that's actually an assertion about like about the way things behave um um the second I think um uh uh me more conversional thing but I think still a plausible assertion is that um you know uh if things are not treated as if they have to be um uh never change um then the stakes are screwing up or lower and so um to to maybe this circle is a little bit to your hypo"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:14:00",
    "text": "um uh um you know uh if it is the case that we like re-render you know that you really render every time and people just about to remember every time then if you score the rendering once or twice and like someone catches it like that's like not the biggest crisis in the world um um you know uh I mean it's worth noting he's like web servers they could like they did contaminated I think it's really wrong date at any time I mean like you know the minute you allow the data to change at all um uh then there's always a chance that the summary rendering will produce will produce errors and unless we have some sort of like you know Ledger or something Insurance that's all the same there's always sometimes there um so um uh so I think you know while I'm not sure how I feel about this um typo of like costing your rendering um I guess I do think that if we can uh if we persuade ourselves that that the presentation always ever change at all um and then there's a process for doing that that can be exercised like in in situations other than extremists then the caught then the cost of error in a rendering um will come somewhere that's helpful thanks uh Martin Europe um I think I think at this point largely aligns with mine um the the sort of underlying philosophy that I think we managed to capture reasonably well here which is that um the interpretation of seven nine nine zero and and friends from from my perspective is is one that when the XML is the same but ecker's point about what people consume and use and whatever is is um totally relevant here there's a number of um cut points in this and Pete I think you've really taken the the extreme one in your note which was to say that the um you know the renderings can change anytime I think uh what I'm what I'm saying from the discussion is that people are looking for somewhat more stability from those things or at least some ability to"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:16:02",
    "text": "go back in time and find those those versions of things that were rendered in a particular way at a particular point in time just because we wanted to make sure that that's absolutely the right thing to do um there was a mistake or something like that but um what I really want to get toward is an understanding that we have um two layers of things one one is that mistakes in the presentation format whether they come about as a result of tools or um external factors can be corrected relatively cheaply and having a discussion with the RPC about doing precisely this because there are a number of errors in the presentation of existing rfcs um and um also the fact that we can take an XML document and whenever it was published and used the the modern tools to process them we don't force someone to go and find a copy of XML to RFC from the time at which that particular RSU was published and used that in order to ensure that they get exactly the right whatever it is and that means a little bit of care but I think if you look at the the sorts of things that John was proposing here that's exactly what this group is good for is understanding exactly the extent of which um the changes the making will have and then deliberate about those those changes cheese thanks that um I am tempted to add to the list of questions something about um you know a hypothetical if we find errors in the presentation that do not and it's not narrow in the XML it's an error in the presentation is that okay and what ought we do about that"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:18:00",
    "text": "um but yeah thanks that's helping me Alexis hi um yeah so I I guess I'm seeing this as two completely separate issues one is the re-rendering of access formats not the XML re-rendering of access formats and we already have done that we need to be able to do that it would be ridiculous not to do that um and uh for many reasons uh you know having errors show up that are format errors or you know that end of things or you know there's new accessibility standards that we need to meet or there's you know we want to change the way that the HTML looks or you know whatever it is right to the idea that we can't change the access formats to me is kind of absurd and as long as we are kind of keeping dated versions of them uh which is kind of an easy and already solved issue I don't see any problem whatsoever with doing that and this is not the group of people that's going to do stuff willy-nilly so I'm not too worried about like let's just change it because it's Thursday that doesn't seem like a reasonable fear the the bigger question to me is can we change the XML which I feel like we don't really get into in this um in I don't know if that's something that you want to actually talk about here I I guess if we start to come to some consensus about presentation formats um and that they're changeable but not because the breeze blew out of the South and I have an itch in my left ear um you know I think that helps me to sort of move along to the question of okay what about what if anything about the XML can change over time and what are the criteria for that um it also leads me to believe that"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:20:00",
    "text": "there's policy that can be written about presentation formats that I don't think is solidly written at the moment um so yeah I I do think we get to the question of what's changeable in the XML a lot of my questions were really about people seem to be going back and forth about issues that seem to have to do with presentation and not the XML itself yeah I mean the only questions you answered here you asked here about XML was what are the upsides and downsides right like to to changing it um to me the the biggest downside of not changing it is in shrining errors uh making the old XML versions hard to use in the future it makes it harder for us to manage the Corpus in a sensible way um I like it's a kind of all downsides to me the only upside to not changing it I guess is that you you don't have the potentially introduced errors in content that are possible but not certain it seems mostly down like uh changing the XML seems mostly upside to me in a controlled manner obvious thanks Jay thanks so look for changing the presentation format that could I I could see three reasons why why you might want to do it and I think it's important to start with those reasons um One is because there's an error in the underlying um data I the XML from which the presentation format is derived a second one is because there's an error in that rendering of that specific presentation thing and the third one is because um we have chosen to enhance the um that rendering in some way unique to that"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:22:01",
    "text": "rendering okay so for example with HTML say we've decided to add doubling or metadata to it for example or something around that that is not about the the ROC content it's about the metadata around it um and I think when we get to those type of things that then tells from those reasons that drives the views about how often or how we can change because we that there's you know though if those are the only reasons and we then well actually sorry let me be clear if we take that nothing in there drives us towards any particular frequency of changing or anything like that um if we look externally then at other things about what people expect from rfcs in terms of stability trustworthiness Integrity that kind of stuff that's when we then get to the answers about how quickly we can change these things or how often we should change these things um does that make sense that that's the the path we need to be taking to answer these questions from my perspective anyway Martin go ahead I've got questions but go ahead and yeah so this this question of well we made a mistake we need to fix it I think it's a lot easier in in a world in which we have a process by which changes are possible and um I think the the point of the draft is to describe the process whereby changes are possible in the XML become possible uh and and that's something that's um Robert points out in the chat may actually be necessary for all of the existing rfcs because there are timestamps in those that are not tagged with the time zone but um Pacific time"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:24:01",
    "text": "in some way uh this is not inconsequential to all of the display of those documents probably um but it has implications for people using the XML in other ways um I think a lot of what we're talking about here is um outside of what I believe to be the um the policies that we'd set out for this group and I would I think this is probably an important point to discuss I think the generation of renderings from XML is something that this group should not Express opinions on or should uh explicitly disavow um in the extreme um and this and then maybe maybe in in like the I'm willing to go as far as saying that this group is um probably in a better position to say when we're done and set some some ground rules for the renderings but nothing nothing much and leaving that to operational practice RPC policies rather than than this group's policies um that was my interpretation of 79 90x but um I'd be interested to see what others do anybody want to speak to that my cat apparently does which is well I'll keep muting um if I can back up to Jay's separations I like those um and if I look at"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:26:00",
    "text": "I'm not sure I I want this group to be entirely hands up but it mostly hands off of of making rendering decisions the only um I'm going to sound like a broken record so I'll just say this again and then I'll stop saying it the only thing I ask is that we be incremental in our approach so what I liked about your questions Pete was that you sort of Hit the polls if you will and you know it goes back to you know the old Leslie Daigle thing what does good look like right and if we decide that you know good it means that we can change the renderings we have the you know in all of those three categories we might have different rules for how we change them in those categories and I think that's okay and as long as we take it incrementally uh to get there and we start with it easy and when we take on the medium and then we do work on the hard right uh you know I think we can probably get there at a reason you know at a reasonable Pace but we get some operational experience under our belts in terms of how we do this and we you know when we when we started this discussion you know the draft read a little bit more not not the way that Martin intended it to and you know I took it in a way that he certainly didn't intend it and where where you know we we would have to do exactly what you said in your message right re-render everything all the time and that that certainly wasn't his intent um so if we take things at a certain Pace I I don't think I I think that's a good way to go um the other aspect that we should just capture though is how we reference our works how those references remain stable in terms of what what they are um and and also readable right if a reference becomes a hash we're in trouble"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:28:03",
    "text": "I wanna uh before you uh totally leave us Elliot I wanted to push on your use of the word we and ask about Martin's question which is should we as a working group be setting policy about um you know rate of change Etc and so forth or should we leave that mostly to the RPC and give broad guidance yeah in general I I agree that we should be giving broad guidance but uh you know we certainly don't want to be involved in every change uh but we might want to start by saying um let's try a few specific bit you know if they're people want to do big changes maybe the first couple of times bring them to the art to the rswg right so we see what that's like and then we get a feel for what we have to pass judgment on what we don't have to pass judgment on one of the problems we have is we have a whole new it's not as new as it was right but we have a relatively new structure right and so we need to learn how to use it and I don't want to get into the rpc's business too much right certainly if they spot errors then then they should feel free to correct I don't see you know especially on individual drafts uh individual rfcs uh you know I myself we have this big discussion on RFC interest right Martin filed a bug against Netscape in terms of a rendering I actually did the same and got duped because I then spotted Martin's bug um you know those sorts of things where we might have to re-render a small number of rfcs because of that or even a large number of rfcs so long as it's done with great care where there's an error I'm almost I'm pretty much okay with that we start talking about re-rendering in order to add new"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:30:01",
    "text": "features I would like to just pause before we do that and see how the rest of the re-rendering process works first okay um oh Rich decided not to be in the queue so Joel go ahead okay so trying to take apart the subtleties of what was asked as long as we stick with the notion that the content of the XML let's not worry about the exact details we'll come back to that in a moment but the content of the XML is the definition of the content of the RFC then I think we should stay as far away from controlling or talking about policy on the rendering as practical there may be some Corners where we have to say hey don't go overboard but in general we should be staying away from it the RPC and the tools folks have to work out what has to be done have to fix bugs if things don't work if things get rent or wrong Etc so as long as we stick with that premise but I'm I'm specifying that caveat over again because it is very clear that there are folks who don't want to stick with that premise and if we change the premise then the whole question of rendering suddenly becomes much more important and exactly how we change the premise determines what we need to have policy about and I I don't want to speculate as long as we take that view I do think we still need should allow changes to the XML which do not change the content of the of the RFC um I don't actually think we need to go retrofit date time time zones into the old ones I think that's a bad example heck we had ones that had only months in them it's okay the world didn't stop because you didn't know exactly what day in February of that particular year the document was published it won't stop"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:32:01",
    "text": "because you didn't actually know for a hundred percent provably certain what time it was really published hex we don't even know what time it was really published time zone is a Mark we put in it to to give a reference I have no problem with putting in time zones in the future but I don't think there's any need to go back and fix the XML for that on the other hand if we're not going to be able to use that dag postal Line library we have to do something so we can render stuff that's a real problem I'm not going to pretend it's not but we should be focusing but from where I said it's well things that have to be fixed that do not change the semantic content of the RFC okay we grudgingly allow them to be fixed in the XML changes to I think we lost did everybody else lose Joel I lost Joel I can't hear him either okay now thank you yes go ahead Joel uh just the last sentence disappeared you you actually were fine until moments before I said that okay then then don't worry about it it looks like Jay and you folks heard the point I was trying to make and I don't need to repeat myself good good uh uh you're back in the queue go right ahead okay um so you know the question of oh it doesn't change as long as it doesn't change the content of the XML um suppose somebody transitions suppose somebody you know and they don't want their dead name associated anymore does that count"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:34:00",
    "text": "um if you're looking to see what somebody else somebody has authored before and after they've transitioned I mean how do you you know you can't it's hard to do those kind of searches but and I was primarily a comment on minor comment the one I want to know more is I guess the question to the chairs um if we decided that HTML5 was a definitive version of an RFC can we make that recommendation to the rswg or is that out of scope for us can we say can we say no XML is not the definitive version the official version of an RFC is the HTML that was oh um I mean answering for myself that I I thought you were asking a different question um uh that to me sounds like something we could do with buy-in from the streams um I don't think we would ever deign to do that independently okay um but I think if we were that would be a significant policy change that we could theoretically make okay A little unimaginable yeah the conclusion there um that would be a change that we'd have to publish in RFC to make it okay yeah the the interesting thing I thought you were asking like um Roberts you know or what about html6 question and you know that sounded to me like well maybe we that's too minor to put in an RFC but no you were asking the bigger question of if we wanted to change what the underlying canonical archival most important Uber"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:36:02",
    "text": "whatever you want to call it format was um uh from XML to HTML uh yeah we would have to write an RFC and get everybody's buy-in and because I think that thinking about that then the question becomes who are we here to serve the people writing the rfcs or the much larger community that reads them and I think Ecker is going to support this question based on the chat but I'll I'll stop go ahead Ecker yeah so I think I am in fact um you know uh um uh in first I said earlier like the notion that like the XML is somehow the version that people rely on is applied fiction um it is not um and so I I I don't want to I mean we have a number of different people suggested canonical definitive whatever um but um you know um if you imagine some imagine some hypothetical defect in which the XML clearly said one thing but the XML RC clearly like did something else you know changed a one to a zero or zero to one and it is all the renderings um you know um we would not go and you know we would we would look extremely silly and sustain that the value was actually into XML um because that is not not how people interpret interpret the situation so um uh so so whatever like terms you wish to apply to it um the thing that is important is is a pharmaceutical consume um and as our earlier produce um so I think that that's the first thing I'd like to say um the second is it seems to me that there are um there are there really are three um uh tiers of changes one might imagine too um to these documents however um however one can see for them um one is um I think the ones that Joel will say don't change the content um namely oh uh oh sorry May fourth"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:38:02",
    "text": "years there's things that are bit for a bit identical they may say like ml but but the but that but every single rendering format is identical because like hey we added a space or something that is not non-semantic in an SML language um then there are things which um I think we agree don't change the content in any meaningful way um uh but um but but but we do change the bit for bit rendering so you know uh change a page break or maybe add a period or something like that like you know uh uh uh you know face and have a graphical error then there are things of the form that rich suggested which do change the content but not the semantics um changing people's email addresses or changing people or changing people's names and then finally you know semantic changes um and I think all four of those need to be like potentially considered I think the ones that like um I I think obviously you would need um you a week one could draw the line anywhere um if you're on a line um and currently the line is like it's like at the very bottom right you know like you can't even um and we're talking we line upward um uh I think you know um I don't think it's a secret that I um that I probably drawn between semantic and content uh semantic and like and like text um um but um but I think you can run that anymore but as I say uh and of course if you consider clear the line being drawn both in terms of the um of the um of the input format and the output format so um I think you know one could easily have a position that said um you can make any change actually you want the XML as long as it doesn't have any any Downstream changes on on the rendering format be a coherent position um Martin go ahead level I'm kind of okay with with echo's position here which is like we should we should make it the thing that people use the problem is that there's no one thing that people use and I'm also kind of I think at the view that we should probably"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:40:00",
    "text": "do this incrementally and and do small steps at a time and I heard Joel basically earlier saying exactly what the draft that I wrote attempts to say and so I think that if we if we try to concentrate on those questions we would get ourselves a little bit further in this conversation I think Echoes ultimately right people read the text on HTML version so I don't know how many people read PDF but um that's another another problem um the uh the questions that I think are most important in this context are understanding uh what guidance we give the RPC in terms of generating the the presentation formats and what changes we allow now and then in the future to the The Source format and I think that's that's where I'd like us to concentrate our efforts incrementally uh incremental changes as opposed to big ones the queue is empty people feel like what needs to be said has been said or aren't sure where to go next yeah Ecker you know we've there's been a bunch of discussion about that about the uh um that the potentialism that want to uh want to say here um I'm not sure I've had anybody say yeah Morton's draft goes too far as understood by the way people have been characterizing it here so I think it might be useful to hear are there people who think that Martin like I'm not sure if it's far enough but I'm fine I'm fine with doing it um so are the people here think more in traffic goes too far and"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:42:00",
    "text": "so as understood by is being expounded here and if so let's hear let's show those arguments and if not then maybe we can talk before something like I like that so are are there folks who think that Martin's draft goes too far Elliot go ahead so um I just want to back up and say yeah I I had had some concerns with Martin's draft um I don't know if you've updated it recently Martin you know we talked about a couple of changes and I think the key thing that I'd like the draft to reflect is what you said right let's be incremental about how we go about this it's okay to do an r a couple of RFC revs on this in my opinion in terms of policy like so that we set the policy to you know to slow start and then we we reset the policy to have a broader scope to allow more change as we get more um as we get more experience and I'd like to see that covered if we can get that in there I think I feel more comfortable about um you know just just allowing for some additional operational experience so as long as we're there uh we can I I can probably live with with what's there but uh until that's there we should be I just want us to be careful with the series that's all go ahead Jay thank you one of the things that comes in one of your later questions so I think it is worthwhile discussing is um if the underlying XML changes do we automatically have to re-render all of the renderings"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:44:00",
    "text": "um and uh going back to my view about stability I don't believe that we have to have a currently published set where all of the renderings have been derived from the you know the currently the current renderings have been derived from the current Source what matters to me is the correctness of the content so it's perfectly possible that we may do something in the XML so we may make the change the XML to add some new um uh features to it that do not affect the PDF rendering okay in that circumstance I see no reason to re-render the PDF in fact I actually think it's preferable to leave the PDF as it is rather than to re-render it and I think that's quite an important Point again about the stability of the series is is the the you know the implications of these changes and how they then run through the rest of them Martin responsibility there um I heard what he said on the the mailing list I have an open pull request against the draft that sort of tries to capture some of the intent I think I may have shared that almost uh at one point um I can make a revision to the to the draft at any time there just wasn't enough change uh queued up to really make that worthwhile but I can certainly do that if if that makes people more comfortable go ahead Eric preview respond to Jay I I think it would also be okay if we um did"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:46:00",
    "text": "not if we don't re-render all the documents the time that at the time that um that the uh the tools changed um I think that okay so I think the XML changes were documented which would be rendered that's like seems like bad practice is not too I think the tools changed uh I don't think it's necessary written anywhere necessarily um um uh um but I think I want to distinguish between I think um the Minimus changes to the output and real changes the output so concretely the outputs maybe have a time stamp in them and if nothing that changes but the timestamp then I think it's reasonable that I think it's reasonable to say well older rendering is fine but as a matter of software validity um you know the software should be regenerating every time we make a change the XML we should be regenerating all the rfcs and verifying that only diminished and intended changes were made to the outputs um because yeah it's just simply a matter of having appropriate appropriate software engineering practice I think if you do that then it'll be fine to say well you know these the only difference is the output a and output B is the timestamp we're not going to put the timestamp effectively is a fun thing to say um and then of course I will like repeat what I said earlier which is if we get comfortable doing the renderings reasonably frequently and we need to that's an issue if we accidentally inadvertently introduce a change which we didn't mean to and it looks bad um and then we're like well now I guess we'll push the rearender button it'll be fine um so I think if if we if we make we rendering a low-cost operation and it becomes less important every time foreign yeah so I actually agree with Ecker if anything's going to change in the renderings we need to re-render all of them I think that's a a really good plan um if if we don't think anything's going to change in their in the re-renderings I don't think we need to republish anything but I do think we probably need some amount of um you know say a corpus of things that we think are edge cases right where the kinds of documents where things tend to break uh that we do at least review um and make sure we're not inadvertently changing anything I I I"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:48:01",
    "text": "this is a very broad thing to say I don't know exactly what thing would be you know changing and and how it would change right but I would imagine that we have some known problem documents or some known problem scenarios that we could test things against when things get changed whether we publish them or not yep Jay thanks I think it's important to remember that well I don't remember I'll explain I think that re-rendering is a high risk operation and is a it is inevitably a high risk operation because I do not think that there is any practical mechanism whereby we can take two renderings of the same thing and ensure that we have not accidentally damaged it somehow the content without using a lot of Human Resources to do that I think it by the very nature of it it's not something that can be that the correctness can be checked easily automatically across that and therefore for me that makes it high risk and therefore that's something that I would suggest we have tried to avoid doing except when we have to it should not become even if it becomes a trivial thing to do technically it's still to me is not something we should be doing unless we have to can you drill down a little for me on the risk you're talking about yeah well the risk is that that the rendering the new rendering has a bug in it that misses some part of the content or something so we've had regular examples of PDFs rendered with bits missing from them okay um so we we have a there are all sorts of things that can go wrong within the rendering but detecting those is a hard"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:50:03",
    "text": "problem and that's why I don't think we should be doing it except you know when we have to if can I jump the cue on that one do people mind yeah I just want to say this is sort of the discussion that John Levine and I had right so if the and this goes and Jay you're in a really good position uh to really develop on this point which is if we have the you know if we have the automation to spot the changes and there is some automation out there if we have if we have the automation to spot the changes and we know the sorts of changes that are allowable and not you know very sort of cicd-ish if you will I think if we can get to that point that would be very nice um the tooling that I looked at I don't think it was quite at that level uh at this point but I won't claim to be the have the corner of knowledge on that so uh that that was the the discussion that John and I had online um and this is again uh if we if we start slow and we the other the other issue I wanted to mention right is we might not catch the change if we don't have that automated tooling we might not catch that change for years and also going to a point that Ecker made right if we if there is a change right and the authors aren't available right do we really or you know or if the you know the isg hazard you know turned over if it's whatever the case may be right if we don't if we're not sure about what was supposed to have been there um in the first place we could end up uh in some confusion okay thanks for letting me jump thank you okay go ahead Joe okay I think I'm going to be saying largely what Jay said from a slightly different angle we had this"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:52:01",
    "text": "discussion on the list people said we need to re-render in order to know if we worked it right and I asked how the heck would you know if you did it right because you can't tell and yes there are things you can check but you can't automatically check all of the aspects and we can't manually check each and every one so in fact a claim that we would be incurring technical debt if we don't re-render them doesn't actually seem to stand up because we've we we're not we can't avoid the technical debt by re-rendering them I am not prepared to turn the community of users of the RFC series into beta testers of our changes that is as far as I'm concerned and unacceptable I don't care that game companies do it all the time it is not the way we're going to produce rfcs as far as I'm concerned now I don't I'm not the definer but it doesn't work for me and if we can't test them actually avoid Ecker yeah so maybe maybe I tried to tease a few things apart first of all um I think there's um I'm not happy to have another word um there's re-render and there's publisher so um my position is to be clear that the system should in continuous integration re-render every single RFC and check it against the um and check it against the previously previous rendering and then throw it away it's fine um but it should regenerate it and that's probably a form of that's a form of testing for regression right and then um and I'm more than happy in the circumstances to not publish the output but you have to be running the tools um respect to J's point I'm sorry but I shall understand I don't understand the argument here like the check should be is it bit for bit identical module of"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:54:01",
    "text": "the changes we know it introduces and if the tool chain and if you're introducing if you're introducing changes the tool chain that are producing bit for bit not identical things and you didn't mean it you know problems with the tool chain and um and so like uh so so there's no ways to deal with this which is you have true you have you rerun the tools and if it's before been an ethical then you're fine it's not very familiar Nicole in your examine every single change to be sure if they're correct or not and then and then once you're once you're satisfied then you basically say okay this is now the new canonical sorry not canonical the new the new thing you guys are comparing um and um and if our system is not stable against that then we have huge software engineering problems that are much going to go beyond publication and again I'm perfectly having to publish any of those outputs um so um so like so I'm not I'm here to fight with Joel about that topic um and finally like um like we do in fact like like system is really much bigger than this um you know like web browsers run tests against web pages and with a much more complicated rendering system and verify that they're only the minimum changes in the rendering like this is a standard part of regression testing for a web browser and so the idea that like we have tools which cannot kind of verifiably produce text and HTML renderings in a way that does not change but between runs like I I don't think it's like accessible Stadium Affairs where you fix it um and uh so again it's not really a question for rwg because I'm perfectly happy to discard those about those those documents but as a software engineering matter that is not an accessible state of software engineering Joel go ahead I think Ecker just hit the the main reaction if it's just a matter of software engineering then it's not an rswg question we don't get to tell the RPC and the tools folks how to conduct their testing Ecker May well be right about what they should do for testing he knows that space Better Than I Do by a very very large margin"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:56:00",
    "text": "but it's not the rswg's business to say that the only context in which we would get to say is if we wanted to demand or prohibit republication of the re-rendered documents and as much as possible we should just stay out of it go ahead Elliot yeah um so where forgive me it's a little late here my brain's running just a little bit slower um and we do have but four minutes left so yeah so I'll try and be brief I think there's a fair amount of Common Ground here um from which we can build I'm actually pretty um uh optimistic on what I'm hearing um Eric you're you do have a lot more experience in that tooling aspect you know I like I said I had that discussion with John online if we can get to the point where we can spot the diminished changes and things like that and they really have to be de minimis I think a lot of people a lot of this will feel I'll feel a lot better about all this so I I would suggest Pete and group as as next steps right which is maybe we chart a path in terms of what what we think the you know if we know if we understand what good looks like where we understand the sorts of changes we want to allow when you sort of chart a path backwards from that say okay we're doing you know Pete's ultimate re-render-a-thon you know in in in at the end of days if you will uh doing re-rendering but not republishing at some point and then you know going backwards from there and you know what what's our first step we have to figure that out and and I don't want to micromanage the RPC but I want I want to make sure that we're also doing this at a pace where the RPC can you know learn get operational experience boy I'm"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:58:02",
    "text": "beginning to sound that like like a broken record again so I'll stop foreign just to publicly answer Robert's question in addition to in the chat room my expectation was that tomorrow is going to be continuation that Russ or I will arm wrestle over who gets to write up at least cheap minutes for uh tomorrow and continue this but I think we've stabilized on a couple of issues which is nice um so my hope is that tomorrow we will continue to get agreement on those issues from who shows up that's different um and then we'll be able to publish you know a more finished set of minutes for the whole shebang and uh and and get get some agreement on the list on that but it sounds like we're starting to uh hum in the right direction or at least in a common Direction um we are at time anybody got any last minute things administrative or otherwise all right so we have um our meeting scheduled for um of course it's not going to give me it in UTC um I can make that happen tomorrow at is it 1400 UTC someone correct me if I'm wrong did I get that right"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:00:06",
    "text": "I think it's 1300 UTC 1300 that's that is correct it is still summertime here in the US for some unknown reasoning all right so 1300 tomorrow UTC morning for some of us and um hopefully we'll get some more of the European folks to jump in at a more reasonable hour tomorrow um I think that's all I got Russ anything from you nope sounds good talk to you tomorrow see you and whoever else would like to attend tomorrow bye-bye"
  }
]
