[
  {
    "startTime": "00:00:18",
    "text": "all right it's 3 30 can I start now okay cool all right welcome to Acme all right you're off the tours I'm driving them so welcome to Acme everyone um we are missing the pink wall by the way well yeah that's downstairs and the dog keeps jumping on top of me so rather not and so this is a note 12 I'm sure you've seen mixes since it's Thursday and you've been in a meeting the whole week so we've seen it several times um as they say in the apps Sorry indeed yeah um art area um note the note well well so let's slide security area doesn't do that yeah okay um so there's a link to the agenda uh to meet Echo and for uh issues and we're going to start with Note 12 technical difficulties and mess trivia do we have note takers we do Carl is going to take notes for us good we allocated like five minutes for this and we're one minute in and we're already through that so we're ahead of time good then we're going to do document status uh talk about current work items that's"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:02:00",
    "text": "just DK node ID because there has been much progress in the other stuff and we're not going to talk about potential new work all right so uh document status well third meeting in a row that we have don't have any new rfcs the last one was published in uh September of uh last year um but we're going to break this uh bad streak because um Authority token is approved and it's going to be in the RFC and tsq so with some chance of having it uh um published before 116. okay Acme client has just been allowed to expire with uh no continued interest Ari is now a working group draft um Authority token TN auth list we've had versions nine and ten submitted since Philadelphia and still has some discusses that require a vision but nothing that seems uh to me at least major so I think we have a status on this right yeah right as for detail node ID we also have we're also going to talk about that but the latest revision is from September sure so I think we want to talk about the Acme the The Authority token in the TN loss list a little bit hi this is Remington Elio responsible Ag and uh yeah talking about the dtn one I don't know which slide kind of we want I I want to get a sense for what the plan is here because I'm starting to feel like we took this document too early so as I rewind the history we started the document then dtn changed on us we had to rev the document and then we revved it and then we were ready to"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:04:00",
    "text": "go ahead and then we decided oh wait wait there's registry stuff so we got dtn needs to make another change for us and we've been waiting a really really long time it seems like we need to rewind all the way back park it and wait for dtn to tell us how to play it so we have we have Brian doing a briefing like a five minute briefing on this in a minute okay sorry can we do the 10 th so now go back one slide sorry a little little so Acme Authority token and tianos so Authority token's good to go right we're good on that one it's the Tian auth one that's that's great yeah there's still some lingering issues there this I'm sorry this is John Peterson I don't yeah I put myself in the queue um but yeah so we do still have some work to do on that I know I've been talking to Chris went a bit this week about it and so we expect to have that shortly okay um I'm not personally editing that one but um yeah we did take our Authority so do you think shortly is like next week or next month or next year or next let's say in December December okay well that's not too far that's a couple of that's next month a couple of weeks right yeah okay because I know I'm out of pocket pretty much until then anyway so okay yeah done and it's just a question of who's whose token this is going to end up with among the author team we want to get this done right yeah yeah I mean from my side room I mean I completely concur I think this they are very small changes we just need to make some quick edits okay okay all right lean on him now so in a minute we'll talk about uh Acme Integrations there's a new version uh from September it's in a b evaluation and still revised AP needed so this one we've got expired personal drafts this is the tip Elliott Lear one so I don't know what the plan is here"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:06:00",
    "text": "and they're not is Michael Richardson in the room no so I don't know what the plan is here but I think we need to chase them a little bit um because I don't how much time does Elliot have to be posting teeth drafts anyway that's that one okay okay so uh next uh and there's Acme subdomains and no new revision and it's in my TF last call and that one should be fine I think yeah Okay so that done we can move to the to the promised dtn node ID presentation so uh could you all right Brian I think you all can drive the slides for you if that's okay with you yeah either way yeah uh some friends even sleep PL uh you can switch the next slide foreign so there was a dash 10 release that corrected some typos and added some uh explanations of what is the experimental nature of of this protocol and it's experimental in the sense of uh the dtn doing what it needs to do side and not experimental in the sense of um will it be usable and testable and will it properly integrate with the Acme client uh and then one last little bit is that the hash algorithms that this was referencing have made it to RFC 9054 which is good uh the issue remaining and what Roman had mentioned earlier is that um it's it's a a bit of a bookkeeping issue that is we're allocating a code point we need the place to put the code point there was an eye and a registry but it was not properly updated"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:08:00",
    "text": "in the dtn working group as actually in between the time these slides were prepared and today the dkm working group has adopted the document that corrects the Ayana registry and at this point it seems like if Acme working group is happy with this document as is and it can live in a state that is waiting in a kind of an approval cluster with the associated dtn document that updates the Ina registry then they can travel through later stages together the only thing that that other companion document does is update the Ina registry so it's very small it's uh uncontroversial in what it's doing and there's agreement that it's needed so is there is it a working group it is now yes responsible ID so we are currently sitting in this document in a halfway state it is out of the word group it's in my hand so we uh we have not yet sent it to the isg given where we've been with this document it's I'm going to keep it there until I see the dtn document progress a lot you know a little further because practically there's no difference between keeping it in Miss ref versus here and this document would get discussed on anyway for not having the kind of the Ayanna thing sorted out so it's one you know you know whatever the expression half dozen or kind of another so we're going to kind of park it uh until we move forward and I think that's a reasonable thing to do um knowing that the only dependence here is where to put the code Point not any more complicated interrelationship so the fact that there's a Code point being allocated and it's going into a registry uh that's all that matters for the"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:10:00",
    "text": "dependency and we don't care I think about the specific code point or anything right so I think we're squared away from an Acme point of view I think from a dtn point of view Stephen and I are going to go talk to somebody sometime about other other parts of dtn maybe um algorithm choices perhaps things like that um but we'll handle that offline it's obviously not an acne business so um all right so Roman's happy and it's a working group draft I think we're good we'll let it we'll let it sit for the minute it's just we have like 200 drafts sitting in like limbo at this point right we'll call it that parked with the ad right right and it's like we've got four drafts like this so it's a little weird right so no the TN drafts and the no no the it depends on what you say all what all the other drafts are this one is the only one notionally parked which is we we're waiting literally for someone else to do something that's outside the working group all the other documents we actually very concretely know what needs to get done and the power to change it is inside the working group so that's why I'm distinguishing it from the perspective of the working group yes they are all with me if you Nuance it from my perspective the actions are controllable for the working room for the other three that's fine yeah as long as it's your problem [Laughter] all right cool all right thank you so uh next up is the the devices station Brandon so I they gave me a clicker I'm not quite sure what the clicker I'll try let's see what happens with the clicker hello everyone"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:12:01",
    "text": "who knows what the clicker I have no idea what the clicker is good it does something with the USB of your laptop no it's he's got the slides and I'm driving them no that was me that was you can hold the clicker up it's like saying next slide next slide please awesome all right so uh changes from when this was presented Philadelphia um fairly small uh the first one was clarifying that in this draft we are not going to attempt to specify every single possible way you validate manifestation um which is really hard and there's a whole working group rats for that um and the second is uh there was discussion uh 114 about uh if we should reuse the identifiers from uh web authen exactly as they're specified in WC3 or if we should create a new Iron Iana registry and the consensus was create a new registry so I added the text that Carl added to his draft which is encapsulating the exact same types of attestation uh into my draft so thank you Carl um next slide please so since Philadelphia all of the discussion on the mailing list and in person has been about the encapsulation format for attestation statements slash evidence if Hank is in the room um so there's three concurrent drafts I got yelled at last year for misusing attestation terms I think the correct term is evidence but no one hold me to that"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:14:00",
    "text": "so there's three concurrent drafts uh at the ITF that all attempt to essentially do the same thing which is take a vendor specific attestation evidence Um this can be either an x509 certificate with an extension or this can be uh in the TPM case a bunch of byte arrays um and include them either in a shift your request in the case of the first two drafts or in a TLS handshake in the last draft um or middle draft is the TL Centric [Music] um it seems to everyone I've spoken with that the best course of action is to have all of these drafts use the same encapsulation format um since uh 114 um the Carl Wallace's draft has been adopted so that's actually wrong it's draft uh lamps yellow station now uh and the TLs draft has had a revision that actually now moves away from the same encapsulation format uh that the other two drafts use so this is the thing I think that needs the most feedback from the working group specifically around how do we coordinate between the different uh ITF working groups to get to the same format um and in the case of the TLs draft how do we coordinate with an external industry Consortium that is also discussing the same thing yeah do you wanna talk I only read the middle one I spent I actually spent some time with editors this week I think it goes beyond format it goes into use cases and how do we pick how do you get"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:16:03",
    "text": "a certificate versus an attestation document and whether the one contains the other or vice versa or both when you when you actually look at the use case of how to set up this whole system it becomes really complicated and you guys better coordinate these things even saying that there are use cases like iot that that need one way of doing it and and Enterprise use cases that need the other way of doing it but putting it on the table and and reaching some sort of agreement thank you yeah multiple attestation schemes use x59 certificates as containers for attestation evidence um and then those are during coded and stuck into the encapsulation um so in my draft that's borrowed from the Web author and attestation statement so it's just a seabor key value pair the key exists in the Iana registry for the attestation formats and the value is whatever vendor specific thing um I suspect long-term sticking evidence into x59 search as a container is not the desired outcome but that's the environment we currently have um I guess if there's no more discussion about this next slide so uh since uh one run four um there's actually been two implementations uh of the draft that are not by me um the first exists in buried deep inside Apple's managed device attestation feature that exists in iOS 16 and TV OS something and it also"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:18:03",
    "text": "exists in the step CA certificate Authority it's a open source Acme CA developed by small step um and I believe these two uh interoperate as of today response and that's the end of my slides is there any feedback around progressing to working group adoption or any other feedback about that station formats so I think we need to get eyes on this document right we need more review of it um when I looked at it your security section basically points to webathon which is sort of fun um I I mean we can adopt it before you're solidified with what the types are but I mean eventually they have to I don't I don't know whether it makes sense to have all like all these little disparate device attestation types right um uh Brennan um is this um do I understand correctly that there are other parts of this that need to come from other working groups all those other documents that you mentioned yeah so the draft that's at the lamps working group is very similar in concept and except instead of extending Acme it's extending CMP EST and one I forgot CMC CMC um yeah the thing is I'm seeing that they're all draft somebody um named working group rather than draft IDF not notice okay yeah and then there's nothing on here that references rats but this somehow"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:20:00",
    "text": "feels related to rats I just don't want us to end up way ahead of the rest of the ITF like on the other thing yes Richard there's nothing wrong with being in the lead you're of I'm just going to do a little Cherry from the floor and suggest that like this seems like something where the broad outlines are clear um you know the use cases clear the approach is clear there is a nuances to be worked at in terms of some of the coordination stuff it's been mentioned but I think this is more than ready for an adoption call so I'd encourage to just go ahead and call for that um I would love it to review but based on my initial review this looks good to start at yes so uh Carl I just wanted to address Deb's Point um about there are lots of different types that's that's intended this this draft is basically an abstraction layer for stuff that exists in the wild because we're not going to have a draft per thing that exists so the web authent gives us a means to say that we're supporting an apple attestation or Google at a station or a ubico at a station or what have you through that format where we diverge and I haven't read the draft yet but just from talking with the authors of the TLs they've added another abstraction layer due to a use case as mentioned a moment ago so that web often is still there but it's just bumped down one level so it's it's maybe sub-ideal but it's still one layer of this direction away from what you have here right yeah okay and then the mechanism in this draft and the draft and lamps are the same lots of plagiarism okay okay from me I should say so why don't we go to the list and ask for adoption then I think that's fair right"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:22:00",
    "text": "so anyone opposed to asking for adoption I guess not okay oh do you pardon I didn't hear you can you say that again oh sorry I asked if anybody in the room uh orange the lip has uh opposed to asking for adoption and I got silence so I guess nobody is I thought we didn't call people out and we'll uh we'll see what happens we do need more review though I think correct yes okay awesome thank you don't take the quicker with you no I know yeah I mean it's useless right so okay let's hello hello thank you uh great things from Switzerland uh I'd like to present a new proposal uh here at DNS account one uh so uh next slide please uh we already know dns01 it is an existing Challenge and it is specified in RFC 8555 uh next slide please uh basically it works with storing a random value in a txt record under underscore ahmeda's challenge uh next slide please however some people just have a DNS server that cannot easily be automated maybe it reads A Zone file from disk doesn't play well with Acme clients so a frequent setup is to have a SIM name record to a DNS server that supports an API or a database on the back end or something like that so so this setup exists uh and it has a few problems next"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:24:00",
    "text": "slide please uh one of the use cases we've heard about is a multi-region deployments where a service exists in a deployment where there are multiple regions that are independent from each other so the operators do not want any dependencies basically all but one regions can go down in the service would still be able to function next slide please another scenario we've seen is zero downtime migrations maybe someone is moving from a cloud provider for example to an on-premises setup and this migration can take months like multiple multiples of the lifetime of short-lit certificates so they need to be able to issue certificate from both the old setup and the new one uh in order to ensure that the service continues to work uh next slide please uh and in all of these scenarios uh like people don't want to have to run every UH 60 days they don't want to have to go and run search Bots there and SCP the private Keys around and do any of these things and they also don't want to have any downtime like when they do the migration they want the search to be already there they don't want to change the records and then just hope that like for a few minutes until the TLs sets can be issued traffic will be dropped and in general some of them either for compliance reasons or operational reasons they try reliability they try to have no dependencies between those regions um so next slide please uh the problem here is that if you have a cnname record it has to point to somewhere it has to point to a DNS server uh next slide uh but you cannot have two c Name Records due to how DNS works you you just can't have two senior records of points to the old and the new setup all to five synonyms one per region"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:26:00",
    "text": "um next slide please so that's why we're proposing to address these regions and a few others were proposing DNS account or one we don't intend to replace the ns01 with this this is just an additional challenge that we want to introduce next slide um this is uh what the label looks like instead of just underscore Acme does challenge it also has an ID and next slide here you can see the first point which is this this unresolved let's say comment and it is the use of the underscore there why is it not a dash um the standard works there there are no problems even if it becomes a dust the reason we did that was basically so the fields can be separated because Acme and challenge are technically the same field so we wanted to separate it visually better but there is no technical concern there like we're happy to change it if you want uh next slide please so about this ID here um uh what is it how is it generated in the next slide you can say that we've basically take the Acme account resource URL uh this is defined in the RFC 8555 and we calculate the hash of it we take the first 10 bytes and then we base 32 this this entire thing and the reason we chose the account URL is because every region or every service you use has a different Acme account so it works fairly well to separate between them if we did it pair CA it may not have been flexible and it also survives account Acme account key rollovers so you can replace the keys and you still have the same ID there and the reason we pick 10 bytes is so it's we needed something that does not have a lot of collisions it's not long enough to to create"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:28:02",
    "text": "problems with uh DNS and it's also exactly at the Block size for base 32 so it doesn't have any padding in the end like the equal signs next slide please uh here you can see another comment we received like how do we denote the first 10 bytes because in some programming languages like the last digit is excluded uh we just opted for the mathematical notation and we also Define it in the text that this means the first time bytes uh next slide please so here every region or every use case uh it can it has a basically a different Acme uh a different DNS label so you can create as many of them as you want and you can see name each one individually and have them point to your uh automatable DNS server uh next slide please um also akumi is not about only a webpki and publicly trusted cas uh so uh we wanted to check make sure that it works well for this use case uh and uh we looked at the next slide we looked at the cab Forum Baseline requirements section 32247 it allows issuance so any publicly trusted CA can use it today if they want to we don't have to go through any ballots we don't have to get any approvals it can start working today um and uh basically that's the presentation in the next slide you can see some resources uh like the the draft and the URL of the data tracker and the rest of the time about two-thirds of it I think we have for questions or comments foreign"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:30:05",
    "text": "so Richard's making comments in the chat I don't know whether he wants to come to the mic or not yeah they're all about the zero to nine notation yeah super minor stuff that there's like every answer to that is wrong um and it's just you know the question of having the text to clarify so that's not a big deal um I seem to recall we had a bunch of discussion on the list about various options here and this is the one that seems to meet all of the requirements so this this seems like reasonably put together I would be ready for an adoption call on this thank you so the question is going to be how many people have read the draft and coupled couple not so what oh yeah I'd like a few worked examples we do need to um we do need to get a little bit more review on the list I think and then we'll um be happy to ask for adoption I think yeah uh if can I add a few uh notes as well since we have some time we've posted uh something on on mdsp for Mozilla to try to get to see if there are any problems with that and they were happy with the solution and we have a working implementation in a testing environment for over two years now and in production uh limited so not available to to many people for a few months now so there is also implementation of this Baseline requirements constrain what"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:32:02",
    "text": "validation Excellence are acceptable in the webpki um is that going to require some adjustment to accommodate this uh this mechanism um now it will not in the previous slide uh you can see the section basically any value that any DNS label that starts with an underscore and it is immediately uh after the domain that you want to validate works and dns01 is the only challenge that works for wildcard certificates as well which is one of the main issues people had with uh with the other challenges so so it shouldn't require anything from the cab forum and it can be used today yeah uh Tim hellaby for digital apologies for not using the automated thing um I think you might actually have a few cab form problems that you haven't anticipated um and in particular because it looks like I just reviewed this really quickly but it looks like the uh the validation method that's for Acme basically says use 855 and 8555 says at the Acme Challenge and doesn't have support for this additional stuff that you're adding so I think that you would have to update the validation methods to allow this um okay we will have to to have a look at this one uh we this is the first time we received this feedback and we can check again uh thank you for the comment yeah uh more than happy to discuss this with you on the list and help you figure it out of course yes thank you very much to be sure to cabf have a pretty good streamlined processing something needs to go through a ballot it's it's fine yeah the ITF is slower yeah if it's something that that needs to be done we're happy to do it as well of course we just didn't think from our"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:34:00",
    "text": "interpretation that there were any uh requirements but we'll we'll discuss this later sure so seeing as nobody else is on the Queue that's the same question I asked last time um is anyone opposed to um doing an induction column this because the feedback I got in the zulip room is pretty positive but yeah seems fine and sane uh kind of gets repeated so I see no objections at least foreign okay I think we can do that then thank you thank you and with that out of the way all we're left is this is the slide do we have any other business not all at once okay seems like we're done here and we can all right have some cookies in real life right yeah and we can have cookies until six dispatch right more time to get across the hotel okay all right thank you very much thank you maybe I'll really be in the in the actual room next time you better be [Music] I haven't been in an Acme meeting in three years okay it's okay we'll see you later right you know but he wasn't in the room"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:36:00",
    "text": "yeah I was in the hotel room it's sort of he was in the hotel but he wasn't in the room it's okay [Laughter] that was not meant to be mean thanks for the notes girl foreign thank you very much okay"
  }
]
