[
  {
    "startTime": "00:00:04",
    "text": "I think it\u0027s almost [Laughter] let\u0027s apply violence mostly I thought the main thing is hope to proceed within requirements but if you have a solution craft we\u0027ve had this for a while yes yeah you know we have time we can talk more about the solution but that is not the most important today so pricing is the requirements I mean so let\u0027s gonna say we have you know we wanted to work on this long ago and we started but we have a geographical "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:03:44",
    "text": "reference at all this track no and no reference to that okay might be on a matter of taste requirements you shouldn\u0027t pick a particular solution or say that this is the solution we have requirements should independence I go there yes you\u0027re taking yes okay so this solution and then we decided okay multimodal scroll down let\u0027s try two and everyone that was working on this and hook them up yeah we are here and I know interesting all these were people that doubt so - that\u0027s a good hope "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:06:48",
    "text": "[Music] I guess the the meeting actually has started yeah we\u0027re a bit short on time here so we should get started just realize okay so I\u0027m going to partially take notes we need someone to take official notes and we can take them together if someone\u0027s willing to do that it helps you follow the discussion and keeps you interested it\u0027s anybody wanting to do that thank you Jake this is the agenda for today [Music] so quickly gonna go through them working upstairs you have a pingyang draft that is it obviously edit or skew it should be an RFC in a few weeks I would think I\u0027m not sure if it work is waiting for any other young documents is it\u0027s an acute there\u0027s a G\u0026P MLD yang draft that has been revised a bit based on young doctor input and so on must short expert review is now is that another young doctor or understand "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:09:51",
    "text": "anything yeah so I thought that there was still some issue with the young doctors that it hasn\u0027t been solved so I was waiting for that of yourself if that has been resolved in moving forward but overall with that is some design issues and how it fits into a routing models in general all right and then there\u0027s an MSD P young draft and that past working group last call and we are almost ready to go on the only slight question is some people are saying that maybe it should be an experimental document because MSTP itself is experimental so the question is whether the yang model needs to be experimental because the protocol it supports is experimental maybe our ad might have some thoughts on that Heidi again so we had some questions to the aug about this because we\u0027ve been getting yang models for Bachelorette for protocols and i think basically the conclusion there was no it doesn\u0027t have to be experimental it can be experimental if the work wants it to be experimental but you know presumably this is something that people are going to go implement and use and you know etc and it\u0027s useful for interoperability and everything else so Sam\u0027s track is okay if that\u0027s what the working was right so it\u0027s really up to you yeah so I don\u0027t think anyone really had an issue with it being Steiners track I think it was more like a circular like a question that was raised but does anyone in the room have any thoughts on whether it should be experimental or not this right now it\u0027s it\u0027s supposed to be proposed standard and unless anyone has any issues with that I guess we won\u0027t do that alright I\u0027ll check on the mailing list as well before we send it off for publication then we have the multiple upstream requirements draft that we\u0027ll discuss later today some concerns were raised by our a D and D are load balancing was the last call ended this Monday so what should we do about that yeah so this is a draft that sticks on so I\u0027ll speak to this it didn\u0027t have a whole lot of response but it did have a response to the working group last call Jake made a few comments and he\u0027s comfortable with this progressing as long as those concerns are addressed so as long as the author\u0027s addressed Jake\u0027s comments I think we are good to go with sending this off to Alvaro and the game unless anybody else has any concerns about this draft from "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:13:00",
    "text": "Cisco so I think jake has comment about some Ayana registry and that we are going to update and upload the news okay so given that and no other comments here in the room then do that and then we\u0027ll send it off the ISDN it\u0027ll be done Thanks all right there\u0027s also a G\u0026P Emily sleeping draught and that\u0027s that\u0027s almost done some slides from that later we had I working with last call on this up you up here for prefix or ipv6 next hop there were several comments that were raised and the authors are planning to to post the universe and trying to address those comments is that the improvement draft will discuss today I\u0027m explicit tracking that draft hasn\u0027t been worked on in a while so hoping that the offers will post the new works no that later otherwise we have few drafts that just got adopted since the last ITF so it\u0027s not changes since the previous verses they just got resubmitted as working group documents but the offers would be happy to receive comments and try to come up with some new version for the PFD document the offer in particular wanted us to try to get input from the offers or the different D our improvement or the BD our drafts and so on to see how this can be used for the re-election all right the last thing I want to mention is implementation requirements so the different routing area working groups all have different requirements for for drafts or RFC\u0027s and we haven\u0027t really talked much about it in this working group I feel like our requirement is basically no requirement which is the bottom one they\u0027re curious if people feel like we should do something more than that one thing we did for one Java piece was to have a like an implementation status section that\u0027s something pretty simple we could do personally I\u0027m not sure if what do you know have any formal requirements for implementations but at least knowing that implementations exist could be useful but they have people have any thoughts on this J holin I would love to have a pointer to implementations for for the the "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:16:01",
    "text": "various standards it\u0027s sometimes it can be hard to know where to look defendant so no it was no set requirement to do so but if there are implementations that\u0027s good to know about them is that what you\u0027re suggesting okay so kind of like the bottom bar stay low but a little bit sure I\u0027m fine with no specific requirement but if there are known requirements I would like to have them documented even a section that says there are no known implementations yet and perhaps a I don\u0027t know a pointer puts on the list as well idea myself all right okay so next presentation it\u0027s Carlos but it\u0027s quick so basically after this was submitted to the SG it went to another young doctor review and there are lots of comments and multiple e-mails back and forth from malicious to the draft so this is this slide basically shows what God\u0027s changed don\u0027t want to spend much time on this is better if people can go and look at it if they\u0027re interested but as you can see there were quite a few changes to the draft and there\u0027s still some well some some minor pending issues so mainly is this it\u0027s just a heads up if you care please go and look at the draft to see what has changed see if you\u0027re okay with the changes if you feel like it we could try to do some kind of formal review in the working group but yes please have a look and try to keep your posture then maybe give you a couple of weeks for for input before me but yeah there\u0027s quite a few changes all right a bit short on time here so there now go on to the most "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:19:02",
    "text": "people up streets okay I\u0027m coming when orders and presenting on behalf of my cohorts we are having this presentation just to refresh the status of the document base or figure by the comments from our ID okay so first our inference of the motivation of the draft so basically there are several situations or scenarios in current networks based on the spins from the operators that we have in the course of the draft that require new solutions because with current solution cannot be properly solve and those scenarios are documented in the draft but some posts are the one that are listed on the slide the first one multi-has wholesale offer for all services is basically when you have more than one operator incoming operator and another service provided that are offering multi COS services and you want to have the possibility of choosing from which one you get the content there are senators who work for multicast resiliency where you may have more than one of provider and you wanna be able to switch if in case there is a failure you may have a scenarios for load balancing which yes for sake of not overloading a particular segment of the network you wanna have multiple choices network merging multicast emigration there are several scenarios in the draft so current solutions or the the way this could be solved would be by using PIM into him but that has limited deployment in current networks and it\u0027s also a bit complex so that\u0027s why I deem PML be proxy with multiple absolute interfaces maybe a simple solution for this based on on the fact that the proxies are widely deployed today and and you will avoid some complexities so that\u0027s part of the motivation another part of a mutation that I didn\u0027t mention here is mention later in another slide it\u0027s that we started working on this kind of need for multiple upstream interfaces in a multimode working group it was because of sorry mobility related requirements not trigger going to this working group because the multimode was close but then we also realized that there was not only mobility rated requirements but also all the requirements related to fixed networks and all the requirements for both mobile and fixed networks are the ones that are called all the scenarios the ones that are documented in the Libre next one please so the goal of the draft is to basically documentos a scenario where we need some additional solutions this support for multiple asset interfaces that was already kind of discussed in the making "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:22:02",
    "text": "in the magma working group some years ago but at that time was designed not to go for that because of the complexity that that will add to support like multi-home kind of a scenarios with ml DMP proxies but the fire is that relative to data we have this so we had we don\u0027t have the need for for this kind of extension an in addition to describing redefined the scenarios is also to define the requirements that those scenarios pose for a potential solution on multi policy interfaces for IGMP MLD proxies and then these requirements should help defining the solution so we have clear documentation of what a requirement a potential solution may may need to to provide next one please so the story of the draft well there was a lot that back in ITF 92 as I mentioned this came from multimode working group where we were dealing with mobility but then the multimode working was close and it was meant to be the best placeholder or base form for this kind of work then we have we have been evolving the draft including additional content security new pekin ETA scenarios and then in beginning of 2018 this year we got some comments from our ad and we took a while to to to address those comments I applaud you for that but then we bring it into a discussion and we were doing some changes that are summarized next so from the a B we got comments for example about the the requirements being relatively simple and it\u0027s true that they are simple but it\u0027s also true that there is a need for those simple requirements to be addressed because there is no current technology in operational networks that can be used there is no other solution idea that can be applied to solve the requirement that we documented in the in the draft there were some comments also on some requirements being generic and pretty obvious and again is true that they are kind of straightforward but it\u0027s also true that there is no solution for that that those requests reflect the need for having this kind of coordination action from the IGMP MLD proxy optimizing the delivery from from different points more comments there was a comment about some scenarios not in a specific requirements that recur the requirement not been very specific and for example on the fast reaching about interfaces and we have added in the last version of the document pointers to video interaction kind of requirements that can be applied for this particular phase switching requirement and the same for the service mutilation so we have added additional details based on the on the a B review there were some comments about using kind of marketing like statements and we have tried to avoid the use of that kind "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:25:03",
    "text": "of a statement in the last revision of the draft plus a few other editorial comments that we also address in the in the last version which is serviceable so next steps is to come up with a new version where we will be having some additional operational details that a B also requested and that we even have time to put in the cr7 version before the submission deadline but those are easy to add because we have that into actually we have some text in the discussion on the mini list with ad then something that will like to have for this session is to understand if there is any other aspect that you believe the working group believes that needs to be added into the into the draft cover by the requirements raft and then we believe that the it\u0027s time for the solutions draft to take over and to basically work on the solution meeting the requirements that we have in the document there is already one that is the one is mentioned in the in the slide but I don\u0027t know if maybe other solutions that can be also proposed by if we believe that now it\u0027s time for really working on the on the solution draft that\u0027s it from my side is there any comments from the working group hey J holin I had to go back and look at ITF 94 or some of the discussion about the requirements document took place because when I read this I didn\u0027t understand why it\u0027s useful so I guess what I\u0027m wondering is would it make sense to do these SI cluster or is that the plan or is the plan to make the requirements a released RFC that\u0027s informational and then later work on solutions like I get that it\u0027s useful to kind of do especially if there\u0027s multiple solutions that address subsets that the requirements it makes sense to separate out the requirements document but I\u0027m not sure it makes sense to publish a requirements document without any solutions for an indeterminate time at least I would find it confusing it if encountering this in the wild yeah would it make more sense for you to have the drafts publish at the same time is that what you\u0027re saying yeah okay that\u0027s we\u0027re looking for is opinions on this so thank you so as to separate our FCS or potentially much documents or I don\u0027t know if it publish at the same time we\u0027re thinking maybe two different RFC so potentially you know become requirements could be in the same document that\u0027s a solution agnostic on that point if you only plan to have one solution I don\u0027t know why you need to X but it doesn\u0027t really matter but if "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:28:04",
    "text": "there might be more than one solution I mean the way it\u0027s right now it\u0027s to our C\u0027s feel free to combine them I don\u0027t care but yeah just yeah I think the initial plan was to do requirements as a separate thing but and and in general that\u0027s that\u0027s good to do but but if you only have one solution then it\u0027s it\u0027s maybe not that important [Music] some color curious well we don\u0027t tell that many people today but I\u0027m kind of curious so many people think this is interesting and are interested in contributing neither to yet to solutions or reviewing documents or maybe I can ask how many people here read their requirements documents a lot too many to people je and I would be happy to try it out if there\u0027s a solution it\u0027s I\u0027m you know especially if there\u0027s a testbed that demonstrates kind of the advantages over PIM I don\u0027t I don\u0027t have a very good intuitive understanding of it but you\u0027d be happy to test it is I what I heard yeah if you\u0027re asking for help with implementation or something I would be interested in looking into it just you know I\u0027m I haven\u0027t gone very far down down that path so yeah I\u0027d be certainly interested in understanding the pros and cons relative to other solutions I think maybe what you could do is one thing it\u0027s a you know next steps try to include the requirements a little bit otherwise in white people - well read about the solution and see whether they\u0027re happy with the proposed solution or if they want to you know think there\u0027s other ways to solving a problem um in my opinion I think the clarifying the requirement is really important even though we will finally need to go buy the solution documentation because for example let\u0027s imagine that for me I could I imagine that the multiple interface about foraging family proxy may become something like LFC 4605 beasts for example this is because this is very "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:31:05",
    "text": "basic functionality that must be supported by new EMP emily proxy so this idea on obviously 4605 beasts is a may be a final goal as a solution to support multiple interface but someone may think that why we need to revise the proposal standard the documentation which is out of C 4605 and just to support multiple interface why how many what kind of use cases exist and how it\u0027s important maybe such kind of clarification is really needed to move the next activity forth to provide a new standard documentation which is a 4605 beasts so I personally agree that we should continuously work on the clarification of requirements Draft and to promote or to convince people why the multiple interface support is needed and how it\u0027s difficult and under so long so yeah this is my opinion another thing I would like to do is to see if there\u0027s any existing implementations that try to do anything like this and I I know at this one implementation that can use different upstream for different groups actually um I\u0027m also this individual solution draft but still there are lots of open shoes and today I don\u0027t have time to present what kind of a point you exist but just to support multiple interface tell a lot of things we need to address and sometimes we may need to add a new I J apparently message or signaling and this must be very heavy task or if we don\u0027t have any special message to decide a multiple upstream interface then how we can decide which are screaming interface is best or better or what kind of a scenario for the scenario or some scenario so well just to support us so I think that\u0027s why magma just ignore at that time to support multiple interfaces because it\u0027s really if it does even though just to add one single or more upstream interface so I don\u0027t want to start actually I don\u0027t want to start a long journey again for this as a very proxy specification but I imagine it really takes time to complete the specification of this solution so "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:34:05",
    "text": "clarifying the requirement may be lighter tasks comparing with the solution definition and that that draft can motivate people to work or concentrate on that kind of discussion do you feel that the existing requirements drafts include enough detail for people to understand these issues I don\u0027t know I don\u0027t know but yeah I hope so yeah because these if possible it could be nice to maybe you have some more technical detail in the requirements draft that can clarify why this is a difficult problem or what solutions need to you know make solve or take care of maybe just just think about it alright then just one clarifying question so then next steps we we do have some updates in the pipeline but after that what will be the next steps to continue with the publication process or to wait until the solutions office that\u0027s was not there too right now it\u0027s left me here without a running ad so as the presentation started this was motivated because I made some comments I made some comments because this already past Les Paul and so it surprised me very much that only two people raised her hand then they had actually read the draft even though we don\u0027t have I would hope that so the reason for doing this presentation today was this is just requirements there is a solution that had been worked on many many years ago so my intent was to be able if we\u0027re going to go forward with the publication process to justify to the ASG that we\u0027re publishing a very light requirements document but that at least the working group is interested in working on solutions but no one raised your hand only jake volunteer to maybe test something there so what I think we should do going forward is this I don\u0027t think I can just find the publication in the ITF string we can do one of two things I\u0027m going to return the document to the working group if you want to go forward and publish it through the independent submission tract when it comes back to review the a is coz I want the poster I want to post it you know make it go forward so it can be published as an RFC it won\u0027t be an ITF document it will be an independent if the working group decides that you need to keep that folded in for the potential future solution and I say fusion because there\u0027s no guarantee that there will be a solution you know that\u0027s up to the "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:37:05",
    "text": "worker so if you want to submit it as the visual dependence mission that\u0027s perfectly fine we can go that but we won\u0027t go through the ATF process so so maybe one way forward and would be to revise the document but not go for publication yet and then we start working on the solution and as they work on the solution we can see you know if we find out the requirements it\u0027s be a bit further but once we have a solution that we are happy with then they can hopefully ask for publication then they can point to the solution so thanks again go back to one point that Jake made before that and I agree with him that if there\u0027s one solution it seems obvious and nice so include the requirements in the justification of that solution in the same draft you know that way when people see the solution they don\u0027t have to go look to see why this was made or where the requirements are or whether they see a requirement that I have to go look for the solution is but they see everything together my personal opinion maybe you take this as a member I would take it is that if that\u0027s gonna happen then do it in what not two lines so yeah we don\u0027t have time to look at this solution really but but at least just show you zeroes it so there is a solution that it or she has been presented in a couple of times you can see the the draft in here and you don\u0027t have time now but great if you can read this draft and hope we can discuss more about this solution next next ITF and if people think they have other solutions that would be be great as well if you have some mid time all the way at the end of the meeting he or she can maybe present a little bit but go out the time right now so next on the agenda is Emily I can be Emily sleeping and proxy gang models "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:40:22",
    "text": "[Music] clothes know everyone close know everyone and my name is Hong ji I\u0027m from Ericsson and now let me report the purpose of the HIV and I\u0027m MDS moving your model the latest water is water file according to the second one young daughters reveal comments we help revise the documents and we have addressed most of the young mothers through your comments as English traveler is almost Tom now there\u0027s a details the young draft travel updated information one we move the item is smoking instance and the Einaudi smoking instance and the conferring protocol originally and a junkie smoking instance the least in the independent container now the richest Haraki is degrees the the igme swinging incense and the MLD spooning instance opposed and augments the routing constrain protocols contrary contrary Roscoe this next hmm after you updating information to we move a certain sales another smoking instance if you specify oh this is a hierarchy if you specified any age I\u0027m his new instance and there is the list of certain states to the universes these are feels are read-only and now we have advised almost all the comments from your melter except only one this is a little problem which name is better we define our PC called its name with clear-eyed youngest moving rules but by the young daughter prefer three for another name I think that it should be called clear idea is moving caches at last the way or chilled agreement to ask the pin rule which one is better men step hmm now I think is "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:43:28",
    "text": "ready for it\u0027s almost a down so we would like to apply for walk off that\u0027s called and more comments which one is paid her sing name sake they\u0027re sleeping groups or sleeping caches I wish with mine\u0027s better why school clear cooling names and the otherwise the clear grouping Katia\u0027s opinion exactly either one question I have is did you follow the the yang doctor review of the ibmp MLB yang model and and the design changes they made in that model yeah yeah I was wondering if any of those comments maybe also would be relevant for this document yeah yeah I mean yeah if the doctors are different the motor had different opinions or okay but I think there was some discussion about you know how best to augment the existing routing model thing so then we should follow the same design principle for this model yes we can talk about it later or but yeah I think we may need to make sure that they are aligned okay and there is another new young model for large MP and I married epoxy and this is a neutral mode individual topped and the first portion for presentation and it\u0027s 12 and the effort is from one cast young son team and I memorize from Everson motel while we are in for this is visitor structure and to configure the AGM Qian MLT policy we augment the interface and this is a "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:46:29",
    "text": "hierarchy under the edge MP policy is we can innovate and some other I feel if you rather require route alert curing and go bond is variable and motion we also augment a conferring Falco I came he was shoulder I came across a groove and face and this is released for growth and the key key is a groove groove oh Christ and he goes on time third mode third mode include or exclude and on a source list southeast in least it contains the upstream in the face and the downstream nervous the most of these attributes are read-only and ml deep Rousey is civilized AT\u0026T policy accepted us a rest hmm we\u0027re writing this new model we meet a unsolved problem nice somewhere nurse for another Hawaiian to infer configure the agency policy on a stream interface but and some wonderful novel Cisco configure the IGMP policy on the don\u0027ts women who face a hostile eyes and this is the problem and as I know when we configure the I\u0027m I\u0027m I\u0027m out the HMP I\u0027m out the policy on Cisco device and their ways we should also configure the IGMP UDR interface in Cisco but as I know other Werner\u0027s doesn\u0027t have a UDL interface unit so in my opinion I prefer to configure the I Jamie Rousey on the other universe I think this is more simple messed up and I would like to apply for work who adoption and one welcome more one nurse okay I told us a good question so what what is the IGMP on the upstream interface have an impact on the pin configuration their configuration what I\u0027m saying from from "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:49:30",
    "text": "from the platforms that I know right one of the of the issues is is figuring out if you\u0027re still running Peyman the upstream or if you\u0027re only running IGMP proxying right so what you think the your model would you know say about that because if the model doesn\u0027t say anything but the mode of operation is if you\u0027re enabling I dream view proxy I\u0027m just guessing I don\u0027t know your platforms then you know PIM is being switched off then this might need to be reflected in some updates to the PIM model I think in the Ignite I\u0027ve seen about the agenda and young people see diagram PLC is delight is designed to faithful the tree the topology like of tree is a simple topology we need we need to enable the PIM I mean in the idea of you frowsy I think are you going to I mean again different platforms have different ways on how to do it all I\u0027m saying is you might have mode of operations where on the upstream interface you\u0027re running IGP proxying and or a pin and so the question is do we have a way across the models that will come up to express that right do we have in the existing pin model for example the opportunity to say disable him on this interface which you know normally we\u0027ve never you know when we implemented by the approximant before didn\u0027t have an option to disable pim on the interface but still do the same functionality as far as aggregating the stage sending out the status 8 IG MP memberships right so all I\u0027m saying is be very careful if we assume that we get you know representations of doing what the router needs to do with only thinking about IP proxying completely ignoring the impact on him I haven\u0027t considered the team about anything about him I will reveal these comments also this meeting [Music] how many people have read this document one person maybe two montgome knows is cool so are we expecting for working group adoption because I think is still we have some unresolved issues right yeah I mean we don\u0027t need to resolve all the issues but I would like at least several "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:52:31",
    "text": "people to read the documents okay and you know like like and basically support the document so I think for now I mean we should just say you know that people need to need to read the document provide comments on the mailing list and yeah I try to improve the documents for the next ITF but yeah we need more people to to review it but this this has been as you have golfers from the different vendors you had discussed this in down the design team you know there\u0027s I mean you know there\u0027s this group of people that I\u0027ve been working on all all the young moments and the same people I\u0027ve also been working like this one but yeah I think it\u0027s too early to to adopt it today okay but yeah we should try to get more people to so one thing I was wondering a little bit this are you trying to make the sleeping and the proxying models like very similar and is there any overlap [Music] I have to think about yeah but yeah we need need more more common so inputs okay thanks sandy good afternoon this presentation is for PM VI improvement I\u0027m sayin is I\u0027m from did he that\u0027s the brief update all for this version at this version we add some statements about the deployment choice and we changed some description for readability thank Greg mercy very much for his careful review and suggest suggestion and the modification is simply but there\u0027s a new job from McManus a provider new solution for dr improvement so let me let us review the content of "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:55:34",
    "text": "these drops quickly so let\u0027s see the problem that\u0027s the e strapped one two so according to FC 7761 we know that when dr changes a new dia with a higher highest priority will replace existed the at will be the new dia but there\u0027s some time will be cost to to edward adopt the change so some application such as real time applications like a TV network making will be influenced in fluentd and if we use the default all the time the maxim recovered her maybe 105 seconds so the networker will be influenced and as a what has the flow will be influential and I see it\u0027s in this network we know that the dr has been deleted and the user net he means share the media network and when a newcomer come seeing and the newcomer has high her their priority than the existed yeah the newcomer will replace the dr so they are still some interrupt will occur so from this situation we want to solve this problem so we think that that there should be stable even if the new router has a higher priority and the ones the old dr is done the new rotor becomes yeah as quickly as possible so the time that the new dr finds the failure of the other dr must be more shorter and the application will be may be may not be influential so much let\u0027s see a solution mmm the dr PDR solution is bored from OSPF or protocol defining FC 23:28 and but we made some minor change yeah in this solution here is the router which has the highest priority but once thea is elected new rotor which has a higher proud he cannot replace the exist that they are immediately and the PDA is a rotor which has the highest priority acceptance I existed yeah and the PDR will monitor the existed at the a by PFD other function once the existing dia becomes unreachable PDS you to become the I immediately Anna pedia will import "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:58:36",
    "text": "the Modi has the flows from upstream with her routers in advance Pat Vidya will not forward the flows and heals the existed idea becomes unreachable so let\u0027s see the figure to describe the solution well then you wrote her which has the higher price they are priority comes in the new rotor will stand in the hollow cavity that Thea and the media are all set to know after the new router receives hello packet of roms existed yeah it will know that as there is leaving the are in sir network so it will follow the dia and the new rotor will not replace exist if all the rotor Zinser network finds that the new rotor has higher priorities than the exists the pedia so they will treat the newcomer is a nupedia not that yeah when a pedia is elected so we know that the PDR were imported multicast flow from upstream and routers but PDR will not forward as a multicast flow and he OTR is unreachable so let\u0027s see the compare compatibility when new router which has no dia improvement capability comes in the new rotor will stand as a hollow packet with it\u0027s yard priority so after the new router receives help from the existed yeah it compares the our priority if the new rotor elects itself via it ascends how imperative is di cell to itself so and the rotor see in the network will elect her the new dia according to the di election algorithm it\u0027s a specification of the election algorithm step one we collected the candidates of media except trotters who declare themselves as they are and step two we select the one who has the highest priority to be media source or it has a high break for it and step three and we correct the candidates of PR so we collected the rotors a hooter cragger declare themselves themselves SDR and step four we selected one who has the highest priority to pedia from the they are set if step file if that there is no the nupedia is elected to vidya and the wheel repeater steps a new video will be alleged just like ablution defending OSPF but a little different okay and we think this this this draft "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:01:43",
    "text": "has been adopted I remember in ITF 19 for me so as being has been years for it this chapter and we think it\u0027s stable and we\u0027d like to call for working group our last call thank you okay so you mentioned monk Amana made some comments right yeah yeah so the thing that this has taken a while this draft seems like it would be ready for robust call although less IETF monk I\u0027m on a presented a draft that would this be considered competing or would it be a complement or what would you know from Cisco so I won\u0027t call it as a competing I had just one more way of selecting the media so rather than using new hello options why can\u0027t we use existing hello itself so that that\u0027s what my point was and in fact I think in last IETF few few of the members mentioned that that can be as a informational that because this draft talks about having BDR pulling the traffic dropping it unless you or the dr so that talks the different mechanism end-to-end mechanism I was just concerned about can we do dr eyelets and without even having extra hellos because today when we are sending hellos we already have the list of team neighbors so why can\u0027t the same algorithm can be run twice that one is the best best one is the dr the second best is b dr by default so that was the my point so i don\u0027t see it as a competing draft to this it\u0027s just alternate way yes it\u0027s a different way so that\u0027s somewhat of our hesitation is that we can move this forward but there\u0027s another proposed solution that may or may not be more simple i don\u0027t know but i i don\u0027t know i big interesting to know other people feel how they feel about draft so great if you can comment on it but at least my understanding is that the main difference between the two drafts is that your draft supports like a sticky mechanism where you don\u0027t immediately go back to the new if the dr goes down and comes back up again you don\u0027t switch back to the old year i think but apart from that i think you know the working group needs to see do they want this extra these extra features that were drafted support what do they think that the the other maybe more basic solution is sufficient sheffield round juniper i sorry I haven\u0027t ready were the new draft yet but it seems that the new graph is just used you using just electing a "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:04:44",
    "text": "Jinnah PDR without without any new hello messages and it does not touch upon other things right if that is the case could that then the the new solution which only it which is only about the period action be folded into the existing draft maybe I think that was also one of the point which we had in mind and that was the reason we just presented the abstract in the last IETF so that working group can decide if we want to take that also as an one option to do the BD relax in addition I\u0027d like to see this mechanism defining this my has been implemented in our device and be provided to our customer and we think that is a dr PDR algorithm is nature because OSPF has been deployed for many years so I think it\u0027s our way but um so I think if this has been already implemented and it\u0027s out there in the field so maybe the other procedure is kind of just informational that if someone wants to use without new hello Upson in future they can use it so that doesn\u0027t change any protocol or that is not going to break the working of this draft so both of them can coexist together that\u0027s what my point is are my feelings yeah it\u0027s really up to the I mean you guys up to the working group so any other people are there any thoughts on that or how many people have read this draft these three people or even I mean or if you haven\u0027t read the latest one at least like an earlier person to get four okay of the four of you do you have any thoughts of whether it can go to working group last call or not I didn\u0027t really ask a proper question [Music] Jake I may have a few comments but but I the draft looked technically quite good I think I see no reason not to do working group last call sooner is better to have it standardized Celebi will check on the list if if no just asked if there\u0027s any objections to our last call on the list in a skit now let\u0027s get some hands on who thinks it\u0027s ready for it okay who thinks it\u0027s ready for applause Scott okay for people all the people have read it I think anyone against "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:07:45",
    "text": "think it\u0027s not ready for last call okay thank you okay [Music] we recently worked on this draft for Hopi FM as for where we are now sources by sending messages and since them I should say there\u0027s this draft and beard that talks about how to send him joins so a beer if you have like a some beer routers in the middle of a ping domain so you have like three clouds in the middle on this beer and if you have such a scenario I would I would have this draft of proposals how to send pfm messages or a beer so that you can discover sources that are on the other side of your club but also in in beer there is a draft for how to send pin joints over beer but they don\u0027t really have a soul at least in my opinion they don\u0027t have a good solution for to decide which which ingress beer out there to actually send up and join to each beer out there is closest to the source so what I\u0027m proposing this draft is that when you receive an pfm message just contains the source group and whole time the ingress beer after adds its own be for ID and sub domain and stuff and metric to the source and then the egress B routers can see which ingress router is closest to the source but if you have any ideas of comments or thoughts on this great if you can come to beer tomorrow or just send me comments yes if beer likes this then we might need a couple of pfm tlvs and they have to decide where that work should be done but but let\u0027s see if the beer working reflects the idea first [Music] okay that\u0027s all I have so next is progressing RUP movl star-struck [Music] yeah I only have a couple of quick slides here but but basically we had some brief discussion last night EF few people at least think it\u0027s maybe time to "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:10:45",
    "text": "progress IGMP with three and then believe it too on the understand racetrack they are pretty mature documents they have been around more than 14 years there\u0027s lots of implementations I believe I believe it\u0027s supported by almost all houses today all modern operating systems and maybe most switches and routers deployed I could they run it just to hear what you think and I think many I was want to tell people deploying multicast in general that they should try to use these protocols one of the reasons in support SSM and we might want to deprecated I can pv-1 worse among perhaps worse than to is proposed standard if you think they really should deploy out University maybe we should progress version three so it\u0027s it\u0027s clear that that\u0027s the intended document to sort of the best protocol to use so the question so here really is you guys think it\u0027s it\u0027s useful to to progress these protocols one question is how stable are they or are there issues who are the deployed are they and so on I love you and disagree with what I just said on the previous slide if they want to do this we may have to do a similar process that they did for him when they were vice him to internet standard which would be doing implementation reports stuff to find out what pieces have been implemented what have not been implemented not been deployed or any interoperability issues and so other people found all right so I think from from Montreal we came away with two options right one is trying to say you know we just don\u0027t modify IGMP v3 and MLD v2 and take the result of the adoption right but maybe one part of the process which i think is what pin went through as well is that you know based on what stuff wasn\u0027t used in pin there was the the ref done on on the pms m-spec right and so the question is a little bit kind of you know do we foresee need for for for the ref and maybe the the main thing of course is that the the whole exclude sources in a non-empty list of sources to be excluded right i\u0027d be surprised if that\u0027s actually being used by application right so i\u0027m pretty sure that all the implementations have it but do does that really mean we know you know whether how well it works if you know we don\u0027t have any applications that are using it so those are the interesting things that that that I "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:13:47",
    "text": "wonder about yeah because that brings us into that whole discussion of you know what is going to be what we want to be the full standard right so really the current IGMP v3 and all db2 or you know IGMP v3 light ml dv2 light which is hopefully which I\u0027m not quite sure of all the text details exactly what I GMT v3 and nodb two are except for this non empty source list exclude mode hmm yeah I got the impression or enough for sure actually that there\u0027s at least one one case where someone is using exclude mode but but it will be interesting to find out how widely is it used so this what we did for PIM and we could do here is that we had a group of volunteers working together coming up with some with a sorry SEPA story for operators separate for implementers that the a me you know we did this in in the working group decided on when we came to agreement on what the service should be and basically it sent this out everywhere we could and we had someone receiving them anonymizing the responses and me about an hour see the base of that which is RFC 1763 I recommend looking at that we could do a similar process here but part of that would be to reach out to whoever might be using this it could be router switch vendors but also enterprises yeah whoever might be using this it\u0027s can be hard to reach out to the right or reach the right people but you kind of want to reach as many different people as possible and find out what are they actually using and then it\u0027s up to you to to us to find out you know do you think this is you sufficient has been tested sufficiently or not being used at all should we take it out or not yeah must have been happen when I was in there or so was there any every good you know readout of 7063 of the pros and everything to look up kind of some ITF number where to look up when looking at 1763 here so you think the document itself is better than any readout that was done it at a prior idea about it I think so I at least contains the actual service that were sent out to people and then it also contains like a summary of the answers or responses to the service I\u0027m not sure if there\u0027s a document in general I know if our ad knows anything but is know if there\u0027s any documents talking about how to progress stuff to internet standard or listeners Trek in general and with requirements there are procedures hey I\u0027m with an opportunity yes go look up "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:16:51",
    "text": "whatever the I think it\u0027s be 325 which is the standard process and if I remember last time I read it it talks about the fact that to move to internet standard yes we want deployment ations and appointments and no rata and all the stuff but I think it said that it is not a requirement to have implementation reports this was one removed in the center of our season and I\u0027m not sure if it\u0027s PCB 25 I\u0027m pretty sure is but it said of all those RCS it started with if you remember we used to have three standard levels draft proposed and intern standards now we only have proposed an interim when that changed is when I think that implementation report requirement changed which is what 70 63 years right I was going to say that there are other working groups for example IDR that you guys talked earlier about requiring implementations and IDR requires two implementations for everything for most things and what they do is they have implementation reports but they document them on a wiki because the decision was made to do that because the problem with an efficient implementation report is that once you publish the RFC that\u0027s it right it it\u0027s frozen in time and if someone comes later and now they have an implementation and they would like to document it well they can\u0027t I mean they could revise the IRC and you know be a pain but then you can just go but they the wiki and that\u0027s it so I think that is a good mechanism to to consider as well I check it I\u0027ve encountered a few issues with the messing around I\u0027ve done and the IGMP downgrade is a problem when you have traffic which is only reachable by an SSM join and I\u0027ve also observed I think I\u0027m gonna file a bug report with Apple if you join two different sources on the same group with the same group SSM joint it will collapse them to a single you know without having the the downgrade from v2 or whatever so one thing I would say is you know that downgrade thing I mean it it used to be it was may be useful in the past but everywhere everyone pretty much supports this today maybe they downgrade is it\u0027s not really that useful it could actually be more of a problem that funding can\u0027t really you know would be to say that you know you don\u0027t agree this an optional thing you don\u0027t have to support that or also think "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:19:57",
    "text": "you know there\u0027s various places it talks about how you have to accept unicast messages I believe and there\u0027s professional security issues and I wonder if it\u0027s how many implementations actually make you so that I\u0027m not sure what the right forum is to capture that but I don\u0027t know I can read it email to the list but yeah just thanks so just real quick for the minutes be cp9 RFC sixty four ten that\u0027s what you want to look [Music] so finally what will be the action item before next IETF because I think Montreal almost to discuss the same thing what we discussed this time just just to avoid the next IETF we are not so ok so maybe the first thing is I\u0027m gonna now is if you people think it\u0027s a good idea to to to start work on this to progress our gym PV 3 and MOV b2 to internet standard if you think it\u0027s a good idea just throw general good idea let me erase your hands so we see just yeah and all are you guys interested in change and participating in this to some extent anyone think it\u0027s a waste of time or the protocol isn\u0027t mature enough or anyone against but that don\u0027t think we should work on this ok no hands so so I think seems like we should do something so by way this is easy pin line here in France than ours process relation yeah guess we don\u0027t have time to look at this now but when we did this with PMA it took time and it was a pretty good effort but it wasn\u0027t too bad I mean there was you know you paint the internet to list and get opinions from them and get them to fill out the survey and it\u0027s it just it takes some tireless now we did the same thing here something one good thing with one good start I would think is to get different vendors that implemented this to say what do they support or what part so they are see that they skip for and was unclear to them and if you want to do that maybe it would be useful to have some kind of template or some way oh intimate or specifying this even if it\u0027s just on a wiki so "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:22:57",
    "text": "I know maybe if you could find some volunteers that more or less could break down the this back into like individual circle like parts and then we can ask each of the vendors each of those parts they implemented something like that with that miessence sort of like a simple survey but maybe just some on on the preemie key we actually have a wiki anyone anyone interested in maybe doing a little bit of work on this coming up with some questions on our wiki to see what what parts of the specs people implemented this is Jake again are there any existing conformance tests that could be leveraged to kind of look at what the vendors did instead of asking them right I mean there\u0027s some commercial products you know doing that I\u0027m not aware of any they\u0027d be useful if there was any like open source or anything that we could look at not aware of anything myself yes maybe mm maybe just take it out loud maybe what we do Stig is weeping the list about this but we stopped we saw the six and said okay so we can you know form a little design team and just make a plan and start bringing it out see people really want to do this but it seems like it\u0027s people think it\u0027s a good idea alright so did you write down the names so I went through the PIM process yeah I I think it was good the experience it it was a long process by what were straight and I we also have someone from juniper there who is interested in doing this for the Nike Saturday more people enjoy yes mailing lists here and I think it would be good to have one person from each so the vendors if we can wherever is interested yeah alright ok so try to make some progress before the next idea ok we are actually ahead of time so might have time to meet or see at the end but let\u0027s see we told this pretty Kingdom we\u0027d be on it 3:30 ok cement first alright maybe that\u0027s a good idea maybe okay let\u0027s wait up let\u0027s "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:26:01",
    "text": "just wait 10 15 s end to get this Toshi will you be interested in presenting your solution now we have some extra time yeah we have just a few minutes there may be people from spring coming okay okay yeah this is a potential solution items for watch through interphase suppose boy I shall be a very proxy and this is history and we worked for that one as well as requirement definition and now the requirements rough is becoming a working draft and we just stopped actually stopped the working for this solution draft because we thought I thought that it\u0027s better to wait for finalizing a requirement to project but opening to the eighties comment maybe it\u0027s better to revive the solution destroy game so actually there is no big change from this one so this is a requirement so maybe I don\u0027t need to Express explaining what is a requirement and so this is a situation so different to networks or to make it to novice do we have more singer they work but path can be double or triple and there is a potential situation that the proxy attached to the wired and Wi-Fi wireless networks and also so yes so this this is a benefit so the purpose of supporting in a modular interface for load apart distinct purpose we should have this idea or we should have a mechanism to support subscriber base top stream with intersection and also the channel based upstream direction and the for the lobster data reception we may want to receive a multiple the same content from multiple interface and sometimes we may want to have a backup interface and if there is something happens some problem happens then click or take over to the backups interface so this is a purpose to support multiple interface so the upstream interface configuration actually currently there is no definite "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:29:03",
    "text": "solution to automatically decide which II or what which interface should be used to receive the mark a stream or channel so at this moment we something like us specify the configuration syntax so subscribe others purposes so this is very detail also this ok so the automatic configuration this is a well I this moment there is no excellent idea how we can automatically configure the best interface to get the appropriate to get a much gas stream and there is actually the potential idea for the single interface selection mechanism using Odyssey 229 91 so this support much pre issues much past so this is something like a hush body we can use so according into hash values always we select a single interface so we have a multiple interface the hash bar you select the single interface but this is something like a static configuration so this is not well defined to support the multiple upstream interface direction according to the network condition or some policy configuration and so on so the open question is how lot of does automatic appropriate up some interface for all channels and just a selection using hash bar is maybe not sufficient but by the way how we can know it which is appropriate for which for some market stream and how to adult has quickly detect inactive observe interface monitoring ICMP Marie Curie or pin hello does not may be quick does not keep the quick actions and the defining a new item primary message call will cost so under what is a trigger when router switch to the secondly upstream interface camera time I is not maybe not sufficient so there everything is a open question Oh issue so we need to provide some solution to support multiple upstream interface for example the proxy and there are many open D issues and especially for automatic from interface configuration or selection so maybe this is really this may become a big discussion they require somebody enough discussion and we may say this is something like LSE 4635 beast but I don\u0027t know we should replace "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:32:03",
    "text": "the current IGMP MLD proxies specification which is RFC 4605 but if the working will decide to revise the specification maybe this is also idea let\u0027s check the Jake Holland the I just searched the draft I don\u0027t see RPF mentioned like if some of the upstream interfaces do not have a route to the source and it\u0027s a known source like is this seems like an obvious addition that they can simplify it somewhat in practice right or is that not addressing the issue at all like it\u0027s there and I mean I\u0027m I\u0027m wondering about like then you know as a fallback is there a room to use like game tricks maybe find it for your reachable to filter out interfaces that don\u0027t that aren\u0027t gonna work well big blocks ebooks behave as a hostage so RFC are they RTF our hip LTF support doesn\u0027t help because it\u0027s just a host so host doesn\u0027t care the alpi f so single interface or interface how we select the interface so currently the for example the UNIX box the if we have a two or let\u0027s say two interface then the default interface is just sacred according to the lower I gave us this is hostly host of specification so proxy is behave me behave as a host so this is a problem uh okay but yes there is a problem but it seems like specifying that where you have a more specific route on one of them which in depending on the on the network right yes sometimes you have multipath to a global club but fairly frequently I find that I have a a private network as well and I know that my source is down that Network but you\u0027re correct what I find is that that it will try to join on the default interface which is not as useful even though the RPF would be a very good indication that my source is in the in the network but the I know that it\u0027s inside if we specify the RPF is a good way when available to choose the interface for what I\u0027ve seen it solves half the problems but for you know again maybe I\u0027m looking at a different problems based on you but that seems "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:35:03",
    "text": "like a useful addition told us accurate yes so I\u0027m even trying to remember there for for the most time I remember there weren\u0027t any you know rules and the products that I know they were doing RPF based on group addresses right but always only on the source addresses in the forwarding tables I think in the recent few years there might have been some features come in but vendor specific right I haven\u0027t seen anything in the idea is that I know there\u0027s versus fiscal specific one where a year even though you are using like imp you could say there are P address in RPF to RP address to decide right because in the end the the main issue here to me seems that ultimately this ends up in the forwarding table of being something like saying okay incoming interface is also depending on the group address right so you have one provider I mean you need to manage it somehow by ASM group addresses right if you do SSM you can simply use normal RPF say you send out the IGMP join like a pin joint to wherever you get the sauce from and I think unicast is your friend you don\u0027t care about group addresses so for SSM I don\u0027t know what else we would need to do other than saying and that would be an update to 60/40 six or five which is okay for it for SSM you simply RPF and send your IGMP membership to whatever your RPF interfaces for the source I think ASM I think you\u0027re going to manage by group ranges right this provider uses this ASM group range that provider Evol are you get RPF based on the group addresses and that\u0027s a concept that we don\u0027t have and you know if we want to introduce it would be a lot more lovely if we figure out that that we start doing that from the the M rib basis and then yeah whether you\u0027re doing IGMP or even doing the same with PIM I don\u0027t care right I mean but doing some one-off that is you know not something we want to be able to have generic forwarding planes for is a yeah is it\u0027s a lot more one-off than four or five GMP right if we say oh let\u0027s do this functional tea only for IGMP proxy why why wouldn\u0027t it equally you know be necessary for pimp right I think that\u0027s that\u0027s a question okay so in that case the proxy books also need to maintain the routing table well I\u0027m saying whether you\u0027re doing IGMP signal pins thing to me is is irrelevant the first question is the policy on how I determine different apps upstream interface it sounds to me like there\u0027s a case wherein if you want to do it with ASM which you know I\u0027m not sure if something we should still consider but if you do ASM it would be on group ranges we don\u0027t have that notion in the forwarding tables when we are thinking about which interface do we select packets from right I may not understand your point but but okay they say so if "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:38:04",
    "text": "the party box has a routing table maybe it\u0027s possible but how about is for example the subscriber based configuration for example even though you allowing table for the source sector the interface a but according to the some subscribers like a policy or some business Nora I don\u0027t know for subscriber a the interface B should be used for souls according I do even though the routing table may have may point to the interface a for short as possible or a unicast pass I think the the way Jake brought it up is still the best one which is kind of how do we think about this in terms of our PF selection right and that\u0027s where I was coming from that I was expanding that RPF selection based not on only the source indicated but also the source in the group right so for example that a particular group range goes to this one interface independent of the source so is this solution draft a informational draft or I stand aircraft well at this moment I don\u0027t know so if we say it\u0027s should be your 46 6:05 beast then should be proposal standard but for I don\u0027t know solution the reason I\u0027m asking is that it seems to me that upstream interface selection is could be a localization it does not have to be synchronized across the network right so it\u0027s really a cure local implementation issue but it\u0027s a situation it\u0027s really same of the current out of C 4605 it\u0027s a proposal standard okay yeah just quick note the way it\u0027s written like a requirements document seems fairly information I wouldn\u0027t know how to implement something from it right now so I think the text for a normative thing would have to be different and hopefully shorter because this explains a lot of context I have a question for the child were at another remedy I remember some of the chairs about this presentation but referring to the last description so she just said this could be one of the options could be 4605 this another on the right which is the heme proxy document the discussion before was about moving IGMP v3 to interest standard you meant only the main document not which is 4604 but it looks like when magma published for six before the policy to foreign forces "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:41:05",
    "text": "applied together which seems to be but I didn\u0027t know since that which seems to be the attendant maybe both those two specifications went together so is the intention we\u0027re moving to internet standard to move just 4604 Oh both good question let\u0027s talk about it we need to go on but that\u0027s a very good point let\u0027s think about that thank you that\u0027s we need to do that Ian thank you hello this comes hopefully there\u0027s no great surprise there was a presentation in Montreal on a method to implement native multicast in SR MPLS there was a lot of helpful conversation both in the room in Montreal and then on the mailing list when a working group adoption call was put forward and then finally there was a an ID that Jeffery Zhang and a bunch of other people put together that kind of stated clearly what their concerns were and so this is largely a response to that draft and to some degree the conversations that are on the mailing list and in the room and so we\u0027ll start like to start I\u0027m not going to read these in detail they\u0027re available on the on the working group repository for the meeting I will say that I you know it was good we got a good enumeration of existing multicast technology you know from our perspective beer is wonderful except that it has this idiosyncratic data plane that is and this is really at the heart of this or it\u0027s one of the the main parts it\u0027s the heart of this it is not a data plane that is supported in any of the silicon that we currently use in our products it\u0027s not in a substantial fraction of the existing field that Hardware all of which is you know available and could readily and in fact in large degree I understand is being upgraded for a segment routing anything that does MPLS can be upgraded "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:44:07",
    "text": "to ask our MPLS to a first approximation as best I understand so beer really isn\u0027t an option for the platforms and we\u0027re looking at I\u0027ve got a little more detail on that in a further slide MLD ml DP is cool but it does require l DP is a signaling protocol and it\u0027s an interesting conversation if you\u0027re trying to run a network with segment routing particularly a new Greenfield Network why would you want to necessarily turn on LD P just to get multicast RSVP point-to-multipoint similar PIM etc et-cetera dimension in MO SPF was very helpful in terms of contextualizing some of the feedback and they sort of point out 802 dot 1aq as well because it also provides some historical precedent and that is in fact something that we\u0027re leaning on heavily in making this proposal just to recapitulate sorry cap if I can be so bold I tried to extract from the fairly extensive draft that Jeffrey put forward with his colleagues a few points from the summary beer is the best choice I can\u0027t disagree except for the data plane if efficient multi class is required then run these other things I can disagree otherwise use static or control signaling and in general I can\u0027t come to the same conclusion you did so thank you great almost there\u0027s obviously something a little bit funny with the formatting of this so just to say it again we like beer there is no upgrade potential on existing s are capable systems other than the ones that have you know that we\u0027ve seen people doing early beer on merchant silicon for sure I spend a lot of time reading data sheets of what\u0027s available and I can say with a lot of confidence that there are a few now just recently but certainly none of the current product is sort of in the mainstream and being shipped in volume has it and those that do have it have a significant premium a rate related to it and you can read it\u0027s three a three to five and a half times the price for the ASIC and about four times the power per "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:47:09",
    "text": "100g per 10 DB equivalent and that\u0027s based on me looking at two chips in the same current technology so I\u0027m not trying to compare everything in the soup the pot that\u0027s available but yes doing good questions now throughout I don\u0027t care right time with me yeah I\u0027m doing this tutorial assess adjust it later when he comes up okay Gregg from Cisco I\u0027m glad you pointed out I was going where this calculation come for really this cost isn\u0027t what the cost is in beer at the hardware level it\u0027s what\u0027s the comparison between a current chip that supports it and one that does not that that is that correct right so it\u0027s not an assumption I\u0027m trying to be very careful because first of all some of that information that is anonymized to a degree under NDA and I can\u0027t really disclose the details without getting in trouble but yes they\u0027re there they\u0027re there relative costs of chips of similar fabrication technologies etc it\u0027s that are very current generation component cost comparison and not the actual logic cost on the chip possibly and the goalie Nokia huh so the first question is I guess should this be in the spring working group or is it something that will question yeah I think that\u0027s a great question I\u0027m sure we all have different opinions but we\u0027ve discussed this like a year or so ago with the spring chairs as far as multicast and segment routing and at that time and still really mostly multicast is not part of the Charter within spring so we agreed that we would address these kind of things here for now and that\u0027s why we\u0027re doing here charters open for working on multicast technologies in general so it could could be a possibility to do it here okay so it would be great if we can iron that out for the future absolute in Sigma the routing domain I guess yeah yeah and this has been announced on the spring list today so that there\u0027s people know that this is happening yeah we did ask I think this has been circulating a little bit this particular proposal has been circulating the ITF off and on for several years and and it we were sent to these gentlemen back and that was by agreement with by the ASG as best I understand I wasn\u0027t in the meetings I just heard about it understood and and I guess the next point is I think one thing you hit the nail on the head is "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:50:09",
    "text": "the fact that you know when you go to a unique ass network that is segment routing and the operator goes through that much trouble to remove legacy protocols then obviously the next question within a year or two becomes what am I going to do for multicast if I removed it from VP I all interrupt you briefly and say that for some of them it\u0027s kind of like immediate it\u0027s not a year or two from now okay I was being generous yeah but immediate is good but that that said if you look at the legacy multicast protocols today ml DP point-to-multipoint rsvp-te p.m. etc etc they kind of go hand in hand to create a entire multicast as well so yeah you know I don\u0027t want to use this wording but you know beer being the Batman and every Batman needs a Robin I don\u0027t see why a segmented routing type of solution that brings a point-to-multipoint MPLS data plane or ipv6 or whatever it is into the picture would not fit nicely with a solution like beer there are even in piece out there that do support beer but there are operators that feel maybe beer for whatever reason is not the best feat for the network and you know something in the SDN land would be beneficial to bring simplicity to the multicast also so I can you expand a little bit on next I\u0027m not sure I fully understand what you\u0027re trying I guess what I\u0027m trying to echo is some of the reasoning that you have here I\u0027m trying to echo it the same way and I\u0027m trying to say that even though beer brings the simple city on there on the data plane by removing the estate yeah some of these operators they just want to grab their ml DP yeah point-to-multipoint provider tunnels if you yeah and they just want to stick something on the MPLS land yep that is programmable we are Sdn or something as simple as that yanked the rsvp-te point-to-multipoint tree or ml DP point-to-multipoint three out of your network and just pushed something with this and that does the same thing on the MPLS there okay there\u0027s I I would I would generally sort of agree and at least in principle with what you\u0027ve said and I think that what we\u0027re proposing would be one choice for doing that I also think that for some people the proposed tree said with some of the bgp extensions to help put it into the network is another viable way forward and I don\u0027t think that they\u0027re they\u0027re overlapping so there\u0027s space for both yeah that\u0027s what you\u0027re trying to "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:53:09",
    "text": "achieve that that\u0027s my last point okay the reason I said that maybe this should become this trap should come into the spring is I do see some overlap with Treacy than this absolutely and I think we need to iron that out for the well very good of the certainly look forward to that conversation he has several more slides so yeah just big answers with the programmability right I mean beauty is also exactly an attempt to make it easier just to have a programmable solution that doesn\u0027t depend on the IGP right so in that framework we have that too if you just just quick with respect to that whole power thing or so right I think we shouldn\u0027t look at you know a verb very you know early adoption timeframe too make long-term judgment over time technology in my opinion this is just you know newest generation ships also trying to be sold up to a premium and you know I\u0027d be very surprised if you\u0027re looking at you know the long-term cost in the future that I didn\u0027t push backs before have you done any citizen I much been involved with getting you know the whole design of you know all these generation of multi card in Cisco in these chips I understand I don\u0027t quite this just just just testing because because you know it\u0027s it\u0027s it\u0027s true right if you bring in new technology in a chip design that was almost done and you know and we\u0027ll get it somehow done oh recirculation and lower performance and all this stuff that all exist and then a generation later or so it totally looks different already right so I think that\u0027s basically something we should credit really innovative and new technology like beer for or not and yeah these things do take it take a while but the question is really what is the timeframe for which we need yet another solution and I think that\u0027s what we should really understand so in the interests of time as you want to get out of here I think people read ahead because I heard things being said I hadn\u0027t gotten to yet I did want to go through these very quickly they\u0027re the charts are available people want to look at them offline but this is hopefully a good illustration to explain what it is that we\u0027re trying to do because one of the things that we got a mount of feedback was some misunderstandings about what it was that we were proposing just in the form of the text in the in the draft that we put forward so if you look at this I hope there\u0027s no controversy here because this is just me trying to sketch out what current unicast SR MPLS does which is build a sink tree with and towards this device called Zed and device called Zed what\u0027s a nodal SID or some other type of SID out into the IGP and all the devices use that to compute this sink tree and install them the correct forwarding along those paths so following that if we just simply turn those arrows "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:56:12",
    "text": "around we get a broadcast tree or an all stations multicast tree that is you know other than the fact that it\u0027s going in the direction is roughly congruent with the with the sync tree so the intent here is that we would advertise a new type of CID and flood it and just to get to the next step of this leaves would indicate their interest in being on the tree in this case every every device says that they want to be on the tree and so they in turn flood the CID back into the network and the tree is then constructed in a distributed fashion through compute on every node to build the forwarding table forwarding tables in all the nodes such that if something arrives it said it will get everywhere it is also the case that this is a template tree that\u0027s used in the logic to produce the subtree that\u0027s needed for a limited scope multicast and that\u0027s on the next slide so with this picture there\u0027s a smaller number leaves interested and they advertise just as I said before there is a pruning process that\u0027s applied to the template tree to reduce it to this sub graph of the total tree and you\u0027re done and I won\u0027t go into the details and read any of it but it\u0027s available online so the the final step within the current proposed document is to provide a certain level of efficiency with regard to forwarding table entries and where a node in the network is not involved in making actions they\u0027re multicast related we use and this is important in terms of working within the SR MPLS framework or standard once it becomes one resuming and and that is that there\u0027s a unicast tunnel I haven\u0027t filled in all the various arcs in it so I\u0027m built a sink tree I\u0027ve just built the sub portion of the the sink tree that we\u0027re interested in but there\u0027s a pink and a purple CID that is the unicast destination and that tunnel is used as a bypass to get through nodes and this too is also computed in the proposed algorithms to produce this final graph and that kind of concludes for the most part the sort "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:59:14",
    "text": "of overview or does conclude the overview of how and what we\u0027re proposing I have for a brief period to look at the grumpy old man slide I\u0027m familiar with all of these things on all of these things in the picture on here I was there in 1994 and the important thing here is that that there does seem coming from a certain subgroup of the people that I\u0027ve talked to you about this a concern about performance or memory or whatever and I hope that this chart in a good-natured way provides some refutation of that it doesn\u0027t deal with you know doing a good implementation of what\u0027s needed but that\u0027s a separate question and I think we can finish with that except to jump to the conclusions yeah so another misunderstanding was that we were somehow trying to take over the universe and that certainly wasn\u0027t the intent we just to be clear we had no interest in boiling the ocean we still interestin boiling the ocean we see this is a relatively simple thing we\u0027re taking an existing set of algorithmic constructs that were well defined several years ago in a work that was joint between the ITF and the I Triple E and there\u0027s an RFC that captures the details of that was mentioned earlier in the dock in this presentation and we can go over that later if interest but instead we\u0027re looking at at taking that and the standard currently as used MPLS data plane roughly as described in RFC 30-32 and and putting those things into the SR I GP implementations to support multicast as a optional extension so to close we\u0027re looking for help we\u0027re asking the working group and potentially other working groups within the ITF to to give us guidance about how to best sort of provide documentation into the IETF on this we\u0027re looking for help if there are people who are interested in working with us and we do think that there\u0027s a substantial useful text or at least text that can be modified to to become useful in the current draft we also accept the idea that there\u0027s may be "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "02:02:16",
    "text": "other lots of other things that could be said about this lots of other ways of adding to the documentation of it and maybe things that could be left out and we look for some help and guidance in all of that and I guess the one thing we don\u0027t look for is please go away stop there but I\u0027m wondering if people here in the room think that this is something interesting that they should consider if if the working group do work in this space basically or if you think that they rather should go to spring or else one comin up from Cisco so I won\u0027t say whether it should go to pay more a spring but I had only one comment that I guess there are some individual drops in the spring also and it might be good idea to you know get feedback from the other working group and authors how exactly to move forward it might not make sense that something we standard here and maybe something else they are trying to do in the next room so it\u0027s just feedback yep thank you I Cisco so they\u0027d forget in second routing if you enable it for unicast it makes you change multicast right talked about little yesterday right so you can just do in as you do today you can do em know the PS you do today so then the question is why would you want to change that for multicast right and I think one of the key points that why people and change their deployment is simplicity I think it is one of the I think the key drivers that you know that drove beer and white you know went so smooth in the United yes because it\u0027s a simple and saying that you know all you know it if you just remove elder people from the network that means you cannot on Emily P I think there\u0027s such a misconception with people it just means you should be education that if um LDP you\u0027re not using LD P for unicast you just happen to use the same TCP session and same data formats so but if that\u0027s really your problem you want to solve then it\u0027s that\u0027s that\u0027s a misconception I think it\u0027s the wrong reasons to disable the protocol so I don\u0027t see that as a reason to say you can have from Emily P because you\u0027re disabling LD for unicast but sure you know so I certainly if you were running a ml DP and he decided to turn on segment reading and you decided to leave m LD P in place I wouldn\u0027t call you crazy however if you\u0027re building a new network and you\u0027re starting off using SR and maybe you choice of your products doesn\u0027t include a device that does MLD P but does include SR with these extensions applied to it you might be wise to pick that "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "02:05:16",
    "text": "product rather than the one that does both well and that\u0027s a that\u0027s me providing a reductio ad absurdum as opposed to you know giving a full response because we\u0027re out of time well but that\u0027s a implementing a new protocol is not something that is just simple right because these are different ways of building a tree all right let\u0027s say how does kind of you know work in a real network you know we\u0027ll find out you know building a tree this is a pretty good way building a tree whoa so is it so excuse me but there is an existing implementation of what we\u0027re proposing it just happens to use a different data place so that\u0027s not a fair argument well I think you know the pergola proved itself you know running in real deployment and that protocol runs in real deployments some of them with a thousand nodes in just ask a quick question or comment so just a comment whatever you should be here or whether I should go to a spring if there\u0027s gonna be like northbound or southbound P sub type of protocols then definitely you wanted to find that in the in this yeah III dad I don\u0027t disagree with I think it needs to be done jointly somehow with with both of these groups because one of the other concerns I have that I think is a little bit alluded to but is is there you know not all networks run uniformly one protocol right you can have a large aggregation network that runs SR and I and a core network that runs rsvp-te and beer and it would be very necessary to use the collective wisdom of both the beer working group and the pin working group to make sure that we get the inner working right yeah I\u0027m just worried about you know if having these in both working groups and which part of it Beneful in this working group and which part I was going to fall in the next word I think that\u0027s what we need to iron out because I\u0027m sure a lot more ideas like this will come out and I think it would be good if we could put our heads together with aspirin share pictures of India so this blame by associate auto sector again yep this blame by association right oh it\u0027s ml DP or as so so l DP we don\u0027t like this anymore this is such annoying and non-technical stuff right so I mean in Cisco there was a from Dino and implementation of you know MPLS multicast in Peyman 99 so that was obviously completely politically incorrect so which is why we then looked how to make it politically more correct and actually you know we fell in love with ml DP because the reliability right I mean we did that later in PIM right so it had a lot of good things in the association with the unicast LDP was great politically at that time right so now it\u0027s really bad right it doesn\u0027t really change the quality of the solution itself now but there was just renting and please don\u0027t respond to that renting and there would be over in "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "02:08:18",
    "text": "Pierre right so no pun intended you know but I think the the key thing that I\u0027m worried about is that as cool as I like your slide about em OSPF back right the way on how to build trees with receiver based joints is something where we have millions of users and you know the 20-plus plus years of experience and doing a distributed tree calculation in the way that M OSPF does is a cool idea but we just don\u0027t have the same I think I think we we may not have done as good a job of harvesting the knowledge that exists from the people who are using this everyday in spbm based networks but it is the case that there are over a thousand networks they rely on multicast because it\u0027s actually really intrinsic to make the bloody thing work and and some of them are at a thousand nodes and they\u0027ve been operational for quite a while so that\u0027s a very well we\u0027re gonna we\u0027re done thank you the history of my IETF getting to the mic thanks thanks yeah we need to talk with the spring chase "
  }
]