[
  {
    "startTime": "00:02:00",
    "text": "I\u0027ll never come back he\u0027s ignoring me Matt Miller minutes answer them to his name you are the gentlemen hi this is Miriam dispatching before you guys get started my spy network advises me that you want to kick my ass to take over you in bring it this is Canada you can ask nicely and it will just give it to you so yeah we\u0027re definitely need to start it is just after the start time this is httpd if you\u0027re not here for HTTP we have an agenda today two things made sense on the agenda so first of all no well no well if you haven\u0027t seen this already you can find it by searching for ITF note well these are the terms under which we participate here and they\u0027re important regarding things like your behavior and intellectual property so if you\u0027re not aware of this please do read it because you are bound by these guidelines well the guidelines are rules anyway best practices I guess there you go codes today we have a scribe thank you very much the blue sheets can now be circulated thank you very much we have a job really thank you very much so today all we\u0027re gonna do is first we will talk about quicken HTTP yes first Anna just an update from the quick world about what they\u0027re doing and then we\u0027re gonna dig into the HTTP core issues any gender fashion why don\u0027t you wear don\u0027t try I will turn its on okay so now two out of three okay so HDPE there\u0027s a product the quick working not the HDPE "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:05:00",
    "text": "working group through interesting machinations yes and the quick it is Charlie was trying to describe mappings between HTTP number normal semantics using quick and accommodate htv-2 extension mechanisms in HIV over quick so the process of doing that we have adopted some changes to how HCP is mapped that might be beneficial in the HIV to world as well and we\u0027ve also kicked some things out as that\u0027s HTP visits job not ours so I\u0027m here to make sure that everyone is on the same page so first off hup-two uses this nice little implicitly cleansed also called zombie stream thing to build this priority tree where you just skip a stream member the spec says that\u0027s implicitly closed some people will use that to build their priority tree and hope that the server doesn\u0027t actually clean up those particular extremes that they\u0027ve skipped it\u0027s clean but servers don\u0027t technically know which close streams are safe to clean up and which ones aren\u0027t so plants have to make some assumptions and servers have to make some assumptions about which ones they can scavenge and it can lead to the priority tree being inconsistent between clients and servers it\u0027s a little bit ablate it should be over quick in addition to wanting to deal with that doesn\u0027t have implicit scheme which would mean we would have to actually send a filament extreme get a pen back from the server and then know that it was close but we\u0027re just assuming extremes to clear good news oh wait special occurs so it\u0027s cheap you know real quick introduces the explicit idea of the place over there is so you know "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:08:10",
    "text": "because you know we can say that sounds good we\u0027ll take it up as an extension we can do that there are a few things that have to be a little bit different to the end to fit into a ch2 is not quite the same we could choose to take as a working group I don\u0027t we need to do something better than we have but not that or we can just take our time and do something that our shift and hope it goes into H GPU or quick - if there\u0027s one ok so if folks have comments they can come forward and either comment as an individual and I would go to the floor Mike but there\u0027s a giant TV in my way so I\u0027m a big fan of this like in the quick scheme I think this does a nice job of preserving immersive the flexibility we\u0027ve had while reigning in state problems and the other issues about besides not being sure of what the state on the other side is as well as the asylum the overall you know requirements I do quick as h3 in most ways and I never feel the need to like back for another feature unless there\u0027s like a critical urgent need right and so my implementer hat would be but to be clear you said to you quick his h3 track so Patrick didn\u0027t do then imply that you don\u0027t expect to ever define another version of HTTP over TCP or any changes to it yeah never is a long time but I mean it would be a logical successor to HQ so I shouldn\u0027t said quick I really mean HQ is HTTP 3 in my mind and I would presumably be in that model going forward but I don\u0027t think there\u0027s anything about what I said that requires that to be true I\u0027ll insert myself in queue and also avoid the TV personally I think I agree with Patrick I think the only place where this really matters is when it affects some someone\u0027s implement not not the implementation but but someone using the protocol so if this was surfaced in API "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:11:11",
    "text": "somewhere either on the server side of the client side on you know the more different abstractions we have whether incompatible the more it causes angst and on the client side I think it\u0027s pretty much a clean slate so far on the server side I\u0027d look to the server implementers to complain now if they were going to just embrace anything that could help simplify this priority scheme h2 will be very welcome if this helps rename the state explosion power mature but I\u0027m intrigued by Patrick\u0027s comment so with that clarification backwards I\u0027m wondering you know we have a regular session and the fallback position is always there actually per charter so we may end up with h2 when we think we\u0027re going to for quite a whiie but capable quick - with h2 are you implying that even in that situation we\u0027re talking h2 over t speak we might be still be able to take advantage of this without any interest now in this scenario my h2 is pH 2 but my I think that\u0027s you know dead stop so Mike\u0027s asking do we want you know an h2 extension here which we can add right so do you like h2 and speaker new extension with a new set of priorities right is that amount of machinery worth marijuana protocol that you know we expect to be substantially replaced by you know by HQ right to me that seems like a whole different ecosystem for you know hopefully diminishing returns as time goes on right yeah I guess I I might still be interested in seeing you know how complex the extension I\u0027m working without would be and if it\u0027s a little bit more than yeah I would say yeah let\u0027s just yeah I mean I asked Mike this question is like if we do this as an extension in h2 is that something that should be decided coincident with the with the HT decisions or is that something with you know sort of tackle independently I think we can tackle it independently the real question that has to be decided coincident is do we want to try and do something better than this and recommend it to quick and if the answer to that is no then we have plenty of time to figure out what to do with age - yes yep John I ain\u0027t got I was going to actually propose what you just said at the end which is maybe that is maybe body workers number one just leave instead acquit the what it\u0027s doing but also use this as a signal that priorities needs fixing in h2 and that doesn\u0027t mean to be done urgently it doesn\u0027t need to be done in time for it for quick but it is something that I "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:14:12",
    "text": "hope would happen in this community separately yeah and if it turns into something that\u0027s better even for quit then we can in order to fit it back into quick even we don\u0027t have a B - changing the priorities we provide login capabilities logging that authority to it so having a different priority creamy the processing under the law becomes more complicated so I might prefer keeping click the priorities alone unless it is proof to improve performance I will see how quick doesn\u0027t see how this works in quick and the maker decision later I air canary Apple as someone tasked with providing api\u0027s that allow people who express stuff I think with priorities it\u0027s not that big of a difference and here personally I would be perfectly content to leave things alone and deal with it later but as we start talking kind of about the future and where things diverge further if it diverges a lot that starts to become a little a little more tricky so I I do have an interest in making sure the things from a expression side at the API layers are are at least equivalent enough to make that comment I\u0027ll just insert that I think one of the factors here in terms of us coming up with something better in this community is is that because of the overlap in the communities you know this is gonna be catered on the availability of implementers to put effort into something better and right now they\u0027re all very busy especially on the client side which is where we really need it so I\u0027m not surprised that we have this so cut Roy and then Adam your audios breaking up can you turn your video and maybe the closer your microphone if he can what I was going to say is that the I don\u0027t like it when the working group decides not to do something based upon the title if that the real question is is someone out there willing to write a specification of improvements to h2 priorities and if there isn\u0027t anyone then well it should just sit there as an open concept so this actually started out as a draft proposing an extension and then it got pulled in too quick because it\u0027s all the problem we had there but the HDP draft is still there it may or may not be expired I\u0027m not sure I have a question from Lucas partir in the job I am asking how this relates to priority and work in the WIC G okay I "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:17:20",
    "text": "also want to mention law here there isn\u0027t some comment in the Java room that is still pretty quiet for remote participants so for people coming up to talk on the floor please come very close to microphone I will make a comment to that then in the it\u0027s important to remember the WIC G is just effectively a playground it has very little status in WIC process so for whatever rate that deserves yeah mom Thompson that that work does not know its relationship to this yes that\u0027s that\u0027s true yeah if anything that work is looking for cues from us right so okay so I think the answer is right now we will do nothing I\u0027m a poke the draft to the mailing list if folks want to take a look at it but the plan is not to move forward with it right now okay I got you yeah so next item being referred over the quick working groups Charter is to make sure that the htv-2 extension mechanisms are present and they should be over quick they\u0027ve made the decision that they are not going to port over all existing extensions which means all service and origin which currently define frames and the extension frames for each to which certainly have value in it should be over quick as well it would be on this working group to adopt a draft that defines what that looks like and registers it with the achiever quick registry I have written the draft for alt service it is dead simple and super short I don\u0027t think anyone has done origin yet but we certainly could this is just a if you feel like writing a graph for most of the work has already been done for you this is a good opportunity to get your name on an RFC and lastly I think is last it GP over quick has decided that along the same principles as TLS greasing a lot of good points and quick greasing a lot of the public pieces anywhere where a value should be ignored if not unknown it defines a couple of frame types a couple of settings values and says if you see these these had no semantic value whatsoever you don\u0027t understand them keep moving and I understand that recently a an implementation was encountered which did not tolerate an unknown setting type so this would be something that we could also bring in tej to to help exercise peers like that and force them to validate their code if we\u0027re interested in reserving the code "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:20:20",
    "text": "points for it Shiv me over to hb2 as well yay it\u0027s quick I in a registration draft Mountains and I think we should do this at least so that we maintain some semblance of um similarity with the Quickstop not so because yes people have managed to mess this up already don\u0027t know how but thanks its head state of the world I\u0027m afraid so it\u0027s broken can I ask is an implementation willing to start sending priests values thank we actively start actually greasing that there\u0027s a lot a question to ask you yeah because if so then I think that\u0027s a good discussion to have by the way you\u0027re at the mic all right bro so it certainly anthem of our testing channels too at first you know at first not so much increase but almost a survey like what this looks like to see whatever connection rates are and then you know based on that data yeah possibly no yeah I think we want to be careful now that you know that people are actually falling over when this one is that you see sure right now so I mean I think the driver the brothers many things brought it to a head for tell us one three and four quick when sort of the strategy was really you know innovated and it\u0027s been great initiating this industry development and h2 didn\u0027t have this philosophy right so this is really what ever considering can you can you back pork grease and if your joint is already arrested the grease isn\u0027t gonna help if you slap it on the top right that\u0027s kind of what we\u0027re concerned about so my draft identified how to do connects tunnels in h2 for bootstrapping WebSockets was deployed in by a very major Syrian and in that draft he set out a settings from the server side towards the towards the pier mana turned out a fairly commonly deployed to open-source implementations upon receiving the settings value close the connection like the almost immediately but of course you have the issue of you know making those updates in the field I mean so let\u0027s charter driving this as a motivator so if there are other people who be you know willing to jump into the breach with me to test these greasing points that always makes a lot easier if you\u0027re not the only one who\u0027s willing to sacrifice some connections for the for the purpose of data gathering so that\u0027d be great if you could approach me it sounds like since you have plant covered the initial issue that we found was on a client which means we need some servers to do this as well so to be clear you are going to deploy an experiment yeah I you something it\u0027s been a hotel for sure so um any any other clients or "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:23:22",
    "text": "especially servers who would be interested in trying to run the similar experiment I don\u0027t have to oh okay cool so maybe let\u0027s wait to hear back from you folks on the list to make sure it\u0027s something saying to do and then if so we can write a draft and do the right things and the registries and so forth okay all right thank you thank you Mike so next up we have an editor\u0027s overview of what\u0027s happening in HTTP core are Julian are you witness and if so could you get into the queue yeah that\u0027s what we call it core yeah it is now officially HTTP core so these are just bugs on the slides you can you can report okay let\u0027s stay on topic that\u0027s why it\u0027s we are now at three draft x-lite I started looking at the RFC router we have 27 left which have that there are actually 27 which are not rejected 13 of which verifies nine head for document update five reported of these 27 we have already addressed 18 nine are still open all of them have been for all of these we have opened a table shoes and we have got a summary page maybe you want to open that one maybe not so that just gives you a mapping of the errata IDs two-digit official numbers and all we resolve them if we already did next night these are issues we\u0027ve got quite a lot 122 979 mark has labels a subset of these for discussion today next night okay and this is a bit that I wanted to get feedback on some of the zoning issues that we had the errata actually taxed and the HTTP a DMF so I really think to get things addressed "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:26:25",
    "text": "properly we want to have test cases and test suite and if somebody can supply RFC 52:34 confines a DNF rebel rouser that would be great otherwise we\u0027ll have to figure something out one other thing I was thinking about is that you can\u0027t be through everything was single collected a B and F and that doesn\u0027t really make a lot of sense because having messages is really different from following the comments of field value so I was planning to we arranged that in to label the a B and F fragments that we have to be in two different buckets essentially I probably should automatically for that other discussion and that\u0027s all I have before we go on with the tickets activation the Bible teaches so right now the spectres essentially silent on http/2 and few pack and quick HTTP and pcp 56 bits and maybe there\u0027s also relation to the revision of the company spec which as I understand might get finished this year but it doesn\u0027t seem it gets finished before us so maybe we also need to coordinate this with my quest at that spec actually we\u0027ll put it on top of new prospects so the relationship shift to these other specs that have something to do with HTTP if we should discuss at some point of time so Julian I have an open issue in pcp 56 best to reference the new documents and I think we\u0027re gonna keep it up and from that from the minute for those from the discussion the other day I think maybe what we could do is go through the cookies dock and give Mike and John some issues if we see anything where there\u0027s a mismatch or reference yeah not sure about quick I guess I guess they wait when we started this work the idea was that if these were done in time it would reference them so it should be Mike Bishop it GP over quick has at least one instance where really the text that we work to reference is not in the old "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:29:26",
    "text": "RFC\u0027s so it has a reference to the old RFC is with an editorial issue opened that if we can reference the new ones we should I think it\u0027s still this realistic possibility that we can get this done in time for it to be able to reference it so well while you\u0027re here Julian is it worth going over the reorganization and its status yes and especially whether it\u0027s so we producing straps we the yeah the me deco is just bad today yeah I was fine yesterday the let\u0027s see so so we set up the ETP core draft so if you go into the github location you can actually see every commit that\u0027s been made over the past almost 15 years thanks Julie the there are a set of gifts available in the on the website for the HCP Corps there are a lot of changes that we go through but the most part they\u0027ve just been changes to how the tools do hyphenation which is really annoying and others right Bing oh no way can you redo an acute so only way for ROI I will express my appreciation this just this very good organization has happened by itself has actually I think significant help to readability and you know it\u0027s obviously a pile of work so thanks to mark and "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:32:28",
    "text": "Gillian Roy for doing that oh you\u0027re back home okay yeah so so actually coming through every change is not going to work with this connection so I suggest that we go through the issues lists that are open and see if anyone has comments on yeah I think mostly what I wanted to do those highlight to folks to make sure they understood that the real good happened and that it\u0027s relatively stable although I think in our discussions we\u0027ve said we know that we still have some text to write in fill in in some places and some connections to make and so forth but I think the overall structure is relatively solid all the way might tweak it as we go along do you see that it\u0027s accurate running yes okay um yeah it\u0027s only if you go to UM go back and just go one of the open issues links if you want oh yeah going there little higher you really should join github today other than it labels or just hit that discuss when that\u0027ll get them all so we we\u0027ve highlighted a bunch of issues that we felt like it\u0027ll be nice to get some input from from the broader group I help us move forward I\u0027m so let\u0027s go through those Julian I\u0027m just gonna go through them in the order of the of the issues list so issue one two three Julian include status 42 so this is can you give me a Gasol yes so this is a very frequently asked question on Stack Overflow what\u0027s the right status code to return when I can pass the request but the contents doesn\u0027t make sense to me like missing xml elements or bad days in structure or whatever because people want something more specific than 400 and raptor free made a very generic different definition of dead end and it is really widely used outside vector and the one thing that seems to keep a few people from actually using is it is the argument atoms in the backup spec so I think that\u0027s one paragraph status call definition that we should actually pull into the car drives aspects so this is mark speaking personally I think it\u0027s a good idea it\u0027s a generic status code so it belongs in the core I think when we have that kind of situation it\u0027s probably good to put it over assume we update the other spec right 4918 is "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:35:30",
    "text": "being updated not necessarily unless we actually change the definition right okay so check out that go and does anybody else have opinions yep we include it but don\u0027t ever updating it see it if you\u0027re not changing the definition and I don\u0027t think there\u0027s any any needs to do that you\u0027re just listing it this exists yeah well I\u0027m sure on I think sort of the point of sort of these Restatement is to incorporate the base elements in the base document so that\u0027s totally appropriate I think we should be also going to take things out if there\u0027s you know you have a few issues like that so yeah we\u0027ll get to that just that\u0027s a probably a slightly different discussion any more difficult because you\u0027re actually booking - absolutely - yeah I think that\u0027s on the edge of in scope as well a consensus question whereas I think it\u0027s pretty clear that if stuff just needs to be incorporated to understand basic CP attribute there I\u0027m gonna record the sense of what we discussed in the room and the issues just for convenience next up number 74 our headers are always defined with a DNF and so we are when we were discussing with structured headers this came up well semi 230 says they\u0027re set of must are generating multiple header fields of the same field name in a message unless other the entire field value that had a field is defined as it comma separator list especially after forth based syntax that we come up with in sections of them or the heli-field lawyers well none exception is not abalone which means basically cookies depending on how you read this it can mean a couple of different things you know do we require headers to be defined using may be enough because we\u0027re talking semantics to how a header was defined now also you know at times specifics index handling so in other words when you look at that a DNF that tells you how to combine two headers how white-spaces handle you know empty header fields that sort of thing and how you can authorize those effectively and that\u0027s tied again to that up to thwip rule so you know if we can define heteros without using a be enough the question is are those requirements there\u0027s others behaviors to require Bhanumathi headers or is that specific times the funnies in that syntax this becomes important for structured heathers because you know they\u0027re defined primarily you know they\u0027re the normal definition is is with a bunch of algorithms and so we talked "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:38:31",
    "text": "through this in the issue and I think I made a proposal down here which is I replaced that text with the center must large area mental health fields are the same field name and a message in rust that fields definition allows this for example it uses the comma separated list in a behavior so doctors are values where the headers run an exception that would clarify that you know we\u0027re not we\u0027re not doing this just based on how you define the syntax of the header which to me always seemed a bit odd anybody have any comments on this Joanne you\u0027re in Oh Joel were already speaking I think you got some of the same or anyone else of course I just recalled that we actually have our related slightly related issue to that which I opens when we did our service where we actually have lists and tags but the whole header field is not really defined as of this production because we have a special I think Tia Peralta so we already have a different ticket push which is slightly related to this do you want the ticket number I\u0027m looking did you have any feelings about this proposal so I think the important bit is we can be couple of the combi the recombination rules from the actual a B and F syntax but I don\u0027t think that we have the freedom to change the recombination rules so language that allow us new header fields to be defined without using the dist production literally that\u0027s fine but if that affects the way how components can recombine at a fuse I don\u0027t see how we can do that and that\u0027s the discussion that we had in conjunction with Scott Ellis right right so the assurance number seven that are just number seven yeah I sure yeah Ric so this is a case where "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:41:34",
    "text": "we have defined a head of yours to be either at least or essentially a key but that can only occur once so if you will take the prospect literally that\u0027s not a candidate for recombinant recombination right across the field value as much defined as a list right no it\u0027s a little more subtle than that I think the requirement back in an issue that one refers to is about sender behavior it\u0027s always saying what it can generate multiple header fields it doesn\u0027t place any requirement on when a recipient can or cannot combine headers because to do so would require a recipient to understand the syntax of every possible header field and it becomes deployment problem but there\u0027s the implicit requirement which maybe we need to be explicit is the recipient when those recipient receives two instances of any header field no matter what it is and header field should be defined in such a way that they were bused in the face of that and now what I have something to say yeah we\u0027re just gonna say maybe we should just simply make the requirement of again right maybe just 15 seconds I\u0027ll make it look better slow start from me let go perhaps give me on a shot yeah that\u0027s the trick the the thing is maybe we should change it to be that the sender\u0027s not generated unless it\u0027s known that recombining the header field reminding those header fields using commas does not change the semantics so we just explicitly say what is the condition that we want to ensure doesn\u0027t fail I think I can live with that what do you think about the other thing make me explicit that any door sippin can combine anything when they have multiple instances just because I\u0027ve seen people misunderstanding this time and time again yeah I mean we could we could work out the details say with this issue and the rest of our titles play I\u0027m looking for signs that like this elucidation is going to help the rest of the working group you know contribute meaningfully and if it\u0027s not I make sure I just you know take it back to the editorial team right we want to make sure we consult with the working group but it\u0027s not just us and we also need feedback no I\u0027m going to do run assessed that an issue-by-issue basis so yeah so in terms of my experience with with things that do this sort of coalescing is that they do it fine day yeah so being explicit about that would really help "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:44:39",
    "text": "so what could you repeat what you said before just so I can capture it I still on yeah the so we could instead of defining that in terms of the fields definition define it in terms of how the field is interpreted when it\u0027s recombined when it\u0027s combined into commas so yeah it\u0027s just a slightly different expression of the same thing I know personally this I think it\u0027s early editorial show 161 is that what we\u0027re gonna tackle next I will introduce 61 landmark types Anna says that my understanding that IETF recommends exclusive use of utf-8 it seems therefore that except charts that can go bowser\u0027s already do this in fetch requires it for what it\u0027s worth and then we do a bit of a discussion of what it means to go I have a comment I think what\u0027s on the table is putting some pros in exploring the downsides of using accept care set and changing I have a header status in the registry to obsoleted which is a status that the registry already uses so is this specifically about fingerprint surfacers this just about the functionality is not desired sometimes my understanding is that no one effectively uses this and those that attempt to find that they get results that they might not want asking for something and then getting it and you might not actually get what you it\u0027s not very clear what are you in particularly since media types often don\u0027t signal charges says very clearly right so I think that\u0027s a good bar for when we\u0027re asking this generic question of what to throw out so it\u0027s not the districts in widely implemented it\u0027s that this gives bad and harmful results right and so I think that\u0027s a you know in my mind that\u0027s a good good place rather one so I think this is this is not a case of throwing it out of the document it\u0027s it would retain the description of the header field maybe maybe maybe added in the sense that this one existed for the purposes of negotiating character sets but turns out it\u0027s not a good idea and we\u0027re obsoleting editors herself I think that\u0027s that\u0027s a reasonable thing to do I certainly think that\u0027s appropriate what would you have to do to get thrown out of the document basically "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:47:39",
    "text": "not exist I think at this point because if we if we take something out was registered in the past people who ask questions and I think at least learning it turns down their dues responsible we\u0027ve done that in the past with for example the payment required status code right yes I agree that we should we should actually have explicit text in the spec saying it\u0027s not no longer recommended and this is why I don\u0027t think any other mechanism works okay you can certainly truncate the description of semantics would anyone like to speak for or against absolution all right char says dead negotiating char said this is not okay fifty Kingdom so this is our radius of responses and I\u0027ll just read out the issue the specification of cash control and more store on the response side can be a Wed to allow the response to be reused for another concurrent request since its specified in terms of non-volatile memory what was other cache directors or Sunderland such we use so this is so close it\u0027s very common now for at least we know media cache is maybe the browser side it\u0027s called request collapsed or collapsing request forwarding they\u0027re a bunch of names for it it\u0027s become quite common clarification as to whether such we used for temporary concurrent requests would be helpful on a special interest or I expect for other questions were possibly to this came up I was a little surprised when I heard someone rated this right because in in my mind and all those questions we\u0027ve had previous in the working group you know the the rough semantics of most oil that this bypasses the cache completely it\u0027s like you\u0027re riding around the cache and so the things that you can vary use it for multiple requests is a little surprising so I just thought it\u0027d be good to clarify that one way or the other and though just to read while INRI wasn\u0027t in our weather the definition of a no story the most or respond selectively indicates the cash must not store any part of either than immediate request a response this directive applies to both province your caches must up not store this context means that the cache must not intend to store the information in non-volatile storage and must make the best effort attempt to remove information from water storages properly as possible after forwarding it of course if you get concurrent requests not spoken to yeah some some Jeffrey also points out here that the the preload and prefetch stuff that their browsers to government probably claim do this pretty well and I\u0027m going to add to the prior server server push and the way that we think about that probably yeah so so the push "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:50:41",
    "text": "I was gonna add so we might introduce the concept of single use resources right which is what we mean in a lot of these cases so the other way that browser uses these and I think it may have had to do with the original North Shore language a little bit no stores are stored like in memory so you can go but it\u0027s not for reuse of right so we have a different section in the caching spec which I\u0027m really glad still in there now although we talked about before which is relationship of caching to a history lists and and and it kinda has a carve-out without the explicitly caching and history lists are separate things so I think we\u0027re okay there that\u0027s effectively a separate cache but I do like your idea well you know proving on an explicit concept of a single use response and attaching that in the appropriate places in the cache miss back does that seem reasonable to folks time soon I just got the crepes again maybe maybe this we need to decide which one of these things no store is and then we have some separate work to do on a new directive to fill the other mate because there\u0027s this notion of collapsing one collapsed on on that\u0027s a new directive isn\u0027t it I don\u0027t think so no it\u0027s done today a lot the collapsing yes um you\u0027re talking about a new notion which is placed on collapse this no I\u0027m talking about whether most or is an opt-out from collapsing or not and right now as far as I\u0027m aware in all the implementations it is it is an opt-out I believe so implicitly I would like to make that explicit if we want to be crisp about it so your definition of requests collapsing just to be clear two concurrent requests for the same URI one blocks in the other or the assumption that it could be reused right something about the browsers do that as well and they also noticed all would be treated as single-use if that happens is that no strong nor a question on our store on the response response response I\u0027ve been waiting patiently for that guy to get his response and now I have to make my own like that\u0027s kind of that\u0027s what something minutes right so like our browser sometimes collapses and sometimes doesn\u0027t it does in the general case but out of like xhr does not because it kind of assumes there won\u0027t be able to collapse those so yeah that can be contextual my inclination here is is that we need to do is acknowledge the collapsing exists in the patient\u0027s back and then make more store card out from it and then once that sits and we\u0027re comfortable with that we can look at the rest and make sure that there are any other places where we might need to carve out or another verb whatever but that\u0027s probably the starting point as "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:53:43",
    "text": "Chris from Comcast yes clarity on this is going to be super useful whether it is or isn\u0027t allowed one answer is going to be abuse and just your front I would note if you don\u0027t request collapse around fav icon but I go the internet will collapse from the pharmacy Dean\u0027s perspective when we see multiple results multiple requests come in at the same time we tend to treat those as though they were you know if they\u0027re really close together we think you were going to it\u0027s just like they were the same request and so if we really do want it to be separate we should be specific about that because I actually would have assumed the exact opposite I think that the one second resolution of the HTTP cache in one will kind of might lead you towards that conclusion and I say that I think that the default should be a carve-out for no store mostly because I strongly suspect what most content folks would be incredibly surprised if the answer was anything else and very unpleasant no records security consequences okay next up is 4:15 and accept number of 48 so Martin raised this issue this came up in acne where they wanted to use for 15 bucks eped 76 94 which I believe a seesaw at CICE to inspect to do a Shi ation so the idea here is is that if you could have except in a response when you\u0027re using 4:15 that would be so this would be an expansion of the scope of the use of an existing header just like we didn\u0027t see I see me but it would be a nice core yeah so so we\u0027ve cred this created this special car bell so they say gzip a request body but we never really thought down to the the the media type negotiation which surprising I\u0027m kind of surprised because that would have been the first thing I would\u0027ve thought turns out not the only objection that comes to mind me to me for this is is that people are used to accept - being in request headers but we\u0027ve kind of already broken that taboo with CICE right so just as a matter of consistency um except charset does anybody have a "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:56:47",
    "text": "concern about doing this I guess the question is what is this because this sounds like a request to extend RFC\u0027s seven six nine form of the call specs so we\u0027ve got a related issue 119 which would be about forwarding seven six nine four to the call specs what was one nineteen out of this that\u0027s right so with the proposal for 119 proposed resolution 119 be to just incorporate absolute 70s 694 by incorporating into yeah that was that was my sort of assumption here is it that it would be good because it\u0027s such a small thing because it\u0027s it affects the the meaning of those header fields pretty pretty fundamentally it would make sense to roll that entire thing in would be what an extra paragraph and the definition of each theme at most yeah I mean this is kind of the first conversation we had where we\u0027ve got scattered proposed standards that impact core let\u0027s just roll them together does it make life much better especially when we can remove pages of boilerplate and and references and yeah RFC is huge relative to what it actually does exactly yeah okay so anybody have a concern about well first of all does any have a concern about rolling 76 94 in tech or okay and then what the second question is back to number 48 do we want to expand the scope of 76 94 which is now going to be in core to include the accept header using the same kind of pattern and I know I think not seen a lot of interest in neither should you people understand what\u0027s peanuts it\u0027s a fairly substantive change I don\u0027t want to take sort of silences sorry islands actually I\u0027ve giving about one topic where I responded in the Java chat room plus one to incorporate the standard meetings of the same fields on one place with respect to putting except on the server side to people and you almost have an opinion okay just speaking personally I don\u0027t have a strong opinion I don\u0027t personally have an immediate use case for this but "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:59:48",
    "text": "acne found one for which is kind of indicative and I think I have a suspicion in which TP and OPI folks would be interested in this from time to time for the same reasons I could found yeah I\u0027m the notion of row 15 and accepting the asymmetry that came up during darrell as well they kind of worked around it but I guess I would figure I suggest just in the issue why no record that we discussed it and there was some support in the room but let\u0027s see if how those tears about it okay next up is oh yeah number 46 so star in except in all the different except headers which does not include care said anyone this may be too aggressive in a sense of what people thought are just observing that people tend to use the star value and they accept headers or not and often it\u0027s not terribly helpful to have it in there awhile and I was wondering if we could have some advisory text around it or carve some of it off completely or discourteous or something because if the Q value of your star value is higher than any other value the semantics are basically send anything in preference to something specific which isn\u0027t useful I don\u0027t know of any practical use case for that I\u0027d love to hear if Cindy has one if the Q value of two the star value is no even then you know it says some are more specific or in preference to something else but the default semantics of the except headers are already the case that you can send anything you want because it\u0027s an optional to support header you know you can ignore the header that means you can save anything and if you give a key value of zero it says don\u0027t send any other way except when what I asked for again it\u0027s an optional so what doesn\u0027t really make sense and in media types specifically you know slash store I personally feel like there\u0027s a lot of public protocol design going on here I don\u0027t think it actually gives us server information that\u0027s practically useful I see browsers you sending a lot of store this and story that I don\u0027t know if actual use cases for that I\u0027d love to hear if people have them then we\u0027re enjoying I think might have feelings about this actually I\u0027ve seen people ask for slash plus Jason and stuff like and stuff like that so to extend them your range may be enough to allow the type of video type format so send me anything that is Jason "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:02:50",
    "text": "or send me anything that is XML I agree that that\u0027s interesting I\u0027m not sure we can do that it\u0027ll be interesting yeah bloody web let\u0027s that would that\u0027s indeed well again if I have five specific media types that are Jason based of what you know and they all have different semantics of what I guess if you have version one has one name plus Jason in version two L\u0027s you know but still you wouldn\u0027t do star we\u0027re asking both by name so I\u0027m still not sure what the utility is here I guess it could be interesting if you have as you should multiple media types for margin for different things and your REST API and also have support for both Jason and something else\u0027s your API so the client could say I want the Jason variant of all the responses that you can produce now you will say there should be only one format anyway so syntax I was just saying that this has been asked quite a few times on Stack Overflow whether the video range production allows that use which it doesn\u0027t that\u0027s an interesting question you will know me that that we just talked about CICE could be interesting to say in a response I accept funny image media type for example well I believe would be an interesting use case one yeah I was going to bring up something that Julian touched on that the API world uses this stuff a lot more than the rest of the world and quite frequently they use it in unwise ways but ways that actually work for their use case so I would hesitate to make any changes here other than editorial yeah it\u0027s no boy that\u0027s good well we got you underlined I will broaden the question to some of its I think you know obviously impossible but just if anyone you know in-room yourself has some implementation experience was just positive impacts of the key values even without the store and with a relative complexity to the benefit they give and this is a question that any time you do a priority scheme right if we just built something that is you know more on really than it is beneficial so I\u0027m this might be a good time to get a feel for how fundamental this is to our system other than it being you know document in "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:05:50",
    "text": "different years right I I really don\u0027t have any good use cases for this because I\u0027ve always hated it it\u0027s something that was kind of forced into the spec because the original CERN library implemented it in great detail and so we\u0027ve kept it in there and in many cases people have found ways to use it as particularly selecting a particular version of a media type for an API where they were doing API versioning based on the media type instead of some other mechanism and a lot of people know I hate that you know I it was defined for a given purpose and if they want to use it it\u0027s fine with me if they use it that way and I you know this I think of HTTP as a tool set for people to use not as a opportunity for me to tell them what to do well I trying to suspect that you know the most we could do here is to just write some words saying that you know don\u0027t think you\u0027re getting what you\u0027re not getting from this and cautioning misuse of it I\u0027m curious when you\u0027re talking about HTTP API use are you just talking about content negotiation and and then perhaps you values are you talking about actually using the local levels in any APRs cuz I haven\u0027t seen that too much I have but if they weren\u0027t I\u0027m not sure if they were in the subject you know sub sub of subtype star values or if it was just in the version field so I can\u0027t really I can\u0027t remember if it was a either one of those but I have seen it used but not I don\u0027t think in the way that we formally approved okay so I\u0027m hearing this discussion point towards text that discourages this but not deprecation is that naturally human right is not in text text to explain the limitations and the appropriate uses I think I would note that you know it seems like the browser\u0027s don\u0027t send these sorts of things a fair amount and maybe that\u0027s just a small discussion to be had amongst the browser\u0027s about sensibilities to be seven because I should note that the original use of this was when browsers had an external gift viewer an external image viewer they would actually say image slash star because they didn\u0027t know what the properties of the image viewer was were they would just send the raw data to the image viewer and whether or not it supported a given image type was you know who care "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:08:52",
    "text": "okay any move on to number 44 has got something real quick from the Java room feeling Rashmi is posing maybe this is something for BFC 56 bits BSP I am sorry me maybe I think we probably should write some text and then figure out where the best price for it is I think the stuff when it\u0027s fundamental to the mechanisms that we define an HTTP if we have advice about it Korres is a place we should at least consider yeah maybe so therefore t4 is extension capabilities we\u0027re seeing I think italicized interesting elusive extensions only we discussed we had metrics WebSockets draft which used an HTV to setting - overall the semantics of an HTTP method which is not specific to HTTP - it\u0027s varying generic very specific rate and we\u0027re going to see the headers is probably not a fax HP head of payloads when the signature paper our proposal so some guidance about the relationship aversion specific syntax extensions and top-level h2 East minutes would be helpful I think that probably need to come back without those are here but I just want to see how much appetite there was in the working group for supporting this general idea that you know some kinds of extensions are more appropriate for some things levels and and you know version independent extensions like methods you know these are parts of the invariants of HTTP effectively using the term logically isn\u0027t work shouldn\u0027t be overwritten buying more specific versions and Westers special circumstances which is kind of any comments about that so the connects specifically I I agree that it feels a little weird I I understand how we got there and I\u0027m wondering if maybe we could find appropriate wording or something right connect converts the transport to litter so sure this goes back to wearing and "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:12:27",
    "text": "you know the value of HTTP is is that it works well for the same from an application standpoint you know a certain properties from very diverging and then as long as you don\u0027t violate that that\u0027s fine but the hell he gets expressed on the wire shouldn\u0027t matter we need to find the right words here right yeah i i\u0027m not sure about connected as a example that holds a lot of lessons for us in this i think it\u0027s an exception and so i think it is sufficiently exceptional that trying to think of it as existing at the HTTP semantic layer is a mistake and nothing that\u0027s the conclusion we sort of came to in the discussions we had I tend to think that the this this is a difficult question because from many ways what we are talking about yet the semantic layer in these documents and focusing our efforts there and we\u0027re not really trying to do HTTP tube is that\u0027s that constrains what we can talk about really and in this context a little bit other than simply explaining more about what the intent was there when we actually get to the point you\u0027re actually defining new things or putting new constraints on it that\u0027s where I get nervous about that I think I think you\u0027ve given me an idea and then Joe and I see you I think we have yet to pull open issue we need to put some text in the semantics draft I think about the relationship to http - you know so what is a relationship to the core - HD - just like we\u0027re factoring out HTTP 1 into a separate document once we do that what I think we can talk about the relationship of HTTP 2 extensions to the generic semantics so maybe we should just put a pin in this issue until that\u0027s done yeah that would be that\u0027d be a good thing I think that\u0027s probably a little bit more thinking to do on this front right and the way this issue is described it\u0027s sort of pointed at the specifically pH - extension of its notion of extensions is one may actually be an interesting thing to define as well like that\u0027s not I think 7 appears in poor anymore like how to extend this like sometimes are defined as being generic but you know the thought of you know what an extension means in a core concept versus a transport concept might be an interesting thing to to write down that\u0027s where we went to a pretty great lengths to talk about the nature of the extension points in this but yeah I didn\u0027t account for the fact that 2 is coming yeah I think part of this is another reason for this issue is the disruption that HTTP has a fairly constraint or the "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:15:29",
    "text": "core level has a real constraint extension level where HTTP tools we know is is quite also routine okay we did you read yeah that\u0027s what I wanted to go and it\u0027s to be essentially after story that if both sides agree on an extension the extension can essentially modify anything and that causes confusion if you want to compose different extensions right because they might be in conflict about what they modified I think what Hetrick did for connected WebSockets is okay because that was a very specific thing to get to their web sockets knows and there\u0027s no other thing that you want would want to combine it this but that\u0027s probably not for other types of extensions yeah and I guess we\u0027re talking a little about draft connectors like a really interesting thing exists yeah that\u0027s gonna be a tricky so Roy fielding from the Java room extending a given name that meaning we\u0027re never had meaning before might be okay changing its meaning in a context where happening and if you have different versions but "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:19:06",
    "text": "we control it depends exploring that\u0027s fundamentally what sorry so they picture this one I think some of the deviation you see in between implementations is that there was no guns and then some of the deviation is because you know that\u0027s what I meant for there for the application specific behavior but some guidance would be helpful we\u0027ve had a million bugs around us over the years and doing a better job now the notion of what to copy and what not to copy is I would appreciate taking a pass out to see if we can get consensus on I don\u0027t know if how Brides feeling over on the chrome team this one it\u0027s not a pinpoint sentence does anyone feel that one a diverged from what\u0027s in pitch right I don\u0027t think I think fetch has done a lot of the hard work here I think we just need to yeah reflect it back and and our seemed supportive of that too he\u0027d love to take you know less responsibility for some of this stuff sounds like a good plan okay let\u0027s try and see how we can get them it\u0027s not for going out of order right nice Kipling I\u0027m so sorry "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:22:07",
    "text": "so right now of the header the stream way way way way low back to the foam the message had a registry because it was not really a great thing before that existed before that and we just made a decision at the time to combine mail and news and HTTP on the one big registry and I know that some people get value of being able to refer to that and that\u0027s hidden side by side but the registration contexts semantic and syntactic requirements lots of different things are very different for them and and I think from from a user standpoint it would be much better for the HTTP wonder if we just had a separate HTTP had a registry I think that would be incredibly value and actually get us better participation in their industry so I have a draft that I put out a while back anything really sorry I had a draft a little while back that I Kim the approvals sorry can you prove this well pepper there\u0027s a teapot in orbit between Mars and so no but this is my opinion I can prove that it is my opinion and I would be interested to hear that other people have similar view of the world I could outdrive the well back as well saying to just sketch out what this might look like it\u0027s listed in the bag of people interested in sign patience on the table as I said I think this is potentially useful if it\u0027s the if the registration rollers are sufficiently different and so one thing we might consider bilious is making the process by which new entries are entered into this table a little smoother because one of the things that I find is that this is a very small not particularly well represented subset of the things that are actually out there Wikipedia is much better registry as lessons that\u0027s the problem and that is that is a bit of a problem and so this yeah if the registration procedures could be made more efficient the ideal working on actually need to bother with the nntp stuff sorry I\u0027m sort of a little bit in support of this but in his work says more to the fact that it\u0027s one of those things that can sort of drag on a little bit because registration procedures are often a little contentious and so I is the direct that I put out is not just separate registries it\u0027s also talking "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:25:08",
    "text": "about procedure and I\u0027m happy to just say that\u0027s a draft or groups consideration I\u0027m happy to put energy into it can we just consider adoption and see where we go knowing that the adoption does not mean a separate obviously it means voting this approach into core ready that said that\u0027s boarding I might actually do it or deduct all right and I would like to kick you to dispatch for this one you\u0027re chosen dispatch matter yeah because it touches all that well it doesn\u0027t touch so much as just pulls away from the flesh of the other ones you know besides you know if you are suggesting to change the station procedure it might actually benefit other branches which I just I live the opinion that the value that we get from having the Registry\u0027s together is dwarfed by the lack of value that is injected by having me together forever folks for other uses don\u0027t go adapting documents while I\u0027m passing around dammit so I think we should take this as a core issue that we run resolve and if we get consensus we would like to make this change then we will add this to our wrestling match with the dispatchers you\u0027re told I got Marie I\u0027m so disgusted Montreal we\u0027ll need to discuss take it to list and also talk to dispatch okay number 30 field names syntax this is something that again may be too intrusive I just want to throw it out there HTTP header field names 10 are actually were specified using token and token is an incredibly permissive syntax it uses a lot of their characters visible characters but still characters but I have never seen in worldwide use and I\u0027m wondering I don\u0027t think we can probably actually normatively change the syntax but can we at least do some guidance about nice characters to use and how to feel things is that worth doing it this time "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:28:33",
    "text": "so really comments that Apache HTTP D would prefer to reduce and acts and Julian points out that this could be done in a new registration procedure document sure I\u0027m just gonna say that there\u0027s interest in doing something here and we\u0027ll take the list I think do you joining in my comment and I think that brings us to the end good chunk issues there maybe maybe to Barbara 15 right and again this is this is the kind of project that could be done for uncontroversially and we can get it done right on forever and the difference in that is you know because we\u0027re going to need we\u0027re gonna need reviewers and to get a good sense actually consensus around this and that\u0027s not just you know a small team making what really should be proof light judgment calls so I appreciate that they\u0027re doing all the heavy lifting but I do want to make sure this thing gets its broad and the way I will judge that is in discussion on issues as they come up on the list and people that nervous new things in the text so please to make that happen if we want to get this done but thank you thank you and I think that\u0027s gonna wrap us up LaDonna yes look at the issues list we\u0027ll have currents there\u0027s no Russia in Bangkok "
  }
]