[
  {
    "startTime": "00:00:05",
    "text": "thank you okay so it's four o'clock now here in the room we have three people I don't know how many online uh let me actually let me check uh we've got uh let's see how many about 15 people I see um our main presenter is here Jordan head I think we can get started um I see that uh Alvaro is online but um our are you there he has been in the app for a while but I don't know if it's actually there uh let's give it one two more minutes yeah we can yeah wait oh yeah he just walked in yeah Oliver thank you for fixing the network"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:02:09",
    "text": "so do you want to get started oh yeah let's go okay welcome to the rift working group in IHF 114 in Philadelphia and online it's not well please remember that by participating in the iitf you agree to follow the iitf processes and policies I'll just read that line everything else just re you should be already familiar with it already some reminders please wear masks in the meeting room please be courteous and professional also please use the on-site tool even if you don't plan to speak at the mic that is the the way to to sign the blue sheet today these days you can do that you can to use the answer to either either follow the link in the agenda or scan the QR code so Jeff do you want to take from here so agenda for today we are going to provide quick update also with regards to rechartering and work you would like to progress and then Jordan is going to talk about updates to the base spec uh and Delta VPN KB registry I think we reached good consensus with Ayanna Fox here and the assistant recharging discussion"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:04:03",
    "text": "website so uh Alvar thanks for your review it came back so we are working on it applicability statement is still pending uh it is review young models yesterday submitted to isg KV registry as we said British consensus with Ayana and now we need Shepherd right up and uh Rift segment routing has been adopted as a new working group document so um then the next presentation is from Jordan head let me just download the material foreign okay uh so pretty big change or at least there will be pretty big upcoming changes for the uh the base spec um next slide so with alvaro's feedback that came back um here's you know some of the stuff that's going to come up as um the major feedback would be some of the ASCII diagrams didn't exactly they weren't parallel with their SVG counterparts um now that there aren't requirements for things to be exact but they need to be at least comparable so that both are both formats of the document have you know roughly the same experience um things like textual references and diagrams and so forth um other clarifying changes to yeah next slide uh just a little bit of a visualization for those that are interested so um what"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:06:01",
    "text": "I mean by not parallel so the SVG on the left you know pretty cool and so forth but the um the two ASCII versions on the right the the top is the before and the bottom one is is after it you know more clearly reflects the point of you know the in this case intertography inner top of fabric uh rings on the Fabrics um again the svgs are kind of more of a should than a should um but again it's about uh it's an accessibility thing right the need to be able to read relatively similarly uh next slide um kind of the same thing right just there's just some inconsistent labeling stuff like that um see the SVG on the left in the uh ASCII version on the right is a little more parallel uh um yeah one thing that came to mind just now is that um the svgs are of course nicer and and easier to understand uh if I was reading the document I don't know if we can put a note maybe especially at the beginning of that first section say you know go look at the PDF uh type thing because most people are going to go look at the HTML version or something and they might not get the the benefit of looking at and all the and all the nice pictures yeah I know um this was when we were first doing the svgs it came into a whole it was a whole thing figuring out what was allowed what wasn't you know grayscale versus color and so forth we're not actually allowed well we were uh advised not to reference specific formats in the text at all at least that's what I saw it ties back to Geneva Convention sort of things it's pretty interesting as far as accessibility and readability in certain parts of the world may not have access to something that could render HTML properly things like that but um"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:08:00",
    "text": "yeah so wanted to but um okay next slide um just kind of other stuff uh there I know you mentioned the um we should request early allocation for the multicast addresses and the UDP ports um we'll I'll make a note to the chairs or I'll send email to the chairs when we push version 16. um you know be on that various editorial things readability uh Clarity aspects um some reference fixes and I still eat responses so there'll be a couple of things that will have a little bit of a discussion about the vast majority of feedback is super straightforward next slide um and there's some things unrelated e-review that I kind of noticed um so well first off uh I'll be added as the sixco author um thanks for helping me weed through that it'll require a minor Shepherd update um but ads mentioned that that's a pretty straightforward thing um did some fixes for minor fixes for the thrift schema with regard to what's already reflected in the KV draft they just a little bit out of date there um other SVG fixes just you know size scale things some of the in the previous versions they were they scaled really really poorly and it was it was um and other kind of SVG XML optimization and that had to do with there's actually a three Meg uh limit on the draft upload tool that um cause all sorts of fun problems we had to render the pdf version and the pdf version doesn't render the svgs very well but anyway so that now everything should kind of fall into and they'll get the full benefit like the HTML version um I'm going to well we we have a get issue open with them but hopefully there won't be pushback so"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:10:01",
    "text": "I might bug you depending upon things but um uh okay next slide I think that's yeah that's it other questions before move on it's pretty straightforward I don't see a queue so we just continue the next one okay um just gonna provide a brief update on auto flood reflection um next slide so just a quick refresher um for those aren't familiar it's um it's an experimental draft out of LSR but the short version of it is um so you know there are lots of reasons to use you know flat single area igps but they come with drawbacks you know flooding State convergence right every node's got I know hold that state and then compute that state so there's a link to the actual flood reflection draft um but we'll kind of circle and with Rift here in a second next slide um so flood reflection like Rift is very well suited for cloth apologies um so Rift will take care of the underlay um and then the auto FR extensions will use you know Rift CTP and the LIE exchanges to build a flood reflection topology on top of that so next slide so where does it actually fit in so flood reflection requires loopback addresses uh system IDs for Isis Network entity titles which just makes the single address and then cluster ID to actually segment the flood reflection domains um and so uh Auto FR has to actually build and derive those variables using the distributed State we get in the rift"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:12:00",
    "text": "so next slide so what that really kind of looks like is so Z rip CTP will you know it'll drive each level it'll build the Riff fabric next slide uh the the FSM will help derive all of the flood reflection roles and variables and you know basically take the what would be configuration data and then next slide and then finally you end up with Isis flood reflection on top of everything so the adjacences has come up you have the flood Reflections apology and there you go you basically plug in everything you have a whole fabric um okay next slide so as far as the actual uh work in the draft so uh there were some uh concerns with how you know the iso address derivation wasn't very clear where it came from unless you went in and looked at the thrift model it's there but it should be kind of aligned in the text as well um the kind of did a new section refactoring of sections for all of the extensions required to Rift so it's like Auto FR works so that would be you know the finite State machine no tie advertisements and kind of any applicable schema updates basically prior to kind of refactoring it felt a little disjointed you have to bounce around the draft to figure out what was what was doing what so more readable now next slide okay uh we added a flood reflector preference value which means we need to update the election procedures to factor that in and then the key value ties are more of a editorial stuff so a little bit of normative language and kind of we've since reworked the game graph just a little bit so we've got the request criteria aligned okay so next slide okay just a little bit of a you know visual fluff if you will as to how"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:14:00",
    "text": "what's clarified um so we those are the functions that are tied to what are actually in the draft in the appendix that kind of show you know here's how we derive it and these are the you know the individual functions that build the parts of the address that we need so it's that image isn't there but it's described in text now versus not next slide um right so like I said what what it was before was with things being so disjointed um put everything in a single section and said you know here's the flood reflective version the cluster ID and the preference values and um there were a little there's a little bit of a functional change with that that wasn't described before to kind of factor in for interoperability with nodes that do run it nodes that don't run it nodes that do support it but don't want to run it so next slide so quick look at the actual reflector election previously it was just High Sid low acid second highest second lowest uh that's basically to prevent you know any single node coming in from flipping the entire Fabric and killing all the adjacencies so we it's the same concept all we do is factor in preference now so it's the same thing but with highest preference value and it will cycle through if you have enough flood reflectors but um okay next slide um like I said for key value ties lots of normative stuff basically we made it say that you know you don't have to carry everything but you probably should um and then the like I said the actual request component of it is aligned with um what the key value draft says next slide um so that's that's really it uh we are requesting working group adoption for that one but we'll add in some multi-plane considerations I know that's kind of on a back burner for"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:16:02",
    "text": "that's really just any questions about autofr all right so and the option um it would need to to probably need the the charter update to adopt it yeah well that's fair enough yeah yeah we'll talk about it at the end thank you okay Auto evpn um similar to Auto FR but you know build a European topologies on that but just a quick update with this one next slide uh so kind of similar to the auto F on these things were um you know we use this the temple product FR and then we notice it problems so the similar structural changes made things a lot more clear and readable um so again it was just feeling disjointed previously and you know jumping around the documents never good um similar stuff to the auto F4 where the key value ties as well some Norm to language things and you know Ayana things were tightened there was a little bit of a model change in that [Music] um certain piece well we'll we'll come to it uh and then you know editorial and knits and things like that so next slide okay um so again just kind of kind of aligns with what we did with autofr so the the actual extensions just kind of more contained where they should be uh as well as the actual Behavior Uh this was never really spelled out before um and that they uh version fabric ID the auto evpn model itself"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:18:00",
    "text": "actually has to be advertised in a no tie at least once in each Direction so we can again it has to do with interop and then there were kind of relevance complementary scheme updates for that um yep next slide okay so with the kit with the key value ties um the auto evpn the the Telemetry model we use to push Upstate Upstream um had a couple of things in the thrift model that have now since moved uh with common model overall so you know be used outside of it so it's kind of just a it's more of a cleanup thing but it's an important one um be the structure of the that bit in common Thrift also changes just a little bit but again that just aligns with the values that we're going to request from Ayanna for well-known oui and experimental key types um again normative language stuff right don't don't have to do these things but should and um the actual request of it light up next slide okay same thing here um we are still kind of work on some of the data center interconnect stuff so it'll basically be a different Auto VPN model to you know get track um more multi-plane considerations and we've got a lot of this stuff built in already but there's some other implications we need to work on um and then some actual operational deployment considerations um next slide and I think that's it okay questions there questions comments okay we'll move on to the next one then I miss this one will be fast so key value structure just need a"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:20:01",
    "text": "little bit of restructuring so uh next slide the only slide um nothing terribly exciting but it's kind of worthy of an update um going through the shepherd View for the Yang model made me realize that uh this would not do well so I refactored it to take into consideration all of the Ayanna stuff you know expert review requirements guidance for them you know registry structure as well um so like Jeff said the shepherd write-up's already in progress there but um next slide so this may be a little bit of a question for ad depends on what they want to do I I sent an email initially saying you know or the Ayanna had reached out to me they did an early review actually before this and kind of said well you know you're you're requesting a registry from something that isn't there yet there's no top level Rift category yet because it's requested in the base spec [Music] um I was thinking about already just you know we'll move that request into this draft but I changed my mind I don't know if there's any benefit to it we can just leave it in the main spec if it's not going to speed anything up again yeah um so the right sorry I saw your email but I was a little bit confused because yes the register doesn't exist they um they have been doing Ayanna has been doing recently I think they started maybe this ITF reviewing documents that they see on agendas uh so they probably have never reviewed the base spec right yeah right so they don't know that that is coming so yeah you know they so no I you should just assume that that exists because in any case we're going to publish this after the base spec yeah yeah so by that time yeah it should be there yeah and I I talk to you think oh maybe maybe this move along faster video split in hairs right so leave it as is I'll correct the email the uh but there is I actually have to"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:22:00",
    "text": "specify the rift registry that I'm requesting out of so um very brief update to version two but literally sends yep to me um Tony P Juniper so that's more question to Alvaro so do you prefer us to stick the hole into one huge registry king of Rift or should we break off the rift base spec registry and then the key values registries foreign page for Rift and in there there will be multiple razors yeah no no problem okay no and uh that's that's it so um no that's all I have okay I think uh thank you that's all the updates we have uh we just and zip through the presentations now it's coming to the before we go to the next agenda and do you have any comments questions from anyone Tony uh Tony P again so just as update the community so Jordan's pushing the newest version of the draft up because you know we're basically breaking tools all the time size wise um reviews going on and I am updating Bruno's open source uh implementation to the newest spec which I already did but there's one thing that Bruno was supposed supposed to do but he's in communicanto for a moment so um uh that will be done within the next week or two and test it against you know Juniper implementation so the open source implementation should be completely up to date within a week or two on the newer schema etc etc"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:24:00",
    "text": "thanks foreign discussion So currently Charter has a base spec applicability setting young model all documents are in advanced State and progressing really well right so we have adopted another number of items that kind of happen the charter half not so we would like to update Charter to explicitly include all the work on key value registry and all the work where Rift is used really for bootstrapping stuff so otvpn flood reflection so segment routing is uh adopted but again not exactly in the chapter so I would like to include it uh multicast work has been stranded for quite some time but we plan to restart working working group potentially after next ATF and you would like to include the new Charter as well so it's there when we start so we don't have any off Charter work for the couple of accumulative Tony yeah so the especially the multicast um I mean the whole multicast was stuck on this last issue of the tree joint at the top right and that was before the whole Auto VPN autoflot reflection would"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:26:01",
    "text": "actually delivers a completely distributed stable election at the top for you know whatever one two three roots that possibly can be used to resolve this multicast dilemma in which the multicast at the end was stuck and uh I think it's worth a push if it doesn't you know it's impossible to solve well I mean no other igp managed to solve it reasonably if we manage to actually get these multicast working and merge it at the top this will be a pretty big pop in terms of protocol design so I just encourage you know more than happy to have a look and help with the stuff as well to give you know the one last look whether we can merge all these trees that we already figured out at the very top and get the whole solution working yeah I think there's a unique opportunity because of characteristics of protocol it doesn't only distribution ability it also allows some bootstrapping which other protocols don't do so well so yeah that's the idea uh any comments uh Alvarado what do you think oh sorry you're here uh yeah it would be really nice if uh others in the working group uh had opinions uh because you know it's important to to um you know get reviews and people to look at the drafts and everything else other than that yeah this should looks good to me great so we'll send to the list proposals for update Charter start the discussion and potentially go on so next idea we plan to have an updated chart anyway and we don't have any more items to"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:28:02",
    "text": "discuss so if no questions here we can give you back 30 minutes you can spend something else or maybe think about multicast in Rift thank you so much everyone for joining us and we will see you in London hopefully okay thank you Jeffy thank you thanks bye thanks everyone bye thanks bye foreign yes"
  }
]
