[
  {
    "startTime": "00:00:00",
    "text": "Okay. Yeah. Well, that's where we're going. Okay. This is the session. She's carefully put together a nice note well please read them. Anyone not ever read a note well. Okay. I can't see the online, but please by participating, you are agreeing to the ITS process and policies as a professional organization and that involves the patent. So please read this in detail with so many people having been here a long time, I will stop at that point. We're gonna go on to The agenda for today is a status. We skip the status on Monday, so I will be giving the status the nation is giving the update on VPN prefix outbound filter. Looks like we've got 2 implementation, so please pay attention to this. As We may be heading toward working group last call. We have a yang model, for RPKI. Presentation. This was done in Cider Ups, but it going to be interesting to you as you need to think about whether that's a useful protocol. We have a BGP extensions for 5 g. There's been some update. By the way, there is a GitHub repository on this. Should you want to issue comments, and you'll see that it, will echo to the authors. And then lastly, we have Klugeot, did I pronounce it? Good, correctly? Is, giving her ITS debut on a set a package content filter for full spec you may, realize this is looking farther into the packet. We've had some stuff in the past, maybe 110. So if you recognize some of the ideas, we're going for that."
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:02:00",
    "text": "Okay. Onto the status. Oh, I get to even do it here. Cool. We're testing to see if the, slide. So this is the document status As you notice, I about once a month put out document status and you can find that on the IETF Wiki. And this will go through some of our plans for 2024. Do let me know if you want status reports more frequently than, once per month if you'd like it every other week or every week. And, I'm looking for any documents that need fast tracking. Okay. What did we complete? Well, kudos to all of the working group we completed the car and CT work. I'm in finally I'm probably a day or so away from sending all of these up to the ISG that we sent as experimental drafts. Then we have the s r policy, Safi, and the dressed ID or dgpe SR segment types extension. That's a really hot easy, name to use, but these will be set as 1st propose standard and then experimental. Kaitan, did you want to make an additional comment yes. This is a very small net about the late change in the city draft, in it's in the section. And had dropped a mail to the authors to clarify some parts there. So I would appreciate a response on that. Just a small net but I think it's important. Which which draft was that again, Ketan? The CT draft. The CT DRIP"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:04:04",
    "text": "Dude, that would be good. I will, check with I will drop another top post and drop another update, right after this. Okay. I'll look for that. Thank you for letting me know. Anything else? Okay. We'll go on to the next set of things. Thank you. We have a working group last called pending. That's send hold timer, I think we'll start it immediately well, probably a week or so after. I I gave Jeff and I both gave the authors some comments and we want to allow them time to put in in the draft and the implementations. Go ahead. Now, these are the adoptions I have in order. And as you know, I go through the order and we try to, review the documents ahead I think if you've had a recent documents adopted, you realize that the chairs are really putting more time ahead. Of the pre adoption of the adoption call to do a pre adoption review. So if this is not It's your if you think you've asked for working group, less, excuse me, working group adoption call, and it's not on this list. Please let me know. I try to keep the list up to date. I've also given you the category that We tend to see your document in If that's not the right category, please let me know. Other than that, I won't read this so that You have a shorter day. Okay. Plans. Well, We finished, we hope shortly buttoning up the car CT work. We will do a call on CPR, which is"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:06:00",
    "text": "an informational document related to car seat and then we're gonna dive into new week work. In the upcoming weeks. So the the plans are really to get back to the BGP location. We've had people ask for it. And refined, documents on BGP functions. I think you've seen the AIG and the AdPath refine your BGPLS and BGP SR drafts, and we encourage any yang work. So Please let us know, if you're ready for Working Grove, last call if you'd like some additional help So one other thing that, we're also looking at is the back queue. We have a lot of, you know, drafts that have been around for a very long time. Deployed, people have been using them for years. We're looking to actually these things shift as RFC because, especially as part of things like yangwork, need stable references for them. And this part of that some twenty year old And I really do mean twenty year old documents have been sitting there as IDR documents, and we're gonna start cleaning them out if you haven't gotten an implementation probably it's time to move on. So Watch the mail list for that. Okay. Now into a more focused thing, flow spec fee too, we wrote a fairly good and that is, the sort of editor for the Working group wrote combined all the flow spec next generation work into a flow spec B2. We found out is that's too much for someone to implement in a short amount of time so we can get lots of implementation. So we are going to go into a different approach. We're gonna keep the large working group document there but try to break off"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:08:00",
    "text": "individual pieces and try to see if we can get him into the hands of implementers and have them implement. So to do that, we're gonna start out with what I'll call basic IPflow spec V2, which is basic r current ipv4andv6filters plus our current actions an order. Orders enough for many implementers to pick up. Then we're gonna go from that we're gonna add more IP filters to, look farther in the packet, and you'll hear one discussion on that today. That's important because we know that a lot of people are looking for it. No. We're gonna ship the document in this way but we're gonna start the discussion on all of these points, and I will announce what one will call design teams, but there'll be little interim with very targeted discussion points. And we'll hold them up until the next IETF. Then we're going to do more actions. Actions are again something we put into flow spec D2 but they're complex. We need a bigger space like wide community to get ordered actions and we need to define things like What happens if the action fails? You want to drop it, and it fails. What do you do then? Or if you want to mark before you drop, that's a difficult And lastly, we're going to look at non IP. Non IP is, l2 maybe some other layers. And tunnels. So those will all be teams We'll call them teams where we'll have discussion. If you're interested in flow spec in any of these categories, joined the discussion group that's announced. If you have questions Send me email. This is a call for input"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:10:02",
    "text": "what we're going to look at is we're gonna try to take as many use case is an ideas, and shake them down into what we can add to the main jet, and how we can form these Documents. This is meant to be a fast process because We've just spent 3 years looking at car and CT, and we're trying to catch up with the need from the operators. Any questions on this? Okay. Well, then 66 ASIA, and are you doing the presentation today? You're the next presentation. Or who is? Please do. You're up. You will need to make sure that life is close to you. You don't have them in the microphone now? You can Let me open. Where? Yes. Thank you. Hi, everyone. And we went from Chat Telecom. And, today, I will a brief introduction about the updates on VPN prefix or F4 BTP 4. And, compared to the version 00 we have made the following updates on this draft. And I will, introduce them detailed in the following slides. And and, the first, update is a way, defined a new"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:12:01",
    "text": "extended community, source p extended community, and because, we found, the next hop value, maybe changed in some scenarios. And, This may cause it's not very useful in our solution. To identify, a source PE, sole way hope to found a a solution to resolve it And the where it defines this, new extended community to identify this, source and, this, value of this extended community, can be set by the source PR or ASBR. And once it was set and attached, with the BGP update message, its value should not be along the, the advertisement pass. And, one IR or ASPR received the package It shows 1st check, the, existence of the SPEC. And, if it exists, the device should not change it. And if it not exist, the device should change the expenses of, originator ID. If the originator ID is exist, the device should put it into SPEC. And, if the originator ID is also a does not exchange, exist, so the device should put the router ID of the source PE into SPE to identify the source. And, we also refined the processing method of the receipt or I've entry by the receiver. And, as this, figure shows"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:14:01",
    "text": "the device will, send gives decent, a lot of European roads, and it costs the VPN 1 on DSA and, VPN 1 the VPN 2 on USB or flood so there's 2 device, will trigger the VPN prefix or mechanism, So, QSA generate, on, VPN prefix or athletes RT31 and RT1 and Sunday to do I see And the the device will, send 2 VPN prefix or f entry, with, RT31, RT rrtoneandrd2rtone and, it will send this 2 entry to DC. And, because, the device only has 2, apps, downstream, devices and the post often since the VPN prefix or have entryways our district 1 and our Q1 to it. So after receiving a check this, entries, devices should generate VPN prefix RF, waste rd31andrtone and, send it to its upstream device is the US USD And However, devices should not generate and sent the VPN prefix or I've with rd2andrt2. Because each only you received this entry from USB. And this update is about the lens of the VPN prefix limit because, we found way, originally sets its value to two bytes. That's"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:16:00",
    "text": "the maximum number of parent network routes, it could, support, is far, far less than the actual number of lots supported by the network devices. So when a change is lands to four butts. And we also have, 2, implementations now. One implementation is from 3c, and, it, robots the VPN prefix or if mechanism related functions by configuring we are a prefix limit and quota. the Achieved the use of rdandsourcepi to controls the VPN routing. And, this, implementation can generate a transmit and the process? So type 1 and type 2 source PTRway and it can use, offending VPN rods process methods to revoke all roads. And the besides, we also have one implementation based on the open source BGP implementation of IRR And this implementation can, realize the whipping RF mechanism trigger, based on the VRF prefix limit in inter domain and inter domain. And, it can also realized, rd based VPN routing filtering in So inter domain and inter inter domain. Oh, and, in this week, way also received, email from Aina and let's say, send us to confirm about it's a in our consideration. So we update the content of this part and so we also registered the value, 66 for the VPN prefix or"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:18:03",
    "text": "and we hope we can get some feedbacks about the these updates. And, because we have 2 in implementations. So we wonder if we can apply 2 chances graft to a standard track or can they, consider about the working group last call? Oh, thank you. We will add your draft to the working group last call. I will send you details about how to how to do an implementation report, and we'll do a Shepherd's check. So, yes, it's added to it. And we will work toward that quickly. Thank you. Thank you, sir. Yeah. We'd probably bring that up slightly. Yeah. Okay. I shouldn't go up. Yeah. Hello, everyone. This is from Edge Research. I will prepare my calls to present the is a young model. This traffic is about young models for RBKI routing protocols as defined in, I'd say, 16, 810 18 too, Tom, and, IETF assigned to our office,"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:20:01",
    "text": "18 to 10, they are 4 young model. Sue identified in this draft Albuquerque young is about a how to configure and manage the young. I mean, can I look in prod called on notice BPAS Orange as well case in young is about how quality cater, orange ASRPT, based on hourly BP second young is about a help EP validity, PP second pass of BP routers? BP, a s p a young is about how BP valid cater as part of PHP routers based on ASPA. RPKI, young models may pass The first is, list of cash Cachacillas, and then to Global Tables for a different types which received from Oh, kachasawas. For a single cater sewers There are no type numbers. There are 4 type numbers The first Type node is about connectivity parameters such as Remote the cell address on remote part of catch servers and no calls IP address. And another part is of local notice And then a second 2nd type node is session parameters And the server node is about the assessing state and the static"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:22:01",
    "text": "Last time is suite hybrid payables, which container recorders received a phone letter Kachasawa. Apicar Young I'll deciding the configuration of the because there are some that sweet global tables. 1st, our tables a container I believe for our ipv6 hour And not Now, the key tables contains Now the key It is used to validated BPsec Pass. The circuit global table is a ASP tables in the couple of IPs, 4 and IPs, 6 ASP PDOs, it was to validate a BP as pass. EPS is the location line model. It Otherwise, your model of BP When you're configuration of a as verification, It is used to control the RANJAS validation is enabled but fall. Ipv4oripv6 unicast loading table verifications data of each order could be checked And, you'd also add option for luther's election When we send when we send a note to neighbor or peer group, up. It"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:24:00",
    "text": "it can be controlled relative to rather to attach to the BGP, extend the community And, well, to check on, orange is relative to data of PHPLota In export, BP young, b b second young analyzing the Your models are BP it is the same when It is somewhere in a Repeat around the ASVAN model. BPS media model diagnosed the models of DP. It is the same with the arrange it as your model. In the labor and the PR tables, we added the PR load for SPA Yeah. What's your home? Any questions or comments are welcome. Thank you for the presentation. As we discussed earlier, there know, people at Juniper Networks that are looking to collaborate on this. So we're looking forward to that. And I suspect that, other vendors will too. This is comments mostly about, where this document belongs because, you know, there's a couple of interesting questions here that the ADs will care about and cheers of actually more than one working group. So, clearly, you're doing many different things in this document. You you're know, providing information for the protocols for, like, EsPA, origin validation, beach be sick. Our PKI router. Several of these things like RPKI router belongs to the side rep."
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:26:03",
    "text": "Group. Now, so clearly, they're going to wanna take a look at that for all of those pieces. The extensions for Espa are also being done insider ops, but the DHP Yang module, your extending is an IDR. So What we're very likely going to see is a discussion amongst the ADs in the chairs about you know, whether we keep this as you have it today in one single document the and you know, just involve all the necessary groups. Or maybe split the document into several documents instead. No. This is not a problem. You know, this is just the process matter. Yes. We can discuss more in is Yep. And this this document is a very good start. You know, for those of you following Yang related work, I encourage you to take a look. Yeah. Thank you. Thank you, Joanna. Yeah. Sure. Thank you for your hard work on the Yang. We appreciate it. And your next Good afternoon. So I'll give a brief update for this 5 g I'll be here in metadata pass attribute. For 5g edge services. So, major changes. So this draft is really to get a early allocation for the metadata pass attribute and give the use cases and, some of the TLVs And, We create the GitHub. Thanks to Sue. Thanks to Jeff. And, many issues were recorded and, We have 1 implementation report,"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:28:02",
    "text": "sent in, there's the email from ZTE. They have a implementation on this as well. So they actually entered quite a few, comments and suggestions on the GitHub as well. So, this is just to emphasize that, this is really for special atrololatency services It's not for general, internet. It's only very small number of prefixes. Well, how the update will have this metadata pass attribute attached. And when they attach, they also attach other past attributes as well. So, there's some changes to the Thanks, Jeff, for the good suggestions. In the original, document, we're using 40 84 for the ingress, routers. No. In this scenario, ingress routers, other one connected to, the other one actually directly connect to the 5 g UPF's So, they actually get the connect to the user device and they know what kind of services their attached UEs are interested in. So when they are interested in particular services, they can request for the metadata services. So, metadata pass attribute. So those attributes for particular service is not flooded to everyone is only flooded to a few interested parties. So in the draft, we're saying that, they are interested in addresses. But as the, 3gpps release 19s coming up. There's more, extended services and, like, they call, multimedia and they may have bundle services. So that may"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:30:02",
    "text": "create a need for using a kind of a route target to represent a group of services. So we have in the GitHub, asking for the working group, opinions if we should add route target instead of just, requesting IP addresses. One important thing is the ingress router doesn't flood those, pass attributes mandated that pass attribute to other nodes. So, when to enforce that, we add in the document that, Robert reflector, when they propagate this, update, they have to add non amortize, community to the update so that receiving note would not send it to, any other notes who are not supposed to. Learn those, past attributes. There's also suggestion from Jeff, about this, we called physical availability index value. So, those index value is for prefix to when they announce the prefix, they basically associate, this prefix with particular site index. Site index is almost like a policy. So that when a large group of, prefix fail due to, like, a power outage network cut, you may, at this particular physical event, may impact large number of routes, and, they may from ipv4ipv6 and different, surveys Instead of individual ones announced to ingress note, something being impacted. The egress router basic announce the physical ability index with, like,"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:32:03",
    "text": "0, for example, with a site index. So the, English router, the the receiving router, when they receive that, They will basically update the policy for all the prefixes associate with this particular site ID. And thanks Sue for helping me to rewise that, text to make it more clear, on the the ingress note is really applying the policy so that other, next hop can be chosen for the same prefix. So there's a flag there. When the prefix announcement is really for association of the prefix with the site ID. When the loopback address announcing it is really to reflect the actual value which impact all the prefixes associated with this site ID. There are quite a few minimalist suggestions asking to, add add another, index for the, service delay prediction Originally, we only have one prediction. Basically, it's an absolute number, an integer, to represent, potential delay So the email, the implementation is, have a flag to indicate that, delay can be actual value. So, when this a flag is set to 0. That's actually the the raw they call raw delay of raw delay prediction. And they were used to delay, time defined in RFC 59th 5. So, There are some still some open issues in the GitHub. I think Now we have 7 open issues, and there are some issues asking for, adding the,"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:34:01",
    "text": "capability for individual service instances, like, say, particular service require large among the memory or other services may require some kind of capability. They want to add that. So that is open. There's also could be, the raw selection to avoid the churn of the raw selection. Like, we may, one prefix, like, is really the any cast prefix can be attached to multiple, edge routers, and they may send out, different, pass, metadata pass attributes and how to we have to, add this, description to make sure the row doesn't chunks so much so quickly has to have a, filter there. And, we think by going through this this, standard BGP route selection process. This policy plus router from routes. We think this can this problem can be addressed. And there's a section, how the metadata influence the decision process. So this whole section was added, due to many comments on the mailing list. How can ingress note do? What can ingress note do with all those information. So that section was added references, customer DGP decision process and how to integrate all those metadata information together with the overall BTP decision process. And, that can be implementation detail. We're just asking the working group. Maybe that whole section can be move to appendix instead of in us back. So welcome your opinion to the mellow mist or telling me off my end"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:36:00",
    "text": "either way is fine. So next step, we'll close all the open issues and we're asking for the Early allocation. So we'd appreciate anyone if you have interest in this topic to take a look at the questions If you want to make comments directly to GitHub, you can always ask for an ID. Hearing nothing will go on Caitlin, go ahead. Hello. So, actually, this is a question for the chairs, perhaps, This work at some point was related to cats working group, any update on what have what's happened there? So this work actually predates caps. Is one of the things that makes this sort of interesting. So there is overlap we did discuss that, the prior IETF. We did not come to any specific conclusion that the work was inappropriate to continue in IVR since we'd already charted it before cats. What I would suggest is, being the fact cats now exist. You know, we certainly wanna make sure that, they're aware of the work And that said, this is not specifically solving exactly the use case that cats had, you know, this is a standalone use case that has overlap. So it's I suspect, and this is you know, chair's discussion, not necessarily something we would be inclined to say know, if it's out of charter for cats, then it should not continue here. I have a question for chairs. So, this is for asking allocation for the metadata pass attribute. Obviously, will be needed. By cats as well. So in the future, cats say, I want the past attribute to to Is that come to idea to get approval, or they can they can create a new one?"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:38:02",
    "text": "My understanding is that path attributes and speech pre mechanisms, come to the idea of working So nevertheless, it will be they will would need to come back what we argued with the with Andrew who's no longer our AD, was that this was a solution which was a mechanism. However, cats does their architecture. Great. This is a mechanism that has immediate tactical that means something that's deployable. Situation and hearing that there are 2 implementations. It sounds like we made the right call. So, Ketan, I think it was a very practical tactical thing. There are people who wanna implement it there. It came ahead of cats and It's dealing with mechanisms, and mechanisms would have to come back here. Anyway. So given that if you're interested. Please make comments on this spec Okay. Thank Okay. So, my second question, kind of related to first. This is called a metadata attribute. And, it it's a bit loose or open what goes into it now or what would go into it in the future? Is there I mean, is this intended to be like a BGP attribute that can in which we can put anything and everything in it, a what kind of information is okay to be put in it and what kind of information is not okay to book it in I think that has discussed, right? If there's anything new to be put under this past attribute, they have to have a draft. Right? Okay. And, Caitlin, I think to partially address your question back to the first one, You know, again, this was pre cats. The use cases that this"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:40:00",
    "text": "Yes. So I I think my question was different. I mean, If I want Yeah. If I want to just tomorrow, if I want to just put any attribute, any information, to be sent Is this the attribute since it's called metadata? Is this the attribute where I can stop it? And I'm not because this Yep. I mean, at least, it would be good to have an high levels a prop scope or, like, what's the purpose of this attribute and what kind of information it could carry. That would be helpful. point. you. And that's why I'm saying this is relevant to your first Thank We're not holding up this work if no one tell cats figures out what they're doing, as of last IETF, we haven't really had conversations since this IETF. Katz was still figuring out exactly what they wanted to do, whereas this actually is making specific forward progress, if it is the case that Katz applications cleanly fit into here. We're hoping that, you know, just like everything else in BGP, will cleanly reuse existing attributes and extend them. If you think that there's something in the structure of this document that prohibits that or makes it difficult, that is absolutely important in this part of the review. Yep. And if it's the case that, it is not a clean fit, we're very likely to see a distinct path attribute coming to being for cat purposes. Yeah. So I just want to clarify that my second question was completely unrelated to cats. This was more of a BGP. Question. It will it's useful to have at least some idea of what kind of stuff can go into something called as a metadata attribute. That that's fair fair a fair criticism. And if you have a naming suggestion. You know, we we ran into this for, like, next top capability. People are very hung up over the that word capability is there and think it's very static, whereas that's not the functionality."
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:42:00",
    "text": "Very similarly here. This is not meant to be the one metadata to rule them all. So if you happen to think that, you know, changing the name to reflect a better scoping for this is appropriate. I'm sure the authors would appreciate suggestions. Thank you. Thank you very much. Okay, John, you have removed yourself from the queue. Did you wanna go Yeah. My points were captured by by you and Khitan, but I'll just briefly repeat, which is, number 1, Linda, you had had said, oh, well, Katz is obviously gonna need this. And, Right? I just As far as I know, that is not obvious. Least formally speaking, although some people think cats should do it that way. And then number 2, I could agree more with the sort of underlying point that Keitan or that I think that Keitan was making, which is that without some kind of clear applicability and architectural principles for the usage of this thing. A, we're gonna have problems and then, b, practically speaking, I'm gonna have problems moving it through the IES Thanks. Thank you. Just I missed some of it. You're gonna have problems approving and her problems with the name. No. It's not a naming thing. It's I I I haven't reviewed the document yet. So maybe it's just great. But the the the gist of Keitan's question was essentially Is there, you know, some kind of guidance within this document that lets me know when it's appropriate to use it and when it isn't appropriate to use it long as reading that, the document, Let's me answer that question. It's all good. You can call it Randy. For, you know Okay. Oh, okay. The the, excuse Randy, I didn't mean to me, have any negative comment on your name."
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:44:04",
    "text": "You have my consent. So, Ketan, if you have, some comments on whether the uses there or not, please health and make suggestions. Thank you, Ketan, for the active interactions. Yeah. I I will review the draft, the latest version, and, specific clear on that part, I'll pass comments on the list. So can I start now? Hello, everyone. Usiago from Beijing Junction Laboratory. And the presentation, and the topic of the presentation, today is about the packet content filter for PGP Flows back. Unfortunately, I will introduce background about the DDoS attack trend, And the first one is it has more frequent And the 1st 6 months of 2023, in there are 7,900,000 data attacks happens This represents a significant increase of divine person compared to the same period in the previous years. And the second trend is about the hyperparametric. And in last year, the largest did also tax, recorded and 201,000,000 requests per second. They said tech did not just break the pri previous year's record being nearly eight times larger than the largest attack of the in 2022. And attack traffic is increasing, but The cleaning centers are costly to build. So we need to increase the filtering capability of the router"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:46:03",
    "text": "to reduce the pressure in the cleaning center. And there are 2 technical can be used in the router The first one is ACL, but the ACL is challenging due to the need of manual configuration and it they're resulting in slow bounce time and the high risk of negative impact business operations. So the net the technique is the BGP flows back. I think it's a better run because it enables the distribution of traffic filter policy such as, traffic filters and actions where BGP protocol It can be used to repeat spread threatening rules to mitigate the data's attacks the flex, the flexibility of PGP force pack makes it as an effective detox, different defense technology to rape responding to the involving security traits. Although BGP flows back can provide the ability to filter traffic through and temples in predefined fields such as IP protocol, IP prefix and port numbers and something else but it still cannot filter traffic. Well, in the face of some types of volumetric deducts as we can see in the picture, is a example which in the real operation network, It's, it's AKfloodcutterbombingattacked and it's is characterized by a large package and the destination port is 443 The packet payload content has, flex the character rest, and in the pick sure as we can see is all zeros. But for this kind of"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:48:03",
    "text": "tact, the existing flows back is unable to effectively to 13, and it can only be the diverted, cleaned, and an and injected back by cleaning centers. So it's, so it's necessary to add a new flows back filters for traffic with constant packet content. And to, to making this work, we're doing some surveys and have 2 insights about that. The first one is the latest enhancements and IP router for wording planned filter implementations can support matching at any location within the packet header or content. This capability allows for the process matching of tech traffic signatures and can be combined with traditional and simple filtering criteria to a effectively mitigate the attacks and minimize the false positives So the device in the real network can support this kind of filter And so the the next insight is refund. There has been testing draft before, which have a similar topic The latest update of this draft is in 2021. And they don't update for, long time. So, contacts to the author of this draft and he told me he's not pay, he's not interested in this topic anymore, but I think it's important in because of the, new trends of the did us attack. So we hope to continue to do this work And maybe, we can update"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:50:00",
    "text": "based the on recently, change of the attacks So, the most difference between our draft and the existing draft, is, there are 2 two difference. The first one is we make some more her friendly transitions. And the second one is way we'll give continual adaptations with FSB 2. And here is the package content filter we proposed in this draft, it has a similar encoding of the theaters in f s with 1, that's the value is the is, contents for part. The first one is offset type It contains IP header, IP header data. Data based TCP or UDP. Through this way, we can determine where is the started location of the off-site And the second value is offset value. The the set the third is content lens, the force is the content value. If anybody interested in this, you can rate it in our draft, and we also gave some examples about how to use this filter. And as we can see in the picture, it's a use case about how to use this this filter there is, there is a data center in backbone network suffer, I think a flood attacked with many packets continue identical content characteristics and the the cleaning device can generate, can generate flows back filter rules based on the attention information and send the flows back the instructions to the routers And and routers can filter the traffic"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:52:01",
    "text": "water cleaning, cleaning center. So this loss back filter can significantly reduce the cleaning centers overhead. In the in this draft, we have designed, filter only for FSB 1, and they are welcoming any suggestions for further modifications. And in the future work, we will try to combine the packet content filter into FSB2 and we are looking forward to join the design team. That's all of my presentations. Thank you so much. So first of all, thanks for the presentation. This was good. I talked with Sue and both flesh the slides from IETF 110 covering the prior presentation just to give additional context of the Brooklyn Bureau. But, they're they're you know, that work stalled out for 2 reasons. Number 1, everything like that work had been gated on a flow spec speak to. And as you've heard, we haven't been able to get it started again until this year. So that's of reasons went cold. The second one is you say the authors themselves have moved on to other things. But this is important valuable work. So we're thrilled that it's being taken up again. Hopefully, you're looking as we discussed on Sunday to, you know, have collaboration. This is definitely something we expect, will to the producers of, DDoS detection software, you know, things like Arbor Networks, Deep Field, etcetera. Thank you. Thank you for the excellent presentation. Congratulations on making your first IDR presentation. Thank you so much. I think that the I think that people in IETF, a nice economy, and I hope to thank Jeff and Sue. They gave me a lot of suggestions and encouragement. Thank you so much. Thank you. So"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:54:03",
    "text": "You you can stay up if you like, but, we're we're going to go a brief review over the existing draft, Cora, you know, and significant overlap, so that's not a gonna be a long presentation. Downward. Sorry, say it if you like. Steve. You may you may Thank you. And we're presenting from Mac preview. So, These are the meeting materials slides, my TF1 ten, Let's see if I can get this properly maximized. But, again, I'm not gonna spend a huge amount of time here because it thankfully has, been you know, covered very well. So as you see, this was, several years ago. This problem is actually very important. Anybody who's worked in distributed denial of service, software and, tooling. Knows that this is thing to implement at scale. Some of the people that are producing the DDoS tools Nope. Make much of their living out of the fact that this is hard and it's very hard to make at scale. So I'm not gonna go through the background and motivations. Yuzhou was very good about that. Again, the slides are still in the 110 proceedings. And it's a very similar type of problem. you shall cover this very well. Now The one thing that I would add to her, you know, good presentation is that one of the main challenges any of these firewalls that do position based detection have is deciding, what is the start of the thing you're looking at? Are you looking at the start of the layer 2 frame? You're looking at the start of a layer 3 frame. How does the change when you have tunneling involved. You know, for example, you know, IP GRE is a tunnel"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:56:02",
    "text": "that, you know, the real payload you're trying to mitigate hiding behind that. And and and active attackers make it a an effort to hide their traffic by changing stuff in variable portions of the packet. And in many cases, There's a desire to do the mitigations based on the, you know, layer 7 payload. An excellent example for that. Is things like, DNS where you went to look for some portions of sub domains. And we'll get into some cases where Yuja's use cases are slightly different than the original authors, Again, This is mostly the same. The thing that's a very slight different is that, layer 4 offset matching. It was, you know, one of the ideas here. Would encourage the working group to think about, as we start looking at these features, know what type of offsets we'll be looking for. And especially those of you who have implementations of, this type of filtering to offer advice as to what your implementations are capable of. But once you've actually decided where you're gonna start looking at it, this becomes the second version of the problem. Again, a place where the, present, the proposals differ slightly. Would matching on pattern by bit string is a very common thing for each of these patients. And this is extremely handy for things like matching out of know, PDUs. So she gave the example of matching, you know, TCP X. Now this is at a known part of the frame and makes it very easy to detect using a bit pattern. To do it for anything besides a bit pattern mask becomes very difficult without this feature. So this is probably a very core thing we're looking for. The second pattern here, which is not part of, you know, you just current proposals. Thing you can group taking a look at, is what do you do about things that are byte strings of some 4. I think I'd stick to the DNS example because it's sort of easy. Despite the fact that DNS and coding is actually very, very complicated."
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:58:01",
    "text": "How do you match things like strings within the packet. I'm aware of use cases for matching domain names occurring in DNS. Matching things inside of, SMTPs, no start messages. Especially for TLS. The challenge that happens there is simple byte matching is a thing that you can do, obviously. But eventually start being driven towards more complicated mechanisms, like regular expressions. And for any of you who've done work and regular expression engines, Doing this head scale is very, very challenging. One of the things that working groups should consider, and this is gonna be true for a lot of our flow spec fee 2 related works, is that as we Look at different levels that complexity for filtering Some of these things are likely to be optional parameters that can be done on some implementations, but maybe not other and want to learn how we can enable flow spec style filtering, when there's inconsistent implementation across the deployment. This is gonna be very important for, you know, making the the protocol flexible so it's also gonna be very important for us to, you know, allow for the features to be able to grow. And I think cycled for the example. Those are the main details that are relevant from the prior presentation. And I think Sue will have comments about how this goes into the a chartered flow spec to work. So, again, this is looking at new filters. And that will be team 2 that I've announced earlier, but please, Give us feedback on new filters that we need to do If you wanna give us feedback on new actions, you'll find that I'll announce all of this out later today. And join the teams"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:00:04",
    "text": "I will announce out, the first meeting for each of these teams. Any questions on all of this new fun work. And the other issues to bring up Okay. If you ever wanna shepherd a draft, do a is me Shepherd or review a draft should have said both. But the the idea chairs. No. We always want to, have new people do reviews. Thank you again, and have a good trip home. We we do the review. Same type of view as well. The features that we're looking for when we're ready for the early allocation"
  }
]
