[
  {
    "startTime": "00:00:04",
    "text": "worried about the software well you know i don't know if there was something about the uh share screen live when we were in vienna you did such a wonderful job i did oh you're too funny okay i'm gonna try and share oh it's not letting me share my powerpoint how rude is that just imagine yeah well i mean i was just gonna go through the agenda and uh the reason why i didn't want to do it from the meeting materials is because i made an edit okay can i share presentation view okay i will just share it this way and we will adapt hey aaron hey danny"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:02:00",
    "text": "hello everyone okay i'm gonna boot you guys off the video until we're ready all right aaron i presume you are on and you can hear us aaron co-chair can you test your audio it says it's not working okay i'm gonna give him one minute um while we're waiting can i get a note taker please you can take notes through the on the meat echo that little pencil thing is the note taking tool pretty please i can't really get started unless i have one note taker matt's not on paul's not on so i can't pick on them either thanks danny oh danny is okay yeah phil um danny's gonna be speaking for a chunk as well can you also help take notes okay that would be awesome can you hear me"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:04:00",
    "text": "yes we hear you wow the um it's not very good on mobile oh okay well i will try and run as much as i i can um so as not to tax you i'm just glad you were able to join in and make it so with that i'm gonna go ahead and get started welcome everybody um this is an actual virtual interim for the system for cross domain identity management and i know i need to change the name um i don't know if i need to change it on the um on the on the itf site too uh to the sim somebody will have to remind me the eye simple cloud identity management i think is is what it's for um but anyway welcome to this nancy it's it's actually correct that the original name was simple cloud identity management ah okay itf board hated simple and cloud if i recall that was true yes okay so we are good to go um so since this is a virtual interim the note well ietf policies apply i think everybody in the call has been participating in the ietf and should be aware of our policies and code of conduct so with that i'm going to jump in straight through i'm going to thank danny and phil since we're running meet echo i think the jabber just goes through the chat so um i will try and monitor that as well aaron i don't know if you can through"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:06:01",
    "text": "your mobile um but folks just there's only a few of us on the call just call me out if if somebody has put a comment or question there that needs to be called out okay awesome great okay so with that in mind um i had updated the agenda but i didn't have enough time to upload it so i have not heard back from pam and i don't see her on the call so this may be a short call unless somebody can speak to the progress danny i don't know if you've been working with pam on the use cases as well no it's been radio silence for the most part i've tried with her little bits and pieces and i know she's um she's made progress but i can't really articulate what progress it is uh she's been on a travel thing with a couple of conferences the past couple weeks though yeah oh she might be at okay eic okay she's at the same event i'm not ah okay that would explain it okay so as you can see agenda bash um since pam is not on the call we are not going to be able to get an update on the use cases um janelle sent her apologies for not being able to make it at the last moment um but danny she mentioned that you could provide the update and so that will leave us plenty of time so we'll kick off um with danny providing the updates and then what i added to the agenda is phil has provided two drafts in our um i call it reflector um one of them is draft hunt skim i forget mv multivariate"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:08:00",
    "text": "multi-value filtering as one draft the second one is basically a profile for how the skim as a schema could be shared through the shared signals and events framework um and so phil we are going to have plenty of time i think to discuss the draft drafts sorry and um we can have the discussion on whether the group is ready um for adoption before i actually can do the call for adoption um so my apologies i can't share the updated one but i just called out those updates um any other changes to the agenda any other topics that you want me to add to discuss in the agenda going once going twice uh phil i think you had your mick up first and then danny did you have a comment phil um yeah i meant oh did i no i don't okay you just left the mic on but uh i can turn it off i can turn you off there you go okay so danny you want to get us started um i can stop sharing if there's anything that you want to share um i don't think i have anything to share um it's like it's just mostly words um [Music] so yeah i tried to um"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:10:02",
    "text": "i guess i just want to provide an update where we're at with the the schema and the protocol work um so for anybody who's not aware it's i think both janelle's and my first time like really doing much of anything in the standards world and we've gotten hit a little bit by that problem of like how do you eat an elephant and like you know like yeah you have to figure out where to take the first bite right um so we've i i think made a little progress and on like how we're approaching things at least and i sent out an email this morning to the uh the mailing list uh just sort of saying like what things we at least have some idea of like what direction we think they should go what things probably need further discussion um [Music] i would be overjoyed if anybody has any strong opinions feelings anything any any passion for any of the items on the agenda if anybody wants to uh to join in authoring any drafts otherwise this might be a bit of a long and lonely process for for uh janelle and i um but um yeah i think the uh sorry god jeremy go ahead jeremy if i can find my mute button i will definitely there's a there's a mute button in the lower right hand uh corner and i don't know if it worked so sorry about that um so i know when i wrote the originals my original skim client as part of the skim 1.0 spec work i was pretty interested in the schema making sure that the schema really did describe programmatically what the client should do in terms of the attributes that it was receiving back in the responses so i will certainly um"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:12:01",
    "text": "take a look at what you guys have now and you know provide any feedback that i have about sort of where it is in terms of completeness and i know that originally i had found a couple inconsistencies in this schema so i'll go find my notes from that and and make sure that those get cleaned up as part of this process as well so i i'll raise my hand and and definitely jump in and take a look at where you guys are at and see if i can help okay um yeah no appreciate it thank you um so in case anybody has not uh had a chance to see the email that i sent out to the uh the mailing list earlier today uh one of the things i shared in it is uh that janelle and i ever since the the last uh uh the major ietf meeting uh is plenary always the right word um we have converted the the skim spec uh into uh markdown or you know cram down uh and uploaded that into the github um as uh sort of like newer editors who aren't particularly uh you know i guess comfortable working in xml it seemed like an easier way both for for any work that uh janelle and i would do as well as just sort of increasing the accessibility of anybody who wants to jump in and propose edits or changes or whatnot so yeah the existing schema and protocol docs for 76 43 and 44 are now in markdown and are in the github uh there's still some formatting things that need to get uh taken care of uh i've learned a lot about markdown during this process but not all of it um"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:14:00",
    "text": "so if anybody sees any things that uh that don't look right uh please share your skills um beyond that um yeah i provided that list of uh of the the the major pieces of work that we have some form of idea on and i i think for the ones that don't already have drafts uh that cover them uh from phil that uh we'll try and have some sort of at least basic framework draft out uh even just you know enough to get the ball rolling um i think for a lot of things there are multiple valid approaches to how to uh you know solve a problem and whether we stick to specific you know one specific one or multiple to you know allow for uh sort of different scenarios for implementation i think that's something that we can discuss once we have that structure in place um but yeah i i don't have any news sorry go go ahead uh now i was just gonna say i i don't really have any other sort of like major earth shattering uh developments any super exciting news to share other than uh i think we've gotten a lot of the sort of that initial like bootstrapping or whatever you'd like to call it of uh how do we start approaching these figured out now uh and hopefully we'll be able to then uh capitalize on that to have more progress in the upcoming weeks and months okay the uh the question that i was going to ask i've not had a chance to look at the github repo but basically you're starting with the current rfcs as the base and updating because that was one of the discussions we had earlier on i think as we had just chartered whether we would create brand new drafts or just um"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:16:01",
    "text": "edit and enhance the current documents yeah so um in the interest of sort of uh we'll say making progress and actually solving problems uh the way that i figured we could approach things is to start for any of the new major features by writing them as standalone drafts and then uh at some point we then figure out do we publish these solely as extensions to 2.0 do we start merging them into the base uh you know like the core of a new document somewhere and you know make one comprehensive thing um but i it's it to me and to um to janelle and i spoken with uh paul who's also not here today uh paul lansey um to all of us at least it's still a bit unclear on the 2.0 versus 2.1 versus 3.0 thing and um i've also one of my colleagues at microsoft mark wahl uh his take on it as well is that um 2.0 was written as an extensible like standard and that if we were to go towards uh you know just sort of immediately say okay we're doing 3.0 uh that it would uh potentially harm adoption because uh you know if there's news that uh you know 3.0 is coming in with two years or whatever it doesn't really drive people to want to adopt in that two-year period if they're just gonna have to redo a lot of engineering work uh so it's more of uh you know let's try to not make breaking changes and let's just extend wherever possible is one of the approaches that i've tried to factor in here okay this has by far been probably the most uh single like confusing and like time wasting thing for for me and janelle of trying to wrap her head around like how to approach it and we've gotten so caught up on the whole like version"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:18:00",
    "text": "thing that we honestly our preference at this point is to just sort of put it to the side and yeah and that i would say in the interest of making progress let's not belabor the point of you know how to do the revision but worry about the new work that we want to take on uh the only reason why i was asking is that if you're gonna add or extend to the current 2.0 from a document specification it's fine if you start a new one and say everything that's in the current rfc applies on top of and hear the changes but it sounds like you're taking the other approach which is fine um from what i'm hearing you say um on what the extensions are but um i'm just giving you suggestions as a chair but you know we can take the feedback from uh from the rest of the participants in the group as and well i can see sort of pros and cons from from both sides um and like i'm also so incredibly interested like i i this needs to be a like a larger more well-discussed thing and i think the value where um you know janelle and i can add here is probably in uh sort of you know it's some amount of authoring but also just in the the cat herding around uh you know organizing things to get actual like you know some some drafts some like some solutions at least proposed to some of these problems and how we ultimately structure those you know it can be a a bigger discussion later um because there's nothing saying you know we can't start with a draft and then decide to just sort of you know trashcan the draft and put it into the body of a new like"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:20:00",
    "text": "main element of the stack okay um but yeah on the topic of schema protocol that's i think all i've got to share so given that we aren't gonna have anything on use cases uh i'll hand it back to you at the end i suspect you'll then go to phil yeah um sorry i was getting sidetracked i wanted to confirm i'm i'm pretty sure we've not had to fill in blue sheets anymore because i believe meat echo does it um so i think we're good this is just an answer to uh somebody who had put it on on the chat um okay so thanks for that update danny um if you can please post i think you did but if you can echo the github link to where the documents are just so that people um can just click on it for ease which i think you might have no i think you put the links to cram down but to the actual repo that you've started i i believe i'll check it if not i'll definitely make sure it's included uh i also just added the chat here and uh into the uh the notes oh that would be great great okay so um moving on phil i know we're catching oh sorry jeremy you're you're on the queue or did we"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:22:00",
    "text": "never take you off the queue nope i wasn't on the queue my mic was left on from a previous i haven't raised my hand okay oh no i i was reaching out to you phil but then i saw jeremy on the queue um but um i don't think he had anything since he he dropped off the queue but phil i think i'm just waiting for this little misunderstanding to clear itself up i was going to ask if um in the github repo we also put a link back to what the official ietf repo is that does that make sense um yes and no so uh the original documents are already rfc'd um danny i'm in the repo right now and i see skim use cases there's nothing there core skiva and i are the ones that uh i've added markdown versions of sorry which ones uh the draft ietf skim api ah i got it okay so with those two i think almost no matter what we do even if we end up going towards a new version of skim we may very well start at least with that you know the 2.0 dock and start writing from there even if it ends up looking nothing the same um but for use cases my understanding from conversations i've had with pam is it's almost i think a complete rewrite like starting from scratch i would think the use cases"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:24:00",
    "text": "indeed um that would be the case um so i just put on the uh on the chat the links to the two githubs for those who who are interested um so is this the official document working area for the work in progress for the working group then um yeah and actually because they're not adopted yet i need to go back to my notes aaron i forget we we have a naming convention that we wanted to to put um yeah the it's go ahead aaron it's um so the the github think of that as just like the the working area to do whatever you want it's basically a free-for-all it's fine to do anything in there and it is only semi-official because it's within the ietf github sort of realm but uh none of that really is part of the official process until they're published as drafts in the data tracker so that's when it's more important to get the naming convention and stuff right of the docs but generally they will be um because they're not adopted yet they are the uh they're individual or independent drafts where they would have the author's name in uh instead of ietf so that i see the um like it says itf skim core schema so that would actually be draft dash whoever's the primary author dash skim core schema until we officially adopt them as into the group so danny one of us this is to say one of us needs to go back and change the name of those repos because we have not adopted them yet so it should be draft dash"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:26:01",
    "text": "um itf dash you know alan zalner whichever one you can do right now yeah since i have admin on the github if you can yeah that would be good also i have for what it's worth even just for me to get those uploaded there were some permissions problems so i i don't know that the uh the github instance as it is right now is uh that is accessible to everybody okay it it is on purpose so um janelle because she was kind enough to help um so i can chat with her too so the admin privilege admin privileges should only be to the chairs and janelle and this goes to aaron's point right there is a editor's role in the org which i see which has already been created i do see uh pam and janelle and zollner ms zolner msft yeah uh you are all in the editor's role so it's possible that uh no i see those repos are there too so you should be able to push to them are you not able to uh no so i can uh what i was saying is uh for others to participate right now i don't think that they would be able to so it may be as simple as in whatever the main repo is in part of a readme or whatever to provide instructions on how to gain access it's not intended um so as public anybody is able to pull from it and create issues um and that was by intent and by design the intent is not for them to give everybody open access to actually modifying any of the content"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:28:01",
    "text": "right except for the editors okay yeah that's how i would expect people to work is to to fork it create a pull request if they want to actually submit text directly or just talk in the issues section is totally fine too so uh so we are going to need to rename the uh the skim api and the course schema um the question is i don't know if that'll break the makefiles uh i don't see any in the repo so it's just whatever you've written it's fine yeah okay um who is the primary author of skim api let's start there i i think it would be me for both that's danny yes yeah okay i will go ahead and do that right now great thanks erin so once they're renamed danny if you can actually put the links um not just to the whole skim working group but to the actual links of the documents as aaron is posting them right now if you can post them to the ietf mail list will be good and that way we can get you know everybody who's um paying attention on the mail list to provide"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:30:00",
    "text": "feedback as well and then i have a question about the documents in here on the skim api one um i assume the the ones are starting with rfc numbers is that like that's just a converted snapshot of the existing rfc is that is that the idea uh i would have to go look at a few i don't remember how i named them okay because i can't tell which one is the one that has the like is the intended new version um i'm looking now and the ones that start with rfc are the three different formats of the converted one the other ones are just like direct xml pools of what's on the data tracker right now oh i see okay so let's rename those also yes to the the name of the repo now yep i will do so okay great okay so um danny if you have questions about the whole ietf convention process for authoring feel free to ping aaron rai or both of us because we we do have some experience and can help you navigate through that as well already thanks aaron for helping of course okay so i think we're on to the next piece of the agenda the added revised agenda so phil we started the conversation on the mail list um you asked"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:32:02",
    "text": "interest in adopting the two drafts the multivariate filtering and the skim profile sorry skim events i think is yeah skip events um so typically what we do is we uh the author asks for feedback we have some discussion if you recall from from previous times before we can before we the chairs can do a call for adoption right um i did look at the mail list we did some early discussions of the multivariate filtering back when we were trying to create the working group um but i didn't see anything since no there's not been any for the multi-value filtering there hasn't been any really substantial um discussion about the draft itself and people might not be familiar with the process that it's okay to do that um that they should do that and um i so one concern i have i i've had a change in jobs since i originally wrote it a few years ago and at the time it went in skims charter the ib decided to close chim skin before it was done so it kind of didn't make a rechartering back then so it's been kind of sitting on the back burner um as the author well it will tell you that greg wilson from oracle is still interested in it and he wants to be on the draft i couldn't get his confirmation before i could publish the current version he is still interested although i'm not sure he's going to be that active"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:34:02",
    "text": "my concern is to make sure there is actually enough interest that people would would read the draft and implement it to prove it and i'm not sure there is i think people are saying i don't object but i still would like to see more in it and i'm not i'm not in a position anymore to say one way or another on behalf of anyone so i sort of feel awkward about pushing something forward when i'm not sure anybody would actually implement it i think oracle has um and that's okay it's it's a compatible extension um but i would like to see that people use it and i think the part of the issue is skim is meant for provisioning oracle's one of the companies using skim as a directory and therefore needs multi-value filtering for things like uh user interfaces that coded in javascript or what have you and so that's a useful feature for that and so if people are interested or not i sort of leave it wide open i'm i remain sort of neutral and willing to take it forward since it's mostly done and straightforward um so that's all i'll say on that one danny is on the computer danny yeah um i started taking off my editor hat for and putting on like my you know microsoft chat or whatever um i i 100 think we need this feature and i think there is uh the interest there even just uh from that like provisioning uh aspect um even if it hasn't been articulated very"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:36:01",
    "text": "well or you know very vocally on the mailing list i've had some side conversations with some of our partners for instance and i think the interest is there and i'd be happy to try and get them to review and speak up as well okay so um as chair what i can do is i could do a a call for adoption but maybe it's a pre-call for adoption phil right to solicit feedback typically there's the questions during call for adoption if there's interest to adopt interest to implement interest to review right so we can put all of those questions together and see what the interest to to be an author which which does mean actually helping okay so maybe instead of doing a call for adoption is call for interest in the topic so um interest sorry i'm i'm also trying to take notes because um both you who are going to be note takers are mainly speaking um interest to author um interest to implement interest to review okay we can do that for this draft jeremy i see you're in the queue so if i was interested in looking over the current version of this so that i could provide feedback or make an informed decision as to whether i thought it should go in the standard where would i find that document so um ahead phil so my understanding is so twofold"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:38:03",
    "text": "um the this is proposed as an extension so it's not necessarily going in 2.0 although maybe group wants to do that um i think it's fine standing on its own because it could get published sooner if you put it into this skin best work i'll call it that could delay it several years so and i was also thinking it's a fairly straightforward extension what we'll need to do work on is re-review any security implications and privacy implications um and just general editorial cleanup so two places for comments one is i would say first of all comment on the mailing list so that we can i think nancy answered my question um and and this leads back to my confusion and question earlier is are we tracking this stuff in this github or are we tracking it somewhere else and if we're tracking it in multiple places can we have a pointer in those places to point to the other location i can try to clarify that so yeah the the urls on data tracker are meant to be the actual snapshots of the drafts as does us as a group have decided to to publish once it's an adopted draft as an individual drop it's up to the authors to do that those are the ones that are intended to be sent out to people to review so that's the url to say like go read this this is the current state base your opinions and and suggestions on this document"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:40:00",
    "text": "the mailing list is meant to be the official on the record place for that feedback i would treat the github more as the author's tool to manage the process within by the authors themselves so that is um the way that i've done this in other groups is the authors sometimes it's a private repo with just the authors and nobody else can even see the github repos sometimes it's public but really nobody else ever pays attention to it except the two or three authors um and then in some cases the github is is more of a place for public feedback as well just because it's so convenient um but think of again think of the github more as just it's the it's the author's tool for working on the doc but as soon as we want to go beyond the authors into the larger group larger world send out the data tracker urls those are the better version snapshots of the you know the more broad sweeping snapshots the the addition i'll add um to what aaron said jeremy is the github is absolutely meant to be more for a tool for the authors and the guide um in some of the groups that i chair we also use the github as a way of tracking all of the issues erin is correct that the mail list is the official channel for us to communicate but as the number of issues that need to be addressed may grow there's tools that can help simplify and github has become one where the issues becomes the way for us to track right the things that we need to address on those particular documents um and particularly again coming back to the authors right the authors are ultimately responsible for ensuring"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:42:01",
    "text": "that all of those issues get addressed as chair in the other groups that i um chair i use those as a guide for readiness for um publication right yeah and um to that point one of the one of the workflows that i've seen um work pretty well is let's say somebody who's only tangentially involved in in this work um you know who's planning on implementing it in their product but not really interested in participating in the the authoring part like side of that conversation they may end up with a bunch of feedback that they want to provide and the easiest way for them is over email and they may just write up a long email with five or six points in it and then as the as the authors sometimes that feedback is very easy just to just incorporate into into the document with no real discussion needed and other times it's going to be something that's going to take a long time to to resolve and you kind of just know that as the author of the document and in those cases you can pull those into github you can just copy them paste them into github as individual issues that way it's easier for you to keep track of has this issue had the been resolved you know have we have we actually is are there any still outstanding doesn't need more discussion still that kind of thing so again it's you know it's flexible in terms of how you want to actually do it but that's i've seen that work pretty well so hopefully that helps jeremy with the explanation of the process i think your question of what do i send someone to get their feedback on definitely send the"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:44:00",
    "text": "datatracker.itf.org url but there isn't one of those for the current work that's being done on this schema that's correct then we need to do that so this is for well hold on so we still we are still waiting for a document to get adopted um and as danny is presented right we're still trying to work through as a group of what those issues are once there's a document then you can point to the data tracker right but jeremy i would say the the issues um that you want to bring forward you should definitely go through the official channel which is the mail list um if you want to instill a dialogue again the official channel is the mail list we also have the slack channels available for the groups who have specific interests in the specific drafts we created the slack for that but again official channels are in the iepf data tracker and the mail list um for new work and for adopted work and so currently since we have only met officially twice as a working group we're still ramping up to get you know the core of the work adopted the core being the use cases and the protocol and schema i believe i was reviewing the charter as well um bill we also will need to map and i think we can uh the multi-value filtering to a use case to ensure that it's in scope for our"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:46:01",
    "text": "charter um and similarly for the skim events right i seem to recall we had it specifically named but either way it doesn't matter we we did i just have to dig up the notes um but i just wanted to make sure we call that out okay we have 13 minutes left so unless we need to continue on on the process topic phil i think the next oh go ahead yeah go ahead i i was just going to say the next one um for discussion is the skin events right um following up the last meeting uh at the end of the last official meeting from vienna i guess there were questions raised and a lot of these are covered um in the discussion there's a lot of let me put let me back up in the events draft there's a fair amount of non-normative stuff and it's the it's the section involving whether you transmit using the set uh security events token transmission method or whether you use a backbone like kafka and the idea was to say we don't need to worry about this because there are two methods and the reason i went into two methods was i felt strongly that the use cases are very different in one case in the events draft you're really going to domain to domain and there's a single stream between them but within a domain when you're doing things like replication and event coordination"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:48:00",
    "text": "you have many listeners and many publishers and a bus organization for managing streams makes more sense which is not something set is capable of doing um so i wanted to call out and describe those two use cases but i didn't really want to solve the problems and the spec the idea is to define the events and then you could go and use kafka which has all the conflict mitigation backup storage and restoration and then there are many other bus technologies as well plus then there's set if you want to go point to point which does have a standard i lost the battle somebody raised the question of but we want one way to do everything um i fought that battle hard four years ago uh in the security event token group and our skim proposals were knocked out of the park by the ietf set group and even then the set working group ended up with two drafts for transmission not one so that's a battle i think we should avoid getting into solving things one way because i think the use cases are substantially different um and we'll get into boundaries where people don't want others saying how they do replication and others all we want to do is say it's possible and you can exchange these messages with this format and that's standardized and then people can choose to wire up their infrastructure how they choose i think what's most important for interop is the point to point or domain to domain and i think those are things we should talk through as use cases"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:50:01",
    "text": "and we can do that prior to adoption we should have a lot of discussion of that prior to adoption but either way i kind of expect we will either be deciding to go down that road and have a lot of normative text or we'll have the correct text explaining why it's excluded but giving people the advisory advice they need when setting that up which was my goal originally so there's a lot of water under the bridge that this spec is covering by referencing those other specs so this is a good one where people want to get into it there's a fair amount of meaning if you send messages on the email i'll try to point you to places to read or to focus your attention and also if you want to co-author and and really dig into it i would love the help and especially if you're a person that's in a position to travel i'm going to have a problem being able to travel and attend meetings and i really think it would be nice to have a co-author that is able to attend so that's something i'm worried about oh and danny you brought up the async event and whether it should be pulled out so it can be its own thing um i'd be interested to see what you think the relationship is between the clients that that invoke an asynchronous operation and how the notification comes back does it come back to the same client um ignore the mechanics for now but if if if i'm a client i make a request is"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:52:02",
    "text": "it only me that gets the response or is it a central service that gets the response in your case that was something we started talking about on the list and we should keep talking about that because it's a good point that maybe it should be a separate thing or maybe it just fits in there i don't know but i'll i'll leave that to you danny to uh to to to push push your requirements one way or the other honey you're in the queue um yeah like i i i think the way that uh your draft has defined asynchronous requests and how to then you know communicate through the eventual outcome back with set uh makes sense and you know but i'm trying to like color this through the glasses that i uh with almost anything that really did have almost no idea what i'm looking at but um the yeah i guess the sort of requirement that i was trying to think around was more of uh i guess it would be a single party getting like a response back later um it's you know think of like the existing um sort of client server or you know client service writer relationship in skim and how that could be accommodated uh or you know how that could accommodate async requests without requiring uh a build out of set if there was no other you know need for them to use that or that they didn't want to do and in my mind that probably comes down to uh you know you make a request uh the as a client the server responds back to the 202 and then we find a very basic uh scheme or whatever for a response that includes some sort of transaction id that uh can then be redeemed against a defined endpoint later um so yeah i i was thinking of i was trying to describe it in terms of a use case"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:54:00",
    "text": "and what i was thinking was you might have a ui that is setting up a new account for somebody and so at some point you make the skim request and some services do it instantly some services will take a few minutes and what you want to be able to do is while you're taking the user through the workflow you want to get that notice back so you can let the workflow advance in the ui and and that there means that an individual client that's doing um a very specific operation is is just getting a response back to to coordinate a ui so that's one use case another use case might be i have a provisioning system that's sending a whole stream of transactions and it just wants to speed up performance uh and then reconcile the results so those would have could have very different design requirements yeah and i think that second use case that you just described uh is probably the one that i was more thinking towards yeah i that's where i was and that's why i was thinking that um you would tend to have a central receiver that that that says okay those five transactions have been ticked off rather than making sure that the same client that made the request is the one that gets the result yeah um i i think there's enough here to you know i'll we can discuss it off you know the male group or whatever rather than here i would say one thing for everybody to note that a lot of cases we have to think about whether things are a point-to-point relationship between a client and a server or whether we're talking about things in the context of multiple clients multiple receivers multiple nodes and all these kinds of"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:56:02",
    "text": "these issues aren't so easy because it's not just a simple protocol anymore they're we're now talking about streams of events and who are the receivers and who are the senders i think that's good advice okay with three minutes left um i can pose a similar question fill to what we'll do with the multi-value filtering if that will help you get direction i think you had one response on the mail list from danny that there is interest for the for the skim events but we're gonna need more thanks danny is that fair that's fair call for interest okay break um any other business i think at this point given the challenges in trying to schedule things and i know for me personally july is completely booked um between rsa identiverse and a couple other forums i will not be available so um that puts us to our next session being the ietf 114 in philadelphia there's nothing as i mentioned earlier there's nothing precluding the participants in doing their own individual group huddles so unless i hear objections i think our next meeting formal meeting will be in the ietf 114."
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:58:08",
    "text": "getting silent so i'm going to take that as no objections um phil no objections okay yeah it's just interesting it it popped up but i just realized it was just your mick turned on um okay so with that um aaron unless you have any other closing arguments or or not arguments sorry points um you know yeah sorry i was talking to legal earlier today i know just feel free to um get in touch with me in slack if you have any questions about um using github or what docs should be named or anything like that i'm happy to respond there i think we're both on the slack channels too so um feel free to do that um let's see anything else going once going twice i think i give i can give you a whole minute back thank you everyone and uh until ietf114 thanks bye"
  }
]
