[
  {
    "startTime": "00:00:27",
    "text": "foreign I guess we wait a few more minutes for everyone to join yeah that would be good yeah we're still banging on the hour and it's hard to know how many folks will show up with MLK Day yeah we'll see uh I can at least see Joshua Steve yogesh Karsten I hope you cannot hears yeah we can hear you fine perfect just while we're waiting here Hannah's is the meteco link always the same can we just pop it on the data tracker front page so that we don't have these requests all the time that's a good question um I don't think so um because the this current um Series has been allocated till um I think the week before the IDF meeting and then we will create another one and"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:02:01",
    "text": "then I I assume that there will be a new link I think it's it stays the same for the series but uh yeah so that's about it it's slightly annoying but it's relatively easy to find if you download the this I calendar invite which I I would recommend to do because then you know exactly when the meeting takes place you just need to look at the the meeting materials um a search material whatever they call it link and then everything is there it's just the the agenda update which just doesn't quite work so they uh I assume you're still working on it hey Karen Gray a dick how are you yeah good morning good morning good morning good afternoon everyone hello I hope um Kieran are you going to take meeting minutes today or is that possible or should I or should someone else do it no I can't I can definitely do that perfect yeah I see Hank is here now as well excellent okay um there are a few things um I posted the mail to the list first of all uh welcome to the to the meeting um we knew that it would be a little bit uh more difficult to have the meeting today because of the holiday in the U.S and I think in the UK maybe as well"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:04:01",
    "text": "um but we I still want to go through a couple of items specifically uh there are a few um a few things to look at the first one is a threat model we have use cases still discussions on the list Raymond contributed a new use case I had an exchange with Dick and and uh Ray uh joined that discussion too and then we have a couple of open issues on the end pull requests on the architecture document which I would like to double check which ones of those are still are current and which of them might need to be closed is there any other topic uh you would like to talk about today Hank hey what's that yeah so this is saying hi everybody yeah um yeah we have a upcoming meeting with a session request so um I think it's this prudent to uh what that is mentioned at once and then you have in mind that we have to prepare at some point for that some some people already are working backwards towards more so to speak and and to have to have something to present there yeah yeah yeah I was I was hoping to see some discussion on the list about the terminology which is still an open item but that didn't quite happen uh yet so we'll see what other open issues there are and so we we actually didn't have something to to talk about okay I think that was um on my part too start a thread later today about the terminology discussion again initially I thought that we had a kind of a closed meeting to discuss with few selected who contributed actively to Red circuit architecture so I thought maybe"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:06:01",
    "text": "and that was the better way but it seems there's no response so I will try to there are only few terminologies which are kind of overlapping between rats and skit and I think maybe at the end of the day we might have to go turn with votes to say what what is the Community preference on those so we will start that discussion thread and then maybe um after two three days what what the community respond we we can then go for a vote and make a final call yeah cool um yeah I submitted the the meeting for the IDF meeting so we'll see um how the scheduling goes but hopefully it fits your um if you're remote participant your time zone preference or if you're if you're there for like for a few days or for the whole week um I think that is probably it probably doesn't matter um Hank um should we start with a quick look at the architecture document uh and the issues uh Slash PRS are you up for that thank you yeah due to the sorry to this browser I have a third new button now and so yeah um yeah not good um sorry um so that because the only thing I actually accomplished last week was to start talking with Monty understanding his use case thoroughly and resolving the issues with the uh use of trust and Trust Bonds in the first use case so that conveyed you can look at the architecture first"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:08:00",
    "text": "yeah um do you want to share your screen to show us the open issues and the book requests and so we can quickly go through them and and uh I physically incapable of sharing I'm using a tablet okay let me see what uh I can get this to work you can share that if you want tennis oh that if you could do that yeah let me share that so I will post the link screen share actually did you get a screen share request from me uh because I think you are the administrator you need to give me the permission to share yes uh I I just saw in the uh chat window Joshua um you had a question about um Acme um regarding the conflicts um I can add Acme to the conflict as well sure if that helps you okay go for it yeah dude can you see my screen now yes okay it works yeah so shall we go ahead in the sequence how they appear now oh whatever um thank you Professor he may have a better understanding of what you've done and which one oh um so yeah so the architecture the conciliations of the the um editors meet to to get basically what you just asked for on Wednesday to get on the same page again um there's something um like there's something we might be even be very easy to drop like issue 28 is it 28 we place TS the sketch yeah so that's"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:10:02",
    "text": "for both of us are old it precedes the last ITF and I think questions like this um are pretty much resolved so we're going with transparency Services they have sub components like the Note 3 component and other things and so uh so I think these are simply outdated and it's not even I think useful to trying to recover that we just recreate new items I think that's just outdated okay so um uh Kieran hopefully too um so it closed issue 28 that's cool um yeah and then that's that yeah so compact is an open item changing some artifact is a very open item we haven't settled so um so I I of course understand we are in the chartoscope of software Supply chains but the biggest concerns come from uh other Supply changes when you use artifact um in supply chain for software artifacts is already um they build artifact it's not necessarily the code and it's it's arbitrary so is it the product or is it is it the um the the the the item the consumer uh effectively gets delivered so so um there is a little bit of uh a I think I think this needs a dedicated session just to get this one done I assume that asset is also overloaded so this is a very open topic uh and maybe Joshua Joshua has some cool ideas from the uh six stars space so we cannot conflict with that for example I don't know um but I think that's again that's an open discussion we can't do here today uh thought topics unfortunately"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:12:02",
    "text": "but it's good um who is who is actually the owner of that topic like who is going to drive that discussion is it okay because she raised it or because nobody is assigned this brings us back to the terminology discussion right so yeah yeah so do you want to lump this under the terminology discussion yes okay so maybe we can lump this with um uh this one 37 which where we are discussing terminology State terminology yeah but most of the uh all missions are actually about terminology at the moment um okay but that's that's not a bad sign I think yes everybody wants to not to talk past each other that's great but but uh to be honest as we have focused on software supply chain I think nothing moved here uh in the last uh one and a half months so what um who is who is kind of the supposed to drive that discussion uh the terminology discussion so it was actually I was me um yeah Cedric Anton and Hank were discussing this together so well ideally it would be one person to sort of like yeah yogas is the uh the lead lead and and has uh a few of henchmen at his disposal uh [Music] so if you see here we did a lot of discussion here we had a meeting as well and in fact we had it on this call as well if you see yeah so comments before I left I just added these comments here as well so we just need to close it now we just need to come to terms and agree on something and and then move forward but"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:14:00",
    "text": "it isn't just rats and Skip yeah it's a little bit broader I think it's actually three issues um the one that we looked at previously 42 this is 37 which is sort of skit rats and then there was another one uh 34 converge claim statement uh seems to be yet another one but there was a proposal to converge claim and statement but yeah yeah and I think I think that is coming to a uh to a the defense so first of all with all terminology I can only reiterate what you said honest the definition is important the effective term can be a placeholder so uh for the claim in statement uh I think that's one of the first items of the architecture team uh design team meeting uh I think we will just cover statement sign statement and transparent statement and then we can find smaller words later and maps have to claim again but but I think nobody is that actually that's more than a compromise it's like nobody's unhappy with that and and just we go from there go ahead yeah but there's something that may be the output from from art architect offers um because we uh we we have to get the proposal in line put the proposal into the issue then we can have it here and then if there's no pushback on it implement it um what what about uh the issue number 29 It also says definitions and terms change statement to evidence is that uh sort of a again one of those rat skipped things yeah I think this is a red hiring so Steve I said I don't think here you can't uh defend himself so this this is the problem I was highlighting that um that evidence is basically uh sometimes"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:16:00",
    "text": "so the opaque payload in skit is sometimes to refer to as evidence coming from supply chain so if something happened in a supply chain and that can be a uh a human witness or a video or a science document that's evidence that's that's that's conflicting hard with rats and I think that is already off the table here but again this is one of the old items I would assume are outdated and by a superseded by other discussions here uh can I quickly say something here to me it seems like this terminology between rats and uh and skit can be resolved by recognizing that the difference it has to do with who's making the claims whether it's peering up or down through the chain so if you if your rats view of the world you're generally be a tester device making claims back up to the verifier or the sort of the hosting and and it's very much my very limited uh view of it is that when you make a claim there it's a tester claim it's the and then of the of the device so it's looking back I don't know how to discriminate between the two but it's a Upstream uh claim made Upstream versus Downstream whereas skit the claims are being made Downstream by a usually like if you did have a rats device coupled with uh hosting you know service of some kind then the service would be placing the claim into the skit registry um Downstream versus Upstream so maybe there's a way to to discriminate them based on that because they do seem"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:18:00",
    "text": "pretty different so if you say a claim you know in the rats World being made by that device Upstream it has a different quality than than the claims made by say a entity submitting software into the into the skit registry it's they're quite a bit different so it'll be good to discriminate those and I'm just thinking maybe there's a way to do it somehow with additional adjective or something I don't have a solution yet yeah if you something comes to your mind uh maybe you want to sort of add something to that discussion Hank you wanted to say something right yeah so and Ray there's a very astute observation I think you said your point of view is limited but in general you're correct so um so that but that's that's good is so versatile that you could put a skit instance as a transparency and auditing system in between and a test and the verifier and it records every evidence ever created that is sent to that verifier so you can look back at 20 years and find everything in that specific communication relationship for example or in the trust zone so it's a huge domain sorry um where all the testers record the evidence for example then this Upstream will also be in a skid transparency service but that is a very different scenario than we are typically talking about here the use cases so uh so by in general you're correct I can I can think of situations where you kind of proof of um a counter proof but but yeah I think uh for for higher for broader understanding your your point of view is a good one no no I I don't I think we're in agreement there um in other words I'm not saying that the the UPS the Upstream claims from on a tester device can't be placed in the skit registry but the type"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:20:01",
    "text": "claim is different in quality from a claim that would be made by oh yes yeah so that's why the two if you're going to use the word claim for everything then you you do start to get into trouble because the quality of those two things is quite a bit different um and you could call them you could say Upstream claim from an a tester device and just not suggesting that but lots of adjectives to mean that it's from this device and it's sort of a simplified claim that you you need to really check versus a claim I don't know maybe they are about the same I mean I I'm just I know that that in the rats world they're they're usually looking back Upstream like that and so when they're thinking of of this claim that's what they're thinking of and now we're saying okay the claims could include these other things of a downstream uh uh claim and maybe they're about the same though it's a good point that you're making that that even though that the rats but I'm just thinking that between skit World which includes both types within our concept of claim that's different than what rats does and maybe rats should be responsible for adding adding an adjective not sure but I just wanted to say while I have the floor and I don't mean to divert the attention of what we're doing I did I did post that election stuff on there and I did have some questions about rats I'm still trying to explore that so maybe offline or in the list or something someone can make some suggestions to me um and so uh that that's probably all we need to do today on it just I just wanted to let you know about that thank you we have a few folks in the queue uh yogesh your first yeah I mean I'm failing to understand"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:22:00",
    "text": "the issue itself where it says change statement to evidence evidence is something which can be verified and that's precisely the rats is doing because evidence is a signed set of claims in rats statement is just a statement which saying I'm saying this but once it becomes a sign statement or a claim then it goes into the skit so I don't know whether this is a valid request coming from Steve or uh what was the intent behind requesting this I'm still struggling to understand this I don't think Steve is here so but unfortunately but I will add my um well I think the issue seems to be um that what you have um do you want to give the thing that you um later sign a different name so because this the evidence as you said is signed and then that's why the claims that our sign become then evidence um but if you don't want to call that information that goes in there before it sign uh like it and it has some name better have some name too and like in this case in the terminology section it's called statement yeah and the software bill of material is is uh referenced but um yeah so like it's really a question like how do you how do you want to call that um that's not correct um yeah so there is this thing called build evidence I think that is a uh domain specific term that is very common in software creation and therefore evidence but there's conflicts now this was a proposal to change to that domain specific language we I think we assessed that's not the way we're going to do this uh we will probably use more qualifying words or"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:24:01",
    "text": "substitute uh words at some point and uh that will be a process definition first um confusion here but I think this is also again a pre-first working group meeting issue so I think we can safely discard it Ryan has a comment yeah I always view the fundamental Ledger or Journal portion of skid and the underlying rats discussions as building blocks for the rest of the system having them squat on terminology when it becomes just the Bri air we breathe a little bit problematic which is why I propose writing up the use case terminology and then defining it from there and then coming back to the lower we don't talk about letters we don't talk about words we talk about sentences and after a while everybody just ignores the fact that their words they're just sentences right like I've been looking this you'll guess I'm really serious I'd love to see people write the document instead of looking this from as Ray correctly put it from the bottom up and since we're trying to solve this for for various use case verticals you have to look at it from the top down but my my point is yes point is fair but the problem is a use case document is taking specific use cases and then describing the problems or coming out from them are the set of problems or requirements yeah but you are very generic in nature yeah but just think about it the government the US government has already said hey there's evidence and there's build evidence so we're not going to move that 800 pound gorilla off where they're sitting right we have to live with the terminology the verticals are using normal to call not"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:26:01",
    "text": "call a compiler a compiler just because we sat on the word compiler right we have to take into account where the use cases are already sitting yeah but do we need to worry about 10 different organizations what the terms they are using before we layout our terms my concern is I think we have to take that into account Hank is right we call it build evidence we call the output of a tool an artifact for caching purposes right those are things that pre-exist what rats by decades yeah but I I'm little nervous about that kind of thing because what we have is our ecosystem the state ecosystem and skit ecosystem defines artifact means like this and it's very clearly written in bold in architecture so when you're reading the architecture then you should try to relate the concepts based on the definitions which we are defining in the architecture not trying to say what 10 other industry people that's exactly your guess that's exactly how we got into this problem we're saying hey rats and Skip intersect with each other therefore there's the 800 pound girl that we have to solve and I'm going in the grand scheme of things it's not I'm your your opinion is your opinion my opinion is mine so we need to figure out get the documents out there let's have a discussion let's have a vote I don't but I disagree with looking at specifically by saying hey rats and skit are there therefore they dictate the terminology for everybody to use uh yeah I mean it will be very hard if we okay we can just uh precisely for rats we can do but if he trying to extend it to ntia sisa and other standard bodies documents and we will have really tough time defining something unique which they don't"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:28:00",
    "text": "overlap with yeah I I don't think it's a show blocker so uh like they said qualifying things first then it's big evidence and it's a big artifact let me started with that and if then over to mains you realize that uh if you do I don't know very very construction artifact is unfortunately also very important and with something entirely different again um you have to have it call it a very very RTF effect then we have to qualify things um I'll bring it in context so that's the only thing being a tool luckily for now we have to only think only somewhat ahead and that is the hardware supply chain that was relatively close to the software I think these uh there are a lot of con attendees waiting for that step and I think the concerns uh from from those from those that application domain should be the loudest now of course I heard governments evidence and nist yes uh bring them into context they have a software assurance and such terms already and and they have also the uh the use of the term attestation which is really funny and uh so uh yeah so so yeah this is this is something we can't as hard ever there will be an abstract on uh overlap of terminology ritual bodies and then we will highlight we will qualify them if in doubt and then in text I hope that this will be a comprehensive and intuitive as I said you can't move all the gorillas but we can make uh people aware of them and maybe remove at least the ones inside the control of the ITF that's possible and and then we go from there uh we want to pile on to this discussion yep thank you Johannes so I'd like to say I agree with what Roy is stated about focusing on use cases because getting those use cases established will"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:30:00",
    "text": "help us understand the problem space uh that skit needs to address and until we know what those use cases are uh we'll always be debating what what the boundaries and scope will be of skit so let's my suggestion is follow follow it Roy is suggesting get the use case document Define and then we can focus on you know solving the problem by getting the alignment we need uh based on the use cases understanding the constraints that we have to live by which are things like rats and so on and so forth uh but I think if we can at least understand what those use cases are now we can focus on solving that problem for the use cases and with that I'd like to ask do do we have a you know an estimate or a goal set when we want to have a use case document at least to a reasonably complete Point thanks I think Hank wants to respond to Hank is that true Hank is mute it seems I'm not I'm not using this new pattern anymore I I will always forget that I'm using that um sorry I thought it was cool it doesn't um that's very obvious uh deadline that is the ID submission cut off date which is I think at the moment this iterations March 13th so at March 13th we must have submitted something so we should at least be a week before that because I think that's a Monday so the Monday before that Monday uh we should uh have agreement on all issues or uh push into the next iteration so I would say the meeting on March 6th will be the meeting where we should decide what's in or"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:32:01",
    "text": "what's out uh and it's of discussion for the uh ITF meeting in Oklahoma but I don't I don't really saying we have to finish the use case document first before we can make some progress on the terminology right is that uh well are you saying that and that's what I'm saying is as well yeah well I one thing we had finished them which is why I wrote the other document on the terminology saying hey this is how I view this vertical and I was asking for other verticals so we can all put them together I don't think we have to have a Signed Sealed Delivered use case list to say here's the proposed terminology and then I would go further Roy and say it doesn't have to specify every single possible use case that's fit might be used to solve but at least needs to give us a starting point a Direction with maybe just I wouldn't even go past five use cases I'd keep it limited for this first go around to make sure that the pi the end number we choose uh is is going to help us set the stage for what skit actually can do in practice I agree well we have uh obviously we have a somebody already for the use cases so that's that's good thank you you and the queue yeah I still exactly so uh so why I understand that we want to have a crisp and five sounds like a awesome number set of use cases I think we cannot do this for IDF 116. I I what I would like to do for 16 is a Target and this is why I was replying the way I did because dick was asking they said do we have a Target completion State for the use case document and one completion stage I'd say is having all the use cases that are known and openly worked on today in"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:34:04",
    "text": "a style and structure and comprehensiveness that is comparable and therefore uniform and then we can go from there then we can try to merge two of them uh we I still have to schedule the uh the uh events with Joshua that I uh promised last week but I could only to do do two of the boxes in one week last week I don't didn't have time for more but now I can do uh case studies with Joshua for example and we can walk through the item I present oh by the way an offline email to you after this uh meeting yourself and um and I can't I would not Target five use cases for your grammar that would be a um taking away a bit about this discussion of the in the room especially uh is this enough is this too much how can we optimize this I think that's a room discussion um yeah yeah I think at the same time I think if we can come to an agreement on what the initial you know the the very foundational use cases that are in scope or skit whether that's uh one or Twenty whatever that number is uh that represents the initial uh goal for defying with a skit is and does that's my opinion anyway okay okay um so what I what I get from this discussion about the terminology of the architecture document is that um first of all there are a number of issues related to terminology like uh easily easily five issues um and some some others may may need to or have to be closed because they are"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:36:01",
    "text": "already a little bit too old but um I also had several people now saying that oh we can't really make progress on the terminology before we haven't finished um or progressed the use case document so in that case um uh should be take a look at the use case document again I know you uh thank you you are still on to the discussion with Monty on the iot a sort of firmware use case so that's um taken care of um we had uh Ray present his uh or post his uh use case and then Joshua also wants to contribute the use case uh Joshua remind us what that specific use case was about or was it multiple use cases I think the action item I took was to make sure the uh some of the six door case studies were represented in the use cases so less proposing a specific use case and more kind of reviewing what there and uh trying to make sure the things described by six sorry case studies um okay quick Interruption yeah so you are located in the EU or in another time zone it's fine I think I remember something yeah I'm UK are you okay wonderful uh it is is Wednesday a good day for you um yes okay the rest we do offline so that I can I can Target every I don't know thank you thanks and honest I would say your email to the list this morning was very insightful uh you pointed out there are term there are terms in the use cases that exist now that don't exist over in the architecture document so I I think this is doing these use cases first will flush out some of those issues so that"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:38:01",
    "text": "we can you know ensure we do have alignment between what the use case says is in scope what the architecture says is in scope and what the terminology is that relates you know the ties all that together as well thank you yeah if it's just hoping uh that we would be a little bit faster on the use cases like last week last Monday I had Express the hope that we would have an initial version of the use case document already mid-February um but yeah mid-January or mid-February you mean February February okay so we have time we have time to catch up now and do something even more yeah and I can Rea can commit to providing some you know support in that space to helping with the use cases so you just need to know what what kind of timeline everyone's looking at and what the scope is in terms of you know how how far do we want to go with the use case but we stand ready to support this effort fully thanks okay um uh should we give uh Ray a few minutes to talk about his use case and explain us on like what we will be looking at when we click at this his Google link Google Document link yeah 100 Ray you said you posted your document is it on the mailing list I just missed it uh yeah um yeah thanks thanks maybe you can click on it uh um can I let me look it up yeah okay all right uh you want me to let me explain okay I can I can paste the link in in this chat um that might help people understand so this is the so so why do you want to share by yourself or do you want uh you guys to share uh I can well I can I share is that I I"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:40:00",
    "text": "try to share but it's not doing it no he has to approve it I will I will stop sharing now now you request share okay he did that should work yes uh all right um okay um me make this bigger uh essentially that so at the heart of this use case is this e2e security of valid images and how to bring them back uh basically bringing data from the voting machine or the scanner back so it's secured uh posting it into skit at the end of the day is not yeah hey I've get down here to the end and essentially talk about um after the election then you know things need to be combined and uh I have a separate you know thing about this a separate document about the use case for how they might be combined and then uh because there's a lot of in this case it's a lot of data and that there's individual zip files that are each very big so it can't be all zipped into one thing it's incompatible with the the Notions of not completely but somewhat with the open container initiative type of thing where you want to put things in a payload um but the summary of the package data could certainly be submitted to The Ledger yeah can you give me an estimate of you're talking gigabytes terabytes in some of these things yeah so um essentially could you put it in the document yeah it is and basically"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:42:02",
    "text": "um they're usually five to ten gigabytes per file that we like to go to because of just ease of handling at this point in in the evolution of computer technology and the and the web and the cloud um and if and so for a given jurisdiction might have there's about 50 000 images like maximum that we like to have per per file and then in jurisdictions they usually have somewhere between 300 000 to the the biggest in the nation is 4.5 million so and then nationally there's about 4 500 districts but most of them are small um this whole question about the size is something that I did put in a different document because um it is it is a cons direct concern with skit and let me just touch on the one issue if you don't mind me going back um into more of the weeds uh but I start here and talk about the voting machine architecture which is preferred and this is kind of what you brought up Hannis I spent a bit more time talking about the fact that we would need to have a trusted core and that preferably the ballot scanner in the voting machine would be to have a Hardware security manual but further that um uh that the machine can be decomposed into a document scanner and possibly of the ballot aware tabulator so today these loading machines are all in one so you have the scanner is usually bought from some other vendor inside but conceptually you know there's one computer that handles everything and it is valid aware so there's a bit of a security concern that I'd like to split"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:44:02",
    "text": "this concept so that so that the tech the scanner is not combined either inside the machine have them be separate and and then have a separate core that would be able to um that is when the ballot comes in it gets scanned and it gets secured before it's passed over to the ballot aware part of it or they could be completely separate machines but right then yeah sorry I'm going too fast uh one question for you um related uh specifically about the big or the huge amount of data is like that appears to be one of the requirements for um for skit for a skit based architecture that it has to deal with uh kind of these external um data items so to speak in instead of lumping everything together in a in one data structure and so that's right are there other uh so like sorry I haven't read through it yet uh and thanks for sharing but are there other um aspects for other requirements that you you think um are identified because that's um something we should definitely highlight in a in a write-up yeah he had a long time ago I made just the list of what the requirements were but I was trying to look more carefully at this um this flow to make sure that I knew what all the requirements were um the uh the other thing so a lot of data different files that are already zipped up that have you know that need to be handled um but then grouped together as a logical group and by a single entity um and then you know submitted to skit and locked in all right and then the other requirement is they they may want to submit the uh that is it's a timing thing so when when"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:46:01",
    "text": "the uh when these when I was down here when the ballots are scanned um they need to be what we'd like to see is is that the hash values of the signed hassle the concept here is inside the scanner there is a private key that's each one of the images gets um secured with that private key and signed either individually which was preferred for some reasons and and then as a whole the whole thing signed right so everything is signed by this private key it comes back but then those individual cozy blocks probably um are then posted okay in skit so that and and by the way this whole thing is air gapped so the interaction that I saw with rats was uh kind of the concept I had when I read the rats things was that it was mostly conceptualized for devices that would reside on a network over time it would be accessed a number of times and and and have you know periodic Communications with that device um this that doesn't happen that everything is air gapped we have a very limited um time to send data back and forth so it's an air gap situation and so when those images come back that we would we would be able to post just the um the security information the signatures to skit um rather than than everything so it might be it might be a some way to have laughs an eventual yeah everything is there and available but in time there would be an"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:48:01",
    "text": "a post of something that's incomplete and it kind of I I don't I'm not worried that this thing won't be satisfied because it appears in the software world that's also um going to be a requirement because a lot of the tests come later and so you want to post something and then maybe have tests that take time that are added later and then maybe test houses that might test the software that's added on oh by the way all of this software um s-bomb and and security thing that we're working on um can be applied to the election you know segment as well because they do have software in these machines it needs to be secured in the same way so I'm interested in all that as well but I I just I wanted to point to this one one thing as you read through this if you ever have time I just need to settle this public key claim that I did not find in the rats literature about how how to stand a public key back from the device and have it be be you know basically uh I'm I'm thinking that it's this this uh element that that exists called the election management system where it would maintain a database of public keys to be that that are used by the scanners in the election and that's what I need to to sort of resolve but so so I don't want to take the time here to work on this unless you have an instant but you're descending for people who are familiar with rats how to how to do this yeah so Ray you should probably take a look at the confidential compute framework that Sylvan and his team have pushed out they're using rats to make the claims of how the device boots up and then you're starting to get into a cross-section here with the Drone community of long-live cert identities on devices as a way of identifying um"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:50:00",
    "text": "who actually signing content so there's some intersection with these other technologies that sounds like a perfect match so if there is why don't you just send me that so I can review that but basically I was trying to I see there's no problem with using this entity attestation token uh from from rats but I I couldn't find out how to do this public key claim and if there's some way to do that and another you know technology or something um then fine uh but but what I was saying is that here likely the way to do this if you if there was such a thing in rats is that um that when the scanner is provisioned by use by the EMS which is the election management system then uh and in a secure configuration like in the election office then it's initialized using the flash memory device so the flash memory of dice would be plugged into the machine and powered on and it would initialize that memory and then uh follow the passport operational model where um then the device once it had its initial information it formats and initializes it and provides the initial information uh and then um blah blah blah then it would uh the EMS would review the from that and and then write the certificate I mean this is this is just a wild guess on my part because I haven't implemented this great a question um you mentioned at the ad Gap scenario which is another one of the requirements that we uh discussed in in previous meetings um at what point is the is the device air gapped is that uh like because because after all like at some point in time you need to upload something to the skid registry and you also from the flow that you just mentioned you obviously need to get some"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:52:01",
    "text": "data provisioned onto the device and maybe off off the device as well so so how is this air gap sort of life cycle so to speak okay so the the election officers are required to be completely air gap they can have an internal LAN to talk to scanners that might exist internally like uh well what they call Central scanning operations where this large scanners are are land connected to their you know typically sometimes very large computers that handle the tabulation but um then they so their air gap and the machines in the field are air gapped so there's no Direct there's no internet connection at all and until they actually package up the data at the end okay so skipping down to after the election so so so the the date is returned to the to the EMS on hand carried flash devices sometimes they allow modem transmission from the machines using Cell mode uh they sometimes they say Well they're inoperable unless we attach them or you know there's different arguments about this um but right now there there is reluctance to have them attached to the internet um you know pretty much at all um and so these are hand carried and then that then they essentially uh what we want and and what we want is to have essentially assigned hash value for every image okay so for Central scanning operations they also uh have this problem where um and there's been Papers written on this I have one in here that's called unclear"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:54:00",
    "text": "ballot where they at they go in and hack the image so you want the image to be as much as possible unhackable even if even if the drive so the driver so such that the driver can't be hacked to modify the image without the connection what what uh what you upload um a sort of like the artifact that you upload to this kick registry would that be a separate uh images or um what uh like when you say like it up previously mentioned you upload or you only put the hash in there not the into the script registry not the actual data which is fine uh but uh yeah but how many would that be one hash uh or would that be well here you say for each Sip and uh CBR file okay that's that's could be one but then if it was just one there would need to be the list of what it means um but essentially all of these results um would be on a jurisdiction website or another post other posting Service A lot of times they do use a different posting service um because of just size um you know their their website doesn't handle it in cost so like a really good jurisdiction that is an example of San Francisco where they post everything and they they they're pretty big too so they and they post their their ballot images on I think it's called sync.com but um then they have just a simple file which is made with this tool called um half easy hash or something like that and and basically it gives the Sha 512 hashes for every zip file"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:56:00",
    "text": "uh that they have of all of their images and then all of their cast Vault record files everything is in that that you know this is this is a not a standard way of doing it which is sad because I want to drive it in that direction so that so that I can go to anyone's website and find the same you know listing of what their items are now that could be that could be part of the skit um definition perhaps I know that within things like the uh the open container initiative they have you know Json descriptors that describe the uh layers or I guess now they're just calling them uh objects within there uh they're so that so then the question is do we want to um try to put that into skit or just consider that outside of it I'm thinking it's okay to leave it outside the skit concept and pursue the packaging of data for these various needs as a separate issue because I think it might bog down what you guys are doing with skit because it doesn't it it is I think it's it's kind of important you look at things like the nfts you know they have a similar thing where they use something like skit to manage the nfts and they they have you know references to remote data which might be pretty large and they don't you know put the data into the into the registry um so that would be great uh that would be the other issue the three issues then are are the size of the data and where it is and how to list it and the fact that it's air gapped and the time wise where we want to to send but I'll tell you what I'll resolve those requirements uh for skit uh again because I had them"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:58:03",
    "text": "listed but I want to I'll put them in here ah perfect yeah it's um thanks for the write that we obviously have to uh read through it and I I would do so myself I'm trying to find out what I can answer your question um Kieran you you wanted um the last two minutes uh yeah uh so uh thank you Ray for the for the use case that was uh very useful uh looking forward to reading that document yeah I just want to make a quick announcement um we are uh we're performed uh a new skit Community I'm sure some of you are aware of it uh the skit Community will be complementary to the existing skit ietf working group The working group is focused on specification development uh building all the you know the use cases the uh ultimate of the architecture document which you know hopefully evolves into an RFC and then a specification skit communities more focused on the advocacy Outreach testing interoperability of implementations prototyping and all that right and tooling um so uh as I as is iitf itself points out right that uh Force us something to become a standard we need to at least two or more interoperable implementations so skip communities role is to sort of facilitate that uh really help the help with the adoption of these specifications that we're developing here within the working group right uh it is open to public uh new members are invited to join I will send out out an email to our working group with all the links and you know resources and everything we're planning on a kickoff meeting this Thursday uh so I'll be sending out an invite for for that as well I just wanted to give that you know uh make that quick announcement here since we have everyone"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:00:00",
    "text": "any questions or speaking to the music I'm like What's that question wanted to know if anybody had any questions about the this spin-off [Music] it's good that you guys uh sort of like want to uh gather the those who are developers who want to work on early prototypes of um what we are doing in the in the group so that's that's excellent uh so obviously for those people that's the right type of meeting um while we are making progress with the standards activities here in the group of two specifications um I hope that there's not too much sort of like energy drawn over to the other group so that we can still make some progress with the specifications absolutely yeah the I getting our you know use case document architecture dark radius you know as rfcs that would definitely be the goal for ietf 116 right that's the primary goal the implementation is just to you know I think we're at a point where we can we can start collaborating uh sooner than later and you know work on all those interoperability items right so that that's a big goal for the community I could okay perfect yeah thanks thanks a lot thank you good so we have a few action items um from this meeting next at the next uh meeting we are going to have a short presentation from uh is it you Joshua who is going to give that presentation about the sixth door um I think Zach is on the hook for that and he's not here that's uh that's great too"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:02:00",
    "text": "but so Joshua you just throw them under the bus you say he's gonna definitely do it exactly he's enjoying a national holiday so uh he can he can suffer perfect okay we ran a little bit over time so we have to um finish here now thank you all for joining and uh yeah I hope to see some discussions on the mailing list uh some progress on the use case document as we talked about thank you Johanna take care everyone bye thank you please guys thanks again for the time yeah thanks thanks"
  }
]
