[
  {
    "startTime": "00:02:29",
    "text": "over Yeah."
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:08:09",
    "text": "If anyone is done with the lunch, please raise your hands. k? Can you hear me now? Yes. Hi. Okay. If you're done eating, please raise your hands. Alright. This is a trick question. If you are done eating, please raise your hands. Thank you for volunteering to help take notes."
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:10:17",
    "text": "6, and wait, Alright. We'll be starting in about 5 minutes. everybody can come in and get see if they can get their lunch."
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:13:47",
    "text": "Yeah."
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:14:13",
    "text": "card. Okay. You all hear me? Yes. Okay. Great. So we're gonna go ahead and get started. This is the working group chairs forum at IETF 117. Everybody has their lunch, Perhaps We close just a couple of those doors at the back just for noise. Thank you. get closer to the mic? Okay. Excellent. Excellent. Excellent. Excellent. Excellent. So with that, Welcome to the working group chairs forum at IETF 117. This is our note well, which you all have seen."
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:16:02",
    "text": "The next thing that I have is sort of some general admin note The one thing I would like as we're going through this is I think it would be useful to have a small working group converse working group chairs conversation at some point about what kinds of things we want to remind people I've I've seen working group chairs doing a better job and a worse job of this. And it would be kind of nice to have a couple things that we know maybe some suggested slides or suggested text this is in no way the best one I've seen, but it the one I have for today. So the first one is we will be doing draft minutes They will be in the online notes tool that's linked from data tracker. please do not be confused by the fact that it shows up as EODER and not as working group chairs. So our zoo up chat channel for this meeting is Eodor And our notes page is EODR because we are organized under EODR for data tracker. So Did you get volunteers? I heard you asking. Okay. So feel free to add a few things in there as we go. 2nd, please use the QTO. Everybody knows this, but this is part of my wondering of what we should put in general admin notes to our meetings when we're running them. Please be clear, concise, and respectful, and please act according to our IETF code of conduct. We have a pretty short, concise agenda today. which kind of got longer in the last few minutes. I'm gonna give a very brief update with Dhruv on the EODER. And then we have Greg talking about the onboarding kit, which you will have seen some traffic on on the working group chairs mailing list. And then we have a couple quick things on I didn't change the title to the slides you sent me, but we have visualizations and data tracker, a very short RFC series update from Pete. A very short conversation on next steps working group chairs forum, and then"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:18:00",
    "text": "open mic, any other business. So with that, I'll start. For those of you who were following this, the education, And the Imodir has been renamed to EODir, It's the education and outreach directorate. It did not change in any way, the scope of what we're trying to do. or the scale of what we're doing. All it did was address some concerns about the naming that was chosen previously. So as with these things and and a special thanks to Greg Wood, who did most of the work to get all of the various updates in place but it's it's it is now Eodor. And with that, I was gonna get Dhruv to talk a little bit in particular about the outreach Hello, everyone. So just an announcement, we have EODIR site meeting, which is on Friday morning, 8:30, in the side meeting room. There won't be any breakfast, so have breakfast and come. We'll have a conversation an update about how the newcomers program is working, some of our outreach coordination stuff as well as the working group chairs, training stuff, that's been happening. So bunch of updates and a quick conversation about what else EODR should be doing. So all are welcome. you in the side meeting. And the one thing I want to point out about this is that Eodor is primarily about coordinating efforts that other people are doing. And and Greg has been reinforcing that with Dhruv and I So what we're really looking for is activities that other people are doing that keep coordinated so that we're all on the same page. but it's not it's a it's a small theme. You're welcome to join, but it's not a long list things that we are doing ourselves So with that, Greg is gonna talk about working group chairs onboarding."
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:20:08",
    "text": "Okay. Let's go up. No. So I'll lean over. My name is Greg Wood. I'm with the ITFLC. I also on your door. You may have in this script, you may have run into me because I've organized training for working chairs over the last couple of years. so this is sort of in that same vein that that just as a And preview. What I'm looking for here is to repeat the request I made on the email list about what we might prepare to help new chairs or even long serving chairs have sort of a set of resources that they can refer to either get up to speed or to continue to work refer to as a handy reference when they're doing the work. I guess, next slide. Is that right? fantastic. So these are the questions that I asked on the list, and and I wanna thank everybody who responded I'm gonna run through my summary of the responses so far So as you read through that and this is this is my short summary, thinking about other things you want to suggest that we think about when we when when we do this or take next steps. Greg. Did you wanna put the mic back up? I put it down for me. I'm trying how did you do that? It one right there. know, that one. You No. The one is tough. You look Yeah. I don't know. I don't know how to work this Keep in your hands. Alright. You can always grab the mic and yes. Okay. Here we go. Rockstar. Okay. Next slide. Next slide, please. These are the questions."
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:22:03",
    "text": "Robert's gonna help. Thank thank you. Thank you, Robert. Thank you, Robert. this is sort of high level sort of the general responses, which is Yeah. So the number one by far is How should I use data tracker? What can data tracker do for me? And, actually, Robert and I have already started talking a little bit about these first two bullets. So oh, fantastic. I'm kinda liking this, though. Thank thank you very much. Yeah. I'm gonna still do this. Mick McJagger. Yeah. So you can see you can see the general bullet list of of responses. But the number one for sure was How can I use data tracker better? What can it do for me? So we're starting to work on that. Next slide, please. Yeah. This is just an in a in a little bit more detail. Thanks thanks for a lot. Yes. So we'll also consider consider those, but those are detailed questions that I that I think could have some pretty straightforward answers the answers might already exist somewhere. So just pulling these kinds of things together in one place maybe in a different way. might be good. How do you wanna handle the queue? Mary, do you wanna do you wanna jump in right away? I mean, I'm I'm I'm happy to You wanna talk about the how tos? quick ads. Clickout, I I have a only halfway related question. I was wondering like, actually, when I started as a chair, I would have enjoyed some onboarding, like, really actually have a session where I learn everything I need to learn and talk to other chairs and get some experience. So I know mandatory is a hard word because you cannot enforce it. But, like, how does a room feel about actually requiring some"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:24:01",
    "text": "mandatory onboarding session when you start as a new chair. That's that's a great question. So so maybe yeah, add that to the list of questions I ask again. I mean, I thought maybe we can take a Okay. I thought we don't do hums anymore because not friendly for remote participants, but -- If we don't adopt anything, it's just Yeah. The hand raising tool, which have to look for the chairs. But I think that's a great question. And and maybe something to consider is you know, how we have a new participants program maybe a new chairs program, which would have a lot of carrots attached to encourage participation. Carsten, you want to go? The most real world onboarding actually does not had it happen by being handed the company manual. but by legitimately participating activities of people who already are onboarded. So I think we need to find better ways to actually get people to join work of experience working group chairs, And So meet that echo is a nice nice example of preventing that because it has this really rigid permission system, so you cannot just pull in someone and say play working group share with me for for an hour so you'll learn all that. happles. And we need to be a little bit more accommodating of these these informal things that normally happen in real world, but not in our tools. Thanks. Thanks. Robert Sparks, if me to close listening, please Robert? So pay attention to the audio level for remote. We had a lot of ringing room from Carson speaking. I to Miria's point, mandatory training, I think would just be another barrier to make it that much harder to get ADs to recruit working group chairs, having a strong program that people would want to attend"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:26:00",
    "text": "and know, having people encourage them to attend it is great. having to check off. I set through my orientation session is don't think going to help us Yeah. Thanks, Robert. Pete Resnick. I I think expectations that chairs doable training as usual is a good thing, and I would hope ADs encourage it strongly. just to kind of express a concern about Carsten's point there are loads of chairs who do a great job and loads of chairs who don't do certain things well at all. we can all do with assorted to continuing training and continuing feedback. So having this stuff be not only an expectation for new chairs, but that old shares kind of contribute to this and participate in it so that certain things get through that maybe haven't gotten through over the years is probably a good thing. Yeah. it it could I'm happy to take I'd like to get through my slides because my my next slide the only picture in the whole deck, so I really wanna show that. This Oh, Drew turned red. Oh, sorry. Next slide, please. Oh, I just locked the queue. be fast. It'll be faster. it'll No. No. No. You you still got free people in the queue. Yeah. Yeah. Next slide, please. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. I wanna I wanna do slide. Yeah. Oh, okay. You you wanna do your slides before -- there we go. This is the other suggestion Evergreen. Right? Like, how how to be schoolhouse rock version for for working with Cheers. So thanks. gonna name names, but thank you for that suggestion too. Okay. Last slide. Yeah. Oh, sorry. 2nd last slide. No. No. next slide, and that'll be the last slide. to the next -- Next slide, please. Go Okay. Fantastic. Thank you."
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:28:00",
    "text": "we already have some good suggestions. Yeah. Hi. This is Dhruv. One thing which I would suggest which I really like was I was a secretary of the working group. And in some ways, that was a very excellent set up a training, right there. Another thing that my AD did was having 3 chairs for the time being so that with actually have the idea of the the chair who was supposed to leave or was part of the team for a while, for a month, And the whole explicit goal was, yes, you have to make sure that there is a clean transfer this thing. So which was also very smooth. Apart from that, I think this kind of group where we wanna learn from other chairs because sometimes what happens Working group gets sets in their own ways, and they are not really looking at what other working groups are doing. and what are the what's working somewhere else. So having this forum also is very important. Thank Yeah. I I I really like the idea of a of a of a cohort you. like, building the cohort of shared shared learning and shared experiences. I just very quickly wanted to clarify my word my use of the word mandatory. So I think there's a lot of things we can and should do, and, like, this is a very good starting point. The one thing I was proposing is really have, like, 1 or 2 hour session for new chairs and expect every chair to, like, at least go to that session. to get, like, the initial onboarding done. I think that would be, like, I would have really kept appreciated that as a new chair. I think that would be really useful. It doesn't have to be before you start your chairing. but, like, you know, in a whatever in the 1st year, whatever, whenever you can make a time. That was my proposal. So if you're chair curious, you can go to You can go to this session and find out more. You should. You should should go to the session. Yeah. I should. Not a must. Mallory? Yeah. Mallory, and it'll send over to Marcus with technology, but also the human rights protocol considerations research group chair, and that's relevant because we have a lot of newcomers to our sessions every single time."
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:30:04",
    "text": "And I've been thinking about even before you brought this up, this is great because I've my session is right after this, and I was thinking if we had time and the agenda to present an opportunity for the research group members to learn a little bit about our tool chain and GitHub. because I think our GitHub instance might predate the RFC about how to use GitHub, I don't know that we're fully client with that. We might have some quirks in the way that our GitHub is set up. And in general, I think we have to work with people who who we don't have a lot of drafts right now. And I think part of the reason is people are producing research, relevant to our group, but I don't think they I think they're intimidated by that's the tool chain and the data tracker and all that stuff. so I'm hoping to host or to propose to host maybe some training sessions that are more like q and a's for people that, yeah, they're, like, author Curious. And so I'm wondering if other people see that as a potential I mean, I think I'm doing it really bespoke for my for my research group, but think it's a good practice because also as a teacher, Teaching is sometimes the most instructive way to learn yourself. So know that I don't know everything about the data tracker, but I as a chair, but I I think also, like, toying with it and playing with it for the purposes of showing others might also help me more acquainted with it as well. Okay. So I I take your comment to for the in this context to mean that when we think about chairs, we should also think about not working with chairs, but also research group chair. Okay. Got it. Thank you. Any other questions or comments, Suhairs, you're going to the mic? But not going into the queue, You can go ahead, but in the future. So sometimes I would like to just -- -- two hairs?"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:32:01",
    "text": "Hi. My name is Sue Harris that we've said there a few times. I would sometimes like to just have 5 or 10 minutes to talk to Robert and the data tracker, t ask questions, as better format. Is that something It's not really an onboarding kit, but it's something you might find useful, I I would find useful as we you know, is this a really good idea? Could we put this in there? more of a dialogue than sending something over the to walk. To walk. Well, we're obviously in the room, but I know there is a code sprint usually on every Saturday preceding an IETF meeting. Is that what you had in mind? I felt really shy about going because they're in there and they're working hard and doing the really good stuff and don't wanna go in and sort of say, yeah. I got all these really I strange questions Yeah. I I I I feel the same way, but I still go in. And they're friendly. there. Darren Dukes. I'm a brand new chair as of this week. Hey, Darren. Yeah. Thanks very Yeah. much. Yeah. I'd love to get a a welcome package with some cookies. and a piece of paper that tells me here the things you need to do. or a 1 hour You know? new chair introduction session, that'd be great. Can you and I talk later? Awesome. Yeah. Thanks. Fantastic. Thank you. Colon. Hi. Colin Perkins. Remember to tick exceptional cookies? when you're doing it. So a a bunch of people have mentioned the you know, understanding the data tracker is being an issue, understanding what possible in the data tracker. I I would just like to remind people sandbox.itf.org. Yeah. Yeah. That's that's good. yeah, I think that's a good good part of the answer."
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:34:00",
    "text": "Donald. five words, tools team open office hours. Robert, So Robert Sparks, I was coming up to basically the same thing, but I also want to call out that do have a monthly tools team call that is on the upcoming meetings list. The agenda for that is open. There is usually a lot of time the end of it for anybody to participate with ideas, questions, whatever. So Right? Thank you. I'm not in a queue. I'm just about there. You'll see me pop up when I'm done talking. Sorry. So go ahead. Murray, current area director, and for people who are scared of going to the tools team. an area director. All my questions are also silly, so please don't be afraid of them. Can you Sarahbanks. I I tried to enter the queue. I don't know if I even did that right. I just wanted to plus 1 some of what Miriam was saying, It's my fir I feel like all day I've been walking around saying it's my first meeting in 4 years in person. So having been a chair for 10 years, I learned a boatload crap for my AD this morning running my group because I didn't know there weren't loose sheets, and you have to scan the the damn QR code now And there's no freaking jabber. It's Julip. Like, I I really like the idea of yes. having a place where you can go and have thoughtful training, what you're new or whether you need a refresh would be really, really helpful. Thank you. welcome. Thanks, Sarah. You're or connect. Jeffer. Jeffaz, I I gave a how to IATF talk to the routing engineers at certain large company on Friday since I was in town. And part of the discussion we eventually realized was that there's sort of a need for more flowchartee type tools"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:36:00",
    "text": "available. The data tracker sort of have been evolving that direction where you can see the history and you get a sense from the know, a certain front page. Here's the things that are in progress, but you don't always get a sense of what flow. Some of these things are. like, the author's site is good about sort of directing you down these things. if we took some of the common problem sets of things we deal with, it does a document move? go through the the process. All these sort of questions is our very straightforward workflow things that You could just literally have a you're here in this process. Here's your next set of steps. Here's who you talk to at each of these steps. Yeah. Good job. Thank you. I had I had one other thing I meant to say when I was Hi, Marie. When I when I'm back done being an AD and go back to working groups here. I intend to go through any kind of onboarding you've got because the whole working group chair view is not the same as the ISG view, I'm sure a bunch of stuff has been added or changed since the last time I chaired. which will by then, will have been at least 4 years ago, and I'm gonna want that. So, yes, having an onboarding pass Just like I would be great. Thanks. any other question? while Jerry is going to the mic, I just wanna say, One of my going in assumptions is that the kit would be useful. to that case as well. So not just brand new chairs, but chairs who would like updates to how tools are evolving and process and things like that. Alright. Well, I've consistently been outspoken about how good of an idea, I think, it is to have onboarding kids for both new participants and shares. So today, I just wanted to add to what everybody saying that, for example, I've been a chair for only, like, a year or something like this. And I wasn't even aware that there was the tools meeting that we could attend with questions. or that we could also bring the questions to, like, the sprint on Saturdays, for example. So then I that having a centralized place or content where we can get this type of pointers or reminders. Right? because, like,"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:38:02",
    "text": "maybe we hear about this, like, at the very beginning, and then we just forget. And then it becomes like it never really existed. Right? So having a centralized place for those will not only help people, like, ramp up properly. Right? Like, if it's a new chair, then they can start building, like, good habits you know, keep reminding themselves that there's these other resources available. But then at the same time, for other people that have been chairs for longer, or that need the reminder or whatever, then it will also help us with the quality of information that we can also provide to the members in our workgroups. Right? Like, if we are more aware of resources and practices, then we can along the relevant bits of information to the members in our in our workrooms. Right? Okay. Yeah. That's that's a good point. But and and two other quick points is I think I think of this of sharing as a skill, not a, like, a of information you understand, and then you just know it. You you you know, it helps to practice So and people have different levels of proficiency and different parts of it, so practice is always good. And the other part is that Chairs are definitely a key touch point, and we've heard this. key touch point for participants, especially new participants. So they should chairs should definitely be I think tears are initially seen in I think should be seen as a resource for participants Yeah. Yeah. Alright. Boris Steele. I just wanted to say thank you for the video series that was shared. the tutorials and training material found it really, really excellent. And I've shared it with, you know, some other folks who are experiencing similar issues in in other places. And so that was just really excellent work, and and appreciate the those resources a lot. I appreciate you coming to Mike. So thank you very much. We did work hard, and I I did not pay Ori. Jay Daley, ITya, Executive Director. We've put a fair bit of effort into wikis specifically for around particular groups of people."
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:40:01",
    "text": "and I'm hoping that most of you know that we have a a Wiki specifically for chairs. chairs.ietf.org. We're very happy to hear anything that you, you know, suggestions of missing content, new content. that sort of stuff. So I'm already taking away something here that we need a, you know, how to get support site page on there. four chairs so that you can understand different sections and different people to go to and those kind of things. But we you know, it's a it's an important tool, we think, and and we're probably just, like, 20% of the way into developing it to kind of thing that we think that you'd really need. Thanks. Thanks, Jake. Okay. Go ahead, Robert. Just one last comment. There was a strong tendency in the conversation to 0 in on the data tracker. I think especially at the beginning of trying to help Greg pull together what this onboarding team would look like. take a moment to explicitly exclude the data tracker from what you wish you knew or what would help you if you had because there is a lot of things like the list that Karen was talking about at the beginning on the best way you can do the verbal boilerplate at the front of a meeting. that should be called out. as something that we have built a good shared knowledge of. and there are other things like that. we need to date for them Yeah, I think there's important to have some best practices kind of thing. there was 2 observations, 2 things. 1, Greg, at the beginning of this there was a suggestion that we do a and then you said we don't do hums anymore. and it has been pointed out to me that we do do homes It's up it's just the working group the chair of the meeting. So if you want to do a home, we can. Yeah. No. You're"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:42:04",
    "text": "you're right. I I yeah. Sorry. But anyway, because this was a working group chose forum, it was it out that we don't want that piece of misinformation to propagate. So feel free to do hums if you want them. And the second thing that I wanted to point out in this this goes beyond like what what Robert is saying about, like, you know, how to use data tracker. I think the other thing that we need and and I've Occasionally, I I about posting this on the working group chairs mailing list, and then I don't. But think we also need to you know, cut the working group chairs a little bit of slack. think you can nicely point out that something hasn't been done, but then having 30 five people pile on and say, well, you haven't done this or you've done that wrong. is not helping with our overall tone of being nicer organization. So I would encourage us to use positive language when reminding people, a, that they haven't done things, or b, correcting them about how they have done So that that was if I I probably should've put myself in the queue to do that because that's, chair hat off. the thing that I never post on mailing list 1. it's sometimes gets to me. So -- Okay. Well, thank you very much. lot of really good input, and I really appreciate that. you'll see there's a sort of top priorities list. there. I'll be be capping week of pitching. Anyway, so you get another note on the working of chairs list just to sum up this input that we got here. Thank you very much, and feel free to send more. The the other thing while Greg is walking back to I think the one thing we have now in the last few years that we have not had before is resources from the LLC to develop the kind of training that we need to do. And I think in the past, we've always been asking for volunteers to do it. That's a really hard sale. It's hard to get people to do it, and now we We we just need to tell them the kind of training materials that we have and useful, they'll produce them for us. And as as Ora has already indicated, they did a really nice job with the working with chair training set. So with that,"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:44:00",
    "text": "We're gonna move to state diagrams, because I get the share slides. visualizing the idea. And I'd like to thank Jeffrey for setting me up here was not prenegotiating Next slide, please. I'm from the chair co chair of the the API working group. We have a lot of newcomers who come in with lots of API experience, but not a lot of IETF experience. And I wanted to be able to show those folks the path that their documents take through the working group and so that they would understand that working group. Last call is less like ordering beer at last call at a pub and more like last call for getting on a train to do a trans Canada trip. And so I want to show the state of those diagrams and progress through those states. So Next slide, please. there are tools in data tracker. And data tracker has some cool ones like the timeline that where you go my. We've been working on this for 2 years already. and they oh, look at all of those working group states, but you need to do some kind of mental arithmetic to be able to figure out what is the next step Next slide, please. So I use Mermaid to create these diagrams and I won't claim them to be precise, in the flow, and I've heard from folks that different working groups have slightly different flows and not all document travel through the same path But what we're trying to do here is capture the fact that, you know, you're gonna go through a draft, few drafts, get to working group last call, you're going to do more drafts. And you can be at the last step in this process, and there are going to be even more drafts. You're gonna get different groups of people giving you different pieces of feedback."
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:46:03",
    "text": "And on this diagram, we use both color and shapes. to indicate that the circle that is orange is showing where it currently is, and I've been updating these each time we have an IETF meeting, and the pink one added to show, well, this is where we were. at the last IETF meeting. So we get to see a little bit of progress here, and It's part of our GitHub page where I show the status of all of the drafts for our working group. But I create those by hand, and it's a bit annoying. Next slide, please. It requires some mermaid notation, and You have to kinda draw from going to point to point and little curly braces to make circles and class definitions to do the colors and it it it it is a little bit of manual work, and if there's any way we could automate this this would be really cool. Next slide, please. Sorry. Okay. From this, time around. I showed up a code sprint, and Robert was fantastic helping me getting set up. and showed me a little bit around the API, and I like APIs. So I started playing with those, and I'm saying, well, can we render these mermaid diagrams automatically from information that is in the API. and there is a repo, and it is very, very early because Of course, I can't start playing with an API until I have an open API description. So I'm getting through there, but I will continue to working on that. Next slide, please. But you can call that API very, very easy. It's great because there's no off. and you can get the information about a particular document and then you can grab that document ID Next slide, please. And with one more call, you can get the document history. which shows you the all of the revisions of the document and the states that that document has gone through in order to get that state. So you get"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:48:03",
    "text": "a list of document histories. Now Robert called out to me that careful because some older documents don't have this history. I'm looking at this for being able to update and give status on current documents. And so I believe with a little bit more effort I should be able to get these documents generating. How good we're gonna be able to get them and how complicated they're gonna end up being, remains to be seen, but I will continue the progress, and I will share on the working group chairr's mailing list when I have something that seems like it's working well. And so please feel free to reach out to me. if you are interested in this and you have any feedback. Hi, Colin Perkins. This looks awesome. I encourage you to do it. The only thing I I would caution is that the state machines are very different for the different streams. and the I RTF Street the I RTF state machine you take is very different to the IETF 1. So this is not gonna work for research groups without a significant restructuring So Okay. Research group chairs. Watch out. Yes. Your mileage may vary. Hey, Lucas. Pardon? I think this is great. You should just do it if I can help. great. If you even if there's feedback. So as an example, as both a a working group chair and an author on drafts. My I, like, operate a bit split brain, and, like, you forgetting the status of things and and what to do. And, like, you know, I'm I'm may maybe very focused on the drafts. I'm Shepherding or whatever in a working group, then I have a draft that was stuck in ISG for a year, and and it's progressed now. And I don't know what to do. I I need to chase somebody up. and and and If this could help, it'd be great. So Keep up the good work."
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:50:00",
    "text": "Jeff, I actually was familiar with your work by made my comments. So this is a wonderful thing for seeing where a work group's in progress, and that's certainly the case that you're working through. I was sort of more get generally getting to is if you're the newbie to IETF, Where is the way for you to sort of click your way through how, you know, IETF works? kinda makes the excellent point that the state machinery varies depending on what doing. So that's another example of just simply being able to say, here's how I'm where I'm at in the process. Here's where I wanna do things and big wish list curate territory. I don't have time to contribute code. It'd be nice if we actually as part of these things being in the bits of state do we know these documents are in some of these things, and some of these states are in the data tracker. I don't have a clean dashboard I can go to that says, This is all Jeff's fault. You know, these things are waiting on Jeff to actually move this thing to the next step. I gotta put pick on the AV dashboard as a different example know, that's great at sort of saying, Things have entered the state. It's been touched by a number of people. but it's not necessarily easy to see who's got the active token in the state need to bump things the next step. So all these things are about external visibility into how it should work. That's when flow that would be useful. The second one is where things actually are. This is wonderful for that. And the third thing is a little bit of reporting infrastructure to say, I'm at this stake right here. who is the next thing next person, next entity that has the token on this and be able to trace that through. Yeah. And, hopefully, if we can make progress on this and say, oh, yes. This is a viable thing to do. and we can build we were talking with Robert about being being able to render markdown diagrams in Sorry. mermaid diagrams that are in markdown, that are in the data tracker, then maybe there are all the scenarios that enable us that we can light up And I guess it it's worth with kind of workflow ish things. Yeah. pointing out, this is just a nice thing for visualization."
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:52:03",
    "text": "That's incredibly helpful as we're trying to walk people through things. to some extent, my desire is that the state machinery about how these things are actually component that we're working on less the visualization. k. Ravi. So Robert Sparks, I heard buried in what you were discussing a request for a working group chair dashboard, and this is something has been brought up and we're brainstorming on what something like that might look like. I have seen several attempts in the past to do the generic. These are the state machines and all those possible transitions and the state machines. And not just between the different streams, as Colin pointed out, But but just within the IATS stream, groups get to decided not to use some states. They get to decide to never use the transitions, plain. can the data tracker will allow them And it's not process violation. to make some hops that are not transitions that are listed and have those state machines describe themselves. I don't Know if it is feasible without a lot of restructuring effort to create a walk up to the thing and visualize how the state machine works in a general fashion. The approach that he's taking that is, you know, here is something that's going through a concrete set of steps. here's the next thing. I think that's very achievable in a in a short time. So or Corey Steele. I I love it. I've written, like, at least 2 or 3, like, mermaid compiler like things now. And I guess the one thing I would say is that, like,"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:54:00",
    "text": "There's a lot of built in support from Mermaid and other systems. So in case you don't know, you can embed Mermaid markdown and GitHub issues as a way of visually expressing an idea that you're having really useful for that. There's a live editor tools that will kind of You can do side by side coding. so you go through it. So if you're trying to to use Mermaid to communicate concepts with your working group back and forth and issues. It's great for that, and I'm happy to help. Bob. Bob. get this to the point where just a drop in render for any of the pages. We'll talk to you. Thank you. Okay, so we have 6 minutes left, next takes Pete, That's right. Pete Resnick. And here in my role as co RSWG coach error. only because Rich said, hey. We haven't heard about that. Tell them what's going on, and so I figured I'd come up for 30 seconds and do a a short thing. If you don't know RFC 9280, set up the new structures for the RFC series and the new entities. And so there is RFC series working group, which is what I co chair. There is an RFC series approval board, and then other pieces and that you can take a look in there the keen, feature here is that the RFC series working group publishes in the editorial stream Did you know that there was yet another stream of documents policies for the RFC editor. for the RC series. And so we are currently working on things like gathering together the one true and final a mill vocabulary into a document. We are talking about you know, different high level policy things about what constitutes a stable document and etcetera and so forth."
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:56:01",
    "text": "Nothing much of great excitement I'd like to keep it that way. But if you are interested in such stuff, please feel free to approach me or read RFC 9280, and happy to chat about these things. I was asked to do this 20 minutes ago. So no slide and no prepared stuff. got any questions? Anybody know where to find me. Okay. Do you wanna go ahead and do your any other business now? You Yeah. That'd be perfect. And then I'll go Changing hats. Oh, Marriott, please. Sorry. I'm Yeah. Yeah. I actually I think maybe let's see if you did agree with me, but I think it would be nice to have more people coming to the group. It would be nice to have a few more upcoming -- It's it's a boring process stuff. But at the end, we are all using these RFCs. So, like, I know you all have an opinion. we really need more input. So someone did a quick review of the couple of hundred people that are on the RFC interest list, which is sort of the general discussion you know, people who are interested in the RFC series and the 40 something people who are in is WG. So If you wanna join in the discussion, please do. I certainly don't want to discourage that. policy. Robert. Yeah. Well, this is Robert Sparks. I'll just amplify. You know, if you don't want to live in can only publish your RFCs as a document full spaces and tabs. He better come participate. Alright. Switching hats, This is just a helpful hint from the Ombudsman's team to the working group chairs and it's one that you will a couple of you will probably go oh, crap. Yeah. I do that. Sorry. and I want to preface this by"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:58:03",
    "text": "I understand it is coming from a well intentioned place. I have been in a working group session or 2, and others have where chairs are doing the and things that you have to do. And And we've been doing a really good job in this working group and haven't had any problems, but we're gonna show them to you, and please make sure to continue doing that, which sounds very sweet on the surface. but I wanna remind you all that The Ombudsman's team process is completely confidential. you may have had serious problems in your working group that you don't know about. And even if it's not something that's come to the Ombudsman's team, there may have been serious issues in your working group that you don't know about and if one of the people who had one of those serious issues is in then meeting, they're gonna hear that and feel kinda crapped upon. please don't say things like that. I know it's well intentioned. I know you're just saying, hey. We're we're really trying here. and that's good. But don't say everything is wonderful because it might not be, and it to be a little upsetting to people who've really gotten the short end of the stick. Thanks. That's it. Okay, so now we have one minute, the Next item that I had put on the agenda was next steps for working group chairs forum. I I've had a conversation with a few different people on this and I think what we'll do is just anybody is interested in following up, please come talk to us. But I think we need to formalize this group a little bit more, and bit. have get more energy behind our plan for training, and put a small charterer around it I don't know exactly what that's going to look like. Obviously, others would be involved in that conversation."
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:00:04",
    "text": "but if you are interested in helping to organize this group or to chair it or to come up with topics that would really helpful. And so please come forward. And now we are at time. So first of all, Uh-huh. in the interest of being nice. Thank all of you for being working group chairs. There's a lot of work there that a lot of you do that you might not get thanked for very often. And second of all, please exit the room and take your garbage with you. make it clean for the next group coming"
  }
]
