[
  {
    "startTime": "00:00:05",
    "text": "the okay yeah Roy was suggesting to push the feast discussion to the second part of the meeting because of uh um late arrivals that sounds good so we have um we have a an actual agenda um which there you go I've just popped in the hedg um to make sure we get our um hackers on and 118 state in order so that will be a good thing to do in the first half and then we can get the um there there's been a lot of activity in the PRS and I'm very hopeful that um the editors and and collaborators can get that thing push through so yeah putting that in the second half sounds good to me thanks John yeah it's very good to see the activity on the uh with the BS so looks like making uh we are making progress there so I will not personally be at 118 this time um sing Cedric and hopefully antoan to go thanks so you can't make it no I'm going to be in Hawaii you know Hawaii or prog wins okay yeah it could be that could be worse right yes you're right it could be worse we playing over here I'm not buying good morning Steve good morning fiddle player"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:02:01",
    "text": "you seem to time Hawaii regularly here I wonder [Laughter] why my wife does not like the gray well yeah there is that so I had to come to shalan this weekend Steve some updated the the router here and reset my Wi-Fi so it had no passwords on it somebody's hacking you yeah well see the squirrels running around the the the lake it's the marmots come on it's [Laughter] marmots the number of devices I had to go and reset Wi-Fi on is was just like wow yeah guys it's two minutes past the hour should we get started yes please okay I will I will take notes I also realized that um we have to we we took notes of past meetings but we didn't click the button to upload them uh to the website and so I'm going to do that uh like while we are talking thank youis we'll miss you yes should we do a note of recognition and thank you for H us here or I'm Not Dead uh I'm just uh oh gosh oh that was awesome"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:04:00",
    "text": "that was perfect H yeah great okay so um yeah now four minutes passed um so from the agenda top item for this week um and next which I think is our last interim uh if I yeah if I have the the order correct um is being ready for 118 uh there are two main things um that I think we need to consider one is U the hackathon um which I'm usually kind of obsessed with but there's also um document submission deadlines uh to think about so we need to make sure that um anything that's getting closed up um which I think would be use cases Scrappy and the architecture um those will need to be um in a fit state for submission in the next I think 10 days or so is that right hnis next Monday next Monday so it's next next seven days right great yep um so yeah it will be really important to talk about the PRS that are up um agree to merge the ones that we agree with which hopefully will be the same as the ones that um the collaborators have been collaborating on um and then and then get the thing submitted uh is there anything else um before we start talking about the hackathon is there anything else that um people think is important to prepare for um for 118 I'll take that as a no great so um there is one uh obviously we need to ask for centers uh so we have to sort"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:06:02",
    "text": "this out like it's kind of obvious on what documents we would be talking about but but at least uh the group should make up or specifically the Au should make up their mind on uh who wants to talk about what issues the intersection of spice into this somebody has to do a a little bit of binding between the two of [Music] them uh what do you mean by there's a proposal for a bof for spice isn't there there is a proposal for bof which I'm going to co-chair yep right so somebody in the skit group should at least do a 10-minute intersection of how that applies to skit on that working group okay it's just a suggestion okay good and the other thing to probably intersect is the epoch work that Hank had done how that intersects as well yeah I'm actually not aware of what Hank has done what so what did you Hank what did you do some this s b hi this is Hank um Epoch marker are a um way to indicate uh yeah Epoch or the new ages of freshness in the security domain that time tick effectively one of them there have different payloads and one of them could be a science time stamp like a time stamp token acquired from a TSA TSA are is like I don't know old and we are"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:08:02",
    "text": "redoing that payload with seore and like they're like yeah you could do a signed Tim stamp from a uh secure clock that is endorsed or other things to announce your Epoch in your um domain so it's basically a um a like a Time St but it's effec effectively a tick for freshness whenever you have uh freshes inter and things go stale over time like in remote ad station and after the fact you want to prove that sometimes s that it was freshed once upon a time using Epoch marker and that would be a content of a skit statement in a nutsh okay thanks Hank okay so while while Hannis is typing up that one um any more inputs feels like um we we'll obviously go out to the mailing list and and and ask but um it feels like some potential r update cozy update um is is important unless people actually disagree no I think it's perfectly valid cool so the other other topic was still out there that we kind of pushed was endorsements but we have to decide whether let that slide or whether we have to pick it up again and well yeah um endorsements in in exactly what sense Roy because it's a"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:10:01",
    "text": "a very overused word so in the case of we already have ssdf claims and evidence for the EO for software supply chain but most customers and and and larger groups want an auditor to review that and generate just a simple endorsement um this is gets to where the US government wants to move away from self attestation self signing of materal they want to be able to also do their own endorsement capabilities which aren't necessarily tied to evidence and we've talked about that um in the past but we just parked it for a long time like I don't expect customers or end users and dick has gone around many times with this they don't want to see 200 pieces of evidence and make their own decision they're looking for somebody to simplify it down and make a statement and that's where endorsements came in and we thought they would be fairly generic across multiple U cases so they were worthwhile having in this Charter yeah I I I would agree with that I mean maybe maybe there's a um room for this being the next area of focus or at least having some candidates for the next are of focus because we couldn't really move past the individual statements um with the state of the document as it was last time but if we get over that hump y with with whole request reviewing today then we can start getting back into those um you more practical questions so sounds sounds sounds very plausible as a next thing to do yeah if we are into next maybe endorsements and the related topic of registration policies yeah yeah so uh still in term of thinking"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:12:01",
    "text": "with other teams are we planning to do something with uh a key transparency or just uh see where they are in their session what was that Cedric sorry so I'm wondering if we need to prepare something for in relation to key transparency understand what they do maybe try to synchronize more explicitly with them yes I that was an open issue at the last working group I think Orie stood up there and took the the arrows and the and the and the mud and the stones yeah or or's got his hand up to tell us how how good or bad that that experience was Sur or go Ahad it seems like it went well key transparency has a working group I'm now one of the co-chairs of it I'll make sure to align whatever it is that you know we need to know about it uh in skit but I think for now we don't need to do anything and we can just uh let them continue to work on what they're working on and we can focus on working what we're working on and I don't I don't think there's any need to go out of our way to attempt to align them at this point okay that's nice anding better thanks I think or is trying to say bruises are still healing from the last time so they they do have a buff at the at 118 height no I think it's formed as a working group already it's pass above state but uh I think when it was when the agenda was prepared it was still in a in a Buff State I see okay thanks"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:14:05",
    "text": "yoges yeah I I just wanted to ask like um they are doing remarkably similar work what we did so was there any discussion Ori about them coming on board with us on skit and announcing the skit specification rather than having two sitting two parallel specs we roughly talking about the same kind of language and same kind of objectives that's what it is um it looks U remarkably similar but um it is not in in two aspects uh one aspect is the uh the different privacy aspects uh that they want to consider their design U which requires an additional sort of variant of a metal tree uh and then the the other aspect is um which we are not using and the other aspect is in the terms of what type of information goes in there um at least my understanding is that they are very much focused on a a username to public key binding and and or I'm sure you will correct me if I'm wrong but uh that Al like these two factors make it uh different to what we are doing maybe I'm may have to read this again but I thought that they just talking about some data metadata to be put in the transparency service and that data is some credentials right so why can't we just absorb their spec and say we can do it this way putting the credentials as one example the become one example of our"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:16:01",
    "text": "architecture so this H sorry for skipping the line here but this has to be seen how how useful it is so the interoperability scope of uh of key trends is Down To None I think there's no expectation that uh key trends Works outside a given solution so I want to give this words and please uh don't listen to my marketing so if a messenger a has has a billion users and messenger B has 200 million users it is expected for key trends to work for these Messengers and not between these messages it could but the expectation I think is low Ori has his hand up maybe he wants to add yeah so I mean this has all been discussed on the mailing lists um basically what Hank said they have a different uh mental model and different interoperability constraints and they're not compatible with the approach that skid is taking and we're taking a we're we're gonna work with seore we're going to work with cozy we have opinionation they don't have that so they're they're not compatible with us in that context at the like raw cryptographic layer kind of abstract sort of conceptual layers there's you know alignment there but but in terms of work that you could do in standardization writing documents building on cozy there isn't opportunity for alignment right now that might change in the future but it's been discussed on the list so you you can review the you can review the commentary on the list to see like why okay thanks has hands up as well uh yeah it sounds like uh I believe from what I"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:18:00",
    "text": "heard on on this uh Hank is probably um expressing my view that it's going to be it it it would probably be very counterproductive for us to to try to um get uh and to make that within skit um because it's it's going to subvert our attention from from kind of the main use case that we have uh in our eyes um because they're they're such a big big monster so I I would I would try to avoid it I think the way it's heading now is right I I I wanted to um say this other thing um I didn't want to change the subject but I am been meaning to work on this for a while I hopefully right after today I'll be able to have some time I won't be able to go to 18 because I have uh some some uh competition with other events and um and and since but I do think we're going to need this this little bit higher level of um as I've said before um API that will be suitable for um people to kind of dig their teeth into I think it will kind of answer a lot of the things that people are now trying to shovel into feed and and and parameters in the header um that they are worried that gee there's not going to be much um there there's not going to be much Harmony in how people are using these and so it's this going to be a big mess yeah that'd be true if if we don't have this upper upper level of specification to say here's how you use these parameters um and so I I've been kind of waiting to to see um what happens with feed but and and to kind of understand"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:20:02",
    "text": "the architecture better but I think I'm I'm going to be have some time and be ready but I'm not going to be able to go to the meeting to really do it so but I I'll prepare at least uh one document on the subject thanks okay dick you're next in the C uh yes thank you John so I just want to uh chime in and say that I agree with uh Reay 100% that we that the API is going to be a critical success factor especially with regard to Consumer adoption I I know I've used the analogy uh you know trust registry using the registry of deeds as an example uh I think this is uh this is this API is going to be as I've said a critical success factor that we could put more attention to thanks uh John are you going to tell us something about the hackaton uh targets or plans um well I want to um have a a similar discussion I think we found um a lot of a lot of things here so uh the the natural thing um that we discussed coming out of 17 um including when there was this um PR that uh AI put up ages ago which was thoughts coming out of 117 thing has been merged now um was to"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:22:01",
    "text": "concentrate on getting the identification and um fetching of uh statement receipts out of a usable API so just sort of marrying together some of the stuff that that Ray and Dick most recently said about needing the API to be functional and fit for use cases um we were looking at can we work out how to put an identifier into the artifact that's a bad word into the data elements that are flowing in and out of skit components such that they're useful to things like the fda's use case from last time um or some suitable other software tracing use case that that we care to come up with so um essentially adding a concrete model of um feeds and systematizing um things built on top of skit building blocks was was the Target and I'm perfectly happy for that to remain the target um but equally you know if other people have other things they would like to do um such as we've had John Anderson put in um a number of a number of things but in particular we've got this um authentication on the front end so if people would prefer to see how authentication um is compatible with this sort of open transparency model uh that would also be a good thing to do um or or any other thoughts so my my plan is Implement Scrappy on more than one implementation um that's what I think I will personally work on um and I I do that mostly because of course I don't edit the spec but I like to make sure it actually works um but if if other people have other targets they'd like to do which bring forward this idea of either"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:24:00",
    "text": "Epoch or registration policies or endorsements um obviously we can we can entertain all those so um AI yeah I think um implementing the apis is a really good idea um writing tests around that implementing it adjusting the interfaces maybe even exploring you know QR codes or data uis or sort of other uh sort of tangential pieces to tangential pieces to a functioning a that could all be great work one of the things that I I wanted to work on at the hackathon was uh juston was uh just command line sort of experiences so some command line tool hacking um to visualize the uh conceptual messages the envelopes um that kind of thing um um John Anderson had also worked on sort of policy pieces and and other kind of command line argument details that I thought was interesting um so yeah those are just ideas for the hackathon but I'm I really wanted to focus on um just command line tooling this this hackathon and part of that could be command line tooling that supports the scrappy API like that that would be a a great thing to work on up next hi uh this is Charlie uh one thing that would be good to do I think at some point not sure if 118 is the right time but uh kind of run through the various uh user functions that need to be uh need to be defined for an implementation"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:26:00",
    "text": "you know for example uh enter a statement uh notarize a statement um you know uh retrieve uh trustworthiness information uh it's Etc uh I think that would really be helpful in visualizing the tools that we're going to need in the back end uh API is going to be Central but you know what apis what are they going to do and um you know I guess looking forward to a practical implementation of this and adoption how am I as an unsophisticated user I feel like in this group I am kind of unsophisticated but I think there's going to be a lot less sophisticated people than me even uh trying to implement this thing need to think about that practical aspect of uh you know what are the steps in performing each of these functions it might be more of a tabletop exercise than a an actual hackathon but I think it would be very valuable great are are you going to be there and have time at at this point unfortunately I'm not going to be there I got some other commitments that I have to do but uh maybe next time put on list yeah I I asked because I'll I'll just put as a thought to the group that is a really important useful thing to do um to have the sort of activity diagrams um for for how the thing actually is intended to hang together um so if if we managed to get that done Jo in the hackathon of course that would also be a really useful thing to present in in the meeting so yeah great great idea yeah y thanks uh dick then Hank Okay uh thank you John so yeah I agree with uh I agree with what Charlie's saying I think uh it goes back to the whole point about U we need to we me you need to make this practical uh if"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:28:00",
    "text": "this is not something that is of practical value to people then adoption will be slim or or at least slow at at the very best so uh I I put a little example in the chat just to show you uh what what what we we do with regard to labeling that's that might be a good example of an API call that uses a QR code to retrieve information uh so you can easily imagine that data coming out of a skit registry but but again I I want to go back to the point about referring to the registry of deeds model I I think is a good one because it represents the kind of interactions that we might anticipate here where a party who's authorized to put something into a registry uh submits that and a party who's interested in reviewing information in the registry has access to it uh using the API so I I think it's a really good model that we may want to give more consideration to thank you yeah hi this is saying just to the previous comment that the next ITF attendance might be easier I just want to highlight it's in brisban Australia so everybody who might think that prog is far away um yeah just that um so who do we actually have in BR so I saw uh from the chat window Orie is there John is there uh Steve will be there um who a yoges I believe uh mentioned that he will be there yes for the two days I will be there Saturday and oh you're not there for the week for Monday we'll be attending online from here yeah uh yoges are you planning to"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:30:03",
    "text": "uh hack something with us in the in the skit group I can help Lear a helping hand I will be 50% with skit and 50% with rats so okay yeah you can add rats to skit uh that's a good one actually yeah who who Hank you would be there right at the hackaton I mean yes of course I will be on site I will be arriving for the thing to thing research group meeting already oh when is that Friday oh before the eathan oops Friday okay one day announce on the t2 RG list okay so definitely there R is on Wednesday Co is on Tuesday skit is on Monday so uh Steve I think he wanted yeah just yeah for the hackathon one of the things you know you guys were all talking about the ability to kind of validate some of the designs by hacking at apis and command lines and so forth and Ori and I been bantering about about this as well of just how can we make um some more updated progress we have the skit API emulator out there um but it's gotten a little stale uh ory's gotten some really great examples with skid XYZ uh so if we can I'd love to see if we can get some concentrated effort on an update to the current versions of the specs and testing if we like it"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:32:01",
    "text": "translating from markdown to code so it be might be a an area of the hackathon to update what we want to do as an API emulator whether it's updating the existing one or replacing it with something else either way it'd be really good to have an implementation update and if anybody if who's interested would be great to know and we can see if we can facilitate that cool thanks Steve so I I'll put myself off the que um yeah so just um I I'm I'm interested and I think as as others have said having that thing actually running is is really crucial so um definitely there there will be some activity on uh running apis you know rough consensus and running code and and all of that um the thing I actually put my hand up for was to recognize as um Hank just mentioned uh that we are early on Monday uh and so to anybody interested and and helpful enough to do a session um uh a section of of presenting um we need to get that done during the hackathon which is a bit of a shame um I guess we can get it done before theck on as well um but we're on Monday morning um so material needs to be in um sort of Sunday night really just for planning purposes thanks AJ what Steve was talking about I willing to pitch in whatever however I'm coming for the hackathon and the week following and um since I'm kind of newer to the group I don't know if I have expert level awareness or understanding"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:34:02",
    "text": "but if uh we need people to pitch in to be ready first thing bright ey and bushy tailed or some other metaphor on Monday I will pitch in as I need it once boots are on the ground and we all meet you all can tell me where I can be most useful I'm down to help however you need that's it that's wonderful thank you okay so looks like oh no not quite um we're halfway through so I want to move on to the PRS but um dick if you have a last word about the uh th go ahead I just had a question U John so AJ who who you affiliated with I'm not familiar with your name we're all individuals right I work for the National Institute of Standards and technology in the computer security division of the it lab but people follow at itl I'm probably the only person to say it lab in the history of the orc you actually know you know ha because he was at the uh at the hackaton last time as well you may just not remember yeah I don't know if dick was there but I was I he not imp person but I was there in San Francisco at 117 that is correct I'm new yeah I remember you now it's Alex right I remember talking to you about oscal way in the way in back future back there yes you do remember I don't bring that up I do you do remember thank thank you Alex yeah you guys are doing great work keep it up over there good job thanks okay great um thanks so um that looks like pretty solid consensus um say I'll put out a message on the mailing list after this to appeal for"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:36:02",
    "text": "other volunteers and whatever but write up um what looks like going to be a a running code kind of hackathon which is great um so like to move on to the PRS now and see if we can get some um some approval to to do things uh because there's been a lot of activity um who who's been working on on these things um wants to show I think 111 is is is the current state of the art but I wouldn't want to put words into people's mouths Hank do you know I don't want to say I know is my mic working yes yeah yeah wonderful because my voice indicator does not work so I can't see if it's working okay um my big item is not NE PR just a second we have to decide on what to pull into submission for next version today actually that's all I'm saying um we have some pretty controversial groundbreaking proposal to discuss and we should have at least some indication what's in what's out for this submission so keeping that in mind I want to uh go through PRS actually really quick right now yeah yeah good and and my well let me um if you keep taking notes Hannis I'm going to share the tab yeah for what it Wass actually I I reviewed uh Steve's SP where he fixes some of the editoral aspect the crown fixes uh so that's for me at low hanging fruit but one that actually makes the um cleans up the brittleness of the document yeah so um so we got the cram down format"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:38:01",
    "text": "fixes uh which has been endorsed but not approved um I'm going to run very quickly if Steve or Hannis as you've read these if you want to pick on very specific things please do but otherwise as you can see in my screen share the differences are um you know technical just making the bullets work correctly um these are the same words um as you can see because it's not dark green still light green so it's the same words just fixing line lengths um fixing tab stops in the diagram um yeah so any any concerns on accepting this one into the submission so I just added a uh sorry oh hanks's approved it there we go that's awesome yeah yeah yeah yeah like sneakily yes so so regarding the previous one uh one uh 11 oh well let's hang on I want to do the simple ones first okay go okay good good please go ahead we're g to do we'll do all of said don't worry but um okay sorry I was confused please go ahead no wores okay so looks like the cram down one is is is good it's been approved um so let's get that in for the submission next Monday um then I think so yeah stay in the queue Cedric because I think we are now uh in a position where we've got four PRS all trying to do the same thing um so Steve ory anyone else who knows is it the case that 11 here kind"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:40:01",
    "text": "of supersedes the other three I believe it kind of incorporates mine even though mine was approved I think um it's been superseded um so yeah are we are we good to abandon the other three and just review 111 or do we need to potentially cherry pick uh I I see 111 and 104 has two alternative so I think we need to discuss them together okay I know we fix it or we remove it but it's it's clear your choice there yes just one of four sorry great okay um so what order is is more useful to to discuss in think we should discuss one of four and see if there is a consensus then it will it has an impact on one 111 and potentially others yes so what I will propose maybe is that uh I think when uh 11 makes complete sense if we keep feed so if we do keep feed then changing to BST I think is is a local Improvement so at least I I to me it looks less controversial which leaves the main decision of whether we keep feed or remove them I me um what are you suggesting uh it wasn't quite clear regarding 104 yeah let me try to speak to this um I think there's I I've been trying to follow this pretty closely but not not in in the last little bit but the uh essentially I was hearing a lot first of all the the concept of feed I don't think is obvious to people when they um"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:42:03",
    "text": "first get to skit what was meant by it in the first um you know part of the draft uh the the idea that that feed is is a product name or a uh a collection or a um reference to a product um isn't usually what I think of as as feed and I I I don't uh I don't think that it it's appropriate for a submit submitter to skit to define the feat uh that that is a a way of grouping statements that would be appropriate for viewers I believe that the submitters to skit should provide only um uh sort of um you know immutable um references like like uh attributes of the of the actual submission now if if you want to call feed the current thing like in in 1111 uh it was saying well we're just going to have feed be a collection of attributes that are describing the the artifact and then that um is fine but I don't think the word feed represents uh what that is uh on the other hand what I think of as feed is a a more less immutable if you will uh way of grouping things together that are at the whim of people that are trying to view this thing and they may want to group things together in some other way and based on the attributes of the artifacts that may not be apparent to the submitter when they put them in and so I I think it's hard for a B submitter I guess should say the word issuer so when the issuer first creates these entries into"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:44:02",
    "text": "skit I believe the only thing that they should be defining is is attributes of the artifact or the thing that they're talking about and not necessarily trying to talk about well I guess they could talk about other other entries in skit if if they they want to try to to group them together and say this is this is now a feed but that would be a separate kind of a thing than than than just submitting an artifact and so so I think there is a difference between what you would want to do with the way feed was first um and I'll try to stop because I can tell that I'm I'm not being as concise as I'd like to but the the bottom line for me is that what when the issuer submits things into skit it should be mutable art uh it should be immutable information about the artifact itself and not trying to set up how people will view it later and then that can be done at a higher level thank you uh yes so uh so I agree with uh what re said but I think it applies equally to registration info and and to feed and I think both feed and registration info provide additional information set by the iser and that may be relevant for grouping or more generally to the transparency service and so the I would suggest we focus the discussion on whether we want to separate the feed from the the registration info or whether we are okay with people putting the feed or whatever else they want uh to interpret in the registration info so that you don't need a distinguished top level header for for fi as opposed to"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:46:02",
    "text": "the rest of registration info um I think that's the core of the argument for removing feed not that we don't need all use cases but that we we cannot agree on their interpretation and so leaving that to be defined inside of registration info until we reach a consensus is the right way to make progress so I think that's the main argument for adopting one of if we if we do not I think as I said a smaller question which is probably also some something easier to agree on would be to to turn the uh the data type from tstr to bstr which I think is is a fine local change but of course if we get rid of it it doesn't matter anymore uh yogish uh I I was just first I wanted to ask but maybe this question is slightly off topic now because uh can't we keep both beast and text both with the type choice in cddl facility with and a code point but before that I mean the fundamental problem is unless we Define clearly what is the scope of the feed like what exactly is supposed to do in the spec what is its right function how it is supposed to operate unless we are we have a consensus on that uh do you want to keep it in in an ambiguous state is my question to all of the other editors because we still not have kind of everybody has everybody is not on the same page as to what what is the scope and the purpose of skit uh feed so I would put in that way yeah"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:48:00",
    "text": "thanks thanks San so I commented a little bit on on 104 and to me this discussion seems to be uh slightly missing what I'm hope is the actual thing that needs to be discussed which is a signed statement needs to indicate immutably to raise point that it that that it's this is actually a statement from the issuer the purpose of that signed statement if we're relying on the details of that signed statement such that such that we can infer the purpose I think we're really uh missing out here right that creates lots of confusion attacks that it misses out on a core part of the transparency guarantee so we must have and and I don't see anyway around this no one has articulated anyway around this we must have a purpose in the sign statement and it has to go in the header right it can't go in the payload because every single sign statement must have a purpose so feed as a name uh of course we can change any name I don't mind that but the purpose of a feed is to make certain that a sequence of statements on the same topic I.E on the same for the same purpose shares a similar value so that you can understand as an issuer the sequence of statements you've made for purpose and as a consumer the sequence of statements that an issuer has made for that purpose for example if we have an issuer A that needs to uh make a statement about uh some topic if they need to make statements about other topics effectively if you do not have a purpose in there you must create a new issuer and now you have all kinds of confusion about identity and issuers and issuers for purpose and all this Stu so I really haven't heard anything that replaces feed I've heard people saying that they don't are aren't sure what they would use it for that's fine maybe they only have one feed for their particular use case but I've certainly"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:50:01",
    "text": "articulated a bunch of use cases on 104 where a purpose is strictly required so I'm a little bit missing the core of the discussion here which is if we don't want to call it feed that's fine maybe that's just maybe that's the whole sum of it but if not how do people propose distinguishing the purpose of assigned statement now to Cedric's point if we want to move it into a different location I really mind I don't care what it's named or where it is but we we must have something that distinguishes the purpose of the statement thanks than very clear Steve yeah I kind of agree with what um s is referring to is we need some way to correlate a collection of statements around a thing that the issuer released made a statement about and the the main argument I heard was uh there's interpreting a string which is why we you know why made the pr around converting it to a b string and it's literally that's it's a one character change so that we can have a way to correlate objects I do think we should clarify it but I don't I feel losing it will put us back and will leave a gap so that's why I made the move of the proposal to convert to a b string continue to focus on how we could clarify the definition I think the definition is actually pretty good and John went a step further if we later want to turn it into the name topic that's a conversation uh to orie's point you can put a sub in the Bing and that's what making it a b string makes it so this way you can use a sub you can use something else but you're not tied to a spec the issue is not tied to a specific one so that was it thanks okay well I I would like to just"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:52:03",
    "text": "fill in couple things here the yes I think the thing should be named something else but uh apart from that the we have reg info which is a collection of name value pairs whatever you want to put in there that can have additional structure to say all right well we have a purpose defined we have a product defined we have have uh a lot of things that are defined in a standard way so that people can take a look at that information in there uh and we really only need one of those collections uh we need we need a collection of things that describes the the attribute in the protected header and that is not in the artifact that is absolutely clear um it needs to be at least one thing and the reality is that most of these systems that are that if you just look around and you look at content Management systems that Ma manage a whole bunch of documents or whatever they have a whole slew of of you know standard um descriptors that will that will help them manage the whole thing trying to put that into one and say okay we're going to have this one field we already started to build some structure in there I think and that's why I think that doesn't hurt for it to go away I think it's confusing to have it and and just say all the attributes go into the regge info that'd be fine with me and then we can say all right here is the number one thing that we're going to say which is product name or subject or whatever it is for products uh and if that makes sense for this line of this use case which is product it may be you know name of the of the software package with version number sver and so forth a few things that have to be in described if you're going to try to put that into one string then you're going to have to build in some syntax in there URL stuff"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:54:00",
    "text": "or something else or now B string um so I think having two having two structured descriptors is too much just have one and then we can work on what goes in there thank you next uh thank you you yeah I I agree with this concept of having a a purpose you need you need something like that I know I know from our own operations with our own trust registry we have a concept of a declaration type so when someone submits a statement into our trust registry it has to be identified with a specific declaration type so could be an sbom so that's a declaration type but there has to be some some understanding of what the statement represents or what it is and that speaks to the concept I think that was mentioned earlier by silin with regard to purpose so I completely agree we need to have a purpose expressed yeah I I kind of like to I'm not against uh that concept and I also agree only thing is I think I like the way um Reay put it the way we should keep it at the level of key values which let the the issuer has the flexibility of how it wants to organize this um um whatever you want to call it topic or something we don't want to kind of rigidly closed it in a way which which kind of restrict somebody to do it this way or that way if you restrict it in a specific syntax then we need to describe"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:56:02",
    "text": "how you want to you want to describe in detail what precise meaning of that but if you want to keep it more towards the issuers decision making how it wants to identify a group of statement within made by itself then we need to be keep it a bit more abstract in the Regin for as a named key value pair with uh some way to atric it here that's what I would say thank you I think I want to say that what silvan's proposing is slightly different than everybody El was was talking about where people were talking about product and feed discriminator per product this is more along the lines of key usage and discriminating based on the usage of the the signature not the product or anything else and I kind of lost that in in some of the other comments so far I don't want to lose what s's referring to I'll hand it over to S at this point literally what I was gonna say so Roy's way ahead of me h a feed is not a product and certainly doesn't have anything to do with rantic versioning or product names or anything like that a feed is indeed an issuer statement about the purpose of the signed of the signed statement and you may have additional information in the payload or possibly in registration info that's although I want to be careful there that's not just a key value bag and I think we should be quite careful of thinking of it as such your payload is arbitrary but your registration info is things that you expect the skit instance to evaluate and to uh make a decision about whether it accepts this signed statement for registration on that particular skit registry uh in advance of it being registered right that's very different from so so just uh just next anyway so maybe we can have a discussion about this interactively uh how is that a feed"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:58:01",
    "text": "the the understanding of a feed to me is something that's sort of time based there's a bunch of uh you know um almost a stack uh that uh starts at uh uh time t0 and moves through time TN uh and has a series of entries uh feed you know if you're talking about purpose or uh you know uh you know some other synonym for that that to me is orthogonal to a feed that's that's totally different uh so I'm having a little bit of heartburn over the just the term feed I think we need to figure out a different way to do that cool I think that's a great discussion to have so the reason I think that the word feed captures a lot of this important information is that indeed it is time based that when I make a statement as an issue or for a purpose that doesn't mean that that purpose is discharged it means that here is uh a a topic in the IP multicast sense that I will be making statements on and I may make statements on them in the future and there is no there is no point at which I can guarantee that I will make no future statements on that topic so indeed it is a feed it is it is a time-based sequence of statements on a given purpose and asking folks to reassemble the purpose from a collection of key value pairs in the reg info is missing the point that means that now purpose is not clearly defined by the issuer and doesn't create a really time sequence as you quite rightly point out I think time sequence of statements on a topic for a purpose and now the word topic might be useful I know that's one that thef is used previously uh feed is not an important word but that that time based element you talked about I think actually really is important is that helpful it is uh but I think also there's more than that I think you know we talk about feed uh you know grouping like somebody mentioned collection earlier that's a great uh word I think um you know"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:00:01",
    "text": "selection in the SQL sense of a bunch of related things is going to be extremely important for implementations and feed doesn't in my view especially as we talk about it doesn't capture that now in terms of wanting you know wanting to understand the issuers uh context yes that is important also however if uh we look at use cases like you know I have a bunch of Steel right I'm selling you some steel um here's here's my statement about the steel here's my statement about myself here's my notaries all those things those have to be assembled after the fact and they have to be assembled in a context of many other potential suppliers doing exactly the same thing to contribute to an individual supply chain so there's got to be a way to navigate that and uh feed struck me as uh the the wrong word I think uh for you know I think it's for a different maybe yeah Al so yeah yeah but just hear me out so so I think yeah the feed is um yeah I mean it's sort of uh statement or issuer uh uh generated right that doesn't necessarily mean the user is going to be able to use that this the issuer can you know group a bunch of things together by using the link that we're calling feed but that doesn't provide a lot of utility when you're tracing back the trustworthiness of a fuller supply chain I disagree respectfully I disagree quite a bit I think it's literally the only thing that gives you any kind of traceability so H respectfully I just disagree on it I think two incredibly important words you use there is collection and selection I think those are powerful important words and critical to this whole Endeavor and also not what feed is supposed to do feed is not establishing how an enduser creates such Collections and and Selections in the SQL sense I think it's you're super"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:02:01",
    "text": "right to bring those up feed is is instead a statement from the issuer about purpose and indeed consumers will not rely only on feed to understand all of the uh receipts that they want to be looking at I think that's that's insightful sorry I'll turn off my thing now make sure that's okay I guess yeah I just I wanted to just mention that we feed or no we still need that uh that SQL like link to be able to collect these things because I at Hitachi will be assembling uh hundreds of things to create into a product and I need to attest to those in a number of different contexts uh as to their origin their quality uh etc etc etc and I have to collect those right and uh the issuer is not going to help me with that I have to have something that is issue or independent and that I can rely on to link all together so that's my I I I do have to run actually I'm sorry another but I wanted to that St actually we all r a little bit overtime unfortunately just realized that so I think we are not able to complete the discussion about the feed I think we are still all over the map there well I think there was some so if we can take that quality of discussion to the mailing list this week that would be fantastic because um yeah the two the two big things that that we've heard discussed since 117 about the practicality of this just came out in that discussion and and if we spend the time to write these things down we we we'll probably get somewhere but yeah at this stage it might have to be something we work out in the hackathon rather than in the submission so silan are you joining the uh heckadon okay so guys we're we're way over time so we should um uh bring this to a close but it would be great if we can carry on on the on the mailing list it' be fantastic thank"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:04:02",
    "text": "you thanks byebye thanks everyone so long thank you very much see you later bye e for"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:06:53",
    "text": "okay for"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:08:52",
    "text": "for that ha"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:10:01",
    "text": "for"
  }
]
