[
  {
    "startTime": "00:00:05",
    "text": "okay guys that\u0027s yeah we need to get started and it at the moment Donnelly so the bridge so welcome to ours working group meeting I handed out the blue sheets already so they should be circulating around please sign Tony is kindly doing the meeting minutes do we have someone logging into Tony you don\u0027t know what I\u0027m talking about do we have someone who could log into Java and and see where as someone is online please just just checking its lutely can you log into Java to see what anyone is online and has some questions awesome Thank You Ludwig is doing that this is the agenda for today we quickly have a look at the working group documents in terms of status and Roman sitting next to me will give you also a short update on those we had a virtual interim meeting not too long ago what we actually ran through those and sort of checked the status so we are moving things along pretty nicely then we have a discussion about the our security topics which is in working group last call and you\u0027ve seen the emails flying around Aaron will talk about the browser based apps PCP we didn\u0027t have that was a China bashing thing Oh Aaron also wants to talk about OS 2.1 we also didn\u0027t have the transactional OS off update which was the buff happened yesterday Monday Monday and then finally we do the d pop presentation and then we have more topics to talk about on first-date okay let\u0027s jump over to do the documents hi yeah so again I\u0027m helping out here since Rafa couldn\u0027t make it we have a bunch of documents with the is G or past that process so we have to in is G evaluation there are some blocking discussed positions that those particular ATS know that they need to resolve I have kind of spoken with them and they\u0027re committed to looking at them I\u0027m trying to press them to accelerate that review likewise we have several documents already in the RFC editor "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:03:06",
    "text": "queue and so they are making their way through the process required for publication any questions on that there are all sorts of other there\u0027s a whole kind of set of statistics I could I mean I can try to point or to if that\u0027s of interest we\u0027re in the midst of the big v3 transition and that is impacted production to some degree but okay we are going to see through three documents coming out of that queue sometime soon so things are good so besides those some sort of agenda changes to what we have initially submitted is there anything you guys want to bring up in terms of agenda bashing okay yeah - Austin Wesley hi ah slow-roasted yes calm I\u0027m gonna present about his current status of the security BCP Hanna\u0027s just mentioned there was a call on 4th of November or we talked about how we move that draft forward since there was a attack being described and mentioned in the wharf session in Montreal it\u0027s the pixie shows and challenged attack the question was whether we want to wait till a solution is being found for that kind of attack or whether we push the BCP forward and publish it the same thing in the call was there is a lot of good stuff in the PCP right now as it is right now so we should move that forward and subsequently start on the new version of the PCP which will also incorporate the pixie shows and challenge attack and that\u0027s why the chairs ask or how to say that announced we\u0027re going to ask all I could sir sin on 6th of November and "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:06:09",
    "text": "since that time a lot of people are reviewed the PCP thank you very much for that most most feedback was editorial hans and also met mike put up some some topics that were not addressed earlier but normative we will take a look into that thanks for that Mike there was also the Alice and Bob collusion attack bro brought up again that we discussed about I think two years ago and decided it\u0027s out of scope for dbcp there\u0027s one open issue the tons raised I will talk about that in the last slide because I just want to get through and then we have time to talk about this or chairs asked me to come up with a list of people that already used the security PCP have reviewed the BCP like the BCP and dr. PCP so this slide is contains a list of communities people companies I\u0027m aware of that already used the security PCP just to to underpin the importance of that work and to get it out of the door so the start is to start with the financial grade a PR working group at the Open ID Foundation which does security profiles for security sensitive applications right you\u0027re already coming up Tony what\u0027s what\u0027s wrong just a clarification when you say using the PCP is this all of it or parts of it or I don\u0027t know that sound just need some clarification really they like the recommendation all the recommendations that we give in the PCP yes in the sense they are applicable to their context we can dig into details if you are interested I think for the most important parts which means authorization code redirect based stuff sender constraining and so on they are fully aware of all recommendations and like them and adopt them and live up to them does that answer your question okay as I said that\u0027s just a list of people that that use the security PCP are you I can put in can put you in contact with them if you want to talk about the details as a certified integrate API working group does security profiles for off for security sensitive applications no longer only for the financial service industry but also for other areas and then alignment with the security BCP is is ongoing as we are speaking then there is one of the "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:09:09",
    "text": "initiatives in the open banking space which is the next gen PSD - also known as the Berlin group and they did recently released the security bulletins that recommends all the financial institutions implementing Olaf as the authorization mode for their API to consider the security PCP the follow the security PCP answer also had discussions with concrete search providers and financial institutions in Croatia and Romania that use the security PCP there\u0027s also an project in Norway in the eHealth space that use and recommend the security PCP and I also work with a initiative in the area of electronic signing and they also recommend in their specification to use and follow and align with the security PCP when implementing and deploying that API ok yeah and what you also kind of serve in for example the twitter space that for example javascript libraries are going to adopt or recommendations around using pixie and codes for s pas and also when dos starting to adopt their documentation to follow the recommendations that we give in the security pcp hi from engineer i just wanted to thank you for pulling together that list it\u0027s very often we make drafts that we label BCP and sometimes it\u0027s not clear the basis of what that experience is coming from so it\u0027s really nice to see you know see a long list of organization that\u0027s coming from even if we do have to refine what person what what the precise mapping is from organization to kind of right up so thank you for pulling this together aaron Preki from octa I just like to throw one more in to that list which is octa which has updated the server and j/s libraries to support auth code and pixie very single page apps as well thank you so if they if the chairs want I mean we can maintain a list um I just I just wanted to give an example of communities that I directly work with so I didn\u0027t really reach out the community to get a complete list I think that would be much longer absolutely I mean this would be perfect to include in the Shepherd write-up if we can if we don\u0027t there I asked all the all the organizations and people that I mentioned here explicitly that they are fine with being used as a testimonial but it could be like an Aaron\u0027s website they could that could be pretty powerful like if if vendors and and libraries indicate support for these type of things I think that would create also some pressure on others who don\u0027t support I\u0027m so I think that could be good sounds reasonable all right based on the review feedbacks of horror the editors are planned to somehow reorganize the BCP to get more early on to the point where people that "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:12:11",
    "text": "are interested in just getting the recommendation and following the recommendation can find the recommendations meaning we will move the attacker model one section to the back and we\u0027ll start after the introduction with the recommendation so people that are just want to follow the recommendation have a direct access to that and we also be rephrased the introduction are one have to to admit and keep in mind that the document is in the end really old so we started to work on a document early I think 2016 and it has some ledges to legend see from that time I did at that time it was more a kind of a laundry list of the open topic security topic see we have and it then developed into a security PCP so we will clean that up clean up the language and thanks a lot especially to hands and and Mike for really giving a detailed feedback even a regarding editorial issues so we\u0027ll take us some time but I think we will come up with a much much better readable proposal and we will also try to even make the recommendations more concise the tons potentially not as concise as hen\u0027s wished but if there is any text proposal we are happy to consider that and there is one one outstanding topic that we didn\u0027t integrate yet I think it\u0027s already integrated in the in the latest version on github which makes pixie mandatory for the a s it was being is decided as far as I remember in Montreal to make that either by wet das has implemented IXY and has to announce that either using metadata or any other proprietary deployment specific way right Brian Campbell ping I did just want to say I strongly agree with the idea of sort of restructuring the document with the focus you just talked about and I do hope to do a last call review and get it to you but in case I don\u0027t get to it something along those same lines I think should be considered is there some reference to other documents documents that are expired or just in draft form that are sort of like see this for more information - about the mix-up attack or something and as part of that restructuring and work on the document if you could either remove those or significantly downplay those references so it\u0027s not possible to mistake them for like normative recommendations if it\u0027s just background I think that would that would be helpful as part of the overall restructuring that\u0027s one thing that I\u0027ve I don\u0027t know words too strong of a word but worried a little bit about in previous readings of it is is over emphasis of those sort of stray or dead end documents yeah okay we\u0027ll take a look into that thank you all right so and here is the outstanding issue hands raised the question I should I would should say again whether the text "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:15:12",
    "text": "regarding implicit should be I should not or must not and drop Auto directly supported the proposal to make it a must on the list yesterday and that\u0027s the reason why I thought I bring it up here in the session so we can can use the time to together a feeling about what the working group thinks about that and as a supportive measure I put the text as it can be found in a BCP today on to the slide a lot of work has been gone into compiling this statement so if you want to set up and raise your or expand your opinion please go ahead you know what I would like to get across is and I\u0027m not sure I\u0027m not completely familiar with the terminology don\u0027t have the microphone with the terminology of ITF documents and their and the exact explanation of those terms but I would like a security best practice to be about how you must do this right it should be stronger than just assured it\u0027s it\u0027s the best breakfast you can choose to ignore it but if you follow the best practice it\u0027s a must that\u0027s that would be my point about this so your point as a miss appears is softer then Astana\u0027s draft document so that language must be horror indeed yeah excellent okay thank you Tony nedelin I guess I would probably you know their implicit flow the implicit flow you know I haven\u0027t seen a lot of data on you know the actual attacks going on and stuff with implicit flow and I\u0027m not sure where all the data came from that says the implicit and flow should be I\u0027m pretty sure what you\u0027re asking for is it be deprecated out of the out of the OAuth specification by saying it should not be used and I just don\u0027t see the data there right there there is case there are cases where the implicit flow can be made safe for those particular sets of applications that\u0027s why I believe it should be a should and not a must lady I just want to echo what Tony said I think it\u0027s not a blanket statement and also because the implication is also having an effect on the hybrid flow and open ID Connect I think we need to take this disk very seriously because it does have far-reaching implications for deployments and products and because there are ways to secure it I don\u0027t think that we should make it a must I recommend you both to read the whole the whole section again in the end the "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:18:14",
    "text": "decision be made in a working group was based on the fact that we recommend in another section that people should consider to using the constraint tokens and there is no today no way to issue some the constraint tokens why are the implicit grant sure sure but this kind of thing has the effect of two weeks ago I was at a conference someone explaining about Oh wha and they said implicit is deprecated so I think it it muddies the water and I think that we need to be aware of the consequences of this especially if we make the the wording must not so there\u0027s my feeling and understanding that implicit was an optimization in the first in its first iteration anyway right and I would like to get rid of the optimization because it\u0027s less secure right and stick with the authorization code flow because you can and that\u0027s the way they\u0027re secure things not by fixing the implicit so speaking as a individual member of the working group my point on implicit is it was not an optimization it was away at a time to support applications that were unable to do calls to other regions all right so this limitation is gone so the question is I\u0027m not talking about the security properties of the implicit grant right I can\u0027t become become to that later on and since we\u0027re of course now there is no no need to have two different flows for exactly the same use case which is a browser dance right and if we can get or much simpler we should do so because there is constant complain complaining about office of freaking complex first point second point the implicit grant is vulnerable to injection attacks yes already see hi but for a hybrid flow is not vulnerable to do that but we are talking about implicit grant here and even the open ID connect hybrid flow has no meaning for creating sender constraint tokens so from an architectural perspective we should get the message across that the future is the code plus pixie flow and not implicit erin perky i just want to echo pretty much everything Torsten said i was about to say the exact same thing the implicit flow the history was that it was created when there was no alternative there are now alternatives in browsers so we don\u0027t need it was always a hack everybody knew was a hack we don\u0027t need the hack anymore let\u0027s get rid of it just simplify things and as far as oh I DC is concerned I don\u0027t see any advantage to using that hybrid flow when you couldn\u0027t just get both tokens in response to the auth code exchange anyway so it seems like it\u0027s no worse "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:21:15",
    "text": "off for oh I see either so yeah on a percent support I don\u0027t see any reason that it should be part of go auth anymore if oh I DC wants to add it back because it\u0027s secured to do it in Oh IDC fine that\u0027s up to Oh ABC to do but it shouldn\u0027t be part of the core Oh auth because it\u0027s no longer needed in Oh Tony hadlen so it was you can flip it up so you know it\u0027s there people have used it that\u0027s why it probably should be should not okay because people have deployed it and are using it and using it safely and if you just can\u0027t say don\u0027t use it at all because it was in the specification okay and so I can see this a couple years down the line to say must not but not to turn it off right now that\u0027s ridiculous yeah I understand I agree with what Tony said but also responding to Aaron\u0027s point there that hybrid flow I mean I know this isn\u0027t an open ID Kinect working group but in any event the ID token issued on the front end and the ID token on the back end could have different claims and them could have different information so if you have to consider that also in this I think Aaron again I wanted to I forgot to point out that since the beginning of a auth and the implicit flow there have been several instances of companies who have looked at the spec and intentionally decided to not implement the implicit flow because they saw that it was not secure from the beginning so it\u0027s not that everybody just went and built out the whole spec RT subsystem but for nine it was that people saw that saw the implicit float said we\u0027re not going to build that because we don\u0027t think it\u0027s secure and that is the world we are in today and Joe Tony\u0027s point I think that we are now at the point where we are a few years later and I think it is the time to shut this down because it has been a long time and I think we\u0027re past the point of this being a good idea but but just question then Aaron I mean shouldn\u0027t there be another RFC that update 67 49 that deprecates it and then at that point there should be a must not but until then it should be it should not I could see that going both ways honestly I think it\u0027d be CP because it is a BCP is like fills that role of it\u0027s okay to have these sort of stronger statements because maybe you decide you to to not follow it and you\u0027re still compliant with six seven four nine as for whether there is a separate document I\u0027m about to talk about that in a minute anyway so um well I\u0027ll address that point later any although opinions so we "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:24:17",
    "text": "have to do a home on this yeah the class famous words Tony\u0027s dreadful dick heart a little history aren\u0027t the implicit flow that got added into OAuth because Facebook wanted to have something optimized for being able to show some context in a page where the client really didn\u0027t have any identity and they want to show us some stuff and so it kind of made a little bit of sense to be able to do something where was sort of a low-level authorization there wasn\u0027t really any other data I never liked it in the thing to begin with but I would agree that saying must is kind of challenging when the spec says it\u0027s in there that we would maybe need a new spec okay I will do a hum under should vs. must aspect and Roman is going to judge from the from the middle of the room what the feedback here so there would be two questions namely the first one is but the statement here on the on the slide should say should not and the second one what I must not okay so some if can I ask a clarifying question about this um the the the rest of the sentence explains when it is okay to use it so how does that factor in with the wording must versus shred well if if we say if it\u0027s should not it remains as it is if it\u0027s must not then I think it ends the sentence ends before they unless unless no that would be that would unless the issued tokens are Center constraint no I would say it was actually should not be could we get rid of the rest of the sentence if we can go with must the rest of the sentence is very important yeah must not it which is even more not versus should not John Bradley I think that the rest of the explanation is useful whether it\u0027s must not or should not and I must not unless is that\u0027s what I was just saying yeah okay so yeah so the my first question is whether the what we hung if you think the text as it currently is or should not is acceptable to you that\u0027s the first question not dumped Amina and the second question is hung if we should replace the should not with must not okay so first question hum if you are okay "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:27:21",
    "text": "with text as shown on the screen hum if you would like to have the text they should not be replaced with must not so I heard a lot more humming for the keeping in the text as is what they should okay meet me too from here okay so will Tony can you record this in the mean two minutes okay okay no hamster hums from the choppa okay you didn\u0027t hear anything from The Dropper all right there\u0027s one last slide a new Wharf security workshop is coming up in 2020 and I would everybody interested in having really really substantial discussions about all of security to consider to go there this year we met in Stuttgart that\u0027s the left-hand picture and you see all those smiling faces I think everybody really enjoyed the discussions there because those are two days fully packed with topics around the topic we laugh on on the right hand side just give you the impression on the location or the venue for next year which is Trondheim and it\u0027s really a nice city and there in Norway and by the way the island in the center is most likely the pace where we meet for the social event I\u0027m not kidding okay we did a survey and I voted for for the island [Music] we consider that some of the attendees potentially will be forced to swim it used to be a prison so you can we\u0027re also being executed in the audience there no days it\u0027s a really nice place and yeah alright so you see the URL please register proposed topics I attended all of those workshops and I really really enjoyed it every time so see you in Toronto all right hi I\u0027m am Becky I\u0027m going to talk about OAuth for browser-based apps which follows on nicely from the previous discussion this draft has been in that works for I think almost a year "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:30:22",
    "text": "now so I want to give some quick summary of this and then talk about some of the recent updates to it this is primarily it\u0027s a it\u0027s a sort of a compliment to the OAuth for native apps best practices that we currently have this is for burning in a browser so primarily single page apps or browser-based apps the sort of summary of it is that browser-based apps must use the auth code and pixie flow must not return access tokens the front channel these are all sort of referenced these reference out the security BCP in order to do these as well must use the state parameter to carry CSRF tokens and the authorization server must do exact redirect URL matching these are the sort of main high-level points in here there\u0027s a handful of other things in the dock as well as well as some descriptions of architectural patterns that talk about different ways you can actually accomplish this and that goes over things like when there is a pure JavaScript app talking directly to an ASMR s itself or whether it\u0027s got its own dynamic back-end component or running on the same domain as as RS for example so recent changes in this draft there was a lot of text updated to bring this more in line with the security BCP including things like disallowing the password grants even for first party applications which it used to allow and the previous draft basically said refresh tokens were not acceptable at all and now this instead references security BCP and puts requirements on how refresh tokens are able to be secured in a browser-based app and there was a handful of editorial clarifications as well thanks to a lot of the feedback that we got from the list so that is the sort of current state of things I think this is shaping up nicely I\u0027m hoping to be able to kick it across the finish line relatively soon there\u0027s a couple of sort of open issues that we still need to so need to discuss which is some of what I wanted to bring up today and talk through starting with this one in particular and this was actually um sort of tied off of a discussion around the security BCP as well because it\u0027s it\u0027s defined in there as well and that\u0027s around the use of the state parameter so in if you are using pixie then then you\u0027re already protected from CSRF attacks the state parameter is another way to protect against CSRF attacks right now the security BCP says that state must be used for that and however if you are doing pixie you don\u0027t need it to do that which means it opens up the possibility of using state for carrying application level logic that "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:33:23",
    "text": "maybe doesn\u0027t actually have randomized information in it like you know just redirect URI equals blah so the question here is do we want to actually require one-time CSRF tokens in the state value or mention the possibility that\u0027s okay if that state value is static as long as you\u0027re doing pixie Mike Jones Microsoft when we thought about CSR protection for Open ID connect as Roth was finishing we recognized that in the wild people were using state for all kinds of things and so we knew that we couldn\u0027t depend on it for CSRF protection that\u0027s why I believe John invented the nonce parameter and why that\u0027s how we do it and so to the extent you\u0027re covering this I would try to do what is also done in the security BCP which is at least list the nonce parameter as one of the ways to do this and if you don\u0027t have a nonce then and you don\u0027t have pixie then yeah you could do it but I wouldn\u0027t require it because there\u0027s an awful lot of deployments that it\u0027s already covered even without pixie toast militia at Mike is right so pixie and nuns are equivalent so I think we also mentioned that in a PCP if not we should I pick C unknowns from my perspective or equivalent except pixie R relies on the as2 to detect the attack whereas the nonce relies on the client or relying party to get it right which from my perspective III lean to a voice pixie arm because I more trust on the AES to get it right what I don\u0027t understand is what you mean where static state because I would assume if an application does not use the state for a Caesar F it\u0027s somehow Conway\u0027s parts of the application state in the parameter which means it shouldn\u0027t be static at all I\u0027ve seen people do things like put a return to this URL after finish logging in after the auth code finishes ever after the flow finishes oh you mean you have you have you have seen variants of an open redirect on yes okay where it\u0027s statically configured in the application where you know there\u0027s like five different values that could be which is effectively static yeah that\u0027s that\u0027s the thing where and I saw some language in the security BCP that was sort of hinting at that as an option as well that\u0027s why I started a little worried I hope a misconception if you could directly refer me to that text I will take care of that okay yeah Mike so I "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:36:24",
    "text": "mean we had the chat about that on the list right about pixie versus Tate so based on the light at the recent analysis by the guys from Stuttgart pixie should do fine for code injection and and and seize her F protection so it\u0027s a single nuns and even the fingerprint at nuns that can be used for both use cases so I think that\u0027s that\u0027s that\u0027s reasonable to go forward and given that we anyway make pixie a mandatory to be use of code there\u0027s a perfect package I tend to agree my only concern is that the applications have no way to know whether an AS supports pixie and because the flow works even without even if pixie fails the flow will work i I understand I I understand that\u0027s that\u0027s really an issue that\u0027s why we decided to make pixie mandatory I know that doesn\u0027t change the world in in the moment we republish so we I don\u0027t know how to handle it but John potentially has an idea well you probably guess that my opinion is that you should use both Nantes and pixie oh but that\u0027s just me say when you say Nance you mean state no I\u0027m saying notches you know oh I know but the but it but if someone reading this is gonna if someone who does not care about ID tokens and they\u0027re reading this and they have no intention of ever getting an ID token then nonce does not exist so so you should use an application can choose to use both I mean it doesn\u0027t have to be in the OAuth spec to include the nonce parameter but beside that the you can determine whether or not the server as long as the server supports discovery you can tell whether or not it\u0027s using pixie so it\u0027s not it\u0027s not like the the client has to completely guess the reality reality is that virtually no one gets it right trying to do CSRF using state you know there are libraries that people have given you know created etc but most people who roll their own get it wrong in any number of ways which is one of the reasons why we separated it open ID connect because pretty much everybody was going to be guaranteed to get it wrong because they were using steak for other things and yeah it just pretty much always broke so if your question is should we recommend the pixie or potentially nots if you\u0027re using open ib connect as opposed to state then yes because state people in general get wrong so saying people must always use state isn\u0027t gonna get you very far "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:39:24",
    "text": "because they\u0027ll just use it wrong Mike Jones this may seem like splitting hairs but the knots request parameter is registered in the OS Ayana parameters registry therefore it is part of OA at this point does it come back where doesn\u0027t do it doesn\u0027t if you don\u0027t get an ID token it doesn\u0027t come back yes that\u0027s what yeah you have to implement normative stuff that it does right it is part of the OAuth set of options which you can implement it just happens to not be defined in an RFI other places but I understand Aaron\u0027s line of thinking here that there are valid cases for OAuth without opening connect and if you\u0027re going to do that this is this is I want you know this document to be the list of things to do but this is a BCP so it is perfectly acceptable to say if use pixie is your first choice if you happen to be doing open ID connect and it doesn\u0027t support pixie then use nonce and if you don\u0027t have any other choice then you can try using state god help you okay fair I like that phrasing I see a couple of some sup minaton Travis spent security question though like what happens when the SP a calls the token end point and state wasn\u0027t used is the authorization server expected to return in error then because it didn\u0027t use non sir state or state is never sent to the AAS state has never sent to the AES during the are in the token request I mean I know at the authorization endpoint if state parameter was sent and later on I can tell in the token end point okay wait a sec you didn\u0027t use this day parameter you don\u0027t get a token am i completely miss remembering how earth works because there\u0027s no state parameter in the token request no but what I\u0027m saying is when you make the authorization request I can see okay you didn\u0027t include state now in your second call to the token endpoint I\u0027m not going to issue a token because the first one was made wrong sure I don\u0027t see how that is that the separate issue - I feel like that\u0027s a separate thing yeah I\u0027m trying to figure out like what state or nonce or even pixie is plays a requirement on the second call to the AES because the AES has to do something in order to do this not just a client so I think we\u0027re getting a little in the weeds here no not really it\u0027s like if you call our token endpoint we will not issue a public client a token unless they used pixie it\u0027s placing requirements on the a s and I\u0027m trying to understand okay should I not issue a token now because state "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:42:24",
    "text": "wasn\u0027t used on the authorized request is if you are also using pixie is your question is if you\u0027re also using pixie and there is also no state in the authorized request should you it says here should state be used for cross-site protection even if pixie is used okay so if that is a requirement that\u0027s a requirement not only on the client but on the AES in the authorized request yeah in the gut but also on the token endpoint I can\u0027t issue a token if you didn\u0027t follow the make of proper requests to the authorized end playing Torsen hasn\u0027t mega had actually I know I was real good IIIi think I doesn\u0027t matter where there\u0027s a confidential public client I think you\u0027re making a valid point whether the S needs to put in force I mean the discussion the BCP says clients utilizing the authorization run type must use pixie right so one could interpret that in a way that the SAS two has to enforce that that\u0027s not the current meaning of the DCP the meaning of the PCP is or will be a SS must support pixie and clients must use pixie but is must not and first pixie we could add that but that\u0027s not currently the case and to further them from the discussion the last segment of that paragraph says open ID Connect clients may use the nonce parameter of the open D clinic of negation requests are specified an automatic connect or in conjunction with the corresponding ID token claim for the same purpose so everything is set so I so that this BCP can refer to the security BCP which already has the correct language is that essentially what you just said um okay so in that case should I be removing text from this BCD in order to avoid adding confusion because the security BCP already covers it sounds like a reference but I let another one last point on nonce it is defined as the value used to associate a client session with an ID token so usage of nonce in a context where you are not using an ID token would be out of spec with its current definition would be very confusing that\u0027s why I said if you\u0027re using Open ID Connect so making state mandatory also violates the core o aspect because it is an optional parameter it\u0027s not required so I think trying to make state required for CSRF would be a mistake in a number of different dimensions I think not making it required in pointing to the security BCP would make for a much shorter conversation say last working a glass send us make this "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:45:24",
    "text": "BCP should not make state required and should point to the security BCP for how to do CSRF that\u0027s that way we wind up with less potentially conflicting text okay okay that\u0027s that sounds good thanks two more quick points yes so sort of wrap up the wrap up on the former issue I think we concluded that we want to replace the X with a reference to the security PCP is that yeah yes okay don\u0027t need do you have that thank you are you sure okay so these are two more things that came up on the list recently the the issue around refresh tokens this is a continual challenge for single page apps where you want a good experience where people are not bounced out of the app in order to get a new token the question is should we make specific recommendations on how to do that it is currently possible to do to do this a number of ways one of which is using a hidden iframe like oh i DC you can implement that according to auth it\u0027s not really defined anywhere in particular as being explicitly part of oh oh off whereas it is in oh I DC is there any value to making that more explicit as a thing that\u0027s possible to do for browser-based apps in this draft toast notice I\u0027m not an SP expert at all and I would like to know what the specific feature isn\u0027t already see what that describes how to use an iframe for refreshing something I mean that\u0027s that\u0027s done right you can do that with implicit or Oh of authorization code grant type so what does YDC add to that in terms of spec language oh the primer Rama time all right do you wanna for the remote participants for the remote participants ideally have remote participant the the prompt parameter no IDC allows it to happen by signal into the as2 regardless of the outcome not interact with the user and return a response back and that way you can count on the iframe from the SP a perspective returning you a status one way or the other instead of just getting hung up and we don\u0027t have that in in baseline Oh a DC base I know off Tosun again my feeling it that would be a very useful extension to war we already used that in the off context for long time in Roth without our ADC yes I have a feeling a lot of people do use it without oh I DC already so because technically they find the right they prom spec so just it\u0027s just that technically it\u0027s not defined anywhere in Roth so is this a place to define it I don\u0027t know this this is not the place to define it "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:48:24",
    "text": "Travis Spencer here but the the prompt does a lot of different input parameters and it can be spaced separated and it there\u0027s a lot of things even missing from that so I think that we need to look at that as a separate specification and that this should be updated perhaps to normally really reference that okay any other comments on that I think I would tend to agree with that assessment um especially since a BCP shouldn\u0027t be adding too much normative language and certainly not terribly functional stuff so the outcome of that would be to not make any specific recommendations on how to do this in this BCP and hopefully somebody will propose an extension to OAuth to add the prompt parameter what about you hopefully hopefully somebody not gonna point any fingers I\u0027m not volunteering myself yet we\u0027ll see okay if I\u0027m happy with that outcome last point here there\u0027s a mention in this draft about because you\u0027re in a browser and JavaScript environments are less secure by default than things like native apps it is much more important to have a strong content security policy that\u0027s basically what it says without giving any specific recommendations there was a suggestion to explicitly say like a couple of things that should be in your content security policy to at least have a first pass of making it more secure one of which being disabling inline scripts is that a good idea for this BCP or should we just point people to a wasp and have them go and figure it out on their own Travis Spencer here I don\u0027t think we should because it\u0027s not just for single page applications it\u0027s for all flows browser-based flows for the one thing that single page applications could allow is an Origin that can frame them and then that could change the CSP responses if you look at our assisted token flow specification we talked about how registration of the origins could be done in the client and how that could update the CSP but I think that what we need is a more general explanation of how to use CSP and ooofff and then perhaps profile it for lack of a better word it for browser-based applications are you volunteering to write that as a as a separate CSP specification you mean that this one would yeah it\u0027s it\u0027s not hard it\u0027s it\u0027s just a little bit and I can take it from that assistive looking token flow document I think so maybe yeah I I think I agree with that as well it sounds like a space that is probably too large to fit into a paragraph in this doc and it and the fact that it applies outside of this as well is a good argument for being a separate separate thing somewhere I don\u0027t know "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:51:24",
    "text": "who is going to work on that separate thing you could do that okay Tony did you okay so much sounds like i annoy you huh great okay that sorry but should should that go in that security best practice one I mean should it be a separate section there of how to use CSP in oo for doing browser-based flows seems like that\u0027s the place to put it rather than its whole other document hmm Boston do you have an opinion that as the editor of that document from a metaphorical perspective is it something that the plow supplies to s pas only that applies to all kinds of web applications all web applications okay if you could suggest showing some text we can we can add it I mean Daniel Fett is much more knowledgeable about that I think it will review that John what do you think yeah makes sense okay okay since we have a plan could yeah we\u0027ll go do that um yeah please suggest text as soon as possible so be because as discussed previously there are the document is in working class call I\u0027m going to be finished soon to us will it really update and so we can reflect that by the way I\u0027ll be sure to do that ASAP thank you okay great that\u0027s it for me on this one then so what\u0027s so few open issues only which looks pretty promising so do we have a time line to get this updated and in a news I assume that those are the only open issues we are way off so we could actually start a working class call fairly soon yeah that sounds good to me I\u0027m um I\u0027ll be working on these updates in the next week or so so I should have something ready for it actually targeted my working class called and in December beginning of December I\u0027d be happy to do that yep excellent okay okay but wait here yes click again yeah alright it\u0027s me again so this is something that came up in the last couple of rounds of discussions around transaction loss that Justin has been leading um and came up on Monday during the the session then um a little bit background on what I want to talk about here so ooofff as we all know started a long time ago with actually all around ten years ago and is to find several grant types these "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:54:25",
    "text": "are the kind these are the grand types that were set out at the beginning over the course of the last ten years this has changed this space has changed a lot so we\u0027ve added pixie through another RFC originally only for native apps there was a native apps BCP that references pixie and saying here\u0027s how to you know don\u0027t use implicit on mobile apps anymore since then we\u0027ve also added the device grant which is a new totally new top-level grant type in a auth we\u0027ve also now got this single page app browser ASAP PCP that also says to do pixie the security BCP is is coming along now and is sort of crossing out the implicit flow and password flow and also saying do pixie for even confidential clients which is a new a new concept there so this is kind of what I\u0027m trying to make here is this is kind of a lot for people who are new to the space to try to navigate because essentially you start at the beginning and you have to read all these RFC\u0027s and this is the picture you get which is that oh well I just learned about this thing and now I\u0027m not supposed to do it so instead I have to do this other thing and if you look at what we actually have right now this is actually what\u0027s left is that basically everything uses auth code and pixie in a browser and for mobile apps or it\u0027s doing the client conventionals grant because it\u0027s not a you end-user application or it\u0027s doing the device grant and this is basically all we have left from both core we\u0027ve crossed out all the other ones through the various yes sourcing I\u0027m not splitting hairs but you should mention to reefer grunt oh thanks yes refresh token I didn\u0027t put any here because it\u0027s not a it\u0027s not a it can\u0027t start the flow that\u0027s can\u0027t you can\u0027t get the first two access token that way but yes go ahead Mike again the reason that Oh a score defined Ayanna registries to extend it was to enable extensions to be written you can\u0027t just look at the RFC\u0027s you actually have to look at all the extensions that are registered in the I on a registry so for instance there are things even worse than this so for instance there\u0027s a set of extensions that define some additional response types those are very important in the wild as John said use of the jot assertion flow is incredibly important and you know there\u0027s some other stuff in the pipe that we saw in the first slide from the chairs we have token exchange we have signed requests so there\u0027s a lot "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:57:25",
    "text": "more than you said and you know that but my main point is it\u0027s not just the RFC\u0027s that count it\u0027s the stuff in the registry that this working group established for that purpose that counts so my point here is just that we have patched and cut out things and added band-aids from the core itself things defined in the core not even in registries or did device the device flow is actually strictly speaking not in the core that was the one that was one that was added not in the core but it has um I feel like we are asking people to learn an awful lot of history that is basically no longer relevant in order to understand what to do and if we give people my goal with this would be to give people and starting point to start here and then go on from there to read about extensions that are you know very important enabling very useful things basically my goal with with defining something that we would call a lot two point one would be to take what we do know is best practice today that is deployed give it you know sort of snapshot that and have this be a new starting point for people to go launch off of honnest from from the floor now I think it\u0027s it might also be worthwhile to think about like who the audience is because I think in the meanwhile after all these years the people who there are different types of people who want to read into the material and there are some who just who are developers who developers of applications who want to use ours and they probably are better off relying on experts like you guys here who said who developed libraries and to use those libraries properly and they would then implement some of the stuff we talked about earlier during a meeting if you are into writing your own server from scratch I think you have to understand that you have to do more reading you have to do have to have a better understanding and there\u0027s there\u0027s a certain amount of effort that is unavoidable so a book like the one you wrote or Cheston would probably a good starting point then then you have to read the documents anyway I think that\u0027s you have to distinguish between the and the different audience audience it would appear to me that this could be useful just enricher I think it should I agree with Aaron that this is something we should probably do and considering that two of the authors of books that kind of do this thing for people are saying hey this should be a real thing from the "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:00:26",
    "text": "working group that should be taken as a signal to the community all right Aaron and I both make a significant of our income from explaining to people how to navigate this stuff and if I have to do that less I\u0027ll be happier I think this is a good idea so it\u0027s not it\u0027s not so much saying don\u0027t go read the registry but it\u0027s saying we\u0027re not going to force you down that road right at the very beginning it\u0027s really it\u0027s just collecting the stuff that\u0027s already out there on a page thanks yeah and I love you better as an RFC and I also want to be very explicit about this this is not meant to be a new any new behavior in here this is not meant to to find anything new at all this will be meant to and it doesn\u0027t even have to be an RFC it\u0027s fine if it would be a BCP turns out people don\u0027t actually know the difference and don\u0027t care don\u0027t even don\u0027t even go there um that the point is that having some you know official piece of paper people starting or starting from as my goal here got ya Tony and Edlund so it\u0027s a little bit confusing that this would be yet another pcp or something like that why we\u0027ve got the current BCP right why can\u0027t we roll that up into an oauth 2.0 document so you don\u0027t have to go through all that crap of reading the BCP and it would take everything that BCP has and says this is this is the new base and just go from there because that stuff\u0027s already been written you can just you know take out things that it said you know that are in there and take it out and just run with that just and then we don\u0027t have a BCP anymore we just got the the new 2.1 document yeah I\u0027m agreeing on the particular format this takes I think that\u0027s what we want to discuss um I also I don\u0027t have a lot of time left so before I let you go I want to just mention a couple other things and also mention that we have time allocated here at 3 o\u0027clock where I booked a meeting room not in this room it\u0027s in another room here where I would like to actually continue those discussions on how to make how this might actually look what this 4 might actually look like but yeah this quickly I the goal is not to find anything new the goals take what is defined and um snapshot that which is these are the things don\u0027t don\u0027t comment on these particular points right now the save this for the discussion but this is sort of what I see as like here\u0027s things that we know works well and there\u0027s a separate issue here which I want I do want to address or bring up which is that if you\u0027re building an authorization server that is meant to be interoperable with arbitrary resource servers there\u0027s I think a separate set of things those need those a SS need to do in order to be interoperable and we already have a "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:03:26",
    "text": "set of specs that address that also and I think that\u0027s also another another thing too to bring up so yeah um feel free to cut me off whenever but I whenever the comments are done I\u0027m good we\u0027re good ok so yeah I just wanted to mention that don\u0027t feel like you have to bring up all of the points right now because we do have time set aside immediately following this meeting where I would love to actually continue those discussions in a lot more detail this is Dawson it happens not so often but I fully agree with Tony we already have a PCP we don\u0027t need another one the problem with the PCP is that it is a workaround right because all the recommendations that we are giving right now should from my perspective update RFC 67 49 and 50 it should go into security consideration section or even in there in the in the main body of the text and I think we should develop a culture of updating ooofff from time to time because the current spec is I think it decayed old yeah like like Tia as does and I don\u0027t know why we were reluctant to to come up with new RFC\u0027s we\u0027ve done that before if our RFC 679 it replaced the o of 1 or C we should dedicate to that again and then carefully think about backward compatibility and what we do with breaking changes and so on I said I I like the idea we should be consequent and from my experience with working with other communities my assessment is the RC is not made for the average developer that doesn\u0027t want to implement an app because that most likely reuse the documentation provided by the Service Board the RC is being consumed by people that work right libraries or define api\u0027s for ecosystems or applications and those typically only read are c6 is m.49 nothing more so if you\u0027re gonna replace that with a new RFC that has all in all the most stuff in there what\u0027s in the BCP right now that\u0027s perfect from my perspective hi i\u0027m engineer you know hat so thinking about this more abstractly not your specifically it seems like we have a bunch of documents that specify all sorts of things sometimes it\u0027s must sometimes it\u0027s kind of optional but what we want to do is cherry-pick from that collection of documents what we want people to do typically being more restrictive saying don\u0027t do a bunch of things or up level and kind of security making instances word so should be a must in other forums i\u0027ve heard that call to profile i\u0027ve also heard that called in applicability statement so another thought on how we might pursue this that\u0027s I think not entirely what I\u0027m describing because I am actually describing sort of if you if you play all of the RFC\u0027s and BCP is in order you "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:06:28",
    "text": "get something that which is what I want to snapshot and it\u0027s not that it\u0027s a profile or tightening up or loosening of things it\u0027s just that at some point this RC says now do this and then this one says don\u0027t do this thing that was defined there so I\u0027m not saying it\u0027s not even that it\u0027s not optionally more like if you follow the security BCP which is probably the farthest thing along that references the most things back in the chain that\u0027s the closest to what what I\u0027m talking about that we have so it\u0027s not that it\u0027s making new tighter decisions about security it\u0027s that it\u0027s taking the set of documents that we have and then just removing this stuff that these various pieces say have already been removed from the spec right I mean I know I won\u0027t cut a believer but I think with a profile in addition to you know saying should a must which is I think what you keyed in on you could do the other thing which is just to say you\u0027re not doing that or we\u0027re just taking a vertical cut above it maybe we\u0027d have table V ously look at a lot more closely Thanks and I think as the the profile thing is a good point though because the requirements on a s is for using things like John access tokens and token introspection I think those do fit as a profile of if you are building this thing that looks like this this is how you should be doing it I guess I\u0027m not sure if this is a profile or a 2.1 or miss or what but generally speaking I\u0027m in favor of something along these lines I agree that I think there\u0027s a need there and some sort of document that\u0027s more accessible and covers more things it\u0027s definitely worthwhile to people I do think it might be more difficult than you\u0027ve made it seem to pick and choose which pieces are included or not like you pointed to the device grant specifically like that could go in or out it\u0027s kind of arbitrary you know jto t client authentication could be in or out and certainly they don\u0027t all need to be there but some I guess we\u0027ll have to think about how that looks well that\u0027s exactly what I want to talk about or if there\u0027s an obsession maybe references to things as opposed to fully and lime or so forth but yet in general yes I\u0027m sorry I wanted to saw Mike there and reminded me well it\u0027s sort of true about the registry I did want to say that most people in the world don\u0027t even know the registry exists so the expectation that people would go there and sort of work backwards from it is is I don\u0027t think very pragmatic and in the real world yeah I agree with that as I said it to make during the set Dispatch discussions I and we can talk about this in the next hour but we need to consider very carefully if we\u0027re going to do things that bifurcate a working ecosystem I am fine like Brian with writing a profile or a document whatever you "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:09:29",
    "text": "all it that picks and chooses from what we have and doesn\u0027t break anything if we go down the road of changing protocols that\u0027s a much bigger deal and I\u0027m not necessarily in favor of that to twist ins I think somewhat throwaway comment where are you tourists in by tourists in well we should get in the habit of updating auth just like we update TCP just like we update TCP there are actually very different situations the good news about TCP is there\u0027s a very small number of implementations in the world and they\u0027re behind AP is that for the most part don\u0027t change when you update TCP so applications keep working they just start using a new version of the protocol whereas if we update ooofff there\u0027s going to be hundreds or thousands of implementations that have to consider whether to update themselves and we could build chaos really quickly torsion again first of all I refer to TLS not the TCP and TLS is TLS is updated regularly okay all right all right so there is one knot oh there\u0027s 1.2 and 1.3 and so on so it\u0027s possible and that\u0027s why I said and it wasn\u0027t a throwaway comment we need to carefully think about breaking changes when we make them how we make them and how we support for example a SS to support different versions of the protocol to stay backwards compatible looking forward I would like to come up with or I wouldn\u0027t want to change the way we work so that we really maintain the ecosystem in just instead of preserving the ecosystem for the next 20 years but I do stand by my point that TLS is behind api\u0027s that don\u0027t change when you update TLS where changes to OAuth don\u0027t have that property I would tend I would actually disagree with that point because it\u0027s really only a s\u0027s where that breaking change happens if you\u0027re building an application consuming an OAuth API you get an access token dais is supposed to be able to change what the access token looks like already how that application gets an access token is probably be using a library you update your OAuth library like you like you update your TLS library I think they\u0027re not as different as you\u0027re making out them out to be Anabelle Beckman Amazon back to the profile versus protocol version question to my mind a a profile document would be one which you know much like the current BCP that\u0027s being developed references "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:12:31",
    "text": "the existing documents and says in says hey this is this is the stuff that you should use this stuff you really shouldn\u0027t anymore whereas a protocol version would be a new document that obsoletes a bunch of RFC s rather than refers to them and the benefit of that potentially being that developers have one thing that they have to read rather than one thing they read and then a dozen or two dozen other things that they read that modify and amend and gradually tweak their understanding or of what they\u0027re supposed to build or lack of understanding i-i-i i think the the protocol versioning idea is appealing however in the face of potentially parallel developments on an OAuth 3 that may be a lot to try and get the community to digest and and we may find a lot of friction there with with with development or adoption or under of that or people becoming confused about what it is exactly we\u0027re trying to do as to what the pain points are for for upgrading that you know TLS versus I think the simplicity of TLS version upgrades is being overstated and that there\u0027s it having had some exposure to real real world upgrade processes it\u0027s it\u0027s painful although there\u0027s a lot of backwards compatibility issues that you still have to maintain despite the fact that you know theoretically you know clients are just using a library and it all just works yeah it\u0027s it\u0027s it\u0027s harder than it might look hi everyone and you know you\u0027re sensitive to we\u0027re running out of time I just wanted to suggest other working groups then we\u0027ve had a lot of discussion my question would be independent of what path we would go down what information do we need you have to help us figure this out and do we have that information okay if something to think about and discussed during the meeting so I won\u0027t be unfortunately due to conflicts I be able to participate but I\u0027m expecting that you you are going to come up with a summary of what you guys came up with and looking forward to see whatever we should do in that regard so it\u0027s obviously it\u0027s just the beginning of a discussion and not the end yet but it\u0027s good that you kicked it off it bubbled up a couple of times and people approached us about this topic before and it seems that there\u0027s broader interest to discuss and and to do something about this so that\u0027s thank you Thank You Aaron hopefully see their butterworth room is the one that I booked [Music] "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:15:36",
    "text": "and now we switch over to Boston again and we\u0027ll have the first part for the rest of the session of the default discussion and then there will be more at the next session Oh wrong sorry did you guys have sent me slides guys did you send me slides do you want to use slides I sure okay we are we are going to do that we\u0027re postponing it to the next session can be half the discussion start for addy pop and then we have another session and then finalize that is that good for you guys okay I guess you didn\u0027t get another update of slides to do I see was through the tool it didn\u0027t it said authorize and that kicked on authorize that the right version no it\u0027s good enough all right so Roth to demonstration of proof of possession at the application layer otherwise known as depop sure so sort of a quick overview of what we\u0027re talking about here depop is a draft proposal for a new newish simple and concise approach to a proof of possession for OAuth access and refresh tokens and the idea is it\u0027s using the application level constructs and leveraging existing library support to make it happen so hopefully it\u0027s actually implementable and deployable there have been as many of you probably know a lot of efforts around proof of possession and OAuth I lift it and lift them out here list them out here and they\u0027ve all been somewhat unsuccessful to varying degrees and I\u0027m responsible for some of those so don\u0027t try to cast aspersions here on anybody I have as many aspersions on me as as the next one but we\u0027ve tried a lot of different things with varying levels of success I think we\u0027ve learned some things in the process as well and that brings us to sort of this new effort which in the motivations behind it are really just to have some at some level it\u0027s just to provide something that\u0027s widely applicable and better than just basic bearer tokens as well as the fact that the OAuth 2 security BCP that we talked about earlier does recommend the use of sender constraints tokens although this "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:18:36",
    "text": "is it\u0027s sort of aspirational because we don\u0027t have a lot of great ways to actually do it and it recommends this to prevent token replay across from our SRS basically at different endpoints but there\u0027s a lot of other benefits of proof of possession style tokens beyond just that and like I said we sort of lack a suitable and widely applicable pop method right now this is especially true for single page applications we do have the soon-to-be RFC in TLS draft for OAuth but it it has sort of to put it mildly major UX implications when when using it in the browser it\u0027s basically unusable except in very very specialized sort of controlled situations so it\u0027s not it\u0027s there it\u0027s going to be an RFC but it\u0027s really not practically usable for four-spot type applications and I say here that the status of token binding is uncertain I think that\u0027s putting it somewhat mildly and so we also have sort of uncovered the desire the need as of reach late to have proof of possession bound refresh tokens for public clients as well having a stronger guarantee around the Refresh tokens it\u0027s issued a public clients is something that\u0027s that\u0027s desirable and useful so we have this proposal for deep hop flow just showing the diagram here the the thing that maybe we\u0027ve learned or taken from other things is there\u0027s some similarity to how tow combining worked here and that we have the same sort of key proof method that\u0027s used regardless of where the request is made so whether the request is made to an authorization server as part of the token request or requests are made to the resource server a resource the the proof key is sent in the same way in this deep deep ah proof header so this this is the consistency for that around how it\u0027s used when it\u0027s sent to the authorization server it gives the authorization server the opportunity to bind both access and refresh tokens depending on the context to that key and when it\u0027s sent to the resource server it gives that resource server the opportunity to check and see that there\u0027s actually possession of the corresponding private key to the Associated bound access token real quick look at what this actually looks like so that that depop proof is a header that\u0027s a JWT that\u0027s sent in each request and decoded it looks a little bit something like this a few aspects of it are it has its explicitly typed we\u0027re supporting asymmetric signatures only and it must be one of the asymmetric algorithms inside of the header is the jwk the public portion of the the key pair that the client is asserting ownership of and then in the claims itself we have a unique identifier and a JDI claim meant to allow for replay detection and checking Brian Shinda that jwk should should not be a CNF claim the stuff that we defined with proof possession functionality no not because so either the the syntax yeah the semantics are a little different although they\u0027re they\u0027re "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:21:37",
    "text": "fungible that it\u0027s it\u0027s it\u0027s a it\u0027s a non-obvious line but yes what this is saying basically is here\u0027s a JWT here\u0027s the public key which it\u0027s signature can be verified with so this token is signed by the private key corresponding to the public key that\u0027s displayed in the jwk header there you\u0027ll see the CNF claim coming to end it into the picture in a little bit so that\u0027s in the header and then the claims that we have the jti in there we have a very very minimal set of information about the HTTP request so this is not intended to be a generalized h-2b signing scheme we\u0027re trying to sign enough of the HTTP request to make a relatively useful statement about the client actually having made that request but really doing it in order to prove possession of the key not protect the integrity of the request and then we have an issue that time around the the freshness of the token which allows instead of using expired we thought it\u0027d make a little bit it makes things easier to say this is what wasn\u0027t issued and give basically the authorization server some discretion is the time window to which it will be accepted at Annabel Annabel Beckman Amazon so the HTTP working group were expecting that they will be picking up the tasks of HTTP message signing based on discussion at the sec dispatch meeting yesterday I understand deep hop is not intended to be a general message signing solution would you consider adopting a message signing solution defined at the HTTP level you know instead of the you know John proof that you have laid out here obviously I\u0027m asking you about something that doesn\u0027t yet exist so no commitments but I guess the question is are you open to that is that something that you\u0027d want to want to look at no yes maybe I mean that the the real answer is is this is very much intended not to be that around expectations of fragility and concern with that and so the specific goal here was to have some a very very minimal hopefully more interoperable and subset of information so based on that motivation no but that\u0027s so that\u0027s I\u0027m saying that about an individual draft at this point in time relative to a hypothetical adoption to another so I would like to avoid it as the editor of the draft that\u0027s going to be submitted to the working group I can say that the the intention of that design is to allow the application layer in this case you know auth deep to define specifically which elements are to be included and are not to be included so you you could did the "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:24:41",
    "text": "intention is to allow you to have semantics like this where you\u0027re only including a couple of exactly exactly so so that brings me the other answer which is maybe maybe um I my sense was that the specific things that are covered here weren\u0027t that getting to these pieces wasn\u0027t actually possible with with what\u0027s in cabbage now but I could be wrong I\u0027ve only read through it once and even with that we\u0027re still we\u0027re already having some ongoing discussions about whether these are the right elements or not so I guess that brings me back to maybe cabbage is the starting point yeah all right I will talk to you more about this offline sure John Bradley yubico given the relative time frames of the of the work I\u0027m not what one would hope that we could finish at least the first round of D pop and get that published before Godot comes and there\u0027s a general HTTP signing mechanism should there ever be a general HTTP signing mechanism as one of the authors I would be entirely open to you know having a bist version of this spec or a next version of the spec that perhaps incorporated that we\u0027d have to see how that work played out but this is as brian says not it\u0027s sort of explicitly not attempting to cover all the possible use cases and not attempting to cover all of the things that that you know everybody is going to want some some bit of header other bit of header covered and yes in theory you could extend it so justin is breathing down your neck the right so what could go here yeah so plus one - what Annabel said - one - what John just said because we are not I don\u0027t think anybody is asking for this specifically this sort of custom bit to cover more I think the request is instead - if there were something more general-purpose available that you could configure to be this minimal then I believe we should use that which does not exist as a standard today I get that but I contend we should use that as opposed to something more you know purpose fit to OAuth specifically and while I am you know I hear what John saying about this could happen in the next revision we just had a half-hour argument about a minor non breaking change revision to a law so this group "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:27:41",
    "text": "doesn\u0027t like revisions so once once we nail something down it\u0027s just gonna live there or zombiefied forever so I\u0027m not convinced by that toastin I also had one of the co-authors of that draft I would like to just state the objective of that work and that potentially also answers your question with a why not what\u0027s dressed why not adopting something when\u0027s once it gets available what\u0027s the what\u0027s the purpose what\u0027s the objective of that draft basically we decided in the BCP do two-armed recommend sender constraining for access tokens to prevent token leakage we\u0027ve got the general purpose mechanism its TLS based we know that mechanism today doesn\u0027t work for applications living in the browser so we came up with the idea at the word security workshop in Stuttgart well then let\u0027s fill that gap and that\u0027s when we started at at work so this work is primarily in that to fill that gap to do summer constraining for s pas . . and that\u0027s why it\u0027s a really minimal solution that we even even discussing i have seen the postings on the list to remove the GTI for replay detection to make it even eat make it even easier and less stateful and and and so on and so on and so on so if we can achieve that or fulfil that objective using a general-purpose specification why not it would be crazy not to do so but it needs to be in time i need to solve that problem soon i guess we need to we are already over time we will continue this discussion in the in the next session mike so hold your thought whatever that means we are ready back in one minute over so but so as you can see there is still a lot of well there are lots of developments good developments that we see and so it\u0027s a it\u0027s an exciting topic to keep working on and we\u0027ll have another session so we have more time to discuss and yeah looking forward to that thank you Brian thank you guys and see you at the next session and if some of you have time to go to the battle Wars room if that\u0027s was correct then yeah and error maybe you can at the next session keep us give us a brief summary "
  }
]