[
  {
    "startTime": "00:00:50",
    "text": "hello greg how about now all right we'll give people a minute or two to join if you've not already skimmed the notes at the notes page attached to the meeting now would be a good time to do so remember that our session is being recorded will get pushed to youtube"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:02:11",
    "text": "so we do have another foolish agenda but it's at least not as um as full as the last meaning i think we'll be able to take this at a more steady pace well we'll go ahead and get started i have out of band heard regrets from both russ and jay liz if you just go ahead and capture that they sent regrets so i'd like to start off with um asking if there are any tooling aspects for for preparation for ietf 113 that um aren't covered in the notes that we already have the things that we're already going to be talking about if there's anybody that knows that there is something coming that we're going to need to make a press to get into for 113 knowing as early as possible would be would be better i know there's been a discussion on the lists for getting the important dates for when draft submissions reopen into the data tracker i have taken a"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:04:02",
    "text": "look at that i really don't think it's the right thing to do to shove that in for 113 i think we should do it correctly before we get to 1 14. i could hack it in but it would be um quite act to do so hey robert um go ahead sorry do you hear me i hear you um i was just going to note that uh we're going to put that on the telechat um for this thursday for the isg to review is suggested and and get it in the queue for 114. so no rush cool the only thing i heard of is is from the secretariat over meet echo that they would maybe want to know which working groups don't have a chair physically present in vienna because they want to give those groups some additional in-person help in the room so this is a tool thing or a registration system thing so last on this one as we briefly discussed earlier in our european day i updated this website you're fast yeah hey we are software engineer right so you know what easy it is to do so i just placed the the link there again and there are at least a few working group where there is no representative and many of them not no people in in person that's not too good off the top of their head but"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:06:02",
    "text": "is there anything special we have to do to support groups that have substitute chairs because no chairs are available nobody's jumping i mean the main question is basically to give access to the people the delegates easy access to the queue management but i think we talked about this before right yeah yeah i could identify the delegate ahead of time i guess is one of the the questions that i had because i'm anticipating um being asked so uh robert this is great i mean this is something we can definitely talk about but my my conversations with alessandro and i think we should ask him this directly is that the expectation is that the remote chairs will be able to manage the queue um in medico just as if they were in person and the expectations are in person that's not the the question i'm asking i'm asking about meetings where um for whatever reason none of the groups chairs can actually be there to drive the meeting remote or in person oh okay okay i didn't understand when you said there i thought you meant so the the idea is that there would be a just to make sure i understand uh in case it comes up on one of the medical sessions the cases where the group is meeting but no none of the designated chairs are expected to be participating in that in that meeting correct okay thank you all right we'll go ahead and start moving forward through the agenda um we have one potential um we actually have a a an rfc in the uh um"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:08:01",
    "text": "i forgot what ti x expands to but essentially waiting for two years to list you okay um because sorry all right you i don't this is i think the first time we've seen something go into ti um this means that there is an rfc that is that um can't be published until this issue is resolved so it is something that we should treat as a critical issue for the uh for the project i think at this point we're waiting on feedback from sandy and john about proceeding so it's not really i think kasara's offered the option and now it's like do we take the option or put our publish as is like at what point are the pdf page breaks that bad this one just seemed more egregious than usual so i think that's why john was seeking a fix so um let us let us know for the rest of you haven't read the issue that we've got some shortcomings with weezy print and how much control we have over how it does how it chooses to break pages when there are sections of content that it thinks are an unbreakable block um and in this particular rsc it did um some unpleasant looking things with um some nested section titles before a large um chunk of text um and we found hackish workarounds um that are are currently being considered as one way that we can work around the shortcoming of wheeze print for the preparation of the new server and the move the mailing lists i think we'll take these as read unless anyone has any"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:10:03",
    "text": "questions from my discussions with glenn we should be in a spot where the dev team can will start assisting with testing of the new server shortly after after 113 as it says here and we'll work to have resources available to do so our subversion to track conversion subversion and track conversion to github project with ribose is um essentially done at this point um we're now to the point where ribose is supporting us and cleaning up rough edge cases that we're finding and we're not finding the the rough edge cases um so much anymore the biggest issue that we found was actually an issue in the two track instances that we had for xml vrc and and for ietfdb which had the data tracker and mail archive in it where we lost and i mean completely lost ticket attachments from the first half of 2021 we'll flag the issues where those things happen and go back to the people that provided the original attachments if we need to get them back try to get them to recreate them [Music] there is a follow-on activity where we are working in repositories at github to convert them to work as we are planning to work going forward in github um more than the point where we can cut releases from them and change the requirements on them to use the the style of"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:12:04",
    "text": "contribution mechanisms that we're expecting people to use as they um suggest code that we add those is going to be that's going to be coming fast and furious over the next um couple of weeks what you saw happen with xml to rfc was a pretty good prototype for what you're going to see with the data tracker and mail archive any questions on this one i didn't capture it here um because these things both of these repositories are now um they've moved there are all kinds of places where we have pointers including inside the data tracker itself to how do you report bugs and these are all going to change to open a github issue at the appropriate repository um as we discover these things you know we should change them or make notes that we need to have them changed if it's not something that the person that is scenic can just go change and we'll move on to um moving services off tools.itf.org as before the long pole in this is the bib xml service um you can see from the links that um we have in the section below on the bib xml service that there are um quite a few remaining issues that ribose is working on fixing for us i started um converting adapting their deployment instructions which are rather"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:14:00",
    "text": "generic to our specific and deployment environment so that we can queue up an actual deployment of the service on our infrastructure i'm expecting that to happen i do not at this point think that we'll have that deployment in place before this ietf meeting it will likely come after which means that our ultimate shutdown of tools.iatf.org basically on delegating and setting up a redirections for the domain um is not going to take place until that time frame everything else is pretty much ready to go i still need to build the final set of redirects and we are anticipating that we'll make the transaction transition without having an immediate replacement for bap or daily dose those will both be projects that we'll pursue um as schedule permits but later um i think that covers both of those topics does anybody have any questions i saw in the chat that google is now starting to pick up the data tracker when searching for rfcs which is you know and nicely it's not landing on tools.itf.org at this point but as we were mentioning in our um our scheduling session for workshops when we put pressure on the search search engines that might not be exactly where we want rfc searches to land we'll see alexa you want to talk about zulu um we are ready to"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:16:00",
    "text": "uh allow working groups to sign up for azul extreme and we're going to announce that availability later today um the working groups that get back to us by next tuesday we are going to do our very best to make sure that their zoop stream is enabled for iitf 113 and then the plan is that after the meeting we will go through the remaining working groups and actually just create screens for all of them so that working groups have them by default um that's basically it i haven't looked at the pr that you put in for the service plan does it um tell people how to request things from the secretariat oh no my apologies i didn't realize that was i can add that in there um we're just probably and in the email of course uh we're going to want people to just send a ticket i think in to support and then we'll take it i was just wanting to make sure that it was prominent somewhere yep absolutely any questions about zulu greg and eric anything that you'd like to add to what's been written about web at analytics um this is great just just uh i see the question from eric in there and um it's something that i've had a couple of discussions about and uh eric except for eric and i have discussed it so i probably need to connect with you eric and sort that out i do think it might be good to remind people on the team in general that the agreement that we made with the community was the detailed analytics wouldn't be available to anybody that wasn't on"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:18:00",
    "text": "you know core operations you know limited set of people um but the reports that come out of it that anonymize the data could be made more widely available and we're anticipating that generally speaking for issues like this where the yang catalog stakeholders want to get some insight into the analytics it will be through periodic reports that are extracted from from the service last week at the beginning they could be sent over email right to some specific participants we could see yeah we'll work out we'll work out the details all right last week we had a coordination call for upcoming workshops um i basically pasted what my summary of the call was into the end of the notes we'll take those as read we still have looming um finishing the integration of the data tracker into our djs instances some progress was made on that but it is now it's thoroughly behind projects like getting the data finishing moving the data tracker and mail archive into github i hope that we'll see progress on that in the next month but it it may slip a little bit beyond that we'll see um there this is probably a good place for me to"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:20:02",
    "text": "interject that i do i am beginning to see a plan for what to do with the track instances that we eventually move out of so we've already is i mean running no hitches are out of track for the data tracker and xml rfc i'm planning on creating docker containers that contain working instances of those track and subversion repositories that we post as um github packages anybody can pull them down and dig around in them locally if they want to um if they need to look at them as historic artifacts but make it where we're no longer serving them from dot ietf.org track.ietf.org in particular and this starts us down the long tail for being able to turn track.ietf.org off um there are several working group wikis in there that where the plan is more than working group group wikis in there where the plan is to crowdsource moving their content into wikijs once that content is moved i would create similar packages for the track instance that's been moved out of so that the atf.org service of track can eventually be shut completely down cassara would you do you have anything to add what went into the notes here for author tools of the wagtail website nope you're not coming through"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:22:03",
    "text": "can you hear me yeah you're very faint but we can hear you now so i i don't have anything more to add on what projects uh the auto tools production deployment is ready in a way like we have a test uh we have a we have a instance running on a development like a production like box it's just a matter of redirecting all the tools to that one so we need to coordinate with glenn when to make that final cut over so let's um let's start an email exchange about when to to work that in given the other things that are underway anybody have any questions about either the author tools site or the the primary website greg um do you want to add anything to the way the common bootstrap thing yeah so we have been testing this against the data trackers um facelift branch i'll talk more about the facelift branch in a moment um have found some questions that we're going to take back to spring load about the way they created the the npm there's some internal references that we think are probably not done um the best way that they could be done um and could be adjusted to make the package um a little easier to use but we'll we'll we'll see how that goes as we talk with them for the data tracker note that um"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:24:03",
    "text": "we have one release really between the um last tools call and this one um because we were focusing heavily on getting ready for this github transition our future releases are going to change what releases look like both from a deployment point of view and for what things like the release notes look like we're adjusting um our development procedures to follow semantic versioning more closely um in the interim between the last meeting and this we did have uh to make a few adjustments to cloudflare um some of the most surprising ones were that many attempts to submit internet drafts were being blocked by cloudflare and cloudflare saw them as attempts to upload cross site scripting and xml insertion attacks and many other things of that nature and i basically had to disable the entire web application firewall for the submit endpoint and the api endpoint we can take a look later at turning it back you know cut turning pieces of it back on um but that's going to be a a long and slow process as we identify the rules that don't result in um a ridiculously large number of false positive blocks and we also need to look at how to make the block experience better for people who are using the submit tool either the web interface or in particular the api endpoint we had a couple of valid operational vulnerability report reports um one of them we addressed already we"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:26:01",
    "text": "had a report that it was fairly easy to if you were able to get your hands on a password reset link because of shared access network terminals or whatever because of the length of their validity even after they were used we were exposing people to um at least nuisance of use so we modified the behavior of the password reset endpoint to um time out much more quickly and to also become invalid once anything had happened that changed the conditions for which the password reset under which the password reset request was made but at least people were contacting you through the vulnerability report contact which is quite good yes right yeah the the the the signal to noise ratio there is terrible um the the we we have about 80 spam 20 people telling us that oh my goodness you're exposing all of these internet drafts and no really and um you know we but but you know a couple that came through valid we have a second valid one in here that is um still related to the uh um um reset mechanism that we'll be doing uh work on over over this next cycle um that is um i don't want to go into too much detail but it's real it it's related to um rate limiting requests so and that is going to apply generally to a lot of places where we um have the data tracker do stuff based on"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:28:01",
    "text": "being poked or we might we're rate limiting might make more sense we have um still the upcoming work on the data tracker one of which was complete as of this morning the data tracker is being served using nginx and g unicorn as the web stack um as opposed to apache and mod whiskey the transition went fairly smoothly um we're watching the results fairly closely as anticipated there's not a huge difference from the outside world's point of view at this time other than just a slight speed up um and it's a very slight speed up wasn't quite as much as i'd hoped but i'm anticipating that this will give us a a better performance profile as we go through the the actual ietf meeting as i mentioned before off is still being served on um apache um we're planning on leaving it that way through the meeting but post meeting will move off onto nginx um g unicorn as well uh the two big pieces of upcoming data tracker work that we want to focus on are capturing session attendance more correctly so that we have the ability to correctly compute the set of people that are nomcom eligible and finishing really restarting the um work on making all of our time stamps time zone aware and doing uh finishing a major facelift effort that lars started on removing our dependencies on bootstrap 3"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:30:00",
    "text": "and a lot of other fairly old packages moving to bootstrap five um i'm hoping by the end of the day today if not sometime early tomorrow to have a test instance of the big step five branch up available on the sandbox so that people can start seeing what the new face is going to look like and we're anticipating that's what development will take place against at the upcoming code sprint at itf 113. kasara um anything else to talk about with xml rfc anything you want to highlight in particular yeah audio's not coming through again i'm sorry too many new buttons all right so yeah i don't have anything to add apart from reminding you all that xml rfc is on github and you can open issues there um ryan anything that you want to add to mail archiving registration system so on questions or taking so long to unmute so we have some 135 tickets and i'm wondering what what is going to be the velocity we are going to achieve there i mean clearly you cannot so yeah i hope you understand that many of those"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:32:00",
    "text": "tickets are effectively blocked on us finally navigating whatever it is with the 799 star best process so as the tools team we can't just arbitrarily decide to go do things that are changes to the vocabulary we have ostensibly this tmc's um authority to make some changes it looks like we've been making some good progress there that's going to lead to changes in the best documents that we can then make changes um in in the code but in particular we're waiting for um some authoritative declaration of what the grammar changes are going to be as we renormalize the grammar to deal with you know what things can what in lines can land inside what blocks so that that's more universally normalized um and and things like that so these things have not been languishing from a lack of resource perspective coding recoder resource perspective as much as they have um getting answers to you know what it is that the the code should actually go down based on on um some process that is something other than someone like me arbitrarily deciding that this is what it's the way it's going to be yeah since we are on github it might be useful to to have some labels for the state that these tickets are in but because right now it's really daunting and uh knowing some some of this is waiting on on seven nine and one base some of this is waiting on understanding the problem in the first place and so on so people could maybe focus on contributing more to those various triangular stand problems and so"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:34:01",
    "text": "on and we had some labeling inside track and we'll go look and see how well that translated um into labels on the tickets um i think we had a waiting label and we'll make sure that they got used um appropriately for the xml rfc project so thank you oh hey ryan now we're back to you um not much to report really which what i've been working on is changes to the red system for the hybrid meaning um that's mostly back-end stuff for the staff and changes to reports and um and handling that and such so i guess the thing that i would add is is that um mail archive did just move to github and you know ryan and the dev team will be getting together over the next few days to walk through what the changes to the way development and release will happen from that repository eric anything you want to add about what's happening with yang yeah and not really i mean pantheon is executing on the new feature stuff so it's good the big one is i wrote is about this young extension for schema id so and castle knows about it he's part of the design team let's see all right so um as we mentioned last month we have the"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:36:00",
    "text": "um data tracker security review report from zx since last month after further conversations with jay we're thinking we will go ahead and have them retest and i'm talking to them about the scheduling for the recap and that will result in an updated report will be a little bit easier for us to frame when we publish it we started work with sirius open source on reviewing our database systems focusing first on the data tracker as part of that we re-enabled the performance schema on the production machine i was watching fairly closely it had a measurable bit nearly negligible effect on the overall processing time at least from the data tracker's perspective um we are still talking with zx about doing a penetration testing security review of the most of the remaining web services running on ietfa we've been refining the statement of work for that we need to work through the timing of their reviews versus um the [Music] move to the refresh of ietfa there's um we don't want them to be in the middle of testing when that move happens and there is a reasonable question about how much of their testing would be invalidated if it were done on the older system so we're working that out with them we're currently on their schedule for april we may need to push that back um into into at least may and"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:38:01",
    "text": "as we figure out what the cut over for ietfa is really going to look like so our transition to metal man 3 is of course behind the transition to the new server um so no real action this period we've been resource start on exploring mailman 3 on the sandbox i suspect we'll remain resource start on that for this upcoming period we've been preparing for um the rfc editor model transition um should it go through and roughly the shape that the draft that is going through the um approval processes at the moment lands it's going to be fairly easy and quick to add the groups set up roles in the groups and shut down the the groups that are are shut down by those docs so the presence for those groups will appear fairly quickly it will then take a little bit of time to do things like add balating for the rsab we've got that we know how to do that it's just some lifting that will have to be done robert one question about how do these groups hang in the hierarchy are they their own top level or um so i think what i'm going to do after discussions i started discussions of this with several people a little bit earlier ism will repurpose the existing rsc editor group to be a top level group um and not really have any members you know no roles um it will be a container that will contain the r slag r sab and"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:40:04",
    "text": "rpc um as children and that will be the mechanism where they hang under the menus as things under this group are all grouped together so yeah that makes sense and i guess we we don't do a whole lot of roles but we basically ask the tickets the changes we want to do like appoint chairs for yours wgs correct um getting the so getting to add the chairs i think you would send support ticket because that's work that the secretary would do just operating groups i don't expect us to to need a lot of these and so uh i think it makes sense to just do this with tickets um so the tooling effort is reduced but that sounds good thanks uh this gets us to open discussion in any other business i see that greg has added on other business item anybody have anything else that they want to add all right greg you want to introduce the yeah sure i just updated the text there to hopefully make the the topic a little bit more um uh well defined um so i just uh i just discovered this week that um when you're on a group's about page in in data tracker and you click on the link to go to um the data sorry the java log for that group uh that you actually redirected to this page on the www site which talks about group chat in general and then from that page it's possible to get to an index page of all jabra logs"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:42:00",
    "text": "but it's not currently obvious um anyway this uh uh i i don't recall um but this was sort of unexpected for me and i just uh i don't recall couldn't find any discussion about the redirect so i wanted to see if it was something that people had some history on if it's still the currently desired um behavior and or if there's a way we ought to make the direct links to the java logs uh more visible so really just so my big recollection of this and glenn um questions gonna be coming to you pretty quick about if you can identify where the request to put the redirects um to the um slash meetings group chat um took place and why my vague recollection of this was that we wanted to have a way for people who were jumping into those logs to note that they were under no will and that the implementation was that these links took you to the group chat page so that you could read about what the heck these logs were all about and from there you could jump back out into the logs and the question now is is that really what hey am i remembering correctly is that really what we want or do we want to just go fix these redirects so that the the or the links from the data tracker so that when you click on them you just land in the logs can we present the logs in a way that uh make it clear in the framing that they are under northwest i mean i think at the moment remember we just dump people in the raw textbook right that's correct"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:44:27",
    "text": "is capturing what i just said um i do want to emphasize that this is what i vaguely remember and i'm happy for somebody to stand up and say no you're making that up robert can you hear me yeah okay so i'm just doing tactical checking of this and i i do see the same thing that greg sees it looks like the um it looks like the links from the data tracker are just um you know missing a piece um yeah they could be adjusted to point directly into the logs so they it's like they appear to be but they're missing a segment they're missing a path in the uri and they're getting like an error redirect um you know like a missing redirect back to the www page that greg was referring to so just adding a slash jabber uh at the front of the path portion um appears to be that's jumping forward to the you know that's jumping past the why is it currently this way so that's good information if the redirect is purely a 404 style redirect as opposed to an intentional um redirect that went in and said find everything that is on this"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:46:00",
    "text": "path and redirect it to this page um that that points more to this just being a mistake instead of a policy thing just just as maybe a data point to re reinforce that um idea is that i note that the link to the mail archive mailing list archive uh just goes to the mail archive itself without anything indicating no well on the way there it looks like the web server config is doing a regular group 404 type redirect it expects everything to be in forward slash jabber forward flash logs and anything that goes to the java.ietf.org that's not in that subdirectory gets redirected out yeah given that piece of information i think we just go change the data tracker to point to the right things i know this large picture has went away i don't know if he's still here good of course double mutes you're talking as far as but we can't hear you first of the two mute buttons"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:48:01",
    "text": "yeah the firefox crashed uh uh to check and yeah there's nothing there but it's not very good i don't see a huge reason to you know reflect that i would suspect that everybody looking at them and then example lots knows that they are contributions to the idf like you know yeah and we'll just go with a lot of an issue to just go change where the data tracker points yeah if we wanted to do something different we could also just load it with an iframe under datatracker.org and put something there put a new template there might have anything else that they want to discuss today do we know how who will be in in vienna for the code sprint roughly haven't done a poll um at the moment i the people that i know of who are expected to be there unless travel disrupts them badly are ryan and kasara and you so and i would argue that that's enough and i should be there as well awesome okay so we have a few people that are going to find the table and [Music] and i don't i'm still working out whether or not we'll get up at four o'clock in the morning i may not join until six o'clock in the morning my time so a couple of hours so i hope though that you will not mind if we drink a beer when it's 10 am your time that that i have no problem"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:50:00",
    "text": "you know i'm going to do my best to shift to you know that time zone but the the 4 a.m thing is always a little bit so i fully understand that the only other thing i have is it's great to see stuff on github specifically the data tracker i think that was a huge lift and it's going to make so many things easier i'm already like excited about using git diff instead of a git merge instead of svn merge which is a pain uh so this is this is excellent work thank you guys it's going to be pretty exciting so um before we jump off the call i'd like to talk about um our next one um the as it currently stands it falls um two weeks after the ietf i believe um do we want to hold that and reserve that time and and see if there's a pressing need to talk or um where there was a time before we were all working mostly remote where people were taking a pretty big break right after that spring ietf in particular um do we know i'll ask it this way are there people who know they would not make the call um as it's currently scheduled next time around it will be three weeks after the atf right okay it's april 12th it's the easter week for those of you who have that holiday is it no no easter is on the 17th in my calendar i can be wrong though yeah but this is on the 12th so it's the week before easter sorry"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:52:00",
    "text": "yeah yeah so it's the 12th which is the tuesday and then on the sundays the easter so so some countries have already school holidays and stuff yeah that's spring break for me i'm not in any way essential but i will be gone um because it's spring break for us well i think we will have some um things to coordinate if we haven't coordinated them offline including talking about when we would be making the cut over to the new refreshed ietfa server so let's go ahead and leave that scheduled and we can adjust it as we get closer if we just discover that it makes sense to do so all right thanks everybody for their time today and we'll see you during iatf 113."
  }
]
