[
  {
    "startTime": "00:01:36",
    "text": "control Hall maybe fullscreen yes yes all right good all right good afternoon this is dots hopefully that\u0027s what you\u0027re here for my name is Roman Denis Leo and Tobias gunroom we have the blue sheets going round can you please fill in your name thank you sir next slide so just to make sure you\u0027ve seen this properly in other meetings but the note well applies and this is new text next slide so we have the blue sheets going around Frank is taking our notes thank you and do we have a jabber scribe who could we have a jabber scribe or would anyone volunteer it\u0027s Chris volunteering there in the back thank you Chris and hacia for volunteering he wants some chocolate cookie you need some cookies to get you on calories okay then I can talk to you so we we pulled it pulled an agenda together we\u0027re gonna be talking early on about some of the implementation experience what happened at the hackathon and some individual vendors talking about implementation reports we\u0027ll talk protocol drafts and then we\u0027ll get to a few of the informational zhh and we have enough time for some open mic as well would anyone like to bash this agenda okay with that we\u0027ll proceed so next slide please to give an update of what\u0027s happening with the workgroup since we last got together the drafts have seen updates which is great we had a virtual interim meeting on February 7th we did a working group last call on requirements in December we closed it in January a number of updates occurred just to make sure that that everything that needs to be in the is in there we will be starting a short second working group last call on requirements if you previously provided feedback in the first working group last call all we would ask is that you just say good to go we just want to make sure we didn\u0027t miss anything so we will be starting that right after this meeting and we\u0027ll run it for two weeks also exciting news is and we\u0027re gonna have a presentation on it is that there\u0027s a new new implementation that\u0027s emerged from our bure networks and they\u0027re gonna be talking about that next slide so schedule-wise milestones have changed we slipped on all of them so we pushed everything kind of forward so we are at the London meeting we are going to issue the working group last call on the requirements document that\u0027s going to get us into early April we want a host of virtual interim meeting at the end of April that\u0027s what you see there and that\u0027ll be halfway between London and "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:04:37",
    "text": "Montreal otherwise we\u0027re notionally also planning to get a number of our informational x\u0027 wrapped up April may be a little ambitious probably in in in April of some kind we\u0027re gonna do working group last calls there and we have a marker out for the August time frame for the two protocol drafts to working for a blast call so with that we\u0027re a back on the agenda and first up is the hackathon report I believe John and Kaname or Kaname and John Americans planned it so here up please yep I think I mean she\u0027s complimented communication reduction I\u0027d like to talk about IETF axonal report which was on last weekend and that is thoughts interrupt first of all I track to adjourn for helping making this report an x-ray please okay here here is a our action plan we tested the interoperability between Indian implementations in order to see the maturity of these classifications of dots protocol now we have four implementations one is entity dot from entity which is always a so now it\u0027s called is open to the public and the rest three proprietary implementations from three different vendors and she she grips John is from hunt over they couldn\u0027t attend the hackathon at this time but under you from ABBA will do his presentation after this about the result of the internal testing the CRO raise implementation which is based on a fifty dots then they are adding their own futures are the OSS right please so ok they hacked own plan sorry this proceed is all about the achievement of the hackathon we checked the implementation status and interoperability the test was so successful because we could make it more green during the hackathon taking photos so first first we enumerated the features of dots you know each other at each other then checked if it is supported by each implementations this list may be helpful for you for you because the drugs are getting a little bit longer so it makes easy to "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:07:37",
    "text": "understand what features are there and whether they are supported now or not one achievement is that entity dot was updated to support pfk mode of DTLS during the hackathon and it was checked with John\u0027s implementation next slide please so then we case feed special configuration the mitigation request operation and cut pink each other unfortunately we couldn\u0027t do the test against Chloe\u0027s implementation but I hope they can talk each other because it is based on a tiki dots except that as you see the test result was all green in addition we did get and delete operations of Education request with MIT and CID in you are right path not you are agree you are a path which is the latest propose the feature has not been included in the current draft but it works better and also we will be including the coming 18th version of sheena channel draft so here is where we are as you know dot protocol protect the internet from DDoS attacks by making this by making DDoS protection more effective with programmatic feature capabilities then we confirmed that we can do cooperative DDoS protection between at least two independent implementations next release so this screen capture is one of the most impressive one of the hackathon we did mediation requests from OSS not quiet which is entity dots to prepare every dot server sec groups and you may see that the protection protection of an IP address is successfully registered to the server and which is actually well known DDoS protection our players Lido\u0027s secure also a we did educational requests from ACC groups dot client to educators thought server and also it worked there so here shows what we learned during the hackathon so I assure you that we can meet the expectation for dot protocol from market so it means the draft signal Chara specification is almost stable in the "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:10:37",
    "text": "hackathon we taste is based on the latest specification and it is proven to work that must be a good news for you and we discussed and qualified a lot about the current draft text actually provided the feedback to the working groups and also we discussed about new new features which could be added to the future thoughts specifications so here are the achievements in detail for working group I knew morality the Intolerable futures which worked successfully at the hackathon first one is GRU D crud operations on system configuration and which he shall request a second one is get a function on a sushi group stack the third one is a PKI and esk mode on TTLs the last one needs to your ID and meid in URL path regarding to the gate wave functions entity don\u0027t cry on traffic to a sushi group thoughts gateway relayed to entity dot server with city ID addition then the usage of city ID is now under discussion because she you see you I did not see really shiridi is globally unique so finally this new dot server can create resource location only by this GRE so the purpose of introducing the CD ID of gateway is really obvious in the current draft attr this is your group leader intro test internally three times before the hackathons so in preparation for the hackathon we agreed on the trying the with the latest spec 73 later on updated models so as to comply with that also from our identity added copying capability and we made many fixes of the code on both sides the most of the fixes are related to encoding and decoding of Shiva format and John is now actively contributing to recode library so a live Corp function is enhanced and extended so now it is supporting more function of dots pen entity not changed code library from goal club to live God so in conclusion the hackathon is not the only opportunity to to the interrupt testing so I am John happy if we could do more "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:13:40",
    "text": "tests with other implementations before the next IETF Italy meeting yep - this is wrap up site thank you again to all of hackathon teammates and working groups opposed thank you yeah just in sort of summer I just really would like to cite the work that\u0027s done on Antigua dots in terms of a base open source because on that as it\u0027s being developed that will then help other people do implementations and all the rest of our particular NCC Gruffudd is proprietary but that\u0027s fine because it creates differences but it\u0027s just the thanks of you know the likes of you what the work you\u0027re doing on that because that is just creating a stable platform that we can then base everything else off on you have questions about this at all yeah just one clarification question you mentioned there\u0027s some clarity and when we look at their or your mission there\u0027s some confusion about the interpretation of the the client unique identifier can you please provide more information about that okay so during the hackathon there was a debate about the CD ID yeah as opposed to the C UID where it should be where where\u0027s the right place and the bottom line is that you have a set of dots clients which have generate their own Cu IDs come into adults gateway which then goes to an upstream server the C UID and the CD ID will be the same of all those individual clients but will be different if any of those clients happens to be a dots gateway supporting devices behind the CD ID as it arises that the server can be used for just control of this particular area which may be a single device or maybe a an internal gateway can control the amount of resources it tries to consume or all those kind of things yeah at all yeah and understand this which is which is just normal but maybe is there any clarification that you think that need to be added to the document or I I think we could perhaps add in sort of a half paragraph sorry just to clarify some things but you know we can talk about that to the language and stuff yeah thank you yes kono omoi we working group chair head off so I think this is awesome I\u0027m super happy to see these interoperability tests happening and now that we have two implementations that\u0027s great the you you asked for whether there are any questions I have a question which is potentially more be more later the other implementers given that we have these two interval T tests now so can we expect for the next "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:16:41",
    "text": "hackathon to maybe have three or four implementations doing these so that we can fill this matrix completely that would be awesome I don\u0027t know whether the other implementers want to speak to this now or later during the presentation so yeah I\u0027ll leave it at that yeah I think I\u0027m planning to be in Montreal and I\u0027m hoping at least it will have some interoperability test or this is Andrew Mortensen I\u0027m hoping we\u0027ll be able to have some interoperability test before the the next interim as well okay so thank you one more question actually I\u0027d if you wouldn\u0027t mind kind of a you had said that you had chosen the lid and replaced the go coop can you speak to the reasons for that choice is not supported and also yeah there are many functionality lack of authority go implementation of course so and also I think we\u0027ve got a the most referenced limitation of crops so I so I decided we should is live crop because yeah yeah because yeah it is supporting more function I\u0027ll than other libraries Thanks okay thank you that moves us on to our next item on the agenda where we have individual vendors that are going to talk about with your implementation reports with the protocols and first up is Arbor so Andrew we\u0027re bringing your slides up all right thanks I\u0027m hoping everybody can still hear me we can\u0027t loud and clear so we\u0027re on the introductory slide slide one all right so this is a pretty brief implementation report on the the work in progress we\u0027ve got for an internal dot server and client which I am hoping we\u0027ll be able to see as open source in the relatively near future but I don\u0027t want to make any promises yet anyway we\u0027ll move on next slide all right so this is a partial implementation of the vision 17 of the signal channel draft internally we I have a working dots client and server talking to each other with PKI and PSP mutual authentication it is using ipv4 and ipv6 not happy eyeballs at this point yet and I\u0027ve been able to do largely local Internet interrupts testing with entities implementation and including over the weekend some testing based on the "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:19:43",
    "text": "updated version that came out of the hackathon with a little bit of assistance from economy next slide please so there are a number of challenges we\u0027ve run into partly in the interest of diversity I chose to use Python and there are a number of Python co-op frameworks but only one appears to actually support DTLS a lot of the implementations out there make a reference to you know coming soon or you know DTLS is not supported a i/o co-op is using tiny detail s but tiny DTLS itself turns out to be limited in a number of ways next slide there aren\u0027t really any good Python DTLS implementations that I was able to find tiny DTLS has been wrapped in a project called DTLS socket but it\u0027s limited to PSK and the the project maintainers have made it explicit that they are not planning to support PKI so that restricts you right out of the bat and the it\u0027s only supporting CCM aid in the the cipher suites which also restricts the the particular choices you have when you\u0027re trying to communicate between the dots clan and server so I subsequently have rapped embed TLS with syphon and I have this not working with the selected projects down there with the the goal of releasing the DTS implementation is open source for Python X like as like kind of a said about running into limitations with with a go coop I\u0027ve run into some limitations with a IO co-op for example the pink handling is unavailable to the application currently which means that we aren\u0027t able to do the sort of Deadman switch that we\u0027ve talked about and for example the architecture draft an on handling of error responses causes an exception so I was running into this with the the go dots implementation where if you make a request that causes an error than you know a IO co-op would would back-trace and TCP support in a co-op is currently very rudimentary I do have a selection of patches that I\u0027ll be planning it upstream in also the hope of adding support for the new DTLS module like I said I do have some interrupts tested mostly based locally on go Dodds ping and litigation requester working configuration configuration stuff is progress I\u0027m hoping I\u0027ll have something working on are certain and I began testing you can see groups public server and hopefully I\u0027ll be able to coordinate with with John Moore I\u0027ve run into some problems actually at the handshake handshake stage but hopefully I\u0027ll be able to overcome that pretty quickly next like that covers it for them ok any questions for Andrew please Frank "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:22:46",
    "text": "I under Frank I just to have our comments comment on this our different kind of for das demo and how to interoperate ur between their encounter I think we have several rounds of who interpreted test in between different vendors and companies but I haven\u0027t seen we test our use cases such as if the network link is under the you know under the very bad situation is a very congested by the attack traffic and how our protocol can really work so I it\u0027s a general comment that maybe next time we you to consider this extreme condition because I think that\u0027s where a key case that we want to solve in the copies yeah I strongly agree with you I think that\u0027s very important especially watching the the network traffic during the detail is handshake for the PKI forms of authentication so there\u0027s a lot of data going back and forth and I know the draft covers different ways to try to reduce the amount of traffic going back and forth especially at the handshake stage but doing some testing under attack conditions would be very valuable I think I can see John lining up there yeah and you and within lib co-op there\u0027s the ability to be able to set things up as lossy and we\u0027ve actually done some stress testing which fans and how should we put undesirable features in Lib co-op which have now been fixed so yeah we certainly need to be able continue doing that kind of stress testing to work things through in terms of interoperability yeah I saw you come onto our sister Manju and there seems to be some greed failure I guess I may be covering it to my next couple of slides just your setup and my set up the degree over something okay sounds good thanks okay in that case thanks Andrew and move on to the next one John yet don\u0027t sit down please Europe you were going to talk about the NCC group implementation yeah okay so this is not such an implementation that it\u0027s a status of what\u0027s available for people who want to try it and interact with is locking the service also to microphone thank you "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:25:48",
    "text": "okay yeah so sorry about this basically this is not so much an implementation but as status of what is available there should one want to do interrupt tests find out what\u0027s going on there so informations here in the slide so and to access a server it\u0027s hosted server DDoS - secure net and we\u0027re now listening on both ports four six four six which have not yet been officially approved as well as the type s 56 84 ports we also have data channel as well so if you were to come in and play with the data channel and see what happens there is support for that as well the requirements on the data Channel is that sni is set within the initial setup sessions so that we steer the traffic specifically having hit bought for flee into the dots environment as opposed to there\u0027s another environment on that same port though terms of PK are certificates we\u0027re currently set up to use the entity dots client certificates you can use one of those we can provide others if you or lots of people come in at the same time using the same certificate which today we allow in the future we probably won\u0027t you\u0027ll get you know someone said mitigate a and then someone comes in a beam will see a AIDS being mitigated yeah it\u0027s a bit a bit of confusion but we can provide other certificates sitting in there another requirement that we have is that you identify on the client what is your CA certificate because we\u0027re doing mutual authentication by having a common CA certificate between the client and the server terms of pre shaky if you want to play with that as well keys 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 and the identifies identity for dots we can add in extra ones but that\u0027s a starting place of what\u0027s in there we don\u0027t care whether you come in with UDP or TCP both are fully supported we actually have happy eyeballs supported in terms of our so our client talking to an external server we have a restricted set of ID\u0027s that can be allowed to be mitigated so if you try and say I want to mitigate an IP outside of what\u0027s down there you\u0027ll get back a suitable error message if you choose one of those those particular ones will get done so again it allows you to do and a variety testing we actually have for one of those IPs there will be incrementing statistics that have reported back to you if you want to sort test out your status of what is happening on the mitigation so we have that capability there terms of setting up dots clients we can talk to your service somewhere all I need to know is where is it and what is it listening on information here so I\u0027ll need a client certificate maybe or if we\u0027re using PSK I need that kind of information to go out and deal with your probe it\u0027s tough we also have the support for a gateway so you can come in to our dot server you can be gateway through through to your dot service your client comes in to our gateway and gets "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:28:49",
    "text": "relayed through all we need to know is the association between you the client and you the server so we just join the two together for relaying stuff to do and so that gives us the abilities that based on two different client identifies you can either come to us can be gateway through to a server or you can come to us and just talk directly as a service so you have again have the flexibility of being able to test things out current functionality we are I won\u0027t say 100% supporting the - 17 but it\u0027s pretty complete there is a couple of minor exceptions which are coming out in the 18 when we generate CEO IDs and m/m IDs we actually put them into the UI path but so that\u0027s when we as a client talking to you as a server but we as a server will accept it both as a path or a query so we support the old true 17 or the potential 18 sitting in there the data channel 13 the only difference between the 13 and what we\u0027re actually supporting is weak because net board ACL has changed the rules in terms of how things are laid out in terms of the ACL parameters etc we\u0027re supporting the latest version of theirs which is in the 14 draft any questions come out of that okay in that case thank you John thanks for the report and NCC runs uh runs a public instance of that server so that\u0027s a resource if you were depending if you\u0027re developing a client to do your own interrupt testing to bootstrap you if you don\u0027t have a server implementation so that brings us to the node to the end of the discussion about known implementations we have just a smidge amount of time allocated if anyone in the room has an implementation that has not previously been talked about and they would like to bring it to the working group okay I\u0027m taking that as a no that there are no other implementations here represented that they want to talk at the working group so that closes the time we have to talk about the implementation work to date and so now let\u0027s talk about the protocols themselves there we could that we spent the last half hour and talking about the implementation of so made your up Oh tears up okay no I made a mistake on the agenda tears up so we\u0027re talking about the data in the signal draft which when we talk yeah okay sorry the agenda is to go over the list of changes we have done to the draft after the inter meeting and the next steps for the draft Thanks "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:31:50",
    "text": "the next one of these issues was discussed in the mailing list and was raised by John that we had a problem with multiple gateways or a single gateway between the dots client and thought server where it miss configuration or DNS cache poisoning could cause infinite loops to handle that we had introduced a new co-op option by the name hop limit it was added as a co-op option and not as a parameter because to accommodate the various request types especially the gate requests which does not have a body so for that we had also we had to also update it the ionic Constitution section to us in a new code point for the coop option and also a new header code 5.06 in case if the hop limit reaches 0 so and it\u0027ll get be sent back to the client and the intermediate gateways could see that the hop limit has reached zero and could get infinite loop this was another implementation bug that was found out during the implementation by John and reported by him where we noticed that many of the implementations in coop are using flow for representing the acknowledgement type mode and we cross spread cross checked with the authors of 7 - 5 - and we figured out that that specification never defines the data type because it\u0027s just local configuration and there was no need to specify explicitly whether it\u0027s an int or a float so we wanted to clarify and update this graph to say that because dot signal configuration requires a negotiation of the configuration and message transmission parameters so it\u0027s been updated to a flow type to be inconsistent with the existing implementations yeah this was one important bug that was raised by John that currently rc7 to phi2 has a limitation that only one token can be bind per client or destination pair which pretty much restricts aDOT\u0027s client cannot observe the medication status of multiple medication requests and which violates the RFC 7 764 for the absorption to consecrate unsolicited responses from the server for medication status so to address that Matt has already raised an errata with the RFC 7 to phi2 to fix that and we also have fixed the draft to use to convey cui D the client domain identifier and the medication IDM the URI path parameter rather than a you are equity so we have any unique resources identified and each resource would be uniquely identified by a token and the client simultaneously getting get consolidated responses for multiple medication requests message this was an overlook that when we were going through we did not look into the max adoption and thanks to John we had in config interval define for configuration configuration negotiation wire the configure interval tells the client went to contact the server to get the latest configuration from the server but then "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:34:50",
    "text": "there is a max adoption in coop which pretty much says that if max is not defined or written the default value is 60 and in which case the client has to frequently every 60 seconds has to contact the server for a new configuration change so we have updated the draft that instead of config interval we would be using the max age that would make the implementation pretty straightforward that would leverage the existing option and then to avoid frequent neuron trips between the client and server the value of zero is not recommended to power 32 minus one is for infinite lifetime and find a client which is misbehaving that does not contact the server after the expiry of max age would be considered a bad client and would be disconnected by the server the exception to those rules are wire the client is subjected to a DDoS attack and it cannot reach the server in this case the server can make an exception and ignore not receiving request refresh request from the client and continue to maintain the detail your session and the client can also ignore sending refresh refresh refresh during when the medication is active we had also identified my various knits that were discussed in the working group for example we had clarified in the text that the client unique identifier the client domain identifier and mitigation ID need not appear in the message body and can be only converting the new array parameters it was also conveyed that the configuration and message transmission parameters can either be present in the mitigating config or the ideal config containers and need not be present in both thanks to our area director we hope she approved for six for six as the port for dots and met fill the form and it\u0027s being sent by our of chest and we are waiting for response from miner for an permanent allocation so this work is under progress and the working copy the eighteenth version is available at this location and we plan to publish very wise draft very soon so service our if I can interrupt based on the eye and our allocation that is all correct but we want to emphasize it\u0027s the chairs that have actually dropped the ball the ad have cleared the approval we are in contact with Ayana we just have not submitted the input to get that early allocation but we are approved for that early allocations there is no IDI action yeah but we missed the last step so yeah no credit deserved in this case maybe some bashing yeah so we planned eighteen version pretty soon this week and I think from all the interrupted things so far that had happened there\u0027s no pending issues in signal "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:37:50",
    "text": "channel and it looks pretty good for working group lost all from the other side any comments questions I have this is Andrew Mortensen I just have a couple one is a question about whether we need to establish minimum required cipher suites what we have right now is a reference to RFC 7525 within the draft some of my experiences interacting with the the other implementations makes me wonder if we need to be a little bit more explicit about what is minimally required there particularly with PSK I don\u0027t know that we want to be recommending the choices for example the CCM a cipher suites that tiny DTLS is is offering and then separately although this might be a little bit of a distraction at this point so I\u0027m interested to hear some comments there was a period where we made some adjustments to the requirements draft based on some feedback that we wanted to leave space potentially for the use of quick in future revisions which has been wondering if we want to identify specific requests which are currently just referred to as you know coop get put and so on as specific message types but beyond that I don\u0027t have any further comments on the current work yeah regarding quick we looked into quick and quick basically in today\u0027s running is using HTTP on top of that and you could also use corporate with quick and coop it would add large overhead and web is pretty much using reliable transmission today for most of its messages so do we really need that and co-op is pretty much giving us both the flexibility of being reliable or unreliable that\u0027s not the way Vic is going towards and it\u0027s not designed for running in a constrained anyway wrong right like like co-op is being designed so we can have that discussion yes regarding the cypher suits what what I have a specific section to discuss the TTLs profile and what what mandatory cypher suits the client and server should implement we can go or that and see if any changes to be done there but it\u0027s pretty much what the latest are FCC what\u0027s I pursue should be supported and that\u0027s what we\u0027re just following right to do something so we can go over there and discuss the minister so you mentioned a float for octonaut a tea that is more of 64 like a Crandall factor cool yeah yeah okay so there seem to be no further questions so then a question from the chairs so there have been we have heard "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:40:52",
    "text": "several implementations and at least feedback I saw and implementations was like oh actually they were built on 17 and they were relatively consistent so yeah actually the question would be what\u0027s the opinion in the room is this draft close to ready for working group last call are there some issues still left that we need more discussion based on the implementations you did okay this was maybe stupid to make an open question I mean do you folks in the room for see any big issues that we\u0027re not talking about that would prevent us from going to working or a blast call if you have a bigger issue that we\u0027re not talking about or you\u0027d like to bring up an issue please come to the mic yeah I think subject 2-18 rather than that 17 yes we are in a good stable place I\u0027m of the opinion that we need to get this out there and then work on maybe additions later on you know otherwise I\u0027m just going to get bogged down if there\u0027s a lot of other kind of extra stuff so I mean we we something that is pretty stable and seems to be working and I think I believe we should be going forward with what we have in this first instance okay thank you yeah I agree with with Johnson I agree with John I also would really like to hear some more about the performance under stress as as Frank was I was mentioning to see if there any any things that shake out of that hey Nick Teague I just wanted to second the thing about getting it out there sooner rather than later and then we can add features and a little bits and pieces as we go yeah so so to be asked on Rome Huawei no working group chair head on so I\u0027m happy with this I fully agree just one note like my experience in the IETF is like minor updates happening later many or may not happen so if you our expectation is that you\u0027ll need to make changes then maybe we need to do the tests now before we go into working last call if you say actually this is okay now and changes are unlikely then yeah we go Bob Moskowitz agency consulting this is just "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:43:52",
    "text": "between proposed standard and standard we get the proposed standard out there we\u0027ve done our best due diligence we believe strongly we got it then after you start getting some real experience you say oh crud and that\u0027s what the business for and then going there to get to final standard so if we group say that we\u0027ve done our due diligence here now and we\u0027ve done some testing we think we got it then we should go forward with it that\u0027s my feel on it okay so Frank let me let\u0027s frame it another way if there be any objections to go into a working group last call with - 18 and if there would be if you could talk us through what your thinking is I\u0027m making sure twice okay in that case what we\u0027ll do is make our working plan that - 18 we\u0027re gonna go work a group last call and depending on what we find we will determine our course of action from there okay thanks - room all right then the next presentation is we\u0027re going to talk about the data Channel that\u0027s humid get the next one okay like I become the working group runner so well at least that keeps me fit so this is a bit of the the current state of the directional specification so there will be an a-list of issue that we have discussed so far in analyst and then the what we think to be the next steps for this the specification so just as other mentor during the last intern meeting we discussed a list of issues that we have identified for a specification some of them are not real issues but we do think that it is work for the working group to discuss them and to make sure that we have what we have recorded in the specification is is aligned with your expectation as a working group so there\u0027s I won\u0027t go to to list this list with it because I will individually and then we we have made an an update of the specification to be aligned with the latest version of the ACL net mod specification because there are some iterations there in the network working group that affect our our specification here so the current version we have in the jet are "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:46:53",
    "text": "completely alignment with the latest version of the new network specification but this one is not published yet the first issue is about the the lifetime handling we we agreed during the in the purest version of the editor channel that there is a need to have the lifetime associated with the the the ideas that we are associating with the client and also with the filtering rules that were operating the rationale behind that is that we want to avoid to have still map in indie in the server and to to end up with a an infinite list of interest there without having any clue from the server how to clean up the entries but the the problem is that if we go with the current friskin\u0027s mode is that if you a client suggest a lifetime a hinted left-hand value but the server decides to assigned another a distinct live value there is no means in the risk on protocol to return the assigned value in the protocol itself so we had this it\u0027s more about the technical protocol so what with this what we have suggested the mailing list and what we invited you to add to to share the comments and the conclusion that we had from the discussion is that we are not indicating any more in a lifetime in the request to the server we are assuming that there is a minimum default value which is honored by the server so the server if we need to accept a filtering entry or an ileus entry it will it must maintain that in 3d for at least the one week that we have indicated as a default value so then the clients if they don\u0027t refresh beyond that lifetime so the server is free to clean up the entry but the clients if they want to money in the entry they are invited to send a refresh before the expiry date and of course the clients the can\u0027t contact the server to get depending lifetime from the server so that didn\u0027t know what is the current value and then you can refresh before the alias or default means who is is expired I don\u0027t know if there is any objection from the room here because this is exactly what we have as a conclusion from the malleolus so it is time if there is no further or if there\u0027s no objection about this conclusion this what will be recorded in the next version of the de specification is there any objection to this resolution okay so we go to the to the second issue it\u0027s it\u0027s about the filter that direction in the data channel specification we are assuming that the the denial of service attack that we are we are covering is the one which target the decline so the destination is always the client so for us we are assuming there is no need to specific to specify the destination because by default the destination will be the target the target network but in the the discussion among the others "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:49:53",
    "text": "there will there is this famous use case which is called the Cole home and there is the discussion whether there is a need to cover both this nation and and the source address but the conclusion of the discussion we had on the malice is that the the column is is only a the other scenario in the other way around is just we are changing the rules and there is the target will be will be the net the network and the source would be the the customer the customer network and as far as the dots channel specification is concerned there is no implications there because the always the the the destination will be the network which is hosting the dots client and not the one which is Austin D do that server so the conclusion is that there is no modification to be added to the specification and we are we are just ok with good would have which we have in the current specification the next issue and the point that we discussed is about the default activation the depart is whether we assume that whenever the dust client sent a filtering request to the server do we assume that the filtering entry will be immediately enforced by the server or it will be only enforced only during the mitigation time the conclusion we had is that we should cover both because we have we have use cases for before we for both the D flavors for the activations so in the indica in the updated version of the that we are on we have on the github we we are we defined what we call the activation type and it will have which will take two values whether the deactivation will be immediate or only do the mitigation time and it\u0027s up to the server to decide where it has to unload the request as per the Kota for a given its client and so there is this this new active parameters that we had to add into the model and then there\u0027s the question whether if there is no activation type which is indicated by the client so by default we assume that the activation type will be during the mitigation time and not immediately the other the other issue is about the scope of the filtering if you consider that you have an adult domain in which you have multiple deaths clients do you assume that that all the different rules that are instance on set but a given client do apply only for that given Lots client or it will apply for the whole domain again what the conclusion we had on the Manliness is that this this if this is something which will be immediately enforced so this will be applied for the global debate because there is no way at the packet level to identify adults clients it\u0027s it\u0027s will apply on the on the traffic but windows and when this filtering will be applied only to your new mitigation time this would be only specific for a given "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:52:53",
    "text": "a given that\u0027s client and not for all the ducks clients because there will be a a potential conflict between the hints that will be provided by those clients and it is more safe that we associate the filtering rules for with a given dose client so that\u0027s the current that we discussed in the Marianist i don\u0027t know if there are some problems there or if if we have to change what he the the the this the outcome of of this conclusion so there is one open questions there yes swap a moment until we get the second Mike Flemming and Drazen so III have not followed the mailing this discussion on this one so bear with me as I think through this in real time I don\u0027t recall to what extent we said that things were done on a per domain basis versus on a per client basis maybe this is something that we just need to look at a little bit more from it Architects a point of view yeah that\u0027s my only comment so you know but let\u0027s look more at this offline I\u0027m not sure right now the problem if the seal is installed in their domain right I mean it would be a side effect and an implicit rule rather than an explicit rule right it becomes an implicit rule if the if they easily supplied for the entire domain where the client may or may not be intending to apply this KCl for the entire domain and it becomes a debugging and auditing problem the second issue that I see is we have a use case where we are anticipating in future where application servers to act as Todd\u0027s clients right now there could be a scenario where application servers all the time get infected with I don\u0027t know what it\u0027s malware whatever it could be and if they install some bad filter which basically adversely affects the blacklist and whitelist right it has impact on the entire domain right so based on the authentication authorization if you have an explicit rule saying what destination network that a client can install and if that rule if that rule doesn\u0027t specify that it makes it a global scope for the entire domain and that basically creates an attack better is my understanding thank you for clip yes but still this is an open question that we have for the working group and there is no resolution for so far whether we we need to Monday D to have the destination network for the filtering rules that are specific for this for this case or as a global recommendation when we are asking the server to install the filter and whether we let the server to determine the the destination network to be to be protected or we have to monitor this "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:55:54",
    "text": "client to explicitly indicate the networks themselves that need to be to be protected so again feedback and comments on others are very welcomed Alienist this this one is about the filtering the filtering fields and whether we need to do to list the Mon that way to be to be supported fields to be to be supported by the protocols what we have so far that we are just relying on what we have on in net mode and specification that means there is a lot of optional fields and fields there but the problem is that when you are doing it your privacy you don\u0027t know if you are asking your server to do some filtering a given field but the disorders not support that field so there will be some issues there and complications to an or the Rockets from the dis client so that\u0027s why we end up to to this entity to have this a subset of the the filtering fields that must be supported by inhibits implementations and those are the the current proposed feels to be a to be supported by the servers if the the does server supports other actions or other filtering fields the you can indicate that in a in a new a capability container that we introduced so the clients can ask the server what are the lists of the field the filtering feel that you are supporting and based on that the Dutch client may ask the server to install some filters based on this on this on the honest fields there was a disguise a proposal from Peru to include detail as part of a mall that very field we didn\u0027t include that there because for me it\u0027s not that I would say drug is that\u0027s in way this is not really a monetary monetary to be supported I don\u0027t know if you think that this list is long or as short or is I don\u0027t know so this kind of really feedback and comment we need to have from the work group so that we win has the specification a corny yes yes you need a shirt a microfiber the microphone sorry we have batteries but now we can take numbers from my perspective I think list I mean I mean as it\u0027s gonna be advisory anyway but I think the list is made to be sure because I think from more video standpoint be looking more capability to something like flows back you know so the addition anything its flows back things like dscp you know all that all that kind of funky stuff they\u0027re coming you know like the packet length the stuff that\u0027s very you know flows back he would be some additions that we would like on there from my perspective needs to be added but this list list looks like a complete list that I have just crossed it with another draft called mud which is working on a manufacturer description for basically providing SS pen tool for head every devices so that list also has subset which is in addition to what is there for when we "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:58:54",
    "text": "see when in the queue Flemming is going to go and then you\u0027ll go flowing and really I mean it looks like a good list from a should we say a network based DDoS operations point of view we\u0027ve also talked about you know application that will DDoS attacks right URLs etc that\u0027s perhaps more of a forward-looking thing but is something to keep in mind do we want to mandate all of these fight for should we say higher level T those types of attacks Roland if you\u0027re speaking we can\u0027t hear you oh no I was not speaking I wasn\u0027t aware that I was lives sorry about that can you hear me okay yes yeah Roland avanzar Burnett works um first of all I went into second Nick\u0027s comments this is very important secondly looking at this list I see ICMP I don\u0027t see icmpv6 it\u0027s probably just an oversight needs to be headed there and then finally with regards to what Fleming just said I do believe that we need to be looking into layer 7 constructs things like URIs and NS resource records and things like that that would would almost certainly probably be a future thing and at least in my opinion Thanks ok ok so we move to to the next to the next issue that we have on the list is about the the multiple server so this is a comment from from John it\u0027s about the the behavior that to be to be to be followed by this bad that\u0027s a gateway windy there\u0027s a quest which is forwarded to to upstream servers but it happens that it received a success from one of them but a failure from the others what will be the behavior of the dodds gateway with regards to this client for me this is typically the kind of discussion that we wanted to cover in the multi-home and draft so that the that\u0027s why I suggested to John that we don\u0027t need to discuss this kind of consideration and the current based specifications because the current specification are really I would say targeting the single home scenarios and all the multi-home in consideration will be left out of scope and will be considered in the other document via we have presented or your order here I don\u0027t know John if you want to add if you have any further comment about this term so it\u0027s the challenge with multiple services I like to live in a world where redundancy is and so as part of that I like to have my primary gateway and my secondary gateway and is this current spec doesn\u0027t handle it handles just a single gateway I totally appreciate that "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:01:55",
    "text": "multihoming is way beyond just primary and secondary of what\u0027s in there but it\u0027s certainly from my perspective I like to have at least two gateways which are kind of similarly configured and have one of them been active and I will I will talk my current implementation is as far as the signal channel is concerned I have both open and I choose one of them to send the mitigation request via but I can\u0027t do that with well not so easily with the data Channel is you know someone sets up an alias do I send it to both gateways who the difference its we\u0027re into a whole world of strangeness if if one of the gateways can\u0027t handle it for some reason which is normal because is not specified so far all right yeah so that\u0027s part of where I was coming from that is just my initial thing he was I have just this active standby and I can\u0027t handle it in the data Channel yeah today so Roland I saw you in the queue and then you left the queue if you want to speak please enter the queue again okay so maybe the question was addressed okay so the next the next issue is about the the develop detection and prevention to avoid to have infinite looks and so this is similar to the one that we have the feature we have for the signal channel but for the did\u0027t channel yeah just to be frank with you we didn\u0027t think about about it but that seriously but there are some some existing headers that are that we can reuse for for the for this for the rest conf and provide this example about the d-max forwards it max for while it will limit the number of hops a request can can be can be forwarded upstream but the problem with this one is that it is only specific to a specific HTTP request and if you want them to to cover also what we have what we are doing in the channel there are some I would say extensions or at least to relax the the constants we have today on the max forward we have the error which is already there for HDPE that we can reuse and so on but so the Maricruz to you and to for the working group is to if you have any suggestion or if you have any favorite option that you want has to go to to cover or to-220 guided lovely text for the editor channel please pick up and share your thoughts and comments with us just no matter what we have all the the chains are maintained on the hub and there are the linux the 14 versions that will be published just for action after the meeting yeah so the floor is yours if you have any any if further issue as you want us to discuss or if you have any question or clarification that you want us to to provide saw feel free to "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:04:56",
    "text": "raise your questions you have the mic works on clarification question about the number three issue Mystica yes we know each other it is said that education scott should check its confliction status we\u0027d why to it so which when clear that education request the confliction of visual scott with white elite filter should be done for registered whitelist or active what reason that is the question yeah yeah the current signal specification we are just saying that there is a conflict with an existing field train we don\u0027t see if that filtering is will be at is currently applied on the network or will be applied during the mitigation time but there is a conflict so if the mitigation request assume that there is an attack which is ongoing that\u0027s me that this will be a conflict both of type of the of the filter and the one which is currently enforcement network and the one that will be available to as a hint for the DAT server so my answer is that we don\u0027t need to clarify in the signal channel with our dia we are covering both because this is implicitly assumed thank you but yeah but if you think that this is something which is need to be explicitly said we can do it but for me it is obvious that\u0027s hmm so the thickest about the filtering activation will be included in the next sorry I\u0027ll take it about filter activation will be included in the next yes exactly yeah next week um so haven\u0027t really been following much the risks of being really busy recently but the as far as the filtering rules are activated by default or only when a mitigation is active so there are obviously these cases where you have always on customers who who connect to you and want to you in their path all the time for whatever reason and so that would be covered by with your reactive you you "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:12:30",
    "text": "blue sheet on it somewhere in the room can the one the person holding it raise it up or bring it forward please and does anyone else need to sign a blue sheet if you do if you could catch the one coming up is the blue sheet somewhere back there okay someone it still hasn\u0027t okay very good just want to make sure we didn\u0027t lose it okay next up we\u0027re going to talk about our informational drafts the first one planned is the architecture document and injures going to be presenting that remotely so we\u0027re bringing that up on the screen for you all right great yep we\u0027ve got Jessica just in time yeah we\u0027ve got remote audio we\u0027re good all right thanks this is just an update on the dots of architecture I published for a sort of a provisional oh six revision this early this morning and I they will probably be at least one more before we really want to talk about adopting working group last call just as a preface but let\u0027s let\u0027s move on to the next slide all right so I will cover the changes and then the obstacles to working group last call next slide please there seemed to be consensus following the last meeting that the working group wanted to see in that consideration section primarily about the the need to prevent the dots client from requesting mitigation for private IP space so that it is there\u0027s a new that\u0027s considering in that consideration section in the O six revision and the next slide please we\u0027ll cover some of the details there\u0027s a reference to RFC 80-85 which is really covering the not keep allows for UDP I would appreciate it a little bit of feedback on whether we would actually also want to make a reference to annette considerations for a tcp signal channel or just dots in general signal and data channel for tcp and that considerations and as I mentioned we\u0027re really looking to and include some discussion of mapping internally detected attack scopes to the public mitigation scope required to provide to the dot server in the mitigation request next slide so the this new section which as I is in some ways rather naive and need some some reworking I\u0027ve added three subsections which involve direct provisioning of the external address to the internal address spaces there is a very rudimentary stun binding request response section which Cheerios already given some very good feedback on about some of the naivety that\u0027s been involved in that particular section we will probably need to expand that rather considerably to cover ice and turn as well and then we\u0027ve added a "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:15:30",
    "text": "section for DNS names which would allow the internal resources to provide a dots mitigation scope if they\u0027re internally and externally resolvable the dots client does not need to know the IP address mapping at all next slide so the obstacle to working group last call is really the feedback on that considerations tier has already kicked it off on the the working group mailing list using his feedback I think we\u0027ll be able to make some rapid progress on this and barring that work we have no other open issues I\u0027m hoping to get this wrapped up actually by the end of this week hopefully we\u0027ll have an O 7 draft with the additional changes and then we would I\u0027d like to proceed to working group last call rapidly after that last slide please okay so Andrew if we could if I could just restate what I heard you say there is that last issue I see some discussion on that issue on the banlist you think we can get it wrapped up by the end of next week and then we\u0027d be ready for working group last call that\u0027s my hope yes would you prefer that we stagger the working group last call on the requirements let that finish before we issue that for the architecture I don\u0027t really have a preference partly because I don\u0027t anticipate a lot of feedback on the requirements draft okay then if the schedule works we will we will then run them in parallel if need be thank you are there comments on the architecture document so actually in particular one question for me is is there any particular feedback on the net considerations that we still have as as a note here any additional points or actually let me rephrase this is there anything else beyond the net that we have measured no no you can stay don\u0027t worry like you don\u0027t need to run away just to say that I think we we need to have more time to review the current text before lunch indeed working class contract lecture so that to make sure that the in the net considerations is aligned what we have already provided in this signal channel also in the channel because we have already and not consideration discussions there that\u0027s to align tanks and then start the developing of plastic on the architecture apart from that I think that the architecture of document is almost stable and we have the main point to be discussed are already covered we would prefer to kind of push forward I mean we\u0027ll do we release the live and released the draft with the tentative changes if they\u0027re not good well we can potentially do another call we\u0027re gonna blast call or we can kind of fix it after review hey okay cool so "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:18:31",
    "text": "that was the architecture draft yes okay so the last topic we have is the use case document which is an informational and we in a sense needs your help the we\u0027ve done various kind of structural reform adding of it we\u0027ve talked a lot about the use cases kind of themselves and we are not making progress so we have a couple of questions kind of structure here to help us get there so what what you see projected right now are two - hums that we are going to do and we wanted to share the questions with you ahead of time before you see the material so there has been some conversation related to whether we need the home net use case so after the next presentation of use cases is done the first thing the first hum we\u0027re going to do is ask are there objections to removing the use case and then the next hum that we\u0027re going to be doing is contingent on the content you\u0027re gonna be seeing in the next presentation which is which sets of use cases we want to use in the - 11 whether it\u0027s going to be the basis of the use cases currently in the draft or what is about to be presented and I see some puzzle looks and it\u0027ll be a little clearer after you see the presentation so I would ask that that you kind of listen to what\u0027s about to get presented we\u0027re gonna do two hums and we need your help as the working group the editor team needs actually your help in deciding which course of action to take and without that we are going to be really unable to publish ticket of this document because the editor team needs clarity on which way which way to process that document so you will see this slide again and we will hum kind of twice with oh and we\u0027ll talk a little bit more about that after Daniels got a presentation around use cases good evening everyone so thank you so the use case document so I sent a few comment on the version 9 and then well in order to move forward I just like to get your feedbacks on what would be the most appropriate way to have a version 11 so this presentation is really intent to illustrate some of it I mean at least my view on how we should move to document forward so it basically roughly applying the comments I\u0027ve provided on the mailing list and like you feedback to you know if it\u0027s a the right way or if you have to take another way mostly it\u0027s not a big change it\u0027s mostly "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:21:32",
    "text": "organizational it limits it reduces the number of use cases so I\u0027m stating three use cases instead of multiple additional use cases and it\u0027s also limit the level of details to the dot protocol so there are a lot of information but maybe this information at some point I found not so if I\u0027m more information out relevant relevant in the dots context so the end result is a ugly copy-paste but it still provide what the intent was really to provide you and a high-level view of what we may we may go so there are three use cases I think that are relevant for that document the first one is when you have a novel a DDoS mitigation managed by a service provider that is that has nothing to do with a customer I think this example should be probably presented at the first one because it provide a full description and what are the different entity interacting together and provide a description of how the dots exchange should be and then there is a an expected common use cases which is where your ISP is actually hosting the DDoS mitigation so it\u0027s very related close to the use case one except that you have a binding between the link and the service so it could be useful but it had some small constraint and rather than starting the use case to from scratch I just built and focus on the difference which the use case and the most motivation the main motivation for use case two is that is it\u0027s a use cases that\u0027s gonna that seems to me quite relevant and that\u0027s going to be widespread in future and the last use case is use case tree where dot is being used as a way to manage and to orchestrate different that dot service so if there is a coordination and and so on so these are the three use case I think are really relevant to the document and it seems to me that some of the other use cases described in version 10 or nine because mostly based my work on my comments were for a version time nine are tiny you know could be very "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:24:35",
    "text": "easily derived from the menu some for more generic and main use cases the other chains are that I\u0027ve removed HomeNet use case um well this is case I was the one introducing this use cases so I feel less guilty to remove that one but uh it seems to me that we didn\u0027t have a real consensus whether it was a useful use case and it was also maybe a use case that mislead the the team into splitting to use cases between internal use cases and external use cases so inter-domain and intradomain use cases which may not be relevant to you at that stage so yeah so I see some people in the line flaming and raising this question for clarification how long do you think the document will be you sure you implement these changes so how long you mean in time or a number of pages number of pages I think that well I have made some and you can show that just give me a rough idea pages okay thank you from what I remember specific for reason for removing the home made use case I\u0027m sorry could you repeat the question in specific reason for removing the home negatives kiss well the reason is that we it seems to me that we didn\u0027t have an agreement on whether this use case was relevant or not true and that\u0027s a reason so for some time I thought I was the only one concerned but it\u0027s use case that looks like a good use case to me okay so I can I can give you an explanation why it\u0027s okay right in further use case right so for example my company McAfee is providing home security so we have security software running on CP right and this is something that we could do basically to provide home security where we can protect the home network from DDoS attacks or the whole network launching DDoS attacks right now one specific change in the protocol that basically for a home light used is that I can bring you is the call home feature what the dots client running on the we need a dot server on the CPU basically but you don\u0027t really want to run a server so restaurant gives you a capability where you initially act as a client talk to the ISP and then ISP degrades himself to act as a client and the server becomes the client becomes own on the CPU becomes a server that\u0027s a call home functionality basically for home routers to be managed by a cloud service provider or somebody sitting in that ISP to manage them so there are specific things that the home net use case is bringing which is quite unique and different from the other use cases that we have right click the call home one "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:27:36",
    "text": "right which is not there in the other use cases okay right so I\u0027m happy to add I mean if you want to reduce the text I don\u0027t mind it but I think I think it\u0027s a special use case which is quite different from the others and I think we should continue as I say it\u0027s different from the three others yes we have one more comment in the online remotely from all ends hi there Roland Devon server networks um yeah I strongly disagree that it\u0027s a unique you case I believe that the other use cases that are in - 9 - 10 - 10 was just cleaning up notes and in grammar errors no content changes there\u0027s already another use case that\u0027s quite clear that talks about mitigation of outbound DDoS attacks for example on a broadband access network that use case could be modified slightly to incorporate a little bit more of what was just discussed right now in this meaning the current home net use case as defined is not very clear and and there\u0027s a lot of verbiage in the air it\u0027s just it\u0027s it\u0027s it\u0027s not a clear use case at all and so we already have the outbound stuff taken care of and the the phone home you know stuff that was just discussed could very easily be added to that other use case to fulfill that particular name thank you Fleming Andreasen yeah I mean on the home that use case I think it\u0027s a fine use case I don\u0027t see anything wrong with it you know I support it as well having said that I think we\u0027re spending an awful lot of time on our use cases at this point so on you know whatever it takes to move forward I had a couple other comments if that\u0027s okay yeah please do so just checking should we first discuss about the whole met case before we move to the other points so let\u0027s stay on home net and then kind of narrow that and then we do the other parts so who has comments about home net yeah so let\u0027s that\u0027s now that talk yes Nick and to you also about helmet I guess so let\u0027s that\u0027s focus that one first so very quickly it is related to home that but it\u0027s more case of like the simple use case of this is the fact that like saying help it make it stop and that is really the only one use case and we\u0027re just trying to be a bit new and so personally if there\u0027s text that people would like to suggest for home net that they would like you know that we can just slap it in there and kind of put it to the working group and go from there I think we are spending too much time on it generally to going around in circles removing it adding it removing and adding it if somebody likes something tickly about it give us text we\u0027ll stick it in that as long as in use "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:30:38",
    "text": "case is not harming the signal dots work right I mean why what\u0027s the big deal in removing those use cases they\u0027re just different deployment scenarios being used so what does what is the heart stop that we have to remove those use cases and make progress oh I\u0027m sorry I shouldn\u0027t have touched the mic I think the question goes a little bit to you whether you would like to propose some text for the because like you you seem that you care about this use case so and as Nick mentioned like if you have something that you want to propose and put it there I\u0027m looking with the existing test yeah yeah so I mean if somebody wants to concise or make it whisper I\u0027m okay with that but I\u0027m just saying continue with the text I don\u0027t have any problems with the text okay the tech brought in server networks on the text is in need of I\u0027m serious editing if it\u0027s going to be included in the draft so let handful the home that use case analytic hold on hold on so we were gonna talk about or there are other issues we want to bring up that art home net kind of related based on what Daniel yes now we come to sorry I think we turned away a couple yeah Mike so please come back to the Mike if you have topics that were beyond home that and I think Roland is already in the queue to start the discussion yeah first of all I want to think annual for all the work that he\u0027s done I\u0027m thinking about this and in putting together this proposal my view is that while guests people who are familiar with the DDoS arena with the concepts that are out late and are laid out in the three proposed use cases can easily derive many of the other use cases many of the people who would benefit the most from this document are not familiar with DDoS and they\u0027re not familiar with the operational world or if they\u0027re operational people they\u0027re not cognizant of all the different considerations they don\u0027t understand necessarily what is outside the scope of donnas versus what\u0027s inside the scope of dots and that is from from my perspective is the value of those additional use cases so um my suggestion would be that we don\u0027t condense it down into three my further suggestion is if the consensus the working group is that we do consider it down to three then my suggestion would be that we actually use the upstream transit provider case s use case number one because that\u0027s actually conceptually similar then the overlaid cases so flip those two in the list of three in Daniels presentation Thanks question was why do we need dots client on the phone is it gonna be running on a browser or what so it\u0027s clearly outlined in the use case currently that that "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:33:39",
    "text": "they\u0027re in dot no.9 as well as as ten and actually that use case has been in the document for several revisions maybe a mistake can I ask what the difference would be between having a dots client on a phone and the dot a client on the phone communicating through a portal that had a dots client yet Andrew Young mrs. Roland diamond server networks Det it\u0027s the same thing though there\u0027s a web portal for manual activation and in the case of the the phone is again acting as a personal portal for activate manual activation of the service thanks yeah on the mic to Margo to chenkov once again so in October I\u0027ve sent a suggestion of adding a new use case namely and user with an upstream transit provider or MSSP offering DDoS mitigation services on the permanent basis so as far as I can understand from the conversation on the mailing list this was sort of accepted but it\u0027s still missing from Jeff ten so the question is other plans to incorporate this into Jeff eleven Rowland Island server networks um that\u0027s actually not a separate use case that\u0027s just a separate motive operation I do agree with you that it should be explicitly stated that there are two different primary modes of mitigation either number one on demand diversion in reinjection or number two permanent permanent diversion in line issue you know whether it\u0027s specifically inline or logically line as you mentioned so that does need to be addressed in whichever form the group decides that the document should take thanks for bringing that up again okay thank you anything else you wanna say Daniel no okay all right Thank You Daniel so we\u0027re gonna we\u0027re gonna do a little bit of humming can we get the slide back so to be Escanaba away working with J head off so before we go into this humming the one thing that I care is that this gets done frankly like we have been running around this use case trough for quite a long time the last update didn\u0027t really make many changes it\u0027s good that we had some chromatic grammar editorial changes that\u0027s okay but like we were still missing this use case that was just mentioned and like I really hope us to "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:36:40",
    "text": "get this through so from the perspective of home that I\u0027m ambivalent like okay if you get good text okay I\u0027m happy to have it if not and I\u0027m also happy and when it comes to the formatting actually I have a slight preference for a streamlined option as Daniel proposes it because I think it will like help the reader to go through that and maybe you will not be so easily lost in a large number of cases and especially like I\u0027m actually this would be a question for me personally not as a chair to Daniel like if you\u0027re committed to make these changes that would also help me to go for yeah okay do it because left or right or both open so it\u0027s fine but as long as we get through that door eventually you have a question after we if we do some humming device is the resource question because we we don\u0027t have a lot of energy and bringing closure to this draft and that\u0027s the other thing we need a respective of what we do with the texture okay thank you what we can also do is I can commit well do the current version mentioning it accepted to the github and we work all on the github and get that version that no later than a month from now that\u0027s our okay I don\u0027t want to commit more than a month okay Thank You Daniel okay the first question we are going to hum is framed around the fact that we have an editor team right now working on this use case document and the two different elements of that editor team have said the home that use case should be removed we need working group feedback to the editors about whether the home that use case should stay in or out so I\u0027m gonna frame this frame this as the text is there hum please now if there is an objection to removing the home net use case we need to make the call to test to see with everybody please hum now if you are in favor of removing the home net use case okay so people are not sleeping so who\u0027s in favor of removing the home that use case okay good so I like can we "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:39:51",
    "text": "take this as consensus to remove it at this point yeah okay thank you ad okay so that is hum number one now the second hum were we\u0027re going to do is going to consider the structure of the document again the editor teams have proposed two different structures to what is in the current text and they need your feedback to tell them what to do with that text so option one so the first time we\u0027re gonna be asking is about keeping the existing structure in the text that\u0027s - 10 but also it\u0027s also - 9 and it\u0027s been in the last couple versions the that structure has been the same the second hum will ask the option to is there was a restructuring proposed down to three use cases that Daniel just presented presented on or would you prefer that option Flemming you want to restructure the options I do not but I would like to ask a question of the author\u0027s first which is is there a difference in when we\u0027re going to get a final document depending on which option we go with and if so what is that difference I don\u0027t know what\u0027s the answer Daniel this is a little bit of the problem we\u0027ve had I can say that it seems to me that that option number one requires the least amount changes thank you so my understanding is that it\u0027s a simple document will be easier to get a review and that once in the last call it will go smoothly to the isg while a complex version might get a lot of feedback and raise a lot of discussions so with the working which I hear working group chair head on like we also debated about this and I think in the end there\u0027s probably pros and cons on both sides for the speed of this I mean looking at what we\u0027ve seen for the changes from Danielle as most of this is organizing this is probably not gonna take a lot of time to do so sometime gain some time lost yeah might be a wash okay so to restate there\u0027s going to be two options to hum on option one is going to be keep the existing structure less the HomeNet we just decided on option two will be take the use the revised structure of three primary use "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:42:51",
    "text": "cases that Daniel just just splashed up in the presentation so okay if you would like to hum for option one please hum okay if you would like option two which revises the structure of the draft according to the three use cases you just saw in the presentation please hum now okay so the consensus from the ad listening is that we\u0027re going with option two on hum 2 which is we are going to pursue a revised structure that\u0027s simplified to the three use cases that was just in the presentation prior to this slide so Daniel you had been saying that you were late laying out a notional kind of timeline so to repeat that you think you can make all of the changes you had shown in your slide to within a month and after we do that we go working group last call yeah I think what I can commit and probably rolling as well is that well the feedback who will received on the mailing list will be integrated to the github live so that we we we reach a final document soon within a month\u0027s yeah so within a month is what we\u0027re looking for okay Rowland Europe yes agreed thank you okay and then there was also some feedback related to thiru so too were we talked about oh sorry we we voted on the UN already I have one comment as working group chair so we have seen let\u0027s say some delays with the use case draft and at this point actually my my face is directly to you Danielle so you made this commitment so within a month I hope we can have that draft and if you need help you can get it but like this if I if I get a commitment from five people then I it\u0027s not as dependable like as that one from one person so go ahead don\u0027t wait for others make it happen okay that\u0027s my encouraging begging you cheer okay thank you so that brings us to the end of the structured portion of our agenda we still have some time for open mic so if you have thoughts comets "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:45:51",
    "text": "concern feedback please okay that leaves us with one thing we want to think our graceful ad for all the great services she did for our working group and all the patience she had with the many slipping milestones I heard I read somewhere there\u0027s nothing no better sound than the swooshing of milestones kind of swooshing by and like I think we had a great great sound with that so thank you so much Kathleen for all the help and the guidance you offer to us really and there\u0027s a token of our appreciation we have a book for you that well I think help you were remind you of what it was like to be an ad but also you can maybe use this as well we don\u0027t know this one yet thank you thank you and I look forward to seeing the results of this work and hopefully seeing collaboration across industry with it okay okay with that we are John\u0027s thank you yep yes bye yeah yeah no I mean it\u0027s for spring you "
  }
]