[
  {
    "startTime": "00:00:14",
    "text": "oh well we are on time and i think we can get started if you're okay and nick is okay okay fine okay um uh welcome everyone this is the mpls working group session i'm going to walk initially over the status update and couple of logistics and pointers and then i'm going to hand it over to loa we are meeting uh this time for ietf 112 this is still a virtual online meeting and um uh uh your chairs for mpls working group myself uh tarek lowa and nick our secretary for ampules working group is mak chen and unfortunately uh he won't be able to attend uh for personal reasons this time um nick has volunteered to cover uh four minute taking and and uh monitoring the queue thank you nick for that and uh you know law as well uh you'll be monitoring the queue so as laura was mentioning uh we have our note well it governs the real and you know any participation of the idf that we uh contribute and we have couple of bcp uh pointers here uh on uh details the this relationship i encourage uh you know everyone who has not already read that uh to take some time and read it we do have an extension uh notewell uh for guidelines for for conduct in idf"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:02:01",
    "text": "and uh basically uh it it favors or encourages people it means it strives itf tries to create maintain an environment where people should respect each other have decency and dignity each other and uh doesn't allow in any space for harassment in idf and uh that's basically i'll let you read through the the text but we uh we do encourage uh you know uh to follow these practices set out by itf [Music] in terms of some useful pointers as usual blue sheet uh are automatically populated by meat echo uh minute taking uh nick uh and and i courage um you know whoever can contribute to the minute taking please log into this url and and uh or you can use the the meet echo icon on the top which will take you there as well uh one important pointer on this page is that we now have a github repo for the mpls working group uh we have a couple of drafts that the design team has put up on the repo but i do encourage uh participants to uh put their uh you know work in progress uh drafts that other people can uh open issues on and review and give comments so it is us for us to to use if we find it useful this is our agenda today we have a couple of minutes um to go"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:04:00",
    "text": "over more administrative things and then we'll move on on to the uh working group status report and then i'll hand over to uh loa to talk more about the open design team report reporting on that and the activities that the design team is working on we have three other presentations that will follow and i encourage the speakers to leave some room for questions this is the time to bash this agenda if you don't like anything on it so i'll uh i'll give a pause if anybody wants to comment okay i don't hear anything so this is an a reminder for status reports on working group documents if you're a co-author of a working group document and have something to share about your document or you know that will motivate motivate asking for a slot in the session please reach out to the chairs and include a report we expect open issues to be mentioned and next steps update for any working group document since last time we met in itf 111 there hasn't been any a new errata reported uh let me move on to the document status now since last time we have a new rfc rfc 1941 and thank you for the working group and the office of the rfc and whoever contributed shepherd working group chairs for making this happen"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:06:00",
    "text": "[Music] we have couple of documents in rc editor queue the first one is almost reaching rfc publication the second is in miss rough state it is waiting on another draft [Music] and my understanding is uh the other draft is waiting on uh some action from uh the shepherd maybe loa yes that's probably true though in my status file this was actually waiting for the authors so i will check up on that but it's probably an error from me okay i mean this is the chance for the authors to comment if they think uh otherwise uh so feel free i i'm not monitoring the cue but i can speak quickly or nick uh if you interrupt me if you feel that somebody wants to to talk we have a document in iesg the ad has reached out to the authors with some questions and right now the ad is waiting on the authors to respond to these questions so if the authors of this draft are present please do respond to the ad on their question they actually confirmed directly actually confirmed that they will respond oh they did okay yeah yeah okay then the state stat status is yeah i mean it's still waiting on them for the respond yeah the next document we have is a newly adopted document uh it's a working group document now and uh we have triggered the early code point allocation for this draft uh"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:08:02",
    "text": "we have received a request and uh from the office that uh it's uh it's suitable to do early code allocation we have a number of working group documents that got updated some of them we have a report on but we do encourage the rest to please fill out the report sent to the list with any open issues and the next plan to take uh to take on them yeah i got that notification so uh yeah whoever pavan go ahead um regarding rar cpfr i i mean this was uh i mean it was pushed to isg for application i think it just sat there for some time and i think the ask was to uh make enough i mean the updates are made but the ask was to go back to the working group and revisit it i don't know why it's stuck in the state is there something that's expected of the authors yeah it came back from the working group actually it was sent back from um the the ad or the the attitude queue back to the working group for taking action and as far as i know um has the action been taken uh yeah my understanding is that i mean i think the problem there was that the requested edits were made but the authors took a while to get that"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:10:00",
    "text": "done because of the delay uh the ask was to go back to the working group and come back i mean that's how i interpreted that there are no updates to be made so i mean i i think it can progress again that's my take on it okay so maybe an email saying that all the action or all the outstanding comments have been uh cleared make sense we'll do that though why do you want to add more on this uh no i think it's fine thanks okay we have i think rakesh is next in the queue yeah hi tariq hi everyone good morning good afternoon the rfc 6374 sr draft we sent an email update last week we believe the document is ready for working group last call okay thank you for reminding somehow we missed that update uh [Music] make sure that we do uh we do take action on that okay yeah thanks daddy thank you stewart um so sfo control i've done as much as i can do without some feedback from other people so either informal feedback by someone by people in the working group reading it or formal feedback by the working group chairs putting it through the mpls review process and into last call but i can't do any more work without other people uh commenting on it raw loi you're the shepherd on this do you want to comment yeah no i think i think i miss misplaced this document in wrong status"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:12:02",
    "text": "i think stuart is right we can go ahead and see what happens uh yes please i mean i just say i i don't care whether it's informal feedback which we can do which i'll diligently do first or whether it's one of your former ones but someone knows the last mail i have on that draft that's actually made to you from me asking if there is any more anything more you want to do and i haven't seen the response on that oh i apologize no i need you to take the next step please to either encourage people to encourage some feedback thank you okay thanks shredder do you want to go ahead uh yes though so the srep oam draft i had requested for working up last call we believe there are no further updates uh on this draft um yeah i can i mean if i have to send the request again on the mailing list i will do do so i just wanted to know uh any other positions that's necessary i think uh i need to check on that but i think i sent something on that thrust in yeah so so lower it was about to expire it it was it had expired actually which i uh refreshed uh today okay so then we are yeah yeah then we are good thanks okay okay okay thank you i'll move on and uh [Music] we have a couple of new individual drafts [Music] uh some of them they're not on the agenda today we encourage the new drafts to be uh shared with a working group maybe a short presentation next time"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:14:02",
    "text": "actually tarek both of those are on the uh joint meeting after this wow okay okay i remember the first nibble in the miata requirements right yeah no but i meant uh yeah that that's true these two are on the joint uh session maybe i missed to mention that uh this is the mpls working group session we have another session which is joined with uh pals.net working group and uh it's the session three today it's in the session three today and these two drafts will be presented there okay uh we do have uh the the blue uh drafts highlighted here in blue uh they are on the agenda uh the the last one is was moved to the joint session uh okay again we have one which is uh on the agenda from the individual drafts okay uh i promised the report on this draft in band pm encapsulation so there was a version that was reviewed by the mpls review team version one and the authors took action and addressed all the comments version 2 stands as is there's an open issue or maybe it's staying in line with what is happening in the mpls open design team um there is a talk about mpls indicators and ancillary data uh being uh you know being discussed at open design team so this will allow a single spl uh to carry uh multiple actions and the authors they think that this is related this this can be an action that"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:16:01",
    "text": "that the miad indicator can carry so i encourage you know that the authors of this draft personally i encourage them to uh participate in the open design team and highlight that this is a an action or a function that can be uh also part of the discussions this is your chance the office if you want to comment more but this is my feedback okay i see kiriti is in the queue do you want to go ahead greedy yeah can you hear me yes i can okay my question was for i'm hearing an echo that might be just me um your voice is a little bit faint can you raise up your voice a bit is this better a little bit but still can you do any better [Music] okay um the the question was for the lr draft um you know we wanted to make it a working group document so where are we in that process yeah uh the last time we met kiriti on this uh there was a action on the office to uh you know at least uh indicate that uh was there an action on the lr to [Music] integrate this with what's happening in mpls open design team uh is that accurate last time we took this note or maybe i'm missing something"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:18:01",
    "text": "i missed the question is there an action yeah i think there was you know an update uh that you promised to make to the draft the larp uh i would check with my co-author um unfortunately he just left juniper but um i will check with him but from what i understood it was just to make it a working group document but i'll check with him okay oh okay okay okay uh kiriti or nick do you uh have anything to add on this uh the lr draft not right now oh no nick no no no no i think it's fine okay thank you uh move on and hand over now to uh loa to talk a little bit about the uh report on mpls open design team activities okay uh i tried to do this rather quickly we normally have done one short report here and another report in the design team this time it won't be a report in the design thing so this is what you get when i think back to the start of the work um it seemed to be just a small piece we needed to do something about organizing the use of the first bytes of the the uh the boss but when looking at it it's kind of it's growing and growing and we're starting to get close to taking decision on some of the issues so watch out next slide please"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:20:01",
    "text": "uh so we had quite suddenly uh five or six drives that actually was looking to using the same place in the labor stack as we had been using for the ach and it turned out that it wouldn't work so we needed to do something and we had a couple of people that stepped in and said that this is the kind of an architectural question and we need to make be very careful that we don't do anything that paint is into a corner and at that time i was a little bit skeptic but it turns out that they're right yeah we need to architect this very carefully next slide please so we have a couple of things we discussed and that we mostly agree on um the um scoped the activities of the design team to mpls indicators and ancillary data and we call this the miad project i literally get this disappointed we couldn't make it meow project but okay meowth project is producing the spine indicators carried within the mp label stack to indicate that there are some wanted actions that is not clearly strictly clear from the label itself anxiety data is carried with the packet and is in support for those those actions ancillary data has three different forms it can be in stack data this is it can be post data or it can be we say"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:22:01",
    "text": "no data and putting no data there is a little bit of a stretch but we have cases so it's there next slide please further we had agreed on that anything that has been specified before must continue to work whatever the design team does and we also agree on that after the boss there can only be one set of ancillary data [Music] and i think that is one of the important things we we really have understood over time uh anxiety data might be complex and have structure it might not just be one value or something it could be something more complex and when we specify new applications they need to resolve how to carry indicators and ancillary data without interfering with the earliest existence existing specifications a one more slide i think we have a list of output we definitely have output from the design team um use cases uh requirement and a framework that has taken time things things has been uh changing and we have solutions draft whether they"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:24:00",
    "text": "will be designed team draft or not is kind of an open question they might be individual draft that goes through the working group as any other document i think that was my last slide wow okay no uh so we have a couple of things we need to do in the near time uh we should decide on the format and scope of indicators meaning that what they point at what what they're used for needs to be very clearly specified and actually there will be rules for how they are specified uh we need to specify scope and format of in salary data we have a number of uh proposals today uh some of them that not that clearly outspoken and we need to ensure backwards and future compatibility that was the last life create the urine queue yeah one thing that i'd like to point out when we say ensure backward and future compatibility um especially backward compatibility we have to say that it works as well as it could not that it works because for example the first nibble uh heuristic that says uh if it is the first nibble is four then it's an ipv4 packet that's a broken heuristic and we've we've mentioned this before"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:26:02",
    "text": "so we want things to work as they used to but that doesn't mean that they work well i just want to sort of underline that yeah okay yeah i think everyone agrees to that it's just how deep into the details to you at this type of report we we understand that we have things in current specifications that does not work well and they will not work well yes because the design team does anything things like that so we say instead of saying backwards compatibility work as well as they can but there is a limit to that also they need to work okay i'm done thank you lola i don't see anyone else on the in the queue so i'll uh we'll move on to the next uh presentation uh let me see if we can find uh i think it's rakesh who's next you should be able to see the slides if not let me know thanks tariq i said you guys hear me yeah yes okay yeah thanks so uh yeah my name is rakesh gandhi and i'm presenting the draft on the encapsulation of stamp for pseudo-wires in mpls networks on behalf of the authors they're still here next slide please so the agenda is to look at the requirements and the scope of the draft uh the summary of the procedures defined"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:28:00",
    "text": "and the next steps next slide please so the requirements and scope so this is encapsulation of a simple debump stamp test packets for the mpls to the wires we're looking at both the packet suite and without ip udp header the motivation there is to uh because this is for the in-band stamp so we like to uh follow the same as data traffic uh and match their headers um and also um need to make sure that uh we're following the same ecmp part as well as data traffic the scope is temp uh the 8762 the stamp extensions in rfc 8972 so these are the the two new rfcs uh defined in ippm and we are using them for surewire uh and uh p2p uh at the moment and uh in future p2mp uh pls to the wires and next slide you prefer to take questions towards the end or uh i see people in the queue just uh what's your preference uh i'm fine either way um if uh questions can wait then uh sure uh or we can take now uh depending on the so greg if you have questions now we can take it right um i have a question about the requirement for encapsulation without ipdp header um because in my opinion that creates more complexity than it might bring any benefit so um where this requirement is from yeah so we're trying to uh send the t1"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:30:00",
    "text": "packets uh in band with data traffic um so along the same path and with the same header so there is a data traffic for sudo wire that has no ip header and we like to use the same headers uh as the data traffic with no ip header to avoid any uh you know different behavior the goal here is to measure the accurate latency and packet loss and whatnot so you're trying to avoid putting a ip header that does not really carried by the data traffic into these pro packets and have a different behavior in data plane um well my understanding is that if in mpls network we want to um be in band with a monitored data flow well the recommendation is to use entropy label so as was discussed and that's part of the discussion open design team of this uh first nibble uh but it's more a hack so i don't really see that there is a apparent need to do without ipedp header yeah data is not getting a ib header in in in the pseudo-wire case then it makes no sense to say pro packets carry ip header the fabricated ip header uh that you had to come up with uh that can cause uh the other side issues um [Music] but normally we do it for their uh all other oem for bfd for lspping so uh it's not something new and it's not really a problem for operations yeah so here the goal is to measure the"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:32:02",
    "text": "accurate latency so it's important that uh that the packets uh look and feel exactly the same as data traffic right so but coming up with ip header it would not really look or feel because uh again imagine that you are doing um tdm uh pseudowire how your uh stamp packet will look and feel like tdm yes if data is not carrying ip header uh you you have probing that using ip header it's it's a different uh packets right it's not so so greg and then maybe maybe this is an interesting thing to take to the list um i think it's uh you know it's worth answering greg's question um so please follow up on the list on that and let's give stewart a chance to ask his question thank you greg thanks i was going to largely ask exactly the same question as greg um i think this is more bandwidth than we get on the list i think we probably need a group of interested people to get together and have a voice conversation as we would have had at a normal normal ietf um i can't see any reason why it matters that there's an ip udp address in there a header in there because we've been doing as greg says oam like that for a long time and since you're using ecmp well if it's a pseudo wire you shouldn't be going and looking around below the stack anyway so it doesn't matter what is there it's never going to be interrogated other than as part of a normal pseudowire operation uh anything else is not going to go down there because you're saying you have to put any a an entropy label in there so i don't think you need the complexity of these these two cases just use one and we already have one that works which is using id ip udp"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:34:01",
    "text": "yeah thanks steven yeah so our next slide please uh so uh the reference topology here uh we have stamp uh sender s1 and uh reflector r1 uh we have pseudo wire and the stem packets follow the pseudo wire next slide please so this is the case uh that uh stewart and gang mentioned about using the ip v4 and ipv6 ach to carry the stem uh so there are existing uh acs defined 21 and 57 values for ipv4 ipv6 that's used and next slide please and this is the case uh where the ip header is not used and in this case a new ach is defined for the session sender and next like this again on the reflector side the same ipv4 ipv6 ach are used for the reflector packet next slide piece and new ach is defined uh if no ip header is used [Music] in case of the reflector packet and next like this so what there is no uh no way to distinguish the sender and reflector package so uh in in case of ip udp there is really people tells you is a sender packet a reflector packet and if no ip header is there then the ga is the the channel type tells you the css in the sender or reflector packet next like this so welcome your comments and suggestions"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:36:00",
    "text": "uh we weren't sure about the working group is mpls or pals and we are requesting a working group adoption for this work yeah thank you hi steward so if it's a pseudo wire then obviously it belongs in um pals question is are you trying to do mpls instrumentation as well in which case i think you're in a whole new construct no it's it's really encapsulating or for the studio wires in that case it belongs in pals um where all the companion documents were developed i think okay yeah i i personally okay so my question is the clarification on the uh without ip udp use case is it for is it for the case that the pseudo wire endpoints are not ip capable uh or i mean did you clarify that is it that this is uh this is for the case where the the data traffic is not carrying the ip and that so uh probes have exact same uh encoding as the data traffic uh of course different achievements i see greg you're back in the queue i wonder so um why it's only a three to volcan scooter wires because we do have uh gach so which is applicable to mpls and if uh new ach types are defined if and when that seems to be equally applicable to mpls lsp"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:38:09",
    "text": "definitely uh yeah if it's uh applicable to mpls then uh i mean so i don't know if ach registry belongs to the mpls working group then the allocation happens in mpls so it's not clear to me located by the ach expert and um they've usually been associated with sudoa which is where we developed all this in the first place but it's not a turf issue here this is about you know doing the right thing in a simple and consistent um simple and consistent way and i am very confused as to um well i think we need to spend more time talking it through which is why i'm suggesting a side meeting yeah thanks steve let's let's do it that way thank you rakesh um the next presenter is jin hello you hear me okay yes i can hear you go ahead yeah uh hello everybody um this is the engine so on behalf of my all my co-authors i'm going to present an update of the young data model for mprs okay next slide please so here are some recaps msd stands for sig depths which were defined in rfc 8476 and 8491"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:40:03",
    "text": "the mprs msd model is an augmentation to the mprs base model that was defined in 8960 the content of this draft was originally part of rfc 920 1920 the young data model for segment routing it was decided during iesc review of data rfc to split the content the the part about msd as a single as a separate draft because it's small uh characteristic of mprs um hence we have this small module here next slide please this slide shows the updated tree diagram compared with the old one on the right side you can see that the major change we did was to make the interface msd status to augment the mprs interface instead of all interfaces so i the authors believe this makes more sense things when the interface is running mprs red so it has msd that next slide please so uh besides that please remove the grouping max adapts because no no other module is really using it we updated these security considerations with small details class editorial changes"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:42:02",
    "text": "the authors here would like to thank tongue patch specifically for his review and comments next slide please so next steps of course we like to uh address comments if there are any coming in in the near future and the authors believe the draft is ready for working group adoption so the question to the chairs is can we start an adoption call after this etf that's it thank you so to me and there is a um the next steps is kind of ambivalent uh you say you want to collect an address comments okay and when that is done you want to do the working group adoption uh or are you saying that you really do work in group adoption adoption and then others comments that they come in coming later uh well so the the comments we received so far have already been addressed we of course we welcome people to review and send them more comments but since this part of the the document the module itself was a split of the segment routing model it was already intensely revealed there so i personally am not expecting many new comments coming in so i i i think we should start the working group adoption call okay i i i understand you uh my i think"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:44:03",
    "text": "my real question is on the two ball bullets on the next step slides are the first one uh a condition for going further or it seems like what you're saying no it's actually you want to do to work in group adoption yes i like to study working group adoption and meanwhile you know if during the adoption process or after the adoption we'll continue to address the comments i don't think they conflict with each other um maybe maybe not unless there is strong objection about adopting this draft i don't really think there is i just i think it would be better if the last slide said that the request work we request working group adoption and further comments will be addressed during the working group process i think yeah okay oh okay yeah if you want i can even change the slide upload a new version uh probably not necessary we have it on in the discussion it's fine yeah yeah hope that doesn't cost much confusion i i have a question for you he's in i'll go back to the slide um i see that you are doing the ms deeper interface yes and uh per node as well or is it uh yeah i see it per node and per interface is that correct okay yes and it is the per node the lowest common denominator is that the"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:46:00",
    "text": "thinking uh yeah so you can see actually right now both for the node and for the link they are read only parameters so it really depends on the implementation um if i remember right the definition of note one should be the lowest number from like if you have colleagues you pick the lowest one but really for this model we just report what what the implementation giving us it's not really a configuration yeah yeah and as far as i remember the the whole point is the ingress will use this this attribute when it's doing some computation or path constraint igp has i'm not sure if igp has defined i know they have defined per capability per node but i'm not sure per interface over a link uh so so what is the ability of the printer i'm questioning the utility of reporting per interface is it useful was it something that igp folks also have uh you're planning to do have you researched it so after this we created this new mode small module here in mprs we also create a separate one for ict you know for iss and ospf each so it's pretty much the the same thing it's just inside the icp module icp only you know populate such information right yeah there is a for example ospf sr msd something that purple link or per node per link for both okay yeah okay that was my question yeah jeffrey oh jeff i think you're in you you're in the queue you want to ask go ahead"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:48:01",
    "text": "thank you i think jen question for you the the authors uh has there been discussion about having a return value for when the node understands what an msd is but it doesn't know what it is for some reason sorry i didn't get your question if the note get the value but doesn't understand what it is so the the node is of a software lineage that understands what msd means but for some reason it is unable to determine the value so right now um like i just mentioned this one is a read only right so it really depends on i guess for most vendors this depends on the hardware so whatever the value reported from the the lower level the hardware level and the software is just you know you can only use what information available okay i i don't think you understand i will send my message to the list yeah maybe i didn't yeah i didn't get our question i guess i'm building my questions on my question on the next question on top of jeff's question um you have msd type there is that to indicate that you can have a label type and then a byte uh you can do by per per byte or for label and why is there a segment there why is it the label depth because you're talking about mpls where is there a label the ms tab is actually so you have maximum segment depth i mean if we are talking about mpls it's label depth right"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:50:00",
    "text": "yes it's the label depth yeah okay so then you more suitable is label depth then why do you have a type and value the tab is defined in the uh the in the rfc 8276 and it's also possible you the entropy label rate depth not only just how many you know so far you know future there might be more depth but right now uh if i remember right there are the like the number of maximum label you can read also the where the entropy label depth you can read we actually running on toilets time now so we have to take this to the list um yeah let toilet start uh yeah ac is in the queue as well as storeless i think tortoise is going to present uh yeah ac we have to apologize i think we're running out of time sorry okay okay um i'm gonna approve uh doorless i think you should be able to share right thank you very much so um i wanted to talk a little bit about the deterministic qs for the mpls data plane uh considerations um i have one draft um that i'm trying to promote to get into that net there's also work beyond that um so um i really would would love to see more people from from mpls site to get involved in that net and see how we can"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:52:00",
    "text": "get that draft adopted and i think the reason for that is what i wanted to high level up here the details of the draft mpls is i'm going to present in that net and i did present in an interim so right now the mpls forwarding plane only allows to support per hop per flow bounded latency solutions which means that for every flow on every hop we need to instantiate a shaper or interleaved regulator so on any mplsp router so there there are different shapers there is rfc 2212 and there's iets and asynchronous traffic shaper but uh the fundamental issue of course is um that um this is highly undesirable um you know in our typical mpls service provider designs which means segment routing networks but we really want to have per hop per flow stateless behavior but instead source routing so that we have scalability load churn of the control plane and so on and that doesn't work with these because they basically every every shaper needs to be instantiated from an mpls label um srp label there in in the label stack and um there is the the total number of the shapers that you would need could easily get into the tenth of thousands in a large service provider networks and i think we've got good experience that even you know this this number of um you know just routing uh states or so is something that we really don't want when we can avoid it um there is another you know more application-centric issue and that is that the shaper solutions do introduce the maximum amount of jitter um because um as soon as there is no competing traffic um the curing latency is zero and with the maximum amount of competing traffic you have the maximum queuing latency so and"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:54:00",
    "text": "this is really highly undesirable especially a lot of industrial applications as we we we've learned over the years so really the industry would like to have a lower jitter solution and i did present in in that net uh example um you know reasons for that in including the need to otherwise have more time clock synchronization and more difficult end-user devices so now what options do we have to overcome this and and they're really two two solutions right one is i think without extension changes to the mpls packet header processing and that's really the draft that i think we should start looking into first that i have in that net which is this um you know tc qf which is per per flow stateless a very low jitter independent of the path property so the jitter doesn't go up with the number of ops or the per hop latency and it purely relies on using the traffic class value in the mpls label to indicate um you know the the uh additionally necessary parameter to enable this qs and and and it is per flow stateless um so we need three to five of those tc values so i think this is really the only short term option for no mpls packet header changes and it is not vaporware but instead it was validated in a 2 000 kilometer wide area network with 100 gigabit or faster high-speed wind routers and you know fairly simple you know us fpga code on the on the qs chips there now when we do uh uh think about extensions uh and changes to the mpls packet header and processing there are really various options and i think those would all be interesting to look into but it's really dangerous to think that"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:56:01",
    "text": "we could standardize you know non-extensible solutions now and i don't really think we know exactly how to make them extensible now because we didn't have the discussion right so um because i think there there there are also more qs things so for both for deadnet and beyond and mpls uh where we want to have better qs and and so it really goes into the need to have more of a design team for that and it would be great if we wouldn't have to do that only for mpls because the same type of issues really exist in the very same way for ipv6 so here's just a little excerpt you know how that tech cycle queueing and forwarding works it's pretty much based on the 12 year old tsn solution cyclic cueing and forwarding packets are simply forwarded bucket by bucket hop by hop into cycles and then that effectively means that the latency on a hopper basis is exactly one such cycle latency and of course the jitter is then the the cycle jitter which can be hundred microseconds um and the main thing that needed to be done to make this technology work for large networks was to really put the cycle number into the packet so that um you know in tsn a packet is received into the cycle based on its timestamp and obviously you know when you have latency on links and when you have jitter uh that doesn't work so that's why the cycle number needs to be in the packet that's why we need to find something in a packet header to do it and that's why a small cycle number from one to three is is kind of the the best thing we can get out of the existing forwarding plane with the traffic class bits so now um yeah and we also are doing um you know pseudo code so it hopefully should be easy to understand how how you know easy this ultimately is in the forwarding plane what needs to be done and then it would obviously work exactly"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:58:00",
    "text": "the same way not only for mpls but also for the ip data plane in that net with three to five dscp values which isn't really you know a strong you know a priority for us now but which obviously gives safety in terms of saying that this can be done without data plane changes for both of our data planes in devnet okay so i was talking about you know extensible qs header and here's a little bit kind of that first round highlight of um what all the issues are that i think we haven't tackled uh with qs.net and beyond right so the first thing is that um the pre-op you know we've done that for mpls but not for ip so um you know given how in the mpls design team there were thoughts of uh you know having headers that would be equally able to attach to mpls and to ip something like for pre-off would make a lot of sense for that the bounded latency the alternatives to the tcqf solution there are other alternatives i myself presented one more new um thing into a research conference but there have been a lot of you know ideas in that space in the past 30 years and they all may need some different but a lot more new packet header than you know just three bits so for example my solution would require a timestamp 16-bit a priority which might be a sequence of four bit values and other solutions might want to have you know other packet header extensions and then you know there are beyond that net things where really we haven't had really good discussions um the most obvious one from the pragmatic side is uh you know just the dscp side the beer header for example which was designed to support both um mpls and ip already has dscp that makes it a lot easier when you're passing ip multicast over mpls not to have to bother with the differences between tc and dscp so that"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:00:00",
    "text": "would also be very lovely to have for operational simplification in an mpls extension header and there are other you know cool things so for example the ecn stuff in l4s they're struggling with just two ecn bits uh if if there were more this would be a lot easier there is uh you know for bandwidth management there were really good drafts where you have a weighted uh bandwidth parameter um and so i think there there's a lot more and the question is you know what scope would we want to take into account uh initially but you know how could we make um you know mpls extension headers easily enough extensible right do we you know like in ipv6 need to create for every new parameter a new extension header do we use a tlv or so on right so i think those are the questions that would be lovely to to tackle more but we need more qs people in there and not only the mpls header folks right so summary would really be lovely to see um you know one really well working proving service provider class bounded latency solution for net with mpls that's usable now i think that's our draft that we have so it would be great to see support for that um you know or questions if you don't understand it um but then of course would also be great to start the longer term qs effort to go along with the mpls design team effort and i guess you know yeah the reaching out to the transport area and the qs folks there is is certainly a big part of that um and i'll see what i can get done there yep and that's it thank you very much so carlos uh what do you want to get from presenting this here in the mpls working group right so i think it was as i said in the summary right so the one thing was for the mpls folks to try to understand this problem um which is that if we want to have deadnet be a future"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:02:01",
    "text": "driver for mpls networks we need to have a bounded latency solution that fits service provider requirements and that is that draft right so i'm looking for support for that draft even if it's obviously you know happening in that net but i think the kind of more use case in terms representation of the interests of service provider networks with mpls that's to be found here in the mpls working group that's why i'm kind of you know the you're you're kind of the the network owner working group um so that's just you know please come to that net and and and and work on this and the other the second part was really about my thoughts on you know what that that we have a complex space of problems for us to solve before converging on i think more extensible better qs extension headers for mpls in the mpls design team and that we shouldn't think that any single extension piece that we've seen now might be something that is valid long term but that you know extensibility in an efficient way might be the first important thing to think about for qs functions in the mpls design team okay thank you okay we have one person in the queue but we're out of time so if this is quick uh um go ahead otherwise i think uh you know we have to take it to the list uh it's very quick actually so one uh comment i had was the it's very loaded topic definitely uh turnless you're comparing with cqf and ats stuff so basically this is a neat lot of understanding of dsn technologies and also the requirements to differentiate this uh so but the question relevant here is that you're asking for the tcn which"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:04:00",
    "text": "three to five for the cq of stuff right so it happened in the tsu working group also for the l4s we don't have that many bits right we have only three bits here so how do you get five values out of it yes it's three bits that's eight values and i i i'm saying we need three to five values out of the eight yeah even getting one or two there itself is getting difficult right so that was happening yes we were in group discussions during l4s so think about it so you might have to go to mplsdt uh for extensible stuff yeah yeah i i think that's that's that's a question of you know how are you already using the tc values in mpls networks and what is the important differentiation that gives you um you know a business value yeah okay thanks uh and also the comparison of ats and uh cqf is extremely complicated if you if you put a separate session in the dt or you know that net will be useful thanks oh yeah sure okay uh any closing comments from the working group chairs uh before we adjourn laura nick um no i don't think so we have a meeting in half an hour so okay all right thank you everyone um who attended we'll see you uh soon in either next session or next idea thanks bye thank you bye okay thank you"
  }
]
