[
  {
    "startTime": "00:00:13",
    "text": "it\u0027s story [Music] [Music] [Music] [Music] this is not a professional presentation you can see my next [Music] "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:03:33",
    "text": "[Music] okay last one we have been waiting a little bit for people to find this room this is the middle bitch of a navigation exercise I mean I\u0027m sure by Friday we will all know where these rooms are but people are still trying to find it at the moment so this is the thing the thing research group I\u0027m casting woman this is re Carolyn and we are operating under the IRT F guidelines fear for what they call intellectual property rights and these happen to be the same ones we use in the IETF and oh I didn\u0027t include the note words like sorry so you can find the the information on this link and the most important thing to keep in mind is that if you are talking about certain technology and you know about patent claims to applying to that technology you have a choice you can tell us that there is a patent claim on the technology or you can choose not to talk about the technology good I think we do we have driverless wives who can serve as a java sprite for this meeting javascript doesn\u0027t mean you have to try everything the presenter says it just means you your answer to questions from the driver side and present them to the microphone if someone who does not have speak so I\u0027m sure what hundra\u0027s can do that thank you honey okay and apart from the usual things that come with working group or research group there is also a github repository under the github organization t2 t RG and we we create a repository for each meeting and that\u0027s where the most recent slides are and where all other information is going to be okay yeah that\u0027s exactly my problem Apple\u0027s somehow broke Java in the messages application so I cannot okay "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:06:34",
    "text": "so anybody else who can do the job oh dude You certainly have trouble on your laptop no well you could install it now and whoever would be installing it in five minutes again so there must be someone who still has ever in this room Francesca tries to look aside can you do it okay Francesca I will try I mean there\u0027s that\u0027s the best effort service oh okay thank you so the agenda on today has a number of reports from our own activities and from from other organizations like you\u0027re at least in my org and in w3c where are things and then we want to talk about one particular aspect which is the subject of hyper medium in IOT for half an hour and then we will talk about Friday\u0027s work meeting there will be a meeting on Friday here in this building for things within research group and then we will do our wrap-up so just to remind people what I think you think Weesa fume is about we have all these IOT standards being created by the IETF and that\u0027s great these are nice blocks Lego blocks of interoperability but what is the big picture how can we we turn a true true Internet of Things into reality an Internet where low resource nodes can participate and I can communicate among themselves and with the wider Internet that\u0027s the subject of this research and of course the focus here is on issues that have opportunities for Standardization in the ITF so we start at the irritation layer we occasionally look a little bit at the radio layer but not much and we end with the user the user experience the application layer and of course security so when you look at the I RTF and the IETF sometimes the question comes up how do we actually juggle the the various pieces of work and this picture only shows two IETF workgroups at the moment of course there are other IETF working groups that are doing I actually related things but putting the whole picture on a slide would probably not work and basically the ideas that the research group is on the side of open research "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:09:34",
    "text": "issues that have IETF potential are not yet ready for carrying into the IGF and the working groups are actually doing engineering for instance the car working group is doing the protocol engineering for restful environments in the IOT and other groups also the core group also do information or guidance document and any big working group for instance is focusing on guidance for implementers in the IOT space because people in the energy space usually are new to internet technologies and and to things like rest and it helps to write up some things so this is the the idea about the division of work here and we will pick up this slide again in a couple of minutes when we talk about the hypermedia work so what what did we recently do there hasn\u0027t been much time between the last report and now also we just say two things we will talk about the Rishi work in a couple of minutes so this is about cementing about interoperability and we also have been interacting with other famous organizations with customers of the IETF giving some information that is useful for them in deciding how to use ITF technology and in the period since we have been talking to OCF but other STL\u0027s are also on the list and particular w3c and OMA and so on of interest in this space when will we meet next we have a work meeting this Friday so from 8:30 on Friday to 120 and we will have some breakouts in this meeting including one break out where we have an opportunity to go to another side meeting the coin side me meeting about computing in the network that has some IOT aspects to it so this is the next physical work meeting we also have pretty regular calls for the vichy activity so approximately monthly we tried to call unit in the ratio activity we have calls with OCF we hope finally being able to set up a call with I\u0027m a speck marks the guardians of lightweight m2 MN TFC if so objects and we certainly will have some activities at the Prague "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:12:35",
    "text": "ITF meeting so we probably will continue the reishi hackathon and might have other activities like maybe another work meeting on Friday so we haven\u0027t really done a lot of planning about 2019 but again collocating with academic conferences might be done once or twice in 2019 so that were that discussion over Ghana on the list we have two documents that we have agreed research documents one is the state of the art and challenges for the out--he security document that is still ready there has been a snag in in the IES reprocessing that is required to get a document published as an RFC is she looks at we certificate procurements and decides whether this is actually an attempt to work around some IETF conscious consensus and so that they have to look at the document and and well she is very busy and and that process didn\u0027t move forward yet the other one is restful designed for IOT so this is nearing completion that will be on the next slides and then we probably want to look at two areas one is the the hypermedia area where we have a nice submission of the corpse document that I think it has now it\u0027s eight version and the the correlate specification we\u0027ll talk about that in a moment and there is also a draft about internetwork coexistence in IOT that got a lot of attention in some of the previous meetings and that certainly something we don\u0027t want to lose but we are not much activity has happened in the last few months okay so next a quick update on the restful design for IOT craft so we submitted a new version right before deadline the key things that have been added there is these considerations for fetch and batch methods those methods that we did standardize proko ups quite recently it also has considerations around caching for example why caching is useful in IOT even if you have one-to-one communications that you are able to for example or shield a constraint device from frequent requests like by doing caching so he generating the benefits that you get with the best place for restful architecture but that kind of situations one thing we were "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:15:37",
    "text": "contemplating quite some time is this what should we do with the core abstract we are previously considered in decorating that as a part of the restful design craft however they\u0027re having a lot closer look at it it\u0027s it documents on its own is quite extensive and it has a lot of good information that it wouldn\u0027t really do a service for that graph to be part of another craft it\u0027s better to have that as a standalone draft and then we could be referring to that craft from from this document so that\u0027s the background on the potential core production on the core apps craft and I will have more details on that draft shortly also we added a bunch of other IOT or late details to the document that were discussing in the Montreal meeting but they were still contra meetings they were still only part of a PR but now they\u0027re actually part of the document in the data tracker next steps for the draft I think it\u0027s actually it could be published already as it is such it\u0027s a lot of useful information there but we did discuss with the co-authors that maybe having some from building height decisions using these restful technologies and in part on restful Plus technologies for example the observe extends and we have added in the core environment getting some experiences from using these technologies for building the web systems for example on whether things on oh ma and ocf and also on IOT platforms that many of the companies and other players in the space are building so if you have any good insights on that or would be interested in discussing on that please do approach us as co-authors we\u0027ll be very interested have a chat with you on your experience is that what we could actually distill then in this document like why is it good to be using restful technologies what are the kind of things you have to be aware of what makes sense also as usual more reviews are very welcome so please go ahead and read the document then we\u0027re also considering getting a more outside of ETF and I hardly ever use for example from the for the micro services community and hopefully all things go well this could be ready for publication requests around next summer IETF 100-105 anyway I really encourage you to have a have a read on it please and your review comments to the list or straight to the authors if it\u0027s only only needs then a sort report from the Vichy activity so what we have had since the last IETF was for online meetings we have been discussing a variety of different topics for example IOT schema or definitions how those can be used for our semantic annotations we have been discussing this topic of how we add semantics to existing piece of information and they want to because the semantics style shades how you can use styles it kind of an approach for our next piece of data and telling here are the semantics that are part of that data and how they can they could be used to achieve a semantic interoperability one specific example on "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:18:40",
    "text": "on translation was this declarative data conversion for Jason how can you get arbitrary almost arbitrary Jason structures and convert them into something that has well-defined semantics a standard structure and how we can that easily and efficiently also one of the topics was this lightweight MDM integration using the web of Things technologies and IOT schema or semantics that says a similar topic that we\u0027ve been already working on in the past hackathon and also on this hackathon and also in general how the ID schema org can be used together with if so and like with emblem and also hoe CF models how can we be breaching bit from these different ecosystems using cell vocabulary using shared anthologies and finally we are going to start this note serious if you wish and and one of those nodes that we already started on is this semantics and engineering principles so the idea is that we are gathering some of those thoughts a bit more structured way to the wiki in the beginning and then will from the based on the wiki will see if some of that information should be made into an an internet draft but this may be the one that is currently preferred is the way on talking about the why are we doing this work on the semantics what are the principles that we are following what a prince would be should be following that we all can agree on what is that what does his face look like so that was the Whiskey activities between the IETF and then we had a session in the hackathon Saturday and Sunday so this was the first time we have we she was participating in the IETF hackathons we had 8 participants of two of them remotely and as an overarching theme in the hackathon we had is connecting things from different ecosystems and how can use shared semantics and hypermedia to achieve that one of the things that we were playing around quite heavily is the lamp that you can see here on the slide so what did we do well our key achievements we did manage to turn that lamp on quite a few times and also off using using programmatic methods and being able to counter the lamp from device coming from very different ecosystems so for example what we had is semantic interoperability for data and actions between light with anthem clients philips you liked that you saw in the picture and then for example like oh my toaster so using these management interfaces based on coop we have some challenges with the comb I thought somebody was using sea boar and recipe imperceptible using JSON but still at least on the interaction level we were able to do new commands like read read temperature set light and not not to having to worry about the underlying protocol details not time to worry about whether it\u0027s HTTP or co-op or MQTT underneath also one thing we did was this new thing directory implementation tiny thing directory so theme directory is this entity in the network we can store your theme descriptions the web of things in "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:21:41",
    "text": "between descriptions and the existing implementation had some issues or stability as such so of course then you implement a new one and one learning that we saw in that one actually was pretty easy given the kind of infrastructure we have we have co-op we have to have nice frameworks sitting up a thing directory was pretty straightforward in the end also we were working on some of the reality implementations in particle op research directory improving the implementations that we have and then being a research group it was not only a new code but we also had a bunch of breakouts during the weekend so we had very good discussions for example on this adding semantics to binary data in particle looking at the Modbus way of representing data and having discusses how those would be addressed how the hell could apply semantics there how we can then bring that kind of information as a part of the bigger web web-based ecosystem also we discussed hypermedia safety for IOT so how can you tell some hypermedia action is safe and not in the HDP sense but safe as in human cells for example if you\u0027re you have a form that is able to open a window it makes a big difference if the living room window or an airplane window that it doesn\u0027t feel high so how can we have that kind of information presented as part of the hyper media that even a machine could be making a conscious choice based on some of the safety aspects and also we discussed the cement example and engineering principles that i mean summer earlier and in particle one thing around that area was this semantic uncertainty so we classically as soon as semantics are pretty clear-cut different endpoints agree what at semi-desert accent but in real life I mean real citizens that can be pretty hard so we may need to be able to deal with cases where we don\u0027t have quite hundred percent certainty what are the same and is of the other end that how do we deal with that kind of situation and also one interesting observation with it is usable semantics so just like with our UT security if the security is not usable it\u0027s useless so also semantics need to be usable for developers start using it so how can we lower the bar or starting use of some of the connotations shared semantics spoke of a couple is how you make it easy for developers is actually we get that kind of instances out there and then be able to do the interoperability on a programmatic level so few quick learnings that we learnt there well the semantics stuff actually is harder than you think I mean we\u0027ve been doing this forever for a while now I still with some struggles so yes how do you more usability for the semantics is very useful and we have a book different views on that on the area so that\u0027s why one thing why we are not trying to document our views we have better shared understanding what do we mean actually with all of this so it\u0027s almost meta semantics of our own work and when it comes to hackathons and work less and such yes setting up and testing stuff even before the event helps a lot we did "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:24:42",
    "text": "a bit of that already this time we have stuff running online etc but even even more of that is needed for the future hackathons and we did discover a bunch of potential research topical it ended in Archie something we could build in closer and if any of you are interested on any of these topics please go ahead and join the discussions ok that was report from restful design on wishing my are you out there can you press the button I think I press the button oh yeah you press that button okay so so do a question question this one yeah [Music] microphone microphone getting hold a sec we have one question on the previous topic Thanks it\u0027s a moral reflection when you were talking about the semantics a similar use case you would have seen in the oma DM mailing list on the from David on this topic probably it is good to interact and then see what we are going to solve in 1.21 is coexisting in the semantic solution yeah that\u0027s a good point we should have a closer look at that together let\u0027s put that on the agenda Thanks okay thank you okay like the question is answered so can you go ahead okay is that I\u0027m doing the right thing okay good good so go ahead and advance the slide this is a I have a lot of slides but I it\u0027s more of an overview so there are a lot of examples right okay so I want to talk about sort of what we\u0027re currently doing with IOT schema.org and then some examples of the work we\u0027re doing and then hopefully I can sort of wind up with a sort of elevator pitch sort of what the message is that we\u0027re using going forward so next slide please we had participated in a workshop can you yeah we participated in a workshop that was held in conjunction with the semantic web conference that was an SSN workshop I have summarized the presentation at the end it\u0027s also I think another teleconferences folder of "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:27:42",
    "text": "IOT schema.org and really what we learned was that um that the terms were using for action that in property are are overloaded that they already have other meanings we took care to explain what we meant in terms of these being types of affordances unconnected things then they understood that but we need to sort of resolve the terminology issue which is a good thing people wanted to know only when when things are going to be available to use and how how they\u0027re going to create and use definitions and what tools are available for that also that there was a quite a bit of interest in using the definitions with existing ecosystems as Ari mentioned and some has talked previously okay next slide please great so other people presenting had some automotive and building management and and Home Care Aging in Place sort of use cases and they\u0027re really all a lot of them mentioned web of things and a lot of mention some similar concepts about what we\u0027re what we\u0027re focusing on and what we\u0027re missing in terms of feature of interest as well as some of the other gaps like the observable property tax on amis like you know air temperature you know water pressure things like that that we want to be able to express the sensor actuator vocabulary is really what we\u0027re working on with IOT schema.org and then there\u0027s sort of a need to express processes and procedures which I would say commonly called also rules and behaviors and scenes and things like that so we there\u0027s quite a bit of agreement on what we need to focus on going forward next slide please yes well that was the SSN workshop and they\u0027re taking a long okay organization right now but when they say yes I advance the slide okay I don\u0027t think so let me try to get ahead of it a little bit okay so where we are in terms of organization we have a charter for community group which is since we don\u0027t really have our own way of having a legal policy where org and the WBP community group who created a leaner and some introductory material and we\u0027re "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:30:43",
    "text": "working on immigration what schema that\u0027ll the idea is we want to try to have there not be a difference between the IOT products schema.org and the other part in terms of you know having to have a subdomain we also mean that you unify the way we we do the definitions and there are some things there with using RDF shape you won\u0027t really want to hold on but it\u0027s also a kind of a big change and a big learning curve so we\u0027re working on that again and and and other folks to try to figure out how to bring we have some prototype now that can work so I think it\u0027s just a matter of maybe creating you know just figuring out how to do the transition so next slide please yes yep okay so we\u0027re developer tools basically what people use to create definitions and then what people use how people use definitions and deployed systems and this is where we overlap a lot with the wish you work in the plug fests and you know there are some examples here of where we want to integrate they don\u0027t have to read through them but they\u0027re all basically having to do with recognizing that that the existing definitions really fall into two categories one of device ecosystem is like ocf and OMA in other is more along the lines of features of interest such as the Genevieve ESS that describes parts of an automobile or an haystack and brick ontology that described HVAC system connected buildings and things like that a bunch of other api\u0027s that are no dedicated product api\u0027s like the like so that that are interesting to to annotate also and for working on over these next slide please yes all right quick quick example basically what we want to get the existing definitions machine readable we want to annotate those definitions and then use those annotations next slide please yes in this format is sort of generate thing descriptions or whatever we have in the runtime instance can hyper media controls for instances of things and this is roughly the process and I think it matches up with what what Aria is working on and some of the other folks like mike mackool on was the augmentation next slide please so as an example you basically an OTA JSON we can plug json-ld or rdf statements into a json schema using json-ld and this is how this is basically the technique that are used "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:33:44",
    "text": "ancient to annotate the screen look and and and you generate these pieces of it\u0027s kind of crude and right next slide please yes so some of the others have been working on the API automation and I think I already talked about that the idea is that the software applications should be able to use our abstractions which are the interactions like read and write property and zouk actions subscribing them to unsubscribe from events that could be the API fanatic abstract a piane also there\u0027s some ID building templates around red so here\u0027s some examples next slide a semantic API for example could could sort of assign variables based on matching semantic capabilities and the idea is when you when you get something in response to a query then that itself can also be queried and so you can build this chain of next slide a semantic API that would take a P I that that basically has get me a light that has binary switch capability and you know turn it and and tell me what the switch is and then possibly just turn it on or actuate it so the idea is the semantic terms and maybe the node example next slide oh that\u0027s like 13 shows how basically node node red nodes can be 2 built to to be like the pizza showed you they can be wired together on a sort of a drawing board is the node red metaphor and that basically creates the application next slide please and then with no dread being what comes Siemens pipe Picaro and chicken and colleagues they\u0027re also building game makers and unit code adapters so that theoretically you could think we reduce is the practice whether you can build an application that takes different range range mappings and scale map income types and and units and sort of adapt those automatically through these these adapters and the next slide please so the idea is you can build these things up with recipes as recipes and and do your discovery at runtime and just provide these rules and as you know of course then we need to semantically describe what these do and things like that so that machines plug them in but this is sort of important API automation right next "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:36:47",
    "text": "slide I\u0027m drawing taller the organization where we\u0027re setting up the community group so that people can contribute and we have a bunch of contributions ready to go from you know from from our company and from some others that want to look at bringing bottles and also this idea to create some test beds you know their plugs house and I think the idea was brought up to work with them I see on this the industrial internet consortium who already creates test beds ok so next slide the upcoming teleconferences that for IOT schema.org we have a dr. emily shear are coming to talk about this great survey that they\u0027ve done on all of the existing definitions for devices and and definitions that are out there for both devices and features of interest and so that\u0027s it\u0027s a great sort of everything that\u0027s been done the wave and ZigBee and back in that and great thing in there and so that\u0027ll be interesting Oh Bruce Norton is working on energy month I come talk about some use cases so that\u0027s what we have going forward IOT schema.org and then let me just go through these slides on the next slide slide 18 I want to sort of kind of relay what the message is and then the next slide slide 19 the messages that we\u0027re solving this problem of there being so many standards organizations next slide by acknowledging that there are going to be a lot of diverse IOT device ecosystems and and you know everyone isn\u0027t just going to sort of choose one they\u0027re going to be coming and going and you know they have a lifetime and and that so basically we want to basically build an adaptation layer next slide that creates a second narrow way too romantic interoperability we already have people use a lot of different data types just all the stuff we just looked at by the different another rabbit feel with all of those differences where those things and that\u0027s sort of really what we\u0027re working on in the way that they think we\u0027re just going around the Colin protocol including these things around its be common patterns so that again many different applications and what we\u0027re doing is grieving these layers on top of what we already have to "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:39:48",
    "text": "accomplish this and then you know different organizations really are working in the different players and that\u0027s an important thing we\u0027re really not trying to replicate they did everything from the video all about to application layer but we\u0027re really trying to partition things out so that they you know more choice and more composability and more modularity and the thing that we\u0027re focusing specifically in our message about what we\u0027re doing next slide 23 is that we\u0027re we\u0027re basically providing a way to to connect stuff that already exists in the semantic world as well we\u0027re not inventing new quantities or units we\u0027re not inventing new features of interest but our definition work around the software affordances so that next slide lasts why Michael do you want to have questions no or in the end we have one in the cube I\u0027m almost done and I want to take questions after I really make this last point okay thanks Kela org and the way we\u0027re solving this problem is that we\u0027re we\u0027re basically enabling these software affordances that are unconnected things like door locks and light brightness can and we\u0027re enabling them to be connected to the real world so we can say you know so lock the security doors and we have enough semantic description to to make that part of the API so we can say that in the API instead of having to worry about you know all of the protocols so those blows I basically our message out to the community and and that\u0027s how I got the feedback that we got okay so that said it now is a good time to take questions I think we\u0027re pretty much okay on schedule right um could you could go back a few slides on this one the stars like you don\u0027t see it here but not this one the one that you just had yep so Michael you\u0027re saying you\u0027re not adding a new standard which it\u0027s just an adaptation layer you know if I would put like weight into them in the middle of the box and would say maybe every instead of it maps that like the temp time is probably the wrong the wrong comparison here because we would have to talk about the data model or the ocf data model and then map anything else to this the sky in we had this workshop and we create or Dave Taylor creates this nice star which we actually put in a workshop report and in some sense or the "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:42:50",
    "text": "constants slide and essentially we have everyone saying that they are the big star in the middle and the orders just interconnect with them nicely but they are not yet another new standard the adjuster new star and that that sort of bothers me because it creates this unfortunate situation that we and like you had in your in the in the comic that we are of course adding a new standard to a new modeling language for describing things which unfortunately fragments the ecosystem and the ecosystem that is focused on standardized based solutions I think there should be more collaboration among the companies working on the standards because then I think the committee order the enemy is not the other standard the enemy is the proprietary solution in my opinion I think we should reduce the friction in the standards community to have a more interoperable solution in the end rather than beating ourselves up I know that this is very great like everyone likes to work on new stuff and create yet another new thing but if I believe it\u0027s better if we actually use what we have and then go from there and try to make the best out of that call me weird but I think the standards ecosystem and IOT many of the companies here who are in this room have been working on on their products for many years and I don\u0027t know if then needs to be a point in time where we say ok this was now enough now we haven\u0027t created so many things so many different variants and now we actually need to make use of them like there\u0027s a long list of different data modeling standards that nobody ever uses and doesn\u0027t use today they\u0027re just on paper they sound nice and cool and do all sorts of great stuff but they are not it just didn\u0027t reach that level of maturity or I didn\u0027t see that deployment I think we have to reduce and consolidate rather than enhance and enhance and enhance III Michael Potter here hope you\u0027re doing fine the my general comment or question is now you\u0027re making one semantic interoperability definition with your experience in all these hackathons etc do you see the need for splitting into two or three different types depending on what all is coming through and going out of it rather than making a one monolithic semantic interoperability definition yeah I would agree with that and and really we\u0027re not really trying to do a monolithic "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:45:50",
    "text": "definition and I think maybe one of the things that didn\u0027t really I didn\u0027t really talk about that much was that the idea is that people from different application domains can really bring their own definitions what we\u0027re trying to first standardize on is just the deserialization languages and the processing tools so that we can have a common set of things there and and that also means a common set of semantic categories so we want to talk about capabilities and interactions and data types and and so in in a sense that that we want to find some things that are common so I guess to the last part of the answer to that is that we we have discovered that all of these different standards like you look at ZigBee and lightweight into em and all of that you look at how a light bulb is controlled and they\u0027re really all doing the same thing they\u0027re just providing different interfaces and different realizations of of the information that\u0027s needed to do that so change the brightness of a light bulb turn it on turn it off what\u0027s the current temperature set the temperature of the thermostat these these are all common that nobody really does anything different and so these are really the try the things that we hope to normalize in terms of the semantics and the other thing that we didn\u0027t really you know talk about a great length was that as Hana said at the workshop we had these these stars and part of that was we were trying to decide between you know the the adaptation and normalization versus translation and I think we have to enable all of those so to the extent that all these different standards already exist you know this is a way of at least talking about them all in the same way and and and eventually we can move to a smaller set of things I think we will realize we don\u0027t need that many different permutations so this is part of really trying to bring things together and and really trying to add another layer instead of trying to build another standard to compete at the same layer and so in the sense of does another layer compete well I don\u0027t know did IP networks did compete with token ring and did compete with x.25 so in that sense we are competing but you know we\u0027re not really trying to create another token ring or x.25 we\u0027re trying to create another layer that that makes those things less relevant and less less of a big deal Michael if I may this is actually from home I\u0027m gonna be a little bit controversial so we\u0027re all Internet engineers we love to completely define our problem and be able to exactly control and speak and understand everything and all the semantic model "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:48:50",
    "text": "about every piece every bit but recently I started working with data scientists we have team data scientists unarmed and on they\u0027re all Millennials they\u0027re a little crazy you guys know Millennials right we have some windows in this room and they were there their math people and they work with Python and they they look at that a completely different way than we do and I think I\u0027ve started to see some warning bells go off for myself but I don\u0027t understand how the people who actually have to make sense of the data coming out of our things that produce information over the Internet are going to make use of that how they understand the data what are the tools they need to interpret it and on machine learning algorithms on it generate useful results because in the end what matters in IOT is that a business or a consumer can generate value right from these systems it does something useful and that\u0027s going to involve a lot of big data and a lot of data scientists so does it matter what I\u0027m starting to realize working with data Sciences is they don\u0027t care about semantics of your data dump it all in a big table and they will figure it out they need some guidance to be useful to have some some documents that explain what the semantics of this stuff is where did it come from is it trustable device at the station comes into play but actually they don\u0027t care about knowing every little bit of information about the semantics or that ontology doesn\u0027t matter I think there\u0027s something we just want to keep in mind when we\u0027re working on this now I get it for control and a lot of this talking about control that\u0027s good but I think that the big data collection and interpretation problem is just as important yeah that\u0027s one of the things that has come out in the review of these semantic categories is that it\u0027s good to have that the data plane in the control plane separated which was feedback I got from your team\u0027s acted exactly was that it was good for people who are just working on data to be able to deal with the semantics of the data and yeah this is temperature data just to have some simple hints about the data like you said not the whole ontology but in terms of the definition to it\u0027s useful to have an IRB standard was the feedback where they don\u0027t have to worry about the interaction model and can deal with just just the data so maybe there\u0027s some ways of sort of taking this use case into account and building out that part of it yeah thanks Mike I think that\u0027s a good point and maybe that\u0027s something to take into account and the work you\u0027re doing here that kind of architecture the difference between control plane and control and and just data gathering and "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:51:51",
    "text": "as an example I started throwing some of our models and tools we have at the IETF towards data scientists and when I showed them sin ml there were mind blowing how can you have this much information about the data you actually know the unit at a time you know this is like already a huge improvement from what they have today what people just dump lots of stuff into a json random json format and they have to like shift through it and figure it out so we might want to might not want to put the bar and the complexity level too high people already stuck the value the simple stuff that we do so control versus data pen that might be a useful tool actually for the researcher until the data scientists want to do analytics on the interactions as opposed to the data itself right but then but then the interactions become data exactly and then you probably need documents explaining the the relevance of the different pieces of information how they relate to each other and that they\u0027re an ontology might make sense but that\u0027s probably more for a human who has to understand the relationships more than it having to be machine interpretable at runtime so yeah I see there\u0027s a new and this is a new thing we have to take into account when we\u0027re when we\u0027re doing work here\u0027s take into account the big data processing needs and what people are trying to achieve I don\u0027t know the answer that\u0027s why this is really a good thing for the research group to look at Maki\u0027s Kovich Zeman\u0027s so actually i don\u0027t see any conflict between what zack that and what what Micah Koster is working on here so the discussion is going on over there but maybe for the rest of the people so so the idea here is that you annotate small pieces of information with exactly that piece of information that would be useful for the data analysts and it\u0027s not about designing kind of this complete world model of the old Semantic Web but it that ideas taken from schema.org where search engines placed like small annotations on websites that come from various different fields that are developed at different companies but they in the end have small pieces of the same kind of information and they annotate it in the right way and different search engines can understand this and can make sense of this and this key idea is also kind of reflected in the IOT schema awk world and I think a big part is that it\u0027s this this closed world assumption so we don\u0027t describe everything and then have a complex ontology to really understand everything but just to identify and know this is what we agreed on and then to consume it and then calculate or do whatever we want in in kind of the controlled meaning what it actually was "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:54:55",
    "text": "yeah I would like to that there are of course many different things you can do with IOT and and one is data Gareth gathering and in particular if the the things actually do would the result of the data gathering are kind of inconsequential so you care about the the overall statistical likelihood of your conclusions being right but it\u0027s it\u0027s not a disaster if any single one of the conclusions is wrong so that\u0027s a very different every RF from the ones we discussed on Saturday where them might be actuations that actually have significant consequences and you have to make sure that those actuations are actually labeled in such a way that they are much harder to get wrong so let me just give you a real world example I get lots of dates appointments per email and half of the people sent me ICS messages and apart from the fact that most people don\u0027t understand time zones these are usually very useful because they go right into my calendar and there is little confusion and then of course my mail reader has a an artificial intelligence function for finding dates out of plain text and that\u0027s great because about half of the messages in plain text I get that tell me I have to be somewhere at some time actually decode correctly but if I were using the other half unchanged as well I would be in weird places at weird times so in that case the data quality is not very hi and it requires human intervention to actually make useful results from that I\u0027m still happy that they do this because some some people don\u0027t know how to generate ICS mysteries and so on but I think the direction we want to move in is we want to make it easier for developers to actually generate data that can be used for processes the outcomes of which have a high consequence I\u0027m not seeing anyone at the microphone line so thank you Michael for this update and I agree schema and we will go on to an update of w3c web of fits okay so yeah I\u0027m part of the ITF I\u0027ll participate here but I\u0027m also co-chairing a working group at the w3c which is about about things we have been around for almost two years now and yeah "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:57:56",
    "text": "I have some updates on what we did recently for giving you the recap what we are doing it would be nice to have two slide ok great yes so a lot of this you already heard from from Michael Costa just now so we really trying not to establish like this new silo and tell everyone this is now how you have to implement all your things we try to tackle that problem that a lot of system integrators and users of IOT systems have that there are so many established ecosystems and as Hana said so it\u0027s hard to figure out which one is this though which one to which system should I convert everything because for each deployment it varies but you still have to make sense at the end of the data and you also have to figure out how do I control this so what are the interactions that are around there and we try to to to collect some pieces of technology from from the World Wide Web that worked there that helped you to have some convergence in on these different applications that we have on the web and adapt and in such a way that they work for for IOT and the working group now has the following deliverables so there\u0027s a document on the overall architecture like how should these different pieces come together the central one is the fing description so this is a representation format where you can collect all this metadata and annotations for existing systems we have an informative document on binding templates that basically just explains you how you can use the finger description to describe an own ecosystem or device of an own ecosystem so for instance this is how you would describe an o CF device and then we have an optional building block a scripting API because there was a big demand for kind of a common runtime how do you develop a UT application so this is a scripting API that works on top of this finger scription abstraction model that we have and the last one is a security and privacy guideline which points actually to a lot of existing work because we at this top level where we just described we cannot solve the intrinsic problem of IOT security but we point to a lot of documents that actually already did a good job to to educate people how you should build IOT systems to get the quick overview of this main deliverables so this finger scription is a JSON based format that\u0027s just because of the popularity for developers and also data scientists and so on so it\u0027s basically made out of three features so one is that we can provide you semantic annotations that we just heard from from Michaels so it\u0027s about controlled vocabulary and you can annotate specific parts yeah with birds that a group of people agreed on this is where we collaborate for instance with the IP "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:00:56",
    "text": "schema org activity then overall the document is built in such a way that you can parse it with the json-ld tooling so the JSON OD is something that let\u0027s you parse JSON document and create ripples out of it so that you can use the Semantic Web tooling which is for instance quite powerful if you want to have complex queries that includes the semantics about something so the sparker queries is something that is done quite often and one of the most powerful tools I would say with good tooling behind and there\u0027s also reasoning capability so that you can in fear some new knowledge if you have it in this triple format and however we got a lot of feedback that they should also be in alternative paths so that you can take a thing description do the J\u0027s no D processing but you can also do it just raw JSON processing because if you know the terms that you agreed on and what you device expects then you can just say GAAP processes the traditional way and then have a compact parser which then also for instance feeds on embedded devices and so on the second aspect is to be able to describe data model that is in the different devices so for that we adopted a JSON schema because it\u0027s a widely used standard for that what we provide is basically a link data version of that so we take the central vocabulary and transfer it willing take of vocabulary so that it can be plugged into the finger scription and a nice part is that these data schemas are fully compatible so you can take them from the finger scription feed them to a JSON schema validator and those already existing implementations work for for that purpose and the last part is where we leverage hypermedia controls so work that was also done in the t2 TRG to describe the interactions between things so one aspect is that we have web linking that yeah we can express the relation between one thing to other things like sub components of the thing or what is controlled by the thing but also point to classic document so for instance additional metadata for thing which can even be just a manual for the human reader that that you can discover this way the other half is this hyper media forms that were discussed a lot in this group it\u0027s kind of a more extensive way to describe how to construct a request that will be understood by the origin search and with that we can basically have the model of the thing we understand on the high level what is the semantics based on this kind of controlled vocabularies we can understand the data model used on the data schemas and then we also know how to construct a request F for specific protocol kind of the common denominator here is that you must be a your I scheme for the protocol that is being used and the starting point is having HTTP queue up in there and we are working on getting some MQTT your eyes so that finally these topics become a "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:03:56",
    "text": "bit more usable let\u0027s say that you can also address them in this wet way that there is this yeah uniform interface for this yeah not to be ignore about ecosystem in the IOT the fingers capture provides a lot of extension points I mean it\u0027s kind of the first piece that we are standardizing and we need a lot more experience from the field for that to be included a lot of extension points one is that you can plug in your domain vocabularies so it could start like bottom up that some existing ecosystem has some specific semantic definitions that you create a link data vocabulary out of this and using json-ld context mechanism you can plug this in and then annotate if you\u0027re understanding what your device is offering and then that\u0027s already a good starting point for others who want to understand that because they have some clear unique identifiers stea what what is the meaning of the individual pieces and the other part is these what binding templates where we started already describing okay if you have an HTTP server somewhere that behaves in that and that way this is how you would use the TD to describe that the reason he has often a lot of IOT devices even if they use HTTP they always have these small quirks but they do it slightly different from a vanilla HTTP same situation for co-op where for instance for ocf you need some special options that are only used by ocf devices and no other co-op device basically he would be able to talk to that all these kind of details we collect in these binding templates so that you can construct the TD that gives you all the details good a quick update on the recent changes so feature wise we revisited the event interaction pattern and what we saw is that for instance for webhooks often you need some kind of input formats so you have to construct a message that you sent there where you can often also define like filters or need to specify some details that you can actually subscribe to in the event and coming back to the web hooks often as existing services need a special format for the cancellation message and yet those parts can now also be described next to the actual data that is then transmitted to you when when an event occurs the second part is something that has been kind of on the back burner we knew it\u0027s required your eye templates and yeah we are finally kind of resolving this we had a lot of other things to do that\u0027s why it\u0027s it\u0027s late we had a few alignments of the terminology that we are using one was that we started with the term called writable to identify properties yeah that you can write - we are now aligning with the JSON schema term read-only one was that we got feedback from others that by default their properties are writable so it\u0027s a good default - to express it this way something that we "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:06:56",
    "text": "noticed is that the world writable is terrible because there is no e in the middle but we found like a lot of instances of TDS where where there is this typo and that\u0027s really a cause of yeah issues that you have just because of a small letter they\u0027re smaller things like labels now title just as in web linking we found some issue with using just media type in the forms because often you not only need a media type but also parameters that might be relevant for this and because the form tells basically what the client has to construct and what metadata the client has to put in the message you need kind of the full flexibility that you for instance can include the char set for text plain media types or for instance for cozy you also need parameters we find that json-ld for instance also new user that a lot to define the profiles basically what context is applied to a certain document and the last point is so originally we discussed here about forms and kind of the natural term that that flowers used was formed relation times because it\u0027s really related to the link relation types we got however so much feedback that we kind of gave this up rattle is kind of relations links Express relations to other resources forms are more proactive so we changed it to up for operation and hope that there\u0027s just less discussion around this this wording and we added if you know new terms and maybe the most interesting is this unit term we also want to use this you come system that this was already used by lightweight m2m it\u0027s so half layer seven and so on it\u0027s pretty powerful I also learned that there is an implementation for Java or maybe even included in an upcoming Java version we can then automatic conversations between two different units that only have for instance a different weight like Millie and eager and so on and can resolve this which is pretty nice yes I can also provide a link maybe I\u0027ll catch it in for the uploaded slides to some recent work that shows how you can even do then semantic queries that ignore kind of what unit is your original data in it can basically automatically convert to match whatever you write in the query so for instance give me all the things that are five meters away and if it\u0027s in the express in kilometers or in inches doesn\u0027t matter this engine can can come compensate for that so what\u0027s the road map so we started around Christmas 2016 so of course we only started beginning of 2017 of because of this break and we had two groups running in parallel the interest group was mainly for the liaisons and outreach so there we try to actually talk to most of the other standards organizations that are out there and most of them try to solve the "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:09:57",
    "text": "same issue so this is where we try to cooperate and find better virgins and we contact conduct so-called flak vests which is basically interrupt testing where the participants already have implementations and be basically yeah running code as we use it in the ITF and the working group we are focused on on the deliverables and then something that happened about here is that we got a lot of feedback that we need a nicer format for the finger scription and the json-ld 1.1 working group started their work they had something pretty stable from a community work already and we said we adopt this because it\u0027s a way more idiomatic JSON format that you see json-ld 1.0 is really quite ugly this adoption this change and so on however caused us to require an extension I guess everyone in Standardization knows that it always takes a bit longer and the kind of tight schedule that we have now is that in a January end of January next year we want to have a candidate recommendation that means this is what working through proposes and basically has to freeze the document and then we have to go into testing phase you have to show that there are at least two different implementations for each of the features that we are defining this recommendation track document and then around April May we want to have the so called proposed recommendation this is when the the candidate was successful so that all the tests and so on provide enough evidence that it\u0027s implementable and then there\u0027s some process where the AC representatives of the member companies can can comment on that and then basically end up the extension we want to have the recommendation out there and then look in to reach our Turing what exactly that will be is quite open for that we plan to have another double if receivable things workshop around may probably happening in Munich to connect to kind of the community out there to industry and so on and see what the new requirements are the last one is was four and a half years ago it was quite successful it was a broad audience so we hope to repeat that to really understand what should be the next features we are working on and in parallel as Michael announced there they will be in I to schema or community group it\u0027s a bit unclear if it will be the wrapper things community group or a specific key schema or community group and another member proposed the business group around smart cities which is kind of a promising use case where this type of things technology can be employed because you have this requirement of describing different ecosystems and you also want to provide open access to a lot of this data good that brings us to a couple of - duze kind of the most worth maybe is what we now have to do so we adopted features from json-ld 1.1 and it really "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:12:57",
    "text": "makes the document much much better an issue is that they won\u0027t complete their work when we want to go to recommendation so we cannot have a reference a normative reference to that and in particular because there\u0027s one feature that is not stable enough yet however quite important it\u0027s basically if you have a resource structure with SAP resources usually this is converted by many standards into a JSON structure that then has a sub object and then the Supriya sources as members in there at the moment they cannot provide the your eyes that are useful in data in that way that you basically construct a path like that you go a bit deeper into this structure at the moment basically if you have something that is called the same way overrides the previous definition of that linked data note and that\u0027s really bad we talked to the json-ld working group and they were quite positive about this feature but it won\u0027t finish in time so that\u0027s why we have to do the work around that our recommendation will basically define an algorithm that can transform our well the json-ld 1.1 features that are there and then do a J\u0027s nearly 1.0 processing and that way we have this kind of yeah normative document requirement fulfilled and two features where if you have an opinion on that we would welcome feedback a lot because we have to wrap them up one is how to model material interaction so if you have a and they explained since a special resource they can read out all the properties at once or there\u0027s another resource that allows you to use patch to write multiple resources at the same time what would be the best way to express this to mala lists there are proposals they already but we couldn\u0027t reach conclusion and unfortunately and the other thing is like how far should this your eye template abstraction go if you have opinions on that piece yeah contact me or go to our github repositories that\u0027s it any questions or comments that you say hello I\u0027m also from China I have a little questions last slide last yes I want to know how to describe that thing the thing we\u0027re how identifiers how to defy light and fire of things okay it\u0027s a bit small in here it\u0027s not meant for reading basically we define an ID field and then you can put any IRI in there of "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:16:00",
    "text": "it\u0027s your ends that are used but you can also use your else there that basically gives you the unique identifier on the global unique level that is also used in in the Semantic Web we have some other fields that we edit or are going to add is model number serial numbers or some standardized term where the classic kind of definitions of yeah hardware that is fields I can fit in but the main identity management goes around this IRI identifier URL URL identifier yeah maybe URL can be changed even things weren\u0027t aware okay yeah so that\u0027s where the web of things is different from the normal web so on the normal web usually use really the URL where you can really dereference and get the representation of what what you\u0027re talking about here in in the web of things we often use you our ends so names that cannot be automatically would be resolved and for instance there\u0027s this draft on device your ends by a re arco which is one of the best candidates to do so but how do you reserve that you are so if different can\u0027t application you\u0027re different you\u0027re in how to sound yeah so it\u0027s only the identifiers it\u0027s not the locator where I can reach the thing the the way you can reach the thing there is basically these form fields and they have also href entries so yeah your eyes that then point to for instance the current IP address and there\u0027s a mechanism that is pretty similar to the core resource directory that mobile devices for instance can refresh and update a registration so that you can also find mobile devices kind of the exact way how you discover the famous crip shion\u0027s is actually not defined yet we only defined this format and you can take away most of the the solutions from the core working group that has one since the resource directory the multicast discovery and so on to do an actual discovery of thing descriptions I think it\u0027s too hard or too difficult to build your uniform platform to resolve this list identifier yes so it\u0027s again it\u0027s not it\u0027s at the moment we don\u0027t plan to have like the global system and everything is connected there the problem that we are solving is that for instance a Siemens we do a lot of professional building automation and if you have a building like this or an airport on hospital you have so many different systems that you all need to integrate especially now that for instance the energy domain is combined with the automation domain you have electric cars that somehow mingle up in there and so on and you need some consistent view over all these systems and and be able to also then to for instance that gnostic queries to figure out where something goes wrong and for this integration step this is a very good "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:19:00",
    "text": "solution and then we have to see just like the world wide web took 20 years or longer to actually evolve to effective application layer there we have to figure out what is needed and how to get there but at the moment it\u0027s for these integrators for instance my cost is working for Samsung smartthings they try to integrate a lot of these consumer platforms and how you can treat them in a common way and for all those rebel things is very helpful thank you ok thank you mother we are slightly behind the schedule but we have next to discussing on the core applications and coral so I\u0027m going to give a very brief intro on what is core applications and how we are planning to handle it in the research group so you all know core the constant restful no iowans however using web technologies for the very constrained devices and core applications are seen applications that are built in that kind of environment so this draft in picross Hartke is basic invention and template for these current applications that were a special application designers are then build high per minute event applications and interfaces in a structured way so you can think of it as a guidance guidance document on that and the goal of this document is to have four inter implementers to build interoperable solutions for clients and servers but also be able to reuse things more simply and easily because you have a similar way of describing your applications this draft defines seven core API components that you should be discussing when you do a a design for your interface and application starting from communication protocols that are identified by URI schemes so you\u0027re telling will using HTTP co-op something else but in part you are it\u0027s not defined that URI for you or else all the schemes are the key part that are defined here the next thing is a representative for months so indirect media types you are using for exchange in representations and then you have relation types for links but also for forms and the corns widows also mentioned by Matias his presentation type of things fun you have template of links so you may have links that you are putting information based on variables during runtime and you can have templates for that and in a similar fashion you can have a form field names and finally in some it is an optional feature to have is well known locations so for example if you need an API into connect for how you are able to discover your application or to interact a well-known location can be very useful for this but all in all these artists "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:22:00",
    "text": "are inbound instructions how the coin can be interfacing with a given to an application taking this information the client should be able to interact with hypermedia controls that your application is providing telemedicine that there is a template so the template is pretty much a description a human readable information about the API containing information about the seven components that makes the previous slide and then some other useful information like application names what are some considerations for interoperability and security and who are the persons to contact if you want to be having some information about this location or perhaps wanting able to change who was using change control and that\u0027s really what the whole graph defines the structured way of describing your hypermedia different applications and you will be using in an IOT environment so this is the document we are now referencing in the restful design for IOT traffic as an MSN guidance that if you are doing an application is using hypermedia it\u0027s good idea to do it in this kinda way so and to have this restful design up with source code we will have a reference distal and so this document would also be very good to be published as a research group document as a result so at this moment of course would like to have is your reviews on this please have a look as it makes sense doesn\u0027t address your concerns if you\u0027re making this kind of application is it all understandable have a read at the document and and they\u0027ll ask what you think okay any questions on core apps okay a nice tool to get back to this picture here and it actually shows car apps somewhere in the middle because about architecture and how it did it concerns implementers it concerns the particular engineering a bit but it must be actually about how to use the mechanisms we have so it\u0027s reasonable to work on this in the research but for the next couple of minutes I want to talk about one other thing that we are looking at about two years ago we started looking at something called current which is the constrained restful application language and there\u0027s a problem there because it\u0027s not a language but the deviation is nice anyway so we call it cold and but the idea is that apart from from describing metadata like finger scription does you "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:25:03",
    "text": "actually sometimes need ways to interchange instances that have useful information in them and we have various forms of these instances and one is actually the the link format which is also metadata but it\u0027s metadata that actually is bound to specific you are eyes pointing you to a specific places where you can get data and the link for MIT is grateful for doing some basic description of places where you mind might find other resources that are related to the resource that you are looking at or to the device that you\u0027re looking at but from that you actually get to a place very quickly where you also want to include additional data with that and yeah we tried to link formulas it has been an RFC for six years now we try first tried to do just a JSON version of the link forward but that ran into problems the main problem was people found it useful and said hey it has to with that feature and that feature and that feature and we ran into a bit of a problem with the compatibility with link Foreman that we were trying to achieve so we were moving away from that compatibility but maybe it\u0027s actually a good idea to look at this this current approach of representing the same kind of data and I want to spend some minutes talking about that so the kernel has been presented at a number of in terms of the research group but not never really at a summary meeting at as far as I understand so I\u0027m going to use slides that Klaus has used at an interim meeting and try to give a very quick overview there is an internet draft that you can read it\u0027s not very long so if you want to know more you can can acquaint yourself quickly with that so once the call of current it\u0027s really about links and forms so the the links we already had in the link forward obviously forms really is an idea that where we have links that point to resources that actually require some input to do their job we also need to describe how this input input needs to look like and recalling it form because that\u0027s how the equivalent structure is called in HTML in HTML we have a form which is an "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:28:05",
    "text": "element that has a link pointing to some resource plus a description what the import data to that resource would be usually with a post operation the description of course is meant for humans to be understood so the form has presentation aspects to it as well in HTML we don\u0027t have that here we just describe what what are the data and what are the semantic components of that so that\u0027s the main thing that curl is trying to do but there\u0027s also another aspect a career really is a way to do composition so you can put things together into a single instance and it turns out when you actually want to use hyper media you often have the situation you have really small things so you have one two byte integer you don\u0027t really want to give somebody else 20 by URI to to get this two byte integer but really you really just want to provide this integer so something that has been hacked into HTML using the data your eyes of course we could be using data equals 4 for all these data but this again would be very inefficient and really the whole idea about Carol is to make it simple and obvious and efficient to put things together into a single instance and one very important aspect of this is of course it shouldn\u0027t cause pain it should because cognitive dissonance and the most representation formats have to do something complicated with data before you actually can can include them India and Curly you can\u0027t just dump them in there and then use them as they are so we can put representations of objects into a coroner presentation and the size of the whole representation is reasonable links and forms are also encoded in a compact format we use a lot of numbers instead of strings we use sensible default values so usually you come up with with pretty concise results and I\u0027m not talking about compression here compression is always an issue for smaller devices because it requires a lot of resources it\u0027s it\u0027s a concise format from the outset so when you put something down it\u0027s already pretty compact yeah I talked about the idea to embed a representation into a current document and some of the the generations "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:31:09",
    "text": "you need to go through when processing a traditional Jason style document are already taken care of so you in Korea you get ready to munch data they\u0027re cooked you don\u0027t have to take them apart and pause and take out the bones from the fish and so on so then that\u0027s the basic idea concise you can include what you want to include and it\u0027s it\u0027s simple to do so what\u0027s in their data of course some some form of support for interaction models and we actually have two formats one is the the interchange format which is the compact binary format but it\u0027s really hard to write it on a whiteboard because well it\u0027s binary and therefore it probably makes sense to have a texture followed yes some discussion between the users of coral is about how well we actually have hit that mark so maybe the texture format is a bit more more of an experimental part of coral but that\u0027s okay because it\u0027s not the thing we actually interchange we interchange the binary form so one other way of course would be to say well the binary format is in SIBO so why don\u0027t we just use seaboard diagnostic notation well as I said we are using numbers who to represent a lot of the structure and that gets pretty tedious writing down quickly so people are used for instance to the way we are writing your eyes with double slashes somewhere and so on and yeah it\u0027s nicer to be able to use the usual texture conventions but there is also a danger with having a separate extra format actually there are three dangers one is that you start thinking about the format as if it were the texture fault in particular if you make the texture format convenient for writing things down when generating stuff you might be starting to think in terms of how do I make this look good it\u0027s the texture format or something like that but that\u0027s not the point you really want the data to be useful and to reprocess very easy there\u0027s also a certain danger that these niceties you come up with for describing the texture format requires some some syntactic processing on the way from the texture format through the binary format that you don\u0027t actually have in the binary format so in the binary format you have committed to something that in "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:34:10",
    "text": "the texture format is still lays about so that also can confuse your thinking a little bit and more generally texture formats are great handmade examples but handmade examples are a big problem and we discussed this at length in India she phone calls and it\u0027s really hard I mean on one hand you need examples there\u0027s no way to design something without good examples but handmade examples of data that actually are meant to be generated by machines often don\u0027t have the actual properties of what you would get out of a machine so there may be some structure the human has in mind that that the human actually transfers into the handmade example that would not be present in a binary machine generated example so the processor that that processes the handmade example is happy because it finds this factor it expects but it\u0027s not there in the actual binary example and I\u0027m sure the the Jason Rd people are going to run into the same problem and so anyway we know about these dangers and and the hope is that given that we keep them in mind the texture form it can still be useful but it\u0027s not the thing that that\u0027s actually being interchanged that\u0027s important to keep in mind okay so the the examples on the next couple of slides are going to be in their texture format and just to give an example that you know from html5 and html5 we can describe links with a link element which has two important attributes well and ATF and this describes a link that goes out from the current document from where you are describes the link relation and describes URL reference actually that points to some other things so in an HTML document you might find a pointer to a site leader pointer to an icon and a pointer to a license that applies to this document writing down the same thing in Carl looks like this in the text area forward becomes they\u0027re very compact then in the binary form the actual you are eyes in current IR eyes so we fully embrace utf-8 here they are in the binary format actually Cir is our series for short but we confuse with a product of this name so a serious just hide it doesn\u0027t have "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:37:10",
    "text": "all this decoration on its pre past it comes to you in a place where you in the form where you immediately can use it but you don\u0027t see that in the texture form so if we want to describe Robbie the robot that might have an IDE a name and some links to other places or other resources and tinnitus the thing for instance is the name can actually be written in here which in leap forward we wouldn\u0027t really be able to do we would have to point to another resource that carries the name so the link targets can be literal or they can be real links again and what you also can see here is that we are able to supply a resource so we know about Nicky that that Nicky actually likes Chris so we can include this information here and we can save the receiver of this information from the need to actually follow that link and obtain the data so we can have instances that actually contain all the necessary data or all the data that will be missed likely to be used you can see that for Suzy this information is not provided so yeah let\u0027s get more more divisive here so Susie Frances has two power legs and if status LED and a headlight so we have the links for the power and sale estates we have the league for the headlight and there is also a forum relation here which tells us to actually change the headlight you can do a put and the put accepts a certain media type water in in this case it\u0027s example / bouillon you want to ask your question now or what happened - yeah we found that the the microphone stands you seem to have a nine-to-five working time after five o\u0027clock they fall down it\u0027s it\u0027s a microphone stand Union the Union Union Union is actually armed so this is interesting why when I was looking through coral and I stumbled across this text for my thing - I\u0027m just going like oh god another yet another text format like why can\u0027t we just use html5 links and I know what your answer is gonna be and it\u0027s gonna be that while we added this great forms thing and you can\u0027t do that in html5 "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:40:10",
    "text": "rings I actually don\u0027t know if that\u0027s the right answer you might be able to do that so why can\u0027t we use something that is in an actual text Lincoln format that you could then convert from to coral because I would think that for for the the bigger web world right it would make a lot of sense to have a coral like thing which is in JSON yes for example and then a binary thing which is coral right rather than having them in two separate worlds so what was the thinking behind that when Klaus was working on this and you guys started one of the the submissions to the IOT workshop that Oreo was mentioned before had the title semantic noise hurts and since the the textual language is only for talking about examples it makes sense to try to optimize it for this purpose so all the various json-based formats are earlier in the 90s the xml-based formats for talking about xml had this problem that you you couldn\u0027t really use them so you always need a tool to actually work with it which was great for the true vendors but then at some point when the language relaxed angie was defined the developer of that burst the pipe and decided I\u0027m not only going to define an XML index I\u0027m actually going to define a compact sentence the rnc cindex flex and rekon compact and that\u0027s a model that that we often have in mind and that\u0027s the model that guided this texture link but you still don\u0027t understand answer my actual question which is why couldn\u0027t we use an existing link format to represent what you would represent in coral and have an actual machine convertible you know make it useful rather than inventing a format only for text representation I mean engineers interpret all kinds of crap we recode too right we couldn\u0027t have to be that pretty but lean Foreman is way too weak to do all the things that call it us so I\u0027m not saying blended yeah that\u0027s about RFC 66 9d I mean it could be something else I mean can\u0027t html5 things do this but actually I\u0027m fine if html5 has a lot of other problems and it\u0027s really a presentation language and not to date "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:43:11",
    "text": "our language but I think that\u0027s a really valid research question can you come up with something that looks a lot like html5 and that solves this problem in any way that you still would want to write this on a whiteboard and the question can you convert between html5 links and coral and vice versa so how are you moving in from the constrained world of links and representations to the web world because when we worked on 66 90 that was the that we were into so much effort and energy to align with web linking yes and you remember how hard that was right and we wanted to make sure you could move between the worlds I don\u0027t really see them as separate I mean the the web world and the IOT world should be converging right so maybe we need to go back to that and figure out what\u0027s the comfort level how much has to be converted back it worked and it wasn\u0027t even worth while the work we did do a line did it matter back then yes so just to add to this so I had big hopes that for the finger scription for the links part I could for instance use the link for my Jason in there that it\u0027s compatible that just like the json schema i can use existing other implementations and kind of all fits nicely together i now hear that it will be kind of our own format i mean i guess for the timelines we need something like this anyway to be separate but then there will be some json format that describes its linking and models basically web linking RFC in link data and we also have these forms in there so somehow they is something popping up that will exist anyway that is a json representation to have like this this compatibility that\u0027s Zack mentions that they are converters then between those what would be really nice yeah so again the reason why we didn\u0027t finish link Jason was that people thought it might be useful we have from Meeta go yes um there one possibility where this could go forward is also to have Christian your audio quality is pretty bad do you have a way to switch off you can I don\u0027t know well that makes it better yes one thing that that is kind of in a proposal in the queue is to make sure that all that can be expressed in coral can also be expressed in rdf so you could round-trip to anything that can encapsulate rdf so for example that would be HTML was it called HDR rdfa in "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:46:13",
    "text": "html5 or turtle for possible a different representation of the text just a quick comment so yeah that\u0027s nice over there if the fingers good should we try to kind of combine this linked data representation with the raw JSON or kind of this intuitive the developers monter json representation and yeah it\u0027s it\u0027s really hard to close this the full circle so that\u0027s that\u0027s one big takeaway from the working on whether things like you can always convert coal into RDF and then that into J\u0027s Navy 1.1 and then yet the thing is json-ld underlies a lot of restrictions that it\u0027s correct triples and often that\u0027s not exactly what the developer that would have written some JSON document would have done so that\u0027s one of the issues that we ran into yep now the the good thing about it is that that is really an attempt to smuggle if into the minds of Jason minded people and there is a colourfully there and and you are experiencing this conflict every day so of course anything that goes through RDF is likely to have the same problem yeah I think they\u0027re two camps so one may be expect Jason ot to be a full representation of of tripled so to be some full fledged solution like like turtle or rdfa I\u0027m not sure about that what I expect from it that\u0027s a way that I can attach meaning to an existing Jason format that I can convert this to something that then can go into the semantics pipeline or the machine learning or whatsoever so essentially you you have your own Jason based language which just happens to also be addressed in every document that can be converted into rdf yes also have impedance compatibility is that it\u0027s really directly feed Apple into a json-ld 1.1 processor and then you heard me earlier that one key feature is still missing so there\u0027s still some adaption so we have to see how this works out and this alignment is a big challenge because it\u0027s many different groups that use it for different purposes and there\u0027s a lot of potential to have a nice solution but it\u0027s also very hard okay I think that that was a useful shortest discussion here I\u0027m not sure whether I need to go into these descriptions here much more so here here\u0027s another formulation example yeah "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:49:16",
    "text": "I think I\u0027m going to skip this again please do read the internet draft because that\u0027s very concise and it contains the information that you want to use so thank you for for the discussion again if the Cobra decides to pick up curry we the normative part will be the finally forward and it will also be be of interest to the Cobra group to understand how existing applications like resource directory and pops-up fit into a world where the current format is available as one of the media types you can use in these applications so this is probably what the COG working group is going to work on and what the research group probably should work on this look at the wider use of color and how can we use it for new applications and also do these translations for instance try to understand how it works with equivalent functionality that is already in w3c darío team so I think we have a pretty reasonably defined division of work the the only thing that that maybe is a little bit difficult the one part of color that is not yet fully defined is the form relations part and maybe the car button will first define something that would have a very simple form of that or it may not have it at all and then it would be the job of the research group to maybe look at further development of the formulation idea so we have 2 minutes left so on Friday we\u0027re gonna have a thinking Archy work meeting it\u0027s now scoring scale per a 30 to 120 in room program or the idea start with an early in the morning and then continue with breakouts 12 here\u0027s the full agenda for this meeting so you are all very welcome to join and we will have next a couple of quick lighting talks from the presenters from from that session to give you a bit of a hint what is there gonna be in the plenary so do we have you Mahoney recruitment tools and dom here excellent so in order to save time let\u0027s go directly here so you want to go first give your quick pitch on the "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:52:18",
    "text": "problem stated via the indicates computing so we have basically edge computing and security are two key topics there the title of disrupt is the problem statement of IOT integrated with adds computing and this document is describing a new challenges for IOT services we entity from the changes in the IOT environment so to address these newer challenges the as computing is an emerging technology in IOT so I will show two short demo videos as a use case what we have developed in our department so one is the smart constructor constructions you try to add X which is the found Linux boundary open source and the other is the real-time control system by rotary inverted handling system so yep that\u0027s it so as you all know computing is rapidly heading towards the edge as you can see in the picture and so that looks very interesting so in we\u0027ve talked in this research group and elsewhere about edge computing to some extent and what I wanted to do here is sort of turn things around and even those this is a networking an internet crowd sort of look at it from there vacation perspective what a current applications actually use when they think about a network if they\u0027re running as a VM or a container in the cloud what does that mean if you want to go bring those things to the edge or if you want to think about okay in the future are we going to deploy micro services at the edge well what are those applications look like and what do they assume about what a network is so some of this stuff I think is sort of more engineering but but I think that there\u0027s some things we can talk about that sort of touched upon research in this space as well so that\u0027s what I want to cover and I hope that people will show up on Friday and we can have a lively discussion so in a nutshell Security\u0027s hot so let\u0027s automate it and get it out of the way while we drive it is draft as actually do we want to introduce two protocols to provision IOT devices securely and then manage them over their lifetime securely basically making sure that whatever vulnerabilities exist any contracts us that operator and manufacturers and users have a way of handling them and protecting themselves "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:55:19",
    "text": "on any chain against that might actually evolve out of having you know something smart in your living room or in your new company thank you so if would have put it differently if your security and it\u0027s not automated you are not secure but I think we agree on the basic principle there yes it\u0027s a necessary condition not a sufficient condition okay so these these are three of the four talks that we will have at the start and the fourth talk doesn\u0027t have a pep talk right now because the SEC Dispatch meeting was put on top of this meeting so there are no security people in this room hello Hannes okay Oh Jimmy Cheska\u0027s there okay not quite sure anyway so we want to have these talks to to prime our minds and then at 9:40 we want to discuss what what a good break outs to have so we are not going to sit in plenary we\u0027re going to divide ourselves in two or three breakout and do these from 10:00 to 12:00 and then at the end sit together and pull together the information that we have learned and one of the the breakouts we forgot to put in its life one of the breakouts is going to be the the coin side meeting computing in the internet so that that is certainly also relevant to the edge computing issue so I think the people who are interested in edge computing will probably decide whether to run their own break out on IOT edge I\u0027ll go to that side meeting and two other breakouts that might happen about security because we have several talks about security as input and there\u0027s a lot to do there and also about hypermedia we are I think most of the work on hypermedia that we will do in the next few months is not going to happen in the meeting room but it\u0027s going to happen in interrupts so the the next step we will be to plan how we can pull off something that works a lot like the w3c blood tests or what we do in Russia and look specifically at the hypermedia support and things like coral car apps and and maybe some some "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:58:21",
    "text": "more Jason oriented features as well so that that might be a third a break or just planning that and and finding out how we will do this so I think by January we\u0027re going to have a bigger Interop event possibly even a physical one but with remote styling capability I think we are pretty much at the end of our time slot so any final words that people want to have wonderful so you get one minute of your life back and see you in Prague and if you haven\u0027t signed receipts yet please do so "
  }
]