[
  {
    "startTime": "00:00:05",
    "text": "alright ok let\u0027s get started it\u0027s that our second net mod session these the no well please note the no weld it has changed has legal language in it if you\u0027re not sure what it means then please refer to your company\u0027s or your lawyer we need to have some note takers please join either pad can we have anybody else who\u0027s going to any thread ok one and Michael there\u0027s Michael Michael\u0027s not here Secretary\u0027s mayor okay hopefully our circuit but so we have to so we\u0027re good we\u0027re on Jabbar and me got two on madoka so today\u0027s session would scheme amount tree diagram routing area working group update interface module update mounting this at the pier mount document Alex is actually in the room next door so we might have to be flipping the last the yang catalog and Alex\u0027s pier mount depending on if you get some time I think our secretary Michaels kind of ping him when his time so I was coming up so hopefully he\u0027ll be coming in time but just in case would might be flipping this to and that\u0027s just we don\u0027t need to that etherpad show the link so we really could use some more people on etherpad this links a little hard to use that it\u0027s best just go to the last link to the tools page tools that ITF that org slash WG / that mod and then click on the agenda and you can get to do the pad that way click on minutes minute sorry and please join in we only have a few people on be very helpful to join in add something correct something we would appreciate it if y\u0027all so good okay so for our first presentation schema Mountain I put afternoon my name "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:03:13",
    "text": "is adult Kent I am going to talk about young skin among draft it\u0027s now six revision of this draft and basically the only main change compared to the revision fo for that I presented in Chicago is a new mechanism for referencing instances in the parent tree in Chicago we had some some discussion about that in the previous mechanism that didn\u0027t seem just right so we tried to come up with something different so I will talk about that later and then one thing that that was implied we do not need to make the mounted schemas conditional by means of including some some when XPath statement in in the new schema data that could be evaluated and then make the mounted schema conditional because this can now be achieved through a normal once I mean yang when statement with the use of the new island references mechanism so this palm tree references we have discussed a tourist several times so let me just review the motivation for that first there there is an agreement as you know we have two ways of defining amounted schema one is so called in line that basically exists an embedded yang library for defining the schema so there is an agreement I would say general agreement in the working group that this in line rate of defining the scheme mounted schema will be really relatively simple and so for one day there should be no escape from so called mount jail so no my references are possible in this case however further use kheema method of defining the the mounted schema as it turns out it\u0027s often useful to be able to reference things in the parent data tree especially in XPath expressions like like must statements but also in leaf ref references for example so here is an example coming basically from the network instances draft and maybe it\u0027s not the current revision of the tree above the idea is basically the same so "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:06:15",
    "text": "in the case of Network instances as you can see from the data tree we have a list of interfaces let\u0027s go Bob it means that\u0027s shared by all Network instances whereas routing configuration routing stuff and other things are specific for each Network instance but of course from a routing configuration we often need refer to interfaces and so for this purpose we need if it\u0027s set up as it is in the ni draft we have this mounted schema for a rare Network instance and we need to refer to that global list of interfaces so for this purpose we need some way of because the normally the list of interfaces wouldn\u0027t be accessible inside the mountains you know we need somebody how to escape from the mount jail and the mechanism that\u0027s currently proposed in the graft is to use so as I said it\u0027s only for the you schema a thought of defining the Mountie schema so inside the u schema list which is state data of course we have this additional parent reference it\u0027s actually a leaf list containing one or more XPath expressions and the idea is that as soon as as we perform any XPath evaluation inside them mounted inside the mounted tree which includes also leaf ref references and possibly instance identifiers so these parent reference expressions specific to that mount point are aware evaluated these expressions have to result in in or each of the expressions should result in a node set in terms of xpath 1.0 and then a union of these node sets is taken and for the purpose of evaluating XPath expressions inside the mounted three these resulting the union of the non set is added to the array level three which means that from XPath expressions and he fresh and so on we can refer to selected selected notes from the parent tree there are some technical points of course about expert evaluation so currently the context note for this plan reference is the root of the parent tree and one thing that\u0027s "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:09:18",
    "text": "somewhat annoying is that we have to define or specify the namespace declaration that XPath requires so this is done basically inside the state a terrifying defining defining the mounted schemas so this this mapping from prefixes to main spaces is done there that\u0027s something that need me to be added to those state data I have to then emphasize that this is only so we snow tower only available used for expert evaluation which means for example that these parent 3 notes are not available to protocols like net conf or restaurant only for XPath evaluation and each time an expert evaluation is performed the current status of the Ferntree is reflected and only those knows that exist at the at the moment are added to the mounted tree I\u0027m just wondering how this reference is different from bind and I named the friends that we have in in the interfaces to associate those with with a particular ni here it seems like from within the NIV out of referencing the interfaces how this is different from binding and ni named attacked well as far as I remember this binding is done in the parent tree so essentially forever interface you can specify that this interface is bound to two specific Network instances but this is about XPath expression inside the mounted view right so we have some beta model for routing for a routing protocol for example this yang will you by itself doesn\u0027t know anything about network instances it could be used for standalone or just no problem but this theta model may refer to interfaces so in if we have networking instances then of course we need to somehow get outside of the mound jail and be able to refer the global list of interfaces I will have an example iterate with this bind so what this means here for example this example means that from the as you can see here we will be able after this from the mounted tree from the Network instance we will be able to refer to anything that\u0027s inside the interface interfaces container so all interfaces no matter what what network instant they are they are bound to so that\u0027s maybe it\u0027s not the right thing and I really have one open issue about that so this is really about enabling expert "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:12:20",
    "text": "occupations to reverse something that\u0027s outside but the data model that\u0027s mounted doesn\u0027t know about okay so so so not only for the expert evaluation but from here one can refer to a particular instance of interface and use it here right yes okay but but but the interface tree itself is not available here it\u0027s really will only for the context of any evaluation of such as ven statement or must statement the inside the mountains you you can you system for example to get these interfaces they are no bear they are we added for for the purpose of expert evaluation got it okay thank you but as Daniel Eric\u0027s on two questions if we have a multiple levels of mounting let\u0027s say three levels is there away from the third level to access the base level because this thing\u0027s just just one step to the parent currently it\u0027s not possible so it it that you can only refer to things that are in the immediate parent right so because I think because you have the recursive support you could support that using that same solution for recursive salute you could export from one to the second and then from the second to the third yeah with another level of complications of course it would be possible but because of course if we have several routes that it can be used for evaluating this current reference expressions we have to specify which we have in mind and it becomes like a tricky Sola I would personally but basically I I don\u0027t think that it\u0027s very sensible to define many levels of scheme amounts so what we are addressing here basically is this the is the network device model a nice and a nice and that\u0027s about it Lou burger speaking as a contributor to the Eleni and ni model if you\u0027re thinking about the case where you have a physical device that you then put into one of these logical systems or an LNA and then from there go into verbs it turns out that when only you would have two separate instances of exports and you wouldn\u0027t have to do this it wouldn\u0027t turn into a parent reference of a parent reference so we didn\u0027t weren\u0027t from the user standpoint we\u0027re not envisioning needing that right now even though I think you can do it with a recursive solution that\u0027s available it would be good to have some statement on this recursive possibility or or I think there\u0027s a section on it the next question is if let\u0027s say I have interfaces both in the base and also "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:15:24",
    "text": "mounted inside at some level will I get into problems if I have the same piece for interfaces because the keys are only unique on the same level but suddenly with the expert reference I can see both the set of interfaces I think we discussed this last time and so basically from the standpoint of expert evaluation you can have anything so you can have both so it will evaluate to something but I believe in the current revision there is some is some warning that this shouldn\u0027t should be done so as soon as you use interfaces in the parent schema and you want to use this part reference mechanism it\u0027s it\u0027s not advisable to use interfaces inside that mounted and keep in mind this is an implementation time thing so if someone can figure out an implementation that makes sense in their implementation that\u0027s their choice but no one\u0027s forced to do that may not really make sense to do it but if you think it does it\u0027s your box you get a code it the way you want to this is curiosity Phil Schaeffer chamber networks this is just a curiosity thing but if I\u0027ve mounted three levels when when I\u0027m here and refer to to to slash I\u0027ll get here if I then refer to a nodes parents won\u0027t I get here doesn\u0027t that just automatically fall out of your experience are all levels and you you use this punt reference in the second and third level so this Rolo refers to the second level and the second level refers to the first level so JW was able to have one step one step like up in in the schema hierarchy okay okay so I already commented on that example so let me so again that this particular example means that interfaces are available for for every network instances but we do not really discriminate between interfaces that are bound to that network instance and and others but basically it\u0027s the same way how it works with used say an augment instead of just amount mechanic tonight well in my view that open issues that have been discussed among the office and contributors but they are I believe not mentioned in the current revision of the draft but I think it\u0027s it\u0027s it\u0027s worth mentioning these issues here because they may they may be erased later and I would like to "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:18:26",
    "text": "ask all potential office of modules using scheme amount to consider what it means for their later models so one is about that context known that used for parameters and evaluation and then another another option is to define it and references insight directly inside the mount win definition I will have more to say about that later but let\u0027s go through that context note so as I said currently the context note is the week note of of the punt beta3 another option that I Martin where punt proposed was to use the node containing the mount point so this out alternative of course would have the advantage that if you look at a good example here the red in this case it means that the context note would be this root note and it means that for a red well this is a list of Network instances so we will have four different context note for every Network instance and that means that we could do these nice things so this would be the part reference expression and indeed for relay this restriction that only interfaces that are bound to that Network instance will be available for expert evaluation inside that particular Network instance so that\u0027s of course nice but on the other hand I believe it just adds another level of complexity to what we already have so if you consider that these parent references are used for in run expressions inside the mounted schema that means that we have some even the the mounted ski not somehow depends on suppose on stuff that\u0027s in in the parent like a tree so although there are pros and cons here in my opinion and so Martin\u0027s opinion unless this is really felt to be necessary this this should be avoided because we have all kinds of complexity now being a bit too young and I\u0027m really worried about the bogus so any comments "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:21:26",
    "text": "on that yeah AC Linda Cisco Systems no no doubt this would be useful I don\u0027t think you know independent of if and when this isn\u0027t integrated I don\u0027t think you should call it a constant a context node I mean that really threw me off and then you explained what it is and I said oh that\u0027s what it is maybe you could call it parent reference filtering or something like that instead of context no well as as long as as we are using XPath for these purposes I think it\u0027s appropriate to use the terminology of XPath and basically context note for every X path expression is where the expression is supposed to start right so so where from if you have relative erotic part so where this erotic path start and in our case it means because in the current situation we get the same results of of this plant reference evaluation for all Network instances whereas if we have this route as the context note we can really have have different results all right so I think it needs some more especially maybe in under mailing list and and some feedback from people writing making models so option one is the characterized is that other the authors preference that also the authors package out it\u0027s also side said we don\u0027t want to do it really more more complexity because it would be really difficult to write committees working with this properly so you can take an analyst and there\u0027s no objections within a certain time I\u0027ll become and the second open issue it\u0027s again we have some pros and cons the idea is here because as you saw currently the front reference XPath expression is defined inside the state beta that define the mounted schemas using that you schema method here in this proposal it would be different and it would mean that we would have another yang expansion called parent reference say that will define this XPath expressions inside the mount point definition that appears in in yang modules so of course the advantage would be that in yang module over they have some namespace mappings and namespace declarations mapping of prefixes to to namespace you are ice so in this case we wouldn\u0027t need that namespace prefix effect definitions separately instead Attah that could be inherited from the "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:24:26",
    "text": "yang module where the mountain statement appears but there are drawbacks also first because we use this mountain expansion both for in line and use schema method and as I said we want to use these point references only for the you schema it means that for if a mount point is used for the in line and contain this plant reference it doesn\u0027t make any sense so we would need to add some CLRS to say that in this case the pan references is ignored let\u0027s say so it really makes it a bit confusing and second and maybe more important thing is that in my opinion extensions should be used only sparingly because especially extensions like this that really changed the meaning of the data models that mean that client that doesn\u0027t understand it cannot simply understand the data model and and different clients may end up with different validation results for example or just just break so basically if you use extensions for such purposes it means that we create a new young version without using a different yang margin number and I think that\u0027s just not possible and if we do it in more cases we could end end up with several incompatible young versions and all this will be just mess so I believe it\u0027s okay if you use this mount point as a label in yang module and then define everything elsewhere but if we do this it will be again not a proper use of extensions at least in my view so the proposal here is to stick to the current solution and define the references inside the you schema list as state data as it is now and avoid introducing any any new young extensions for this any comments if not then it would be good to see if anyone has an opinion on the second issue can you lean in a little cap area where Wilton Cisco I\u0027m not sure I have an opinion but I\u0027d be curious to know what does Martin think of this does he also have the same opinion as you I think currently Martin agreed with the current text of the draft which uses solution so I believe that he agrees but "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:27:28",
    "text": "has you\u0027ve already got an extension statement now point anywhere haven\u0027t you sorry your own extension for the mountain point anyway have you yeah the mount point extension is still there and so it\u0027s it\u0027s currently the way how to how to identify the mount point and this will stay there so I\u0027m not I\u0027m not arguing against extensions in in general but this article addition this planet reference extension I guess I have a slight preference is probably but not look very closely for this expansion yeah I think so giving what I\u0027m saying yeah is it my mistake if I say that this actually gives the control of exporting their the internals of the parent model to the parent model but that\u0027s basically true that\u0027s that may be even more important questions who controls what you can access from the parent model may be even more important than notation this is true but I would say that if you do this so you probably so the author of the plant module has to envision somehow what the contents of the multi-schema is going to be so whether a schema is mounted that might make use of of interfaces in this space right so now you are either basically this means that the author of the print module can immediately tell I want to make this available to all mounted steamers so this Banja again this can be a good thing or a bad thing because it allows you to control what you expose and modularity is good on the other hand you have to and researcher somehow see it\u0027s true that I should have mentioned this also moves the responsibility currently we have is it has an implement implementation time feature where this would be more yang module the design time the Burger has contributor to this work I raised this point and and I see a use case for it we would like to see it and both authors Martin and a lot of pushback pretty hard and I was gonna raise the design time is that it the statement and I don\u0027t remember whether a lot out was you or Martin who said that this brings it into design time mounts and right now design time mounts are sort of aresko for this document and while as a contributor I\u0027d like to I\u0027d really like to see if they\u0027re as a user of this this is good enough so as the person who raised it I don\u0027t say that we can live with the current text so yeah that\u0027s okay my argument again this is that if you we want really to do this we "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:30:30",
    "text": "need to create a new yang yang version that includes this part reference or even mount point as a regular statement because this really changes a lot of things I mean that gets into the film the philosophical discussion we had the other you know the last meeting about how we do extensions do we do incremental or wholesale and I\u0027m not sure I really want to go there right now but what I\u0027ll say is I think it is fair to say that we can consider this when we start talking about design time amounts and that this is just one form of it and it and it makes sense to do design time all together rather than piecemeal so I think this is a reasonable approach right by you and I might just not have understood it but why do you think this is causing a problem that the young language version because extension is just some addition and clients or implementations in general needn\u0027t needn\u0027t just know about it so if if an implementation doesn\u0027t know about mark mount point that there are other problems but I mean that it could for example if it understands mount point but does not understand parent reference it would mean that evaluation of XPath expressions inside the mounted schema or inside that they tell that belong to the monkey schema could give different results because in one case you you have these extra notes available in the mounted data and in another case these won\u0027t be available so XPath expressions could give different results right so that\u0027s not okay when it\u0027s a sub statement of a mount point statement so I would expect that either you understand both so you understand none of them so I\u0027m not sure and if you don\u0027t understand any of them in the end any yeah inspect says that you can of course an implementation can ignore any extension statement we need to wrap this up last comment please there may be some more general question I thought that if we declare support for a yang module that means that you must support any extensions defined in that yang module it\u0027s not your choice that I support one or maybe not none if you support this module you support all of them asking for the yeah maybe yang doctors clarification does it if I support the yang module does this mean that I must support all the extensions defined in the Tang module "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:33:32",
    "text": "yeah but in fact problems already start with the mount point extension because in this case you can have some modules in in your yang library that do not belong to the normal tupelo schema so the time could get confused right so I think the answer is yes and we can go double-check the spec but I think the answer is yes it\u0027s it\u0027s probably qualified yes if anything it means that you understand it you you know how to behave but things like features may mean that you never actually use it yeah so a qualified yes yeah okay so just any more flights okay so both open issues have preferred solutions that would verify on list and then we can potentially take this last call but first I need to ask the working group there\u0027s does the work group believe this document ready for less call and and please ready for Lesko okay so we\u0027ll look forward to an updated document once these issues are resolved and actually do have one question though there\u0027s in a net conf working group there\u0027s the young library discussion and in that maybe there\u0027d be relationship to scheme amounts so does this document have any dependency to that work yeah I I think I expressed my opinion and you were in favor of somehow integrating the system amount to the new version of Eng library so I don\u0027t know if this is I and there was wrong with that book right right but is there a dependency and would there be a dependency that would potentially hold up our ability to take this back men talk to Moscow currently there is no dependency because we use another there is enough young library insight the schema right so it means that we can use different revisions of the same module is in the parent schema and in the mounted schema I don\u0027t know it\u0027s good thing or not so I would actually prefer to have everything in one Alma you that are youth throughout the system in one young library and then just refer to it from use key moments okay good thank you so I think I just want to clarify your stay back I first heard you I think I heard you say no there\u0027s not a dependency we can go forward but I think you wouldn\u0027t mind waiting until we have a complete solution you know you also have the discussion about adding that module set ID yeah so this this is just because we had we have different different sets of modules in different language so we create only one library you could just have one module set ID and then it would be just easier "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:36:33",
    "text": "to understand what the data model really is then if you have to somehow go from one place to another written of a young library and so yes we can move forward but it\u0027s okay also to wait now I think we can move we can further but if a new revision of the English document is looming or something that maybe we should consider simplifying the things even more well I don\u0027t think that version that version is still an individual draft right it\u0027s not even a working group draft yet so so we\u0027ll have to wait until tomorrow\u0027s mech op session - for more information I would say is chair if we have a document that\u0027s ready to go and go we shouldn\u0027t wait for an individual draft or even a - 0-0 working group draft to get our work we we should make progress and if we need to come back later we have to come back and revenue there\u0027s a lot of discussion about working groups doing things faster getting models out faster and being more open - revving models so a good thing is that this is not going to influence module alpha so this is just some okay great thank you and next we have tree diagram thank you hi I\u0027m Lou burger this is a document that I put together really starting out early as editor meaning I was taking other people\u0027s work and just putting them into a document and it was Martin\u0027s work on how to represent trees since then I\u0027ve actually say I\u0027ve become a co-author so I wrote a whole bunch but I\u0027m presenting largely because Martin isn\u0027t here so previously we we\u0027ve talked about this last time we had a problem where we had tree representations everywhere and had to figure out what was different in each document so instead of doing that we\u0027re consolidating in one place for an authoritative definition of trees and to ensure that we have consistency across our documents so we\u0027ve had two revisions since the last meeting the first was to publish the working group version - 0-0 exactly what we presented in the previous meeting and then we have zero one which did what we said we planned to do I philosophy ting which is still in a whole bunch of sections there is still one section I mentioned a moment that\u0027s missing the other thing we did is we figured it we have a proposal on how to represent scheme amount I want to emphasize that this is a proposal and we would like feedback from the working group on if this is a good direction and or if there\u0027s preferred alternatives so I think I went through most of these pieces there\u0027s a little detail here in interest of time I\u0027m just gonna highlight the one piece that we haven\u0027t thought about or we haven\u0027t discussed or "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:39:34",
    "text": "documented is how to represent extensions right now they don\u0027t show up in some tools I don\u0027t know about all tools they don\u0027t run all tools but they\u0027re generally not shown in the tooling but we should think about whether or not we want to represent them in documents jörgen is looking me like I\u0027m crazy so maybe on this book okay Rob Wilson one client should provide some on the alias X is used both the deprecated and - X for our pcs in actions I think it might be worth checking and what role with deprecated output to check that\u0027s not too confusing - it might be so just one thing it\u0027s worth checking if you can repeat you have a specific proposal of what you\u0027d like to see something not X one of the cases okay so I think that\u0027s a good point please do raise it on the list one of the things that we discussed at the last meeting that relates to this is whether we should change some of the old notation to make it clearer and maybe in like ro versus RW is there something better there and what we sort of felt and we read the consensus of the room is it\u0027s better not to change something unless there\u0027s a real need yeah just so that we\u0027re consistent with the existing published documents and and and things people are familiar with yeah so I I think with the proposal of what do we change it to is is it worth it yes our grantees I know I don\u0027t personally don\u0027t have an opinion that\u0027s wrong right now yeah this might be case that there is a need I think is font making great I\u0027d love to discuss it on the list particularly because Martin isn\u0027t here but also so that we get a good discussion on it and if you can propose what you would like to see more than just not X that would be very helpful so I\u0027m moving on to the scheme amount additions what we came up with this is that for a mount point we use MP pretty straightforward there for a mounted module slash sort of like what you see is a directory and LS minus F and an @ sign for a parent reference sort of like a link there\u0027s one other bit in the schema definition you can define whether a schema is mounted read-only how do we represent that well we just use ro or B for the module that\u0027s right so there\u0027s no extra flag it\u0027s just that even though the natural if in its normal mount point would be our W in the in the only case or config equals false we would just say ro there so that\u0027s a little bit of a subtlety but it seemed like a good compromise again this is a proposal it\u0027s a working "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:42:34",
    "text": "group document which means we need working group consensus on it but it\u0027s also a new proposal so we really would like to hear feedback on it I think that here I think this is not possible to to say that yeah maybe in some special cases but in general if you have this scheme amount references it\u0027s really about instant later so whereas this tree describes the schema right so in general it really depends on the evaluation of the reference XPath expressions so it could happen not not in the example that that I gave of course because it\u0027s all the same but if we have more complicated XPath expression it could happen that sometimes sometimes interfaces will be available but sometimes they they won\u0027t be available using preferences so this is you\u0027re getting to a really interesting point which is why are we even sure what a scheme amount tree looks like yeah because that\u0027s not something that you would see it at design-time yeah um but we do believe that this goes to the question that was asked in the scheme amount discussion of if I\u0027m a vendor and I want to relay to my customers what it is that my my schema really looks like we think that there\u0027s gonna be this representation and I think we have that with that appropriate caveat in the document if there isn\u0027t enough text around that we should we should improve the text so it\u0027s true that if you use that partner friends extension extension which is really the design time that in this case it would be clear immediately that what what is available and what is so you know this might be a little forward-looking it might be a limited use case right now but we think I think it\u0027s worth including it\u0027s a proposal if the working group some reason doesn\u0027t want us to include it we can remove it you\u0027ll see that we\u0027re going to use it in several cases with the discussing the examples of lne you know Ellen and and Network instance so we\u0027re already making use of this in our documents in the example cases okay oh you\u0027re consuming us so I understand correctly that the interfaces at thingy can only be generated if I have state information so I can\u0027t get it out of the studio correct well you can get it out of the state get it yeah right absolutely correct and so right now the only place this is being used is in examples where you have the example state data and then what the "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:45:34",
    "text": "tree looks like to match that state data so we wouldn\u0027t expect to see it in the module definition but we would we\u0027re using it in examples when genetics on am i right in saying that even the top two lines the mounted modules can only be known if I know the state data so my question is actually how would to like being know what to put there or is it just a manual notation so here\u0027s an example of a an actual module with its shown with an augmentation the yellows and augmentation with a small olives and playa and here\u0027s the math one so the thing you\u0027d only thing you would see in an actual schema in an actual module definition would either not cry you wouldn\u0027t see anything ever danger so only the NP which would show up in from schema data not from schema information in the long run there will be an age as you said when there\u0027s want to show the food tree that\u0027s a and we need something to show in our examples ok maybe not today but will be a need so we see the need immediately when we want to show this example Network instance and something totally unrelated but which just popped up because you have comments do after the ellipses start oh that\u0027s not it that comment isn\u0027t part of the free representation I just did that for but you know if you create something manually might actually be nice yeah the comment the comment there is not part of the definition that part that was hmm should we put comments in the trees the alot of comments of the trees that\u0027s that actually hasn\u0027t come up before or at least in the part in my thinking well that\u0027s it if someone would like to propose how to take comments from the tree which I imagine would come out of description and I\u0027m not sure if you just what you would do there written a quick comment on comments they\u0027re really helpful everywhere I know it\u0027s extra work to try and work out how to put a comment in there but if you don\u0027t put a comment in someone\u0027s gonna just try and shoot on a comment in any way they just I kind of assumed comments were available in trees but nobody use them but since these two diagrams are usually created by tools that would mean that we need to have some some way home to express this comment gangmo News and my second objection to this is that we already these three diagrams of the lines are quite long so we fear the types and so on and if we add some comments if you\u0027ll just run run off the right margin so I don\u0027t know of course if in any presentation one can usually add some some comments in "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:48:35",
    "text": "another font so that it\u0027s clear but I don\u0027t know yeah I actually I was immediately thinking about all right what\u0027s what what\u0027s the yang change to do this do we now instead of just along with description we have comment or do we say the first end characters of the description so if someone is interested in comments I\u0027d say send a proposal to the list talk to Martin bye let\u0027s see if he has any opinions but if anyone in the room or on the list has an opinion please send a proposal and that we can consider it as the working group Chris ops so we do we have like when they we have new formattings for RFC\u0027s do these get certified pretty if I\u0027d no clue right now I do XML that gives me HTML I don\u0027t do SVG huh yeah I saw I mean I\u0027m actually the question really was based on the idea of the line wrapping wrapping it like 72 characters so that we do have a recommendation to wrap in the document right yeah I know we did put that in there so we\u0027re we going next we\u0027re gonna fill in the TV DS I believe the only thing is the extension we really would like confirmation from folks on the tree representation including the schema mount representation please take a look at it please send comments to the list this is highly stylistic and subjective some things are easy to change right now likes the schema mount part other pieces which have been used for a long time they want to resist change but to make changes if it\u0027s if it adds a lot of value please discuss this on the list we need consensus if we don\u0027t get more feedback and we make these changes on extensions we think we\u0027re going to be ready for a last call and then maybe the last call becomes the forcing function we I don\u0027t have a specific timeline for getting the extensions done I would hope in the next few weeks but we have vacations and things so since that clash is done we\u0027ll have a proposal for that one open section binoculars so it\u0027s fine to have this document but you have the commitment from the tool developers like peeing and man yang Lin\u0027s that we will have this out for the same time we\u0027ve got an RFC because of the wines for make sense right the only thing we are really changing so far from the existing tooling is the addition of MP for our scheme amount point that\u0027s it so you mention whether you talked about the extension so the extension section is empty at the moment Rekha\u0027s do the authors have any idea what they want to do we haven\u0027t talked about it we\u0027re at a time because I mean "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:51:36",
    "text": "the whole structure is according to the nesting structure of data objects our pcs or notifications in the tree and extensions are not supposed to add anything like that right so why why do you want to do something about extensions represent representing were an extension I don\u0027t know yet is the answer okay we it\u0027s a TBD because we haven\u0027t gotten there well angle Eriksson is it usage of extensions or the definition of extensions that you\u0027re thinking about our bones use it Thanks okay please send feedback yeah we\u0027re running behind so please I see so as as Ken said we\u0027re running behind I\u0027m gonna go relatively fast I\u0027m gonna give a update and it\u0027s good the context provided by both Lauda and Louise our presentations next slide okay what I\u0027m willing to go to are the three working group documents or the design yang routing design team is working on and where the and where we are knows we have two other drafts that are non working group drafts well I guess one the logical organization is that working looked at but it\u0027s only it\u0027s kind of dated by gated by the tags which is an individual draft so I\u0027m not going to talk about those two today there\u0027s gonna be more work done on those and NDMA next steps we plan to Reese pan 802 2 with only the NDMA changes we\u0027re not gonna try and do anything so that we can do this relatively quickly well hopefully do that in the next month or two so just like the module tags what we basically thought that with the new some more time to bake there weren\u0027t any comments on it so I don\u0027t think we want to sit on it either so um I think we\u0027ll look at pushing it forward maybe calling for working group adoption after this ITF there Madonna each on tags because there are some other activities on where they could come useful we\u0027ve got another name of a draft it was discussed in the ops area so having tags you know for the "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:54:37",
    "text": "for the young catalog and for the young library you know that so that we could put those two works to actually those works together we should make some decisions on that part okay these drafts make are really dependent on schema mount now that skill amount is moving forward I think we can move forward both the network instance and L any drafts they also have been updated to use the new tree representation for mount points that Lu just talked about we hope to see working with blast call soon one thing for specifically we see for these drafts though you remember Lotta\u0027s design issue one I mean open issue one on slide six that he talked about that the XPath built XPath references didn\u0027t allow you to specify context or filtering for the XPath and finally there\u0027s a lot of times where we have a given model and we know we always want to mount it so we can foresee that future work on the design timeouts and otherwise in other in other words you specify a mount point in a module you also say this this model is always mounted there we see that as a useful function and we\u0027re ready for we feel we\u0027re pretty much ready for working you last call they\u0027re only worth broken as a reminder the end the LME\u0027s these are like these are logical network elements these are like your virtual routers I don\u0027t know I don\u0027t know what they call them on on IC I was about four or five minutes okay okay pretty much answered the aim doctor review at it terminology sessions see I\u0027m not going to go I won\u0027t go through the example one thing to see here we added a notification if when you try to bind the LME to an interest in interface in the RFC 7223 interface list if it failed we have a notification for that is just an example you see this isn\u0027t he you see in that tree that\u0027s mounted stuff that\u0027s under the amount point in Elleni there it is just as both routed it says man is true and it\u0027s just a time I won\u0027t go through that again we discussed in previous ayat yes so please review this crap I think having yang experts review it in addition to the routing working group would be ideal since it makes heavy use of the schema mount extension and I "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:57:40",
    "text": "there\u0027s gonna be more on the L X VPN that\u0027s we\u0027re gonna talk about that in more detail tomorrow in the second afternoon\u0027s session in the best working group let\u0027s see what else is anything interesting here more examples in appendix D I think for Network instance the examples are really important we have what we did for because a network instance corresponds directly to an l2 VPN and l3 VPN and we have a third type it\u0027s a combination you know for your integrated router bridge of an l2 l3 VPN we added mount points for those and we also added an anti-type now the anti-type is is also a choice where you can put information that\u0027s always going to be a augmentation you put information there that\u0027s always applicable to that type of BN VPN and here\u0027s just an example of that that\u0027s an augmentation so so as you\u0027ll see tomorrow invest the l x.v pn models will make use of augmentation under and I type and they\u0027ll make use of don\u0027t they\u0027ll augment mounted schema under the ni type specific node points dan yes on the lfpp n state the you know I this is sort of a detail but I think we should start thinking about time stamping for that as you know I\u0027ve been thinking about this lately is when I\u0027m looking at the state that I should know with sorry to do this that belongs in the routing working a comment this is just a readout on okay on what\u0027s happening there okay yeah like like like this is that but we have the old style this is an MBA either state I mean format and hopefully they\u0027ll they\u0027ll go to that with that model and here I referred to these these are the well-known mount points that the different types of Network instance will make use of and again we added a notification for the case where you try and find an interface in your RFC 7223 interface list actually it\u0027s the it\u0027s it\u0027s the it\u0027s the one the RFC for the IP specific interfaces if you try and bind it to an ipv4 or ipv6 interface and that fails then we have a notification for that I forget that is that RFC seven-foot 77 or something RFC 7277 I don\u0027t remember and here\u0027s just an example of the augmentation that l3 VPN "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:00:40",
    "text": "is going to going to make to ni type and the fact that they have that if you have an else Ruby PN you\u0027d have a specific mount point where you put everything under there like for instance your IETF routing module and your protocol and they and internet list control plane protocols well there they are and you might have OSPF is one of your control plane protocols and that would all be moaning under there just like what we affectionately know it Noah\u0027s verse or context or whatever your favorite bender calls them and yeah here\u0027s just a few people that work instance tree and a lot of this this does not you include anything that\u0027s uh it\u0027s mounted right now or augmented we already talked about that you think we can get around that you see we\u0027re gonna accept the limitation and let it be an implementation even even though it\u0027s not enforced in the schema with the with parent graph an implementation could could enforce that you couldn\u0027t access an interface that didn\u0027t that didn\u0027t have a bind interface name of the specific Network instance that is referencing it and again please review this document as we don\u0027t have the yang call the a experts in the routing working group and finally in addition to IETF types we have a new draft we\u0027ve had a lot of good feedback lately one problem with this this is like your kitchen sink and every time we think we\u0027re done somebody asks us to add one more thing that they think is gonna be common across a number of yang modules and so we\u0027ve been adding those one thing that we did also we split out the Ayana of the address families and the BGP southeast into Ayane maintained read registries similar to the models that are for the interface types that are also I am a maintained via RFC 72 24 let\u0027s see if there\u0027s anything interesting yeah you can see with the geo coordinates we don\u0027t feel those drafts are mature enough I\u0027m on some of those and none of them are working here\u0027s one in list the Dinos editor is one in BGP and one in OSPF and is is so we\u0027re gonna we\u0027re gonna pull that out and put that into separate modules if we want to go forward with routing types given that all the routing models refer to those so we can get that trubbish tell me AC can you please wrap up okay great and we currently have 27 minutes to go through 40 minutes worth of scheduled materials so all the presenters could "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:03:40",
    "text": "step through the slides quickly thank you thank you so there are very quick update on to draft in taste extensions and science-based yeah model and also a zero in new to draft solve all the problems here so they won\u0027t be together they see since the last ITF in the entire sixth enters draft I got to do on the feedback from us ITF I\u0027ve had a young doctor brief from Andy thanks Andy to fix all those things set for Tuesday in the first city to provide examples that\u0027s just working to do with exciting the second is this is a southern face property which is meant to be a way of trying to abstract away a list of interface type dependencies instead to have the Colin property instead the solution I\u0027ve got in this all these to just doesn\u0027t really work very well it has problems it\u0027s not extensible I think I have a better solution in this it\u0027s a 2-0 draft so I\u0027m going to present that draft that was the end of this and then wait for comments on the walk with a peeping that\u0027s a good idea to do and then also what we do with these drafts would we wait we\u0027re progressing anyway Oh so I said the resolution anyway so I lost a concert at the end of that the seven space feline model status again the same this hasn\u0027t had a yang box review but again it\u0027s close to being complete I think is I want to try and get these two models out the door so I do v quicker the main change are maybe some simplification to make the structure of it easier rather than using a list of tags there\u0027s no explicit tag names there\u0027s one certification stone that needs to be done that\u0027s based on the I Triple E groupings so once they\u0027re fixed and I important that also get fixed there\u0027s also an issue raised by Vladimir in terms of compile so that\u0027s one person who\u0027s already trying to use or is using these models so again not justification to try and get them out George so what have I changed to fix this is what it was in the old draft to see this is the elf three case the other ones they\u0027ll two similar there was a list of VLANs with an index into that list which is what\u0027s required config wise that\u0027s a bit messy to actually have to handle so instead I\u0027ve now got two explicit tags out tag second tag and you could extend this in future further packs out stack and you - although I don\u0027t actually expect that that\u0027s likely to be required the one quirk is still remaining is that extra dot and cute a container I would like to get rid of those and that\u0027s the thing that updating the groupings and I Triple E would solve and I\u0027m liaising with them to do that so once that\u0027s been fixed the the yank should look like this and be a bit simpler to use as the plan right so that\u0027s covers what I\u0027ve done to those two drafts I\u0027ll quickly talk about my new draft and what\u0027s proposed to solve that\u0027s the interface property issues Lendl and previously sure Glenn persons so is is this so it\u0027s called outer tag and second tag yes this is what what it\u0027s is this what it was when you had we "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:06:42",
    "text": "had discussed it with in I Triple E no 2.1 or have you renamed it have renamed it before it was like this so it was a list of tags with an index in there were the first out first I would have 5 index 0 the second tag has 5 index 1 I need the list there and the indices write out it\u0027s right ok so we\u0027ve seen it like this we have problems with that and the second one I think I Triple E 802 would have larger problems with you giving it names because you\u0027re implying something now but anyway so I think you need to okay yes please it with us yes at 8:02 dot one on the use of VLAN tag and this I\u0027m not sure I think I know what you were trying to solve but I\u0027m ok like that\u0027s I like us to understand it a bit more and then the grouped under said it\u0027s more sure thank you so in turn and toes and interface properties you see an issue has already been covered in the draft so it\u0027s really just a different solution to those problems thank you yeah so a minute ok examples of interests properties is a list of six sorts of different types of properties here so rather than having properties batted interface I like to describe parties like it\u0027s physical interface with virtual southern space point-to-point multiple Ethernet life and once you can add these new properties properties that is defined as identities the question as to who would manage your own these properties with Vienna would be a more expert group to need to manage these and once you\u0027ve define those as identities and you can then effectively use those in the IANA I have typed yang so whereas today there\u0027s two flat list of identities my proposing but these get extended to also derive from the interface properties those particular interface types have so it was anythin intubating would say I have a property physical I have a property that I do multicast I have a property done Ethernet like or you know a lag interface might say on the property that I\u0027m a virtual interface I also support multicast and also Ethernet like there\u0027s open questions again as to how to get this mapping right and who Paula police\u0027s updates to this so this sort of procedural issues but in terms of solving the technical problem I think this works quite well so it means when you go from having this sort of augment the list of like types which isn\u0027t really extensible because in future you have a new interface type defined you have to go back and modify this young model to add that that\u0027s that new needs face type into that when statements to pick up the same leafless own namespace otherwise you have to have perhaps the same efinitely leaf name in the new namespace from you module so that\u0027s what it\u0027s trying to solve and instead this is what it turns into you simply have a when statement derived from and the particular property you\u0027re looking at instead so that\u0027s gonna try to solve um well can I suggest you add those to the contents of those two slides to you graft because that will make the reading "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:09:43",
    "text": "the graph the meaning of the ref much more obvious to the reader okay and so my real questions here is and who\u0027s who would manage this and is it really Ayane would manage this I think I speaking to yoga no it\u0027s just that might not be a good idea so in summary who owns it who manages this stuff and I think the final properties is backwards compatible you had new ones I think adding them to interface types is also backwards compatible changed thing we could also release the existing drafts with defenses and harddrive types and then I\u0027m using twice properties at a time so I\u0027m not sure lesson has been getting my question is is the work working group interested in adopting this draft are they interested in this idea and if we do do we delay delay the extension will be known drafts or do we just have time for one question it\u0027s more of a comment I would prefer to finish it quick sorry Dan Bogdanovich I would prefer to finish more quickly and then revise later yeah the basic you know the skeleton of the draft is their looks you know that it\u0027s that it provides another functionality that is being looked for so now to put in all the types and everything else what is needed we can figure that out as we go so is there interest in this final draft being taken into the working group they do does the working group think it\u0027s useful functionality and is this a good place to start and this please for those of us with that so that\u0027s that\u0027s a reasonable number I think yosity how many people have read the draft so it\u0027s actually less than the people who think that it\u0027s useful functionality and this is a good place to start okay thank you so Clemente Parsons again I would reiterate that so I have not read the draft so I\u0027ll preface it with that but it sounded but from what you presented this has impact on the usage of the VLANs and to the sub-interface model and you have this alternative proposal I think we\u0027d like to understand that in 802 da1 and what your proposals are so either an informal liaison or format that was the earlier draft my understand that was that was an existing working group draft if I\u0027m not mistaken and you said that you were talking to people inside the I Triple E to get feedback before making this completely this change but I need one person to they okay so if it makes sense to do it Ehsan if you could work on some proposed text and bring it forward and we\u0027ll do it a liaison actually do it informally but if it if the other is fine I\u0027m just "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:12:43",
    "text": "encouraging yeah if it\u0027s helpful for us to run a liaison please have us do that you can do it you have seven minutes so until 50 it\u0027s on the screen sorry so hey everybody I\u0027m Alex creme so I wanted to talk about a yang mount and this is actually in a draft it has been in the air for a while it\u0027s basically the autumn and I\u0027m actually basically there\u0027s their holes ski mamantov work and so forth but actually there was another mount related trap and this concerns this one problem that they are solve is actually slightly different basically and the two aspects are here to this one thing one thing that we call alias mount the other called pier mount which basically means it\u0027s about something mounting and providing an alternative path to instance information that is already elsewhere in the tree so that you have very different paths how you can access that that is that same access that same data and Kony\u0027s revisions six but it has been actually kept virtually unchanged for for a while now and it\u0027s been kept dormant basically as the interest focus on schema month but the pressure physically everything whether it would make sense to bring back reactivate basically that work particularly because they use cases for the original young man also do remain balanced and made more pressing in the sense that application is to require visibility points it\u0027s data it\u0027s not just essentially it on the server itself but on other servers also in the same seven busy their various various use cases related to that you actually outlined in the draft and the site for this or this later as well okay so busy just in terms of comparison between the yang mouth and the scheme amount so basically it is yang mode is very much to provide visibility additional visibility to data using different access paths it\u0027s not to reuse existing definitions and insert them in there in a tree and so I see the analogy there is really basically that of a softly it\u0027s not that extend those and extend those definitions and likewise also unlike in scheme amount they\u0027re basically each mount point has an authoritative copy of the data that you\u0027re mounting there here basically the model is differently actually the theta that is mounted the authoritative owner is wherever is the original location of the data and this busy first provided with this additional with this additional link with this additional access with people likewise also there is actually emphasis is more on data "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:15:43",
    "text": "retrieval there\u0027s no validation of data or so at the mount point is also different from schema models but you do of course me to do the elevation here basically is really just to provide this to provide it to provide it accents access and also the number of data instances of course does not increase if you\u0027ll mount a piece of data it\u0027s still the same data so you don\u0027t have it\u0027s not additional instance so just saw this pretty just to delineate distinguish please BMO minutes okay all right hurry up a little bit but so essentially maybe I can almost skip this very detailed slide but basically it\u0027s automatic to provide these new path structures to superimpose them on top of those young data trees and this is rough Missy Rock conceptualization of what is going on there so in this one with this book troll peer model information where you want to allow from one system or is the one with the with the two nodes that are depicted by you would want to put some mouth information from different servers and allow this data to be essentially accessed access to as if it were yeah basically locally part of that server without having to go to a different server this does allow you to for instance realize the notion of a federated data store where you present treat and network as a system you can busy access it to a single server you can basically have a borderless agent if you will just your busting or breaking up the server define and border okay and obviously there are various this is a basic concept obviously there are various consider from caching considerations for eating of circular mounting and so forth so the next steps of this are waiting as far as the drug is commits remain constant content actually for violence and part of this we\u0027re basically incorporate into open daylight and make utilizes those those concepts and the MD Cell editorially there\u0027s some editorial cleanup that needs to occur also the relationship really it\u0027s email hot we need to be elaborated and an extended and but the question really is also but in the purpose of this presentation here so as actually the working group so there\u0027s a feedback if there\u0027s interest to move forward with this if there\u0027s interest in this work interest in extending the mount point very natural compliment to extend to extended until that will allow to to refer sockets that allow it to refer to either local data or the remote data my thoughts exactly that\u0027s exactly what I "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:18:43",
    "text": "was gonna have to ask the working group if there\u0027s interest comment so Chris I was just gonna say I think this is also like a bind mount kind of the equivalent yeah what having the fine bone that\u0027s a Linux thing so like symlink I think it\u0027s it\u0027s a little closer to a bind mount but where does it so you don\u0027t have any creepy formatted schema or so how do you could it what do you create the binders if it\u0027s a client-side thing to do no I\u0027m only on the server you see the mount points that you have and they see in this if you define a sense yeah you do define missing the target note that you want to insert another mount on and from that point it is just it is just whatever is basically in depth whatever the instance information where it would drive you know but what drives the server to do it cuz it\u0027s not a scheme of things okay well it\u0027s we news leaders that you\u0027re out of doing you know I\u0027m so I\u0027m sorry to do this but we\u0027re really running out of time on this and the question is is there interest in the working group on the topic at all and it\u0027s okay if you say we need more discussion so we can ask it three ways is there interest do we need more discussion and we want to accept this document if the other two or if one is yes and the others know so do I start with is there interest in this type of function in the working group is there interest in working on this function and the working so that that\u0027s pretty tepid how about interested in talking more learning more that\u0027s a bit more I don\u0027t think I think it\u0027s premature to go to working group document cuz we know the answer it\u0027ll be no because we need more time can we just take two less fill is it alright for you to take the list great thank you the night the next step is to discuss more on the list they want to hear more so describe more about the or use case and now for the lightning round my name is Joe Clark from Cisco for those of you who were at UPS our ups AWG yesterday you\u0027ve probably seen some of this ultimately here\u0027s what we\u0027ve got we\u0027ve got a great problem proliferation of yang modules a lot of what module is being written across mini stos a lot of vendors implementing them what then was "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:21:43",
    "text": "done is pulled together a number of very interested passionate people about yang to set up it\u0027s a number of tools to help people find the right yang modules understand how to use them learn from best practices and validate yang modules that\u0027s done with a number of open source tools at yang catalog org what I\u0027m gonna present today is the draft that describes the backing store for yang catalog org it is a yang module that we have built to catalog metadata about yang modules now the intent of this and I\u0027ll get to that but Ken asked me to say it upfront is not necessarily to make this a working group document our intent is to be very transparent in our work our intent is to drive passion to drive interest to perhaps get people to contribute to the yang catalog and what the yang catalog is is talk about use cases in a second ability to collect metadata so that we can fuel these tools that will help people understand what yang modules are available find out where yang modules are supported and as I said learn from the best practices of yang authors now some of you may have heard of the open config catalog model which was which is a document here as we started to implement this as we started to create running code and ran into some problems as the open config catalog module evolved it kind of deviated from what we needed initially we needed a way of cataloging individual modules and relative to that their implementations and they started to deviate from that in their o to Rev in addition we saw some discrepancies in terms of yang regular expressions with what we needed for the demon that was going to load and run and services module and there was some overlapping Leafs and the open config catalog that seem to contradict or at least confuse some of the points in the ITF yang library a primary use cases with how we\u0027ve structured this model this yang catalog model right now is to first be able to give an A yang model find all of the metadata about it as well as the platform\u0027s a vendor platform and software releases that implement it and given a vendor a platform and a software release show all the yang modules that they implement their conformance level their deviations features and so on and we also want to be able to provide rich per module metadata such as maturity the document from where it was extracted in the ietf where was the originating working group and then perhaps some other per sto or per document author or organization metadata as well I\u0027ve got a tree there so this is the full tree as it stands in the 0-0 draft we are also as I\u0027ll say on the last slide working with the new semantic versioning kind of rapid development approach here so in our github repository this has already changed based on what we learned from the hackathon and Kent pointed out something very excellent in that we are "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:24:45",
    "text": "this is basically just yang data we don\u0027t actually have a server here deviation here describing a module that doesn\u0027t have any relevance so what we\u0027re going to do is pull that out and click that into the implementation section and this also is hopefully going to help inform the the Biss work happening in the net comp group on maybe we can create more modular groupings in the yang library so we don\u0027t have to kind of copy and paste their work we can use it directly from yang library just real quick two things two elements of this that might not be obvious one is compilation status Benoit has been doing a great amount of work thanks to in part to all the developers have built great yang validation tools to be able to run yang module through a number of validations as modules are registered with the catalog we will run them against these validators we will record that compilation status as well as the output and that would be metadata in the Eng catalog I mentioned maturity level earlier what I mean by that and and some of these terms are likely to change we want to say how trusted is a module is it an initial individual draft has it been formally adopted by a standards organization or is it ratified by a standards organization that can help a module consumer know that yeah I can pretty much trust that this isn\u0027t going to change or that I can rely on this and it can help another module developer understand that the type dev so the semantics in such a module can be trusted and perhaps used as a best practice or a learning example initially we thought of trying to map that with vendors and benoit pointed out that that\u0027s probably going to get dangerous with how vendors tend to work so we\u0027re going to add a new element for not applicable where primary focus primarily focusing maturity at the sto level or standards development organization level our second sub tree is the vendor tree so as I mentioned giving a vendor given a platform giving a software release show me all the modules and this is we\u0027re gonna move our conformance data so you\u0027ll also be able to see what conformance level is it importers that implement what features are there and what deviations exists on a per module per implementation basis and finally yes three minutes the intent as I mentioned is not necessarily this could change we are rapidly developing this but is our intent is not necessarily to make this a working group document not necessarily to push this towards ratification but to be very open with what we\u0027re trying to do because we believe in our experience benoit myself others who have gathered to do this work believe that it is very important to have these metadata focused tools around yang modules to ensure the success of adoption in our users customers whatever you want to call them our development is happening openly and get "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:27:45",
    "text": "we plan on pushing another revision of this module relatively soon however it is already dramatically changed with what I presented from a zero zero draft standpoint a lot of that based on testing from juniper from Huawei from others at hackathon 99 so I asked you if you\u0027re interested and you want to contribute there\u0027s a link to contribute to the catalogue you can sign up to our announce list and announce that yang catalogue that org will be sending out updates and use the tools we\u0027ve already had a few examples that I see here at the meeting of yang module developers using these tools they\u0027re there for you to use there for you to extend questions Rick Taylor very good question why is it not your intention to try and standardize this but try and get acceptance in the working group to get this published why do you want to keep it sort of individual to use your classification of models when it could be useful Benoit will answer this but I\u0027m going to answer first and then he\u0027s going to tell me everywhere I\u0027m wrong we are working right now on the semantic versioning approach you may have seen the Cimber draft it\u0027s got the noit\u0027s name on it Richard Barnes was very big contributor to it we want to do more rapid development of yang modules and we feel that this module is going to continuously evolve as we develop new use cases for that reason we were thinking if we try to fit into the structure of standardization too soon it might hinder our our work in making this module truly useful that said if semantic versioning really takes off what this really looks like a promising thing it could be that we could periodically synchronize back to the IETF with an RFC nameplate on it and continue to iterate our work in a repository like github now Benoit tell me how you did great thanks but not less so one more thing is that we keep adding new things all the time bears in the hackathon typically you know I was comparing all these modules some of the vendor modules are Native models because they\u0027re generated so obviously I mean not obviously that they fail for example they\u0027re not fully compliant with 67 this so okay we\u0027re adding a new leaf is degenerated because if it if it is I mean doesn\u0027t matter next one is okay I was just taking a note now actually missing whether the service model or network element model we\u0027ve got this draft in RFC Q right now another one is okay we\u0027ve been speaking about nmda we\u0027re adding now the NMD the the tree type so you know it keeps evolving so rapidly based on people using that so that\u0027s that\u0027s the ID but it could be solid ice maybe later but it\u0027s not the end goal till Shaffer juniper networks "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:30:46",
    "text": "and also you know standardizations for interoperability what what is this interoperate worth if you change your schema who\u0027s gonna who\u0027s gonna care this is an internal tool and your and your there\u0027s just no need for Standardization so okay great thank you with that were actually over time so thank you thank you very much if you have the blue sheets can you please bring the front we look forward to continued discussion on the list and see you at the next meeting "
  }
]