[
  {
    "startTime": "00:00:20",
    "text": "yeah I\u0027m giving them to everybody but I\u0027m out good afternoon Oh excellent is it working or no I can\u0027t actually sounds okay works all right this is the cider house meeting at IETF 101 if somebody could reach back and close the door that would be great thank you very much I\u0027m Chris this is kare hi guys quickly about the mics please talk into the mic don\u0027t don\u0027t gradually get a whole bunch louder and scare people in the room can you not hear me regularly maybe it\u0027s okay sorry anyway you can put the mic on the thing here you can hold in your hand there\u0027s a clicker for the presenters I\u0027ll have a clock that will go and give you the two-minute warning by being super loud now we move forward over oh wait I know okay there\u0027s a note well I\u0027m sure you\u0027ve seen it at least once on this trip already quickly read it I\u0027ll make it fall on smaller next time we have an agenda I think there\u0027s one item we want to add to the very end ruin or request to add at the very end and that\u0027s the chat just really quickly about protocol level security stuff Jeff has gave a presentation at the IEP G which you can get from IE PG org to see but basically it talks about some standards to be sort of standard written down like if you want to do this or this or this with your protocol here\u0027s the options you have for securing it for identification for cryptographic a sorry for confidentiality and and that that\u0027s the only two I care about right now so that\u0027s that we can talk about the very end if there\u0027s time otherwise we need to find jabber scribe and a note-taker we have to stop here until we find them Jeffrey scribe and you can go home I\u0027ll send you I\u0027ll stop the bus jeb "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:03:23",
    "text": "prescribed great javascript no notes thicker notes somebody wants to write the writing notes part is easy you can do it in whatever application you\u0027re like that takes text and then email to the chairs at the end if you like using the etherpad thingy on the data tracker you could do that not my faith not my first choice but notes notes Jeff Moss take notes that\u0027s the problem with the ultimatum I\u0027m gonna be the worst parent ever and not follow through notes yep thank you very much all right that\u0027s all about finding a compromise just like with kids oh okay so I think we\u0027ll write quickly through the status of all these things there these are the drafts you can get all this content off of the Dan tracker the materials link for the meeting all these are just what\u0027s on the drafts page on tools does anybody have any questions about the current set of status other than LTI use cases which is probably my fault Auto shell fix after the meeting should be working group last call yes and simple answers ripe ncc I questioned about a biatch revalidation that\u0027s cool because I think the last moment out but I\u0027m not sure whether it\u0027ll probably also something I\u0027ll fix after this tree validation as always if I\u0027m messing up you should speak up I think the only thing we have that\u0027s currently pending all of the other things is this stuff in the editor queue for BGP second rollover that\u0027s just waiting on editor doing stuff I think no questions presentations okay Daniel where are you sweet it\u0027s not Daniel it\u0027s hair eros great testing that set the right colors let\u0027s go all right okay good afternoon everyone I\u0027m not Daniel cop I\u0027m Aris Lumbee Anita\u0027s from AM sex I\u0027m doing the "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:06:23",
    "text": "presentation of behalf of the authors and simply because I had a glass of wine I can take comments down so I\u0027ll try to be succinct here I\u0027ll try to explain what the problems are that we\u0027re trying to solve the draft here is about trying to ease clients into the world of rpki so basically mostly in shared mediums like XPS for which draft was originally intended we might be running into the issue of people not wanting to run rpki for whatever political technical or business reason so what we try to do here is to translate RPI into a community and send it over through for example our I experience River that\u0027s the first goal the second one is to standardize your already ongoing process of what we\u0027ve seen has been going on in the market which is XP is trying to communicate that kind of information to the clients so instead of having fragmentation and everyone doing their own thing in a segmented way we just want to standardize and consolidate into a community so a family friendly diagram here we have for example ASD that is advertising the prefix any prefix into a router over the route server does stuff to it maybe it drops it in any case it would tag it and depending on its configuration it would then forward it to the other peers you note that this is the same case as for non I XP environments it\u0027s just that the use case here is prominently for XP the history here unfortunately is not accurate but the key takeaways is to say that the most important updates for the draft have been to incorporate feedback with regards to generalizing the draft to BGP speakers instead of just AK spirit servers and then also reusing the four octet extended BGP community with an additional code point that I\u0027ll tribe later on this is the encoding here basically the salient points are that the validation state is the last octet which basically is either 1 0 1 or 2 so it\u0027s either valid unknown or invalid and then we\u0027re going to be requesting a specific code point for the subtype by the way something that I forgot is that the signaling AES which is in our case "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:09:23",
    "text": "the XP rot server is going to be on the global administrator field and then we have basically described three modes of operation the simplest one being that we simply tag prefixes and then send them over to peers so this is identical to how normal route service operates with them extra addition that those prefixes are being tagged according to their validity status the second mode is to drop invalids and tag the rest and the third one is drop in ballots and unknown there happens turns about path hiding I think that I\u0027ve seen 17 947 basically addresses most if not all these concerns so there\u0027s nothing new Under the Sun here if people filter out row us before they do the best path selection then everything works pretty fine and that\u0027s again something that they cannot do if they don\u0027t want to they can also drop them and error in the side of security instead of available if you could say and lastly because there has been some contentious discourse in the mailing list about this we feel that it\u0027s it makes more sense to just stick on the technical side of things describe a way of how people can implement it for their own environment whether that\u0027s a business one research one or whatever and then for any other issues security concerns or anything else it\u0027s probably a better idea to have an extra draft with more examples and more detail and I think that\u0027s basically it so at this point I would be interested in questions [Music] job Snyder\u0027s NTT communications through a series of trick questions I would like to see if we can establish a better understanding of the proposed mythology this ipv4 prefix 80.2 for 9.20 8.0 / 21 ring any bells for you yeah that\u0027s the MDT Union and you would agree that if I / 22 a more specific would be propagated through the default rezone it would be very unfortunate for the most part yes depends on the configuration of the directly configured peers yeah so many many ixp appearing on participants their sessions would drop "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:12:23",
    "text": "because the more specific route wins to BGP control plane traffic but that depends on their configuration as well so if I would receive this slash 22 from a peering partner or a customer that somehow managed to sneak through my IR based filters and I then propagated onwards to you to my other peers to other customers but clearly market with a BGP community I feel that none of us are getting any benefit from the rower that exists for this specific prefix and and my main obstacle with this draft is that if there is poisonous information you should any BGP speaking entity that knows that it is poisonous information because the route server in this draft is aware of the validation state should not market with the community and distributed thereby amplifying the problem it should always be encouraged to drop the invalids connect can I comment on this yeah of course so I\u0027m inclined to agree but I would also say firstly that it depends on the environments because this Jeff could still be applicable to research environments that are not connected to the Internet at all for example and secondly because it could be and it is a large discussion it\u0027s probably a good idea to have it as a different draft so if we\u0027re talking about best operational practices let\u0027s just make another raft I\u0027m aware of the trick to deflect criticism to separate deaths I\u0027ve used it myself a few times but I don\u0027t think we can use that card here but on the technical side the trick the there are two concerns related specifically to using bgp communities one is the timeline of deploying a new extended community not all implementations allow you to just put in hexadecimals and go with it many implementations require that there is actually form of support so even if you standardize too implementations happen in the next 18 months and deployment happens in the 18 months after that use large PHP communities deployment cycle as an example of how long these things take even at full speed realistically this then becomes in the hands of end-users four years from now and I hope that four years from now we\u0027ve made way more headway regarding our PR agent validation than this draft proposals well but we could also say the same thing four years ago and we didn\u0027t what we didn\u0027t exactly so I cannot cannot have any guarantees to that but I can guarantee you is that we if we don\u0027t standardize which is one of the goals on this thing four years down the road we\u0027re gonna be having we\u0027re gonna be "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:15:26",
    "text": "having 50 80 100 HP\u0027s doing their own thing which is a nightmare for customers well okay last last comment from my side okay I also feel it has not been sophistic sufficiently justified why locally significant communities namely using the ASM of the route server and just documenting this community means that the route server made this observation why that is insufficient and why it has to be a extended community because right now I think believe your organization has the capability to tack the announcements quit and you publicly documents 666 7 : 1 2 3 means a and : 1 2 3 4 it means be quick why is that not sufficient the answer to that is because the weight of what we\u0027re saying in our own website is not the same as that to an RC Alexander zoom of keurig lips I have a more general question so IRA filters and Arctica are built-in methods the filter out in Veracruz and others are representing huge access that you have already implemented IRA filters so you can\u0027t say that so you are not working with roots you are just sending them in all directions and so forth so my question is if we have two methods that have the same goal why do you\u0027re trying to treat them differently you mean I are filtering an RP careful drink yeah you may also talk your prefixes that are univariate according to IRR and send it to your customers so why in this situation you are do it do it that\u0027s me inviting another situation yeah do it another way that\u0027s a very good question my personal opinion to that is because RPI generally has a more solid foundation in terms of standardization compared to IRR so IRR is already our our filtering is already problematic as it is based on the fact that people are already doing it way too fragmented but it could be the case that we might address this in a different draft as well my idea was different so it see that you should treat them both in the same way yes it\u0027s a it is correct but you should filter they\u0027re both out so the second question okay let\u0027s imagine that you\u0027ve managed to make this dratted optisense it\u0027s became here in the RFC do you really believe that your customers majority of your customers will be using such a community to do "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:18:27",
    "text": "- tree - the BGP decision process it\u0027s from my perspective it is it is I don\u0027t think it\u0027s our customers are already doing that the difference is yours of your customers no but customers are already doing that so the problem here to solve is whether we standardizing this thing across morai axis okay thank you Tilikum i failed to provide draft and presentations on ideas how to use the expanded general community called space that we have that expanded code space quite clearly allows for say having euro IX as a coordination of VI XP operators acquiring an AAS number that could be used to publish the common repertoire suggested by by Euro X as common semantics communities and maybe maybe the Asian IX operators are lazy and would just say well okay for our customers we are pointing to that same registry there are quite definitely no easy ways and yes it would be really good to have a draft and finally an informational or BCP RFC that explains a common way of doing this and the and the benefits would be as Europe was pointing out deployment of new wrapper routing repertoire becomes much more agile than with the extra extended communities there is also another benefit when you use the regular open community attribute and that means that not only and one does not have to wait until the Rueter vendors provide the news of the version that understands and implements the semantics potentially of the thing it also means that as as control of propagation of signals can be implemented by operators that\u0027s easy with standard communities it is absolutely not possible with extended communities as long as not everybody actually has the implementation of that and I think that\u0027s in the case of a security relevant signaling a very very "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:21:30",
    "text": "important point and I actually have a question for you yes can I just comment so why just limited though only on internet exchanges so if they the association of dog owners of course can get an a s number for their code point okay marking of marking dog shit the question the and I have an idea as to the name of the community idea I just want to make the point that we are running off of time three or four minutes industry runs time so get to the point quickly answer quickly so we need to rerun up yeah that\u0027s question you still need to okay s us you are an IXP who is supposed to already or soon use that kind of stuff my question would be and that\u0027s not really protocol stuff which trust anchors are you actually using and are you sure are you sure have you checked that all the things that you are doing don\u0027t have bad consequences outside of just routing no we\u0027re not but we\u0027ll leave that decision to the customers a well which well okay if you do not if you do not specify which trust anchors are used for coming to a designation there the customer has to rely on the set of trust anchors that you are using rudiger this is a great conversation we probably should take it to the mailing list thank you you suck Montgomery Ida just a quick question about scope so and and I don\u0027t know what the answer is about encoding external attributes oh all that conversation is good but that seemed to be the only thing that this draft added all of these descriptions of simple tagging dropping and tagging strip strict dropping and tagging you can do now you just put names on them right yes but you also need to standardize so you need to make sure that every operator who implements this implements one of the three modes of operation instead of ten 15 or whatever so you need to use a common language across operators who do that it\u0027s that\u0027s not clear to me and one other thing I wanted to ask is you know there\u0027s lines in here like a validating BGP speaker must support at least a simple tagging operation when it says a validating BGP speaker do you mean a speaker that implements this spec quit or just a normal rpki validating BGP engine I mean to say the peer who is doing the validation and sends it out as intact form to its peers I can\u0027t tell "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:24:33",
    "text": "whether this said that every BGP speaker has to be able to do this or if you\u0027re doing this mechanism then you have to implement one form if it\u0027s about if it\u0027s in an internet exchange it\u0027s only the route server does that answer your question okay where we over time there\u0027s a bunch of conversation here there\u0027s a bunch of conversation here all of it should be on the mailing list please good afternoon I\u0027m stratum and my co-authors on this are Oliver bore shirt Doug and job so this is about trying to be e ha I mean you\u0027ll see we mean we don\u0027t want to go to them in the case we don\u0027t want to immediately go to dropping invalid so rather have some intermediate transition period where we are trying to route them towards their less specifics and at the same time like truth truly drop the invalids but try to route them to their less specifics let\u0027s get into that so when it obviously raises no concerns not found not penalized during partial deployment so the question is about the invalid so should we always drop invalid the answer is perhaps not because network operators would like reach ability not to be compromised during incremental deployment or transient conditions unconditionally dropping invalid that we could do only in mature state of rpki deployment so the so the next question is during incremental deployment state should we drop invalid route only if a less specific route exists that is either valid or not found so we call that the D is our or desire policy this is exactly that drop invalid if a valid or not found less specific route exists so why do you want to do that so if there\u0027s a rower for the subscribe to me less specific that exists and so essentially the idea is that it that you are dropping the invalids and you are routing them towards the less specific that is I either valid or not found and by doing this the in the "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:27:34",
    "text": "invalid announcements all of them are dropped some of them could be hijacks some of them could be due to traffic engineering but what we are trying to ensure in the process is that the traffic for the more specific does get to that the destination it is supposed to reach so let\u0027s look at some scenarios where whether or not that truly happens the colors kind of changed here B blue what you see blue is was yellow it my slides so I wonder what happened to the red the red became pink you just fix it oh that\u0027s good so in this case there are no reverse so the scenario is s1 is originating stash 22 out of it it also originates as slash 24 on to a different transit provider the in this case all of these and there\u0027s there is a hijack at the top coming from s5 so there\u0027s traffic engineering of the more specific there is also a hijack of the more specific and the less specific is making its way as well to the a s4 so sitting at a s4 these are all not not found and we are not really differentiating in this case they they are all in the same status so now we look at situation where two has come into play so there\u0027s a row buffer for the slash 20 to make which makes the more specific invalid the traffic engineering intended one as well as the real hijack one so s4 applies the DSR policy and it drops all the invalid that it sees with the more specifics and routes that and because it sees that the less specific invalid or not found in this case I\u0027m sorry the less specific valid it\u0027s covering the the more specific invalid so it loads the traffic to the less specific so traffic engineering doesn\u0027t work as intended but the traffic gets to its intended destination same thing happens if there\u0027s a row I in between the row I was not created for the slash 22 but it was created for a twenty three which makes the a slash twenty two not found as opposed to valid so but as4 decides to choose that and route the traffic to the not found rather than the invalid so again drops the invalids and the traffic still gets to the correct destination in this case the the less specifics are being aggregated by a s two and a row wise been created for the slash twenty three the aggregation the hijack is is caught and dropped the traffic definitely teaches the less "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:30:35",
    "text": "specific through a s to that the more specific through a is to no problem there so in this scenario there is might be homing previous one didn\u0027t have multihoming so when you have might be homing now yes the the traffic engineering the be more specific intended for traffic engineering is invalid as well as the real hijack is invalid both are dropped and the traffic is routed to the less specific and they s2 is able to distribute the traffic to the more specifics underneath it Jeff has never had it pointed out an interesting situation where there seems to be something to be a little concerned about with this D is our policy so here in this picture the slash twenty four more specific is was a customer of a s2 and then it it ran away with with the more specific with with the sub allocation and now it homes to a s3 so now the desire policy would so there is a the a s2 is p2 created a role for the / 26 I\u0027m sorry / 16 and what happens is that as4 picks and selects the less specifics last 16 and what you see happening in this picture is that yes indeed the the / 24 traffic goes to a s - but it has nothing to deliver - because the customer has moved away so the customer basically experiences unreachable \u0027ti so should we be the question is so it\u0027s a non paying customer who is stolen a sub allocation and ran away with it so should he be should the ISP to decide that it should be punished for this that reason and and suffered non reach ability or she dies we have some concern or compassion and and based on that if they do have some some soft corner thinking that maybe the main that the check is in the mail or something like that they they can go ahead and create a rover for the more specific so that is one option that that a ISP to has in case they want to be soft towards this customer for a grace period all right so we have looked at what are the implications of this policy I mean is it helping in terms of looking at real route views and roja data so at the top we are looking like from seven route views collectors we are looking at 750,000 outs of which close to 60,000 are valid 10,000 are invalid and that I start not found and then further we can differentiate the invalids based on max length max max length mismatch s mismatch both max length in the s mismatch in da set so let\u0027s take it look at the invalids "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:33:36",
    "text": "10,000 of them of those max length invalid are about 7,000 is invalid about 3,000 max length and s and both a SN max length invalid a small number and here we drill down look at the max length invalid and ask the question is is there a valid or not not found less specific to which it can be routed or not less specific or equally or the same prefix so certainly like in 68,000 out of sixty eight hundred six thousand roughly are routable to to a valid or or not found and then the next question is of those how many have the same origin AAS and how many have a different origin a s so as expected about six thousand I mean almost I mean almost all of them have same origin a very small tiny fraction and have a different origin and so that\u0027s expected because in this case it is max length invalid so what happened is that the the owner is routing both the less specific and the more specific and they forgot to put the right max length or they forgot to create an additional rower for the more specific now you can drill down on the right side this further forty of them which have a different origin areas and it turns out that out of that twenty six of them go to the transit provider of the different OS so it\u0027s the same path it\u0027s just going to 1s above which is the transit provider so this one so you can look through the next three slides which drill down deeper into what happens when there is a s mismatch or max length and a s mismatch so let\u0027s move on from those so the next few slides next couple of slides are about the implementation considerations here we got some inputs from Jeff thank you for that and and I would request you have to help me out here in case I\u0027m not saying something right on the list Jeff Jeff had an objection about the algorithm that is currently written in the draft and over there we said something about like changing things in the local proof and Jeff suggestion to me so what you are seeing in this picture is that you have agitate add ribbons you have the origin validation checks then you go through the decision process shortest path etc then you put stuff into the local group and after that only if I understand Jeff suggestion correctly only after that you bring in the digital policy and as you select the doubts to go into the fear bought the a jury bouts that is the time when we when you check for the less specific more specific is invalid is there a less specific that\u0027s either valid or not found if so then you put it in the frame or in the ads rebounds so that\u0027s the implementation "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:36:38",
    "text": "conceptual implementation then you have to be careful about what happens when things change so when a value dot not found out is is added at that point of time you have to check if there are more specific prefixes in the favorite a dreary bouts subject subsumed by the route prefix and if if those more specific prefix routes are invalid then you need to remove them from the add your abouts or the frame because the valid not found route that\u0027s newly alia added covers it so likewise you also have to look at two other conditions I will not explain those but those two other conditions are when a valid or not found route is withdrawn again you have to perform checks or when there are changes in the rpki state that\u0027s once again when you need to do the to redo the checks so that\u0027s the high level conceptual implementation when once we decide that we have some support for this proposal we can work out the details finally this my last slide so here we have what we have is a gradual hardening of the stick today invalid routes are not dropped that is early adoption and we do our best to operators do their best to notify invalid educate and encourage adoption among their customers then we apply as as we go into actually making it real we use a stops star softs a stick that is the desert policy and here we are assuring the the the the negligent user who has not created it over that for the more specific you didn\u0027t create it over but for the less specific you have a robot it\u0027s valid we are we are we are doubting it to the less specific so your traffic is not being dropped on the floor like we saw in the scenarios you are getting the traffic and so that\u0027s during moderate adoption once again continue the efforts for notifying the invalids to the customer and educate them and finally the hard stick is always drop invalid that would be immature adoption thank you if you go one slide back so cute Patel one more slide back please right so as an implementer would you ever get a request from your provider that says if I figure out that I really want to drop invalids right or I won\u0027t implement your algorithm I want to do it at the point where I don\u0027t even consider a decision process I may want to optimize that we don\u0027t require a change in a draft so right now draft is zero zero individuals "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:39:40",
    "text": "so it will go through many changes so no doubt so I suggest you provide that flexibility that\u0027s all I was saying and then the second question I have is how many levels do you expect assuming there is an attack and assuming the attack happens in in a way that someone announces more specific and there are a bunch of less specifics that are announced so say there was a slash 24 followed by slash 16 followed by slash 8 how many levels should you recurse through to say when to stop and and the answer may be because as much as you can okay one is good yeah so if you find so you you look up the prefix free from more specific to less specific as soon as you find the first one that is less specific I mean this less specific that is valid or not found you you doubt to that and one last question here I\u0027m assuming you\u0027re not counting in this check a default zero zero as a well it\u0027ll wouldn\u0027t no I don\u0027t think so no so Warren Kumari um no hats so let\u0027s say that I so let\u0027s say I end up with an invalid slash 24 and there\u0027s currently a covering slash 20 that is you know not found or something I then hide the slash 24 because it\u0027s currently invalid when the covering wrap goes away and then comes back it sounds like I have a fair bit of work to do yep it\u0027s just the amount of work sounds okay that was a good point by the way so I just wanted to point out that in your you know taxonomy of you know different network cases I think your second one showed you know a multihoming case and then your third one showed a prefix portability case and I just want to point out that you know generally the point of multihoming is also prefix portability in what I mean by that is if my link to my primary provider goes down the whole point of multihoming is that I think my traffic is still going to get delivered to me along my second path but in your example what you showed was well the multihoming doesn\u0027t really work but it\u0027s okay because the primary I think this link could go down yeah and then it becomes the following example so if this thing goes down this is the John then all you are left with is the two the invalids and between the invalids you "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:42:40",
    "text": "don\u0027t have correct you have a I guess the example is you have a multi-home customer but the the you know show me your prefix portability example the one where you said Oh Jeff brought up this other example oh yeah so okay so so basically that example but you know the customer isn\u0027t moved the customer is multihomed yeah and so so that dotted line is not really dotted it\u0027s solid so that\u0027s extremely similar to the side we were just looking at a minute ago now the dotted line gets broken because you know squirrel chews through the oh just one second to myself I think the sound out of the room might have dropped out so should we all stop talking until they the audio comes back I\u0027ll stop this bus right now or I could count backwards from 100 yeah I\u0027ll see if we can check the chase down anyway my point that yeah yes essentially in this case okay all right so both are solid lines and this this one goes away sorry yeah this one goes away yeah and he\u0027s still announcing all right right he\u0027s so announced in the aggregate so so that guy you know then gets no service and at the same time I mean right okay II guess you could argue that oh well that\u0027s okay because you know the for the reason you give at the bottom but but it still you know means that and there\u0027s a whole bunch of business ramifications to this then about about multihoming and so on that it\u0027s probably Chris\u0027s beeper beat so we don\u0027t have time to go into it but III think that we can\u0027t just sort of you know easily dismiss the problem okay nobody gives a good place and there\u0027s less than a minute so be quick and get quick job Snyder\u0027s entity communications I want to emphasize that the reason we\u0027re looking into this is because there currently is zero deployment of original elevation I am one of five networks that does original foundation so we\u0027re performing really poor and I see this as an experiment a false experiment perhaps how can we roll into this and incrementally start protecting groups of people that created the correct role and do the correct route announcements and perhaps not offer benefits to people that have misconfigurations or at least try not to punish those and I\u0027m fully aware that this will be probably be quite computationally expensive and that alone may you know prevent this from ever materializing in the real world so studies will need to be done like what is the actual cost of this because I am very concerned about resources but if people have other ideas how to roll into origination I you know this is a good time to step forward "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:45:48",
    "text": "Doug Macomb rain nest one quick point I\u0027d like to make to John\u0027s point right is that you always have a problem if you\u0027re multihoming and only creating rows for one path just in these kinds of examples so you need to be consistent there is no more time we\u0027re all done next up thank you talked about this in the mailing list of course please [Music] magic how does this work Tim okay hi um so um there is a draft callsign object for Telstra single locator and now yes so very quick reminder how this all works we have to trust I can locate a file which Excel essentially it contains a bunch of your eyes or at least one and they let\u0027s say fingerprint of the key of the swastika certificates this gets either shipped by default or configured by users of a relying party software it done fetches a a certificate validates it and that it matches the fingerprint let\u0027s say and then from there on it can commence validation so what\u0027s the issue here well sometimes new you rise may be applicable I was going to talk about HT yes and tell us next so that\u0027s a potential use case but there may also be a need to have a new key in particular in our case we use hardware security modules to protect our key but currently we\u0027re kind of locked into one vendor and it would be nice if we could change at some point if you need to communicate and you tell them well it\u0027s pretty on the fine at the moment they need to be installed by hand you could maybe do a hack and ship new tells with a validator and figure out we\u0027re using this old thing then I\u0027ll replace it but it\u0027s it\u0027s a bit yeah Dorji and it\u0027s hard to reach it deploy bays and get people to do this so why talk about now I thought I put this one up to me this is quite important not super urgent we don\u0027t have a problem right now but you know it\u0027s only not original until it becomes urgent so I think we should have a good discussion about this also given "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:48:49",
    "text": "the the well the the issues with the DNS Keys I think also show that it\u0027s good that we can tackle this early so what is in this drops it covers planned rolls so we are planning to use a new key lamps a new publication points but it doesn\u0027t cover unplanned rolls and well like I tried to say in the in the in the slide about you know I think this is important not urgent but we should start talking about this um I\u0027m really open to suggestions like nothing in this document this Carson stone um took up the other token on this because I think it\u0027s important enough that we start a discussion but I\u0027m really open to other ways that this can be done let\u0027s get it right so that being said this is what the document says now for plan roll in Shawshank it should set up a new key first and publish all the objects that go with it and then publish in New Scientist all object we nine parties who see this must use it immediately and ETA well that\u0027s what the current document says must still operate the Alt key for at least 24 hours not sure that that\u0027s entirely necessary if relying parties have to switch over immediately anyway but then the third stage is retire the Alt key but if you can leave a pointer to where the new key is so if people arrive later they can still find our way publication adding a new publication point is relatively easy because you just need to publish the certificate first and then you can have a trust anchor locator that references it our keys must this was Tom Perkins the consistency always uses new source and current locator immediately so but I have already found the certificate so in this case it would be the next room that this thing becomes available let\u0027s say for removal well if you remove the only location that it was a relying party half then of course things will break so it kind of assumes that you didn\u0027t do that but you\u0027re trying to phase are one of most multiple so yeah the the thought here is up okay continue to operate this dislocation for a while at least and the dock and Kearney says 24 hours but yeah I\u0027m not sure that that\u0027s the right value to be run on us then well issues there were some issues well first of all there\u0027s a double encoding issue like the content of to tell is encoded well it doesn\u0027t have to be "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:51:51",
    "text": "double encoder that say that\u0027s base64 that\u0027s a minor issue there\u0027s magic times in here like I mentioned not sure that we really need them and what the value should be everything isn\u0027t immediate to me somebody suggested I think it was storm that maybe you want to plan ahead and say I plan to use this new thing two months from now to me that doesn\u0027t seem like yeah to me I\u0027m not sure that I agree that the use case there it seems simpler to me to just do it but it\u0027s a it\u0027s a point of discussion um another point of because the discussion is should we actually try to govern on land rules and if so then it may be a good idea to use the same mechanism for plan rules and on plant rules because can we just have one way of doing things why unplanned rolls well if I look at our case we do use our security model to protect our keys so the the chance that people steal the key is very very small but you can still lose access to the key and if you have multiple keys then you could store them in different locations and maybe reuse at risk but the expenses and let me go here is that it would complicate the well the scenario that I thought of at least how you could do this is it\u0027s more complicated than that a simple plan roll let\u0027s say so you have to ask yourself is it worth it are you really you know making things better here but okay that\u0027s sad what I had in mind was you could have the current key define a new key it\u0027s not actually being used let\u0027s say but it has the power to say the old key is no longer in use you would need a slightly more complicated object I think on a simple towel for this because at least the way I see it you need to then communicate what is current or the future and what is old so and this is not in the current document but it was discussed or emailed it to the list so again like very much feedback on this and which brings me to this slide which most of the things I\u0027ve already said so future changes do people really do people see a use case I think we can look into it but again to me it seems that it\u0027s easier from the relying parties implementation perspective that we just deal with it when it\u0027s ready and don\u0027t keep track of when we need to do something in the future times what you use and yeah importantly covered complan true heroes should we go there is the "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:54:53",
    "text": "use case strong enough to have potentially more complicated ways of doing this and I think that\u0027s it yes so any questions or comments and I\u0027ll open last couple comments one the main reason for doing pre-publication these sorts of protocols is to try to be ready for some kind of unplanned key role it\u0027s basically just because you can\u0027t do it but once the events happen basically rebooting second thing in terms of your magic numbers one way to think about it in terms of are these numbers saying or rather in terms of what the protocol is saying is say you\u0027re keeping the 24 hours which sounds aggressive to me but for purpose of discussion pretend you\u0027re keeping the 24 hours what happens is somebody has been asleep for two weeks now badly did does this break does it just magically recover are they screwed you know what\u0027s just go through the whole thing that way yes oh yeah I agree but I was entirely clear on the on the position on planned rules that you mentioned sorry for being a bit dense here but are you saying it\u0027s something we should cover or we should not cover however that said I know you\u0027ve been looking for an excuse to use a JSON for the towel for years now actually a little list I proposed because I think we need to work through what we\u0027re going to do if we do have unplanned because you know it\u0027s not like the problem goes away because we refused to think about it unfortunately well I think one thing that would be useful is to hear from you and and and D as well as a relying party implementers how much cost with this in curl on relying party software if you have to do all these checks all the time another way to think about is is would operators of trust anchors actually you know do they see the need for doing this are they confidence that using an HSM is protection enough let\u0027s say I\u0027m having good backups but the third question is also you know does the technical community think that that\u0027s good enough so there\u0027s all these questions here and I don\u0027t really have the answer to all of them but yeah maybe she\u0027ll leave it at that and then hopefully spark up some more discussion on the list right this "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:57:58",
    "text": "one should be easy famous last words it\u0027s the essence rusty anchor locator spells so it\u0027s essentially just this it said have one or more I think your eyes now the document says a new version has been written with my name and and George my cousin\u0027s name on it I reached out to authors of the original RFC actually and I don\u0027t think people there were thought that it needed to be on the author list but they\u0027re welcome to because the change is actually minor it just says you can use HTTP now essentially you could also use only aged yes the way it\u0027s written so one or the other why it\u0027s easier to host these things reliably and it\u0027s easier to fetch you don\u0027t need to have a sort of an external commands like rsync but as libraries one thing I\u0027d like people to look at is the HTTP consideration section this is similar to what we\u0027ve done in the data protocol tier last validation is well I would say definitely somewhat useful but people also mess it up and because you got this object and you have a fingerprint you can actually verify that this certificate is is valid so there is object secure security there so the advice is essentially do this warn in case it doesn\u0027t validate and but use it anyway and it leaves it entirely to local policy or the relying party software to then decide okay maybe I want to try another your Ida that works without warnings um so that\u0027s one thing to think about I think but other than that I feel this is probably pretty much done and yeah we\u0027d probably even go for law school very soon unless people feel I need to discuss more on this so that\u0027s I don\u0027t have a question slide here but consider don\u0027t rush to mark and please review considerations as my questions any comments and the considerations as written a please that it says to be removed later and then it has some suggested text that people are all fine with that text and I\u0027m fine with it okay please email the list asking for a doctor shipping right no the fun bit um yes I think we have the uncoolest name of the validators out there by far but I "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:00:58",
    "text": "almost couldn\u0027t think of a better one um so sorry and we\u0027ve been working on a new version of a validator some reasons why um stability maintainability from a software point of view because your tools written in scala and whilst i still think that\u0027s a pretty nice language it\u0027s quite hard to have people find people who can maintain it um redundancy and deployment is something you want to look at you\u0027re going to reduce the memory footprint somewhat because the old one was keeping everything everything in memory um and we also want to look at the deployment an update model so I\u0027m features it\u0027s pretty similar to the current one we have export of Roma\u0027s and sees the in Jason that\u0027s compatible with the earlier version we added support for motor certificates and a PIR TR version one that most includes with the certificates we were not doing incremental updates earlier but we\u0027ve had added this now um we are working on Slom so that\u0027s the local exceptions if you know you can say ignore a certain prefix or with a certificate and add my own that\u0027s in progress you have the UI and it\u0027s completely unsecure kind of by design because we figure well if you wanna secure it just put a proxy in front of it that you know is following the latest and greatest in how to do HDS etc but if we put that in our software it will become harder to maintain I don\u0027t think we can compete with nginx or Apache or things like that I\u0027m a bi the UI users may be at the API itself as well and it\u0027s browser go with you can well itself document it and you can try it out command line interface I\u0027m afraid we won\u0027t have time to build that right now but if anybody is willing to do work in this space we\u0027d be very happy to work with you um yeah so that\u0027s the features architecture um so the Ottoman redundancy is we don\u0027t assume that you would be running one validation engine so that doesn\u0027t share state between let\u0027s say two instances of a validator but the way we\u0027ve looked at the ER PRT our thing is it\u0027s a separate playable at the moment it uses the API it eats local state in case the Dominator is unavailable for example for a I\u0027m afraid you can have multiple well you can have scripts using the the API a little more on this internal validation versus patching this is where "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:03:59",
    "text": "we spend quite a bit of work in the internals is we have more clear separation now we always have a local cache but now we\u0027ve really separated the functions to be from asynchronous so that means that if a repository is unavailable our validation process isn\u0027t blocked but it does add a bit of overhead when we first start we need to first try all the repositories under a tree and we discover them by doing incremental validations and so may still be things that we haven\u0027t tried yet so as long as we haven\u0027t tried all the repositories in a tree the trust anchor is not a spending and our PR TR doesn\u0027t include the results for it and then as soon as we do try them if they fail they fail but you know at least we tried and also well screenshot of one monitoring page we non-listed repositories explicitly as well in addition to an accommodation issues with objects and Industry hopefully this will help debugging issues a bit better known issues because this is still in beta reporting on pending trust anchors is still some of confusion confusing if you start up the fidelity the the tool and start running it it needs to build up state initially and it\u0027s kind of reporting the object that it has found even though it\u0027s not ready yet so that\u0027s something we want to look at in the UI local exception are not completely finished but we are looking at that I\u0027m making good progress there is no user interface for trust anger management\u0027s for adding new trust anchors there is an API for this this may remain a feature what we may actually do is that we just have a small scripts that exemplifies how you can use the the API to upload a it\u0027s raw second operator so please let me know what you think um it\u0027s all available in github so you can you can create issues there you can talk on the list you can talk to me personally everything works um we\u0027re quite dedicated to fixing any any bugs and issues but we\u0027re careful about features we want to keep this thing maintainable and that\u0027s also why I want to eat the feature set quite minimal for deployments and we currently supports rpms for Center seven that\u0027s because we use that internally it\u0027s not because everybody should use it of course but I\u0027m going to do what we can let\u0027s say um he made a docker image as well based on this that might be useful for some people and there\u0027s a generic built so that based on that you could "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:06:59",
    "text": "also figure out how to deploy it in other distributions if people are interested in making distributions for certain platforms and they have some Authority in those distributions them again we\u0027d be very happy to work with you and that\u0027s what I think so yep last and again at one question that\u0027s sort of relevant to ITF limitation when I was implementing the client-side of our DP and using ripes enormous database as the server side I noticed very very different day yeah I had to cope with in my implementation in terms of the difference between full transfer and incremental transfer in the database behavior was totally different if you had any you want experience in that area that sort of thing that you came across while doing this that would probably be useful for the working with Janelle right yeah sure that we encountered that one let\u0027s have a chat later I team demand from DDS first of all I\u0027d like to give the suggest in terms of how to Lamia software maybe you can rearrange every word of the lamest of the where maybe you can get a really funny delicious well Kim allowed the vendor he reconsidered the amended procedure for certificate validation a pass validation is going to be a are C so may I inquire tool of how would you do that you didn\u0027t mention your slice as far as I observe without to mentor at hand wide to waiting for the open FL to support it the in duo ID and the other would be well let\u0027s just rewrite the mall a separate audio to support a function so support ability can reconsidered we had it in the two-point X series of the validator as a global config because this was before the time that we discussed that a object identifier on certificates will be used and we haven\u0027t done it in this one yet it wouldn\u0027t be difficult for us to do it but we were waiting to see whether the the the standard goes and the discussion about you know how it should be deployed because the moment that we would publish a certificate within the already in it things will break so we need to have a discussion there and yeah one open issue there is if you use these new ADIZ can you use a mix or can you not use a mix but what do you need to validate it is "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:10:00",
    "text": "not entirely clear yet the document are specifies basically say is how it could work in various cases but we need to have that discussion I think about you know what is an acceptable deployment model here before we do the the RP code because otherwise we may end up redoing it so I don\u0027t really see the point in and going ahead of that but that being said it\u0027s it\u0027s very easy for us to do this we are not relying on on open SSL it\u0027s on a local implementation we already keep track of the let\u0027s say the validated resource set concepts because in our mind any any certificate in the chain can use the inherit attribute let\u0027s say so we already keep track of what resources go with a certificate and changing this to something where we say if there\u0027s an over claim except the intersection is not difficult for us so that\u0027s not only critical path thank you hello everyone I\u0027m Deema from zds as when I was the authors of this document I would like to briefly update before touching upon the very subject I would like to reiterate the motivation of the reason why we do these only suggesting without implementer skip reading all those are pH related documents absent me no because anyone who wants to comprehend this new technology can\u0027t be exempted from reading the necessary documents actually um I see this document could serve as a manifesto for all necessary army functions if I remember correctly they are reserved seek 6430 for ipv6 nor the requirements I believe we are doing the similar things and and we believe implementers shouldn\u0027t do more than the what RP requirements are because the implementers need to know how to reflect all the function functions of RP as they are making software design so I really "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:13:02",
    "text": "think this argument couldn\u0027t make this walk more necessary so that\u0027s vacation of the motivation moving along to the overview this document well the current version is there one it\u0027s the update for the first time since it was adopted and we also expect this document to be a information I\u0027ve see that provides a single reference point for requirements for relying party software for use in the RPK here come the changes above all on we add the applicator the RPK Rapala tree down the protocol when we mission is a synchronization mechanism supported by hugging the repositories and second we have made the reference to obviously 64 87 more detailed with the new granularity of sections so not just telling people to go to the app see to search for what they want and we also add a paragraph that indicates the amended procedure to handle accidental over Crimea specified in the Vantage we consider document which by the way is about to be on see in last version of the document we left the way our P handle still or invalid the manufacturer as a TBD and it has been complemented like this we also add the security consideration sections by emphasizing impose backup and secure transport of the vanadate Akash okay that\u0027s all this photo was taken by the calls Adamo Steven Kent winds early in India well I can tell from the tiger contact I contacted the big hat is hungry for questions Thank You Jean no questions no questions leave the counter want to be fed up okay off we go thank you very much everyone and like I said earlier twice or three times please much of discussion should go on the mailing list oh we have the whole thing about transport security let me stand up we can leave the cat up all right so Jeff\u0027s presentation just not here I don\u0027t think great we talked about him he won\u0027t even know Jeff\u0027s "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:16:03",
    "text": "presentation basically said as an implementer of protocol they have a lot of fun making their cool protocol do do cool things and then they go to the iesg and security ad slams this hammer down like Thor and says hey dummy you got to protect this and everybody either goes Mario I don\u0027t honor do either or they do what we did for cider and say you have an awesome answer it\u0027s called TCPA oh but nobody knows how to do it so we\u0027re just gonna do bgp md5 and or just into md5 and until something better comes along I think we actually said to use SSH but anyway the point of the matter is like you can create your own fictional thing to do that which seems not constructive you can talk about using bgp md5 and get the Thor hammer again from Steven Ferrell or his replacement Becker super awesome that\u0027s right it\u0027s he\u0027s more like the flash I guess so anyway I guess Jeff\u0027s requesting that somebody put some time into sort of making a matrix of I have a protocol tcp or UDP I care about identification of the far side and some cryptographic assurance that the packet didn\u0027t get messed with on the way and I should use this or I should use this based on what they but protocol you\u0027re using if you want to do also get confidentiality then you would have to do something else let\u0027s say IPSec or TLS and then some information about how to actually implement those things as in in operations and maybe some pointers to existing code would be great this seems like a good idea to me I don\u0027t necessarily think it\u0027s cider ops work in fact it\u0027s probably a little more like grow work but at least to do to write the document but I would like does anybody else think this is worthwhile perhaps again not here or why does it not matter Ritter Warren Kumari with no hats yeah if we don\u0027t do this or someone and the site doesn\u0027t do this the standard answer is just gonna be used use TLS for everything and unless you want all your router is doing TLS for everything we might want to do something about it job Snyder\u0027s ntt I think it\u0027s definitely worthwhile worthwhile to try and profile different use cases and applicability security concerns but I\u0027m also interested in improving the bgp protocol specifically in a operator friendly way an analogy would be when we SSH into a host we won\u0027t see the fingerprint we say yes or no and it\u0027s cached and you know forever that material can be used to securely do stuff and a TLS is not the right solution here but something lightweight something that it\u0027s transferable from device to device something that doesn\u0027t require operators to jump through hoops to share secrets something that is not encrypted on the wire so we can still debug it that would have my interest so "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:19:04",
    "text": "I think there\u0027s perhaps multiple initiatives that could flow from this sound just to clarify it sounds like what you\u0027re saying is the matrix of what to do if you have this or that problem or this or that protocol is interesting to you yes thank you John Scudder sounds like a problem for carp oh wait fortunately carp is a fish oh the Tigers happy yeah carp is a fish and it started to smell bad so it died or maybe maybe it happened in the other order I\u0027m not sure yeah so I also would like to see if this work get done somewhere cuz obviously I\u0027m one of the people that it\u0027s the big headaches when you know Thor bangs his hammer down at you know silver hammer on my head yeah am i offering to do it I did hear some threats about a design team when I was in sag and I neither run screaming nor did I raise my hand in volunteer but there\u0027s a whole lot of people who think a whole lot of problems are the problem to solve so I as much as I despise problem statements that\u0027s probably the first piece of work to get done is to just figure out which problem or problems it is that we want to solve and then we can decompose it from there Thank You Russ Housley so I also was in Sag and this all started when I was security area director so that was a long time ago and then when I was ITF chair I got the routing a DS the ops IDs added security ATS together and we bashed out this and this led to TCP i/o and car and a whole bunch of things if it\u0027s like please tell me why this is different because I felt like you know I was the cheerleader to round all those people up and get those specs developed and as far as I can tell the only thing that\u0027s changed is we came up with a more efficient Mac function since then as you know right now those that TCP Aero specifies a cha-cha one which is getting a little long in the tooth but okay we could use GMAC okay we got X plus y annoyed and we\u0027re done is that really it actually it would be nice if something actually had these BL in it exactly there\u0027s one elimination right where and a Juniper somewhere but it was probably draft Bonica still not anyway anyway that my point is if there\u0027s really a need the people are here to do the work and have okay thanks I would also recommend to time for cookies or some "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:22:06",
    "text": "business but I\u0027ll check while you\u0027re talking John not according according to my calendar my calendar says we have another half hour for this room but I mean you know I\u0027m perfectly happy to have you adjourn right now that\u0027s fine I was just getting up to say that I you know I could answer you know Russ\u0027s question which may or may not have been rhetorical but I\u0027m not sure what your intent is with with raising the topic like is this are we discussing this topic in the room until we\u0027re done or or what sort of yes sort of making sure I\u0027m not crazy but Randy Bush um the problem with md5 is it solves the problem we have had forty eight oh eight and we have roll um we have md5 because we were being attacked and got TCP resets currently nothing is successfully attacking md5 when that happens maybe we\u0027ll go with our checkbooks and beat on the heads of the vendors and they will give us TCP a Oh in the moment TCP a Oh doesn\u0027t exist it\u0027s a fantasy why are we spending floor time on it you\u0027re in the way he was too polite to say it don\u0027t pitch this is the third time of her t Spiro this week the other two with same presentation saying when we get into his pay oh and the work the presenter said he conducted he took was talking to him of working groups like me got my list idea our pimp ECE best pals RT g WG I wondered why I do office was not exist so there is quite a lot of activity on why are we doing T Spiro and is it the right answer and do we need a better sha-256 or something but yes a lot of people interested around the i2 yet those were all protocol groups this is an Operations Group we can ask we this is part of the reason I\u0027m just I had stuff talk topic up is it\u0027s something that operations people think that they need not necessarily a Oh per se but if they need this functionality they need to speak to their vendor and maybe going to them and saying here\u0027s some paperwork you should read please make it work for me but the presentation was saying we did a survey we went to spoke to the vendors we spoke to the operators and it\u0027s the onus we got back so so people are sometimes crazy yes totally agree and there are "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:25:06",
    "text": "lots of instances where having security of your routing protocol in flight is important to me and I run a not small Network I also have customers that are gonna appear with me over the friggin internet which is crazy you know nobody should do that John\u0027s got her again so ok teh answer Russell\u0027s question which I think he asked sort of which was you know what the hell do you want for me is your the algorithms in there not making you happy did you want a different algorithm the answer is no I mean this isn\u0027t what Stuart actually said but I think it\u0027s what he should have said and this is kind of what Jeff said it saying also is it\u0027s it\u0027s not a technological not a technology problem primarily we\u0027ve got all the technology SPECT the specs are pretty much fine as far as we know it\u0027s an economic problem which is kind of what you were saying about checkbooks and it\u0027s a process problem which is kind of what Randy was saying about md5 is fine it would be nice not to get you know after you have the same damn problem or argument over and over and over again every time we send up something to be iesg so to me at least as much as anything this you know never-ending series of discussions in different working groups about AO is not about the technology of AO at all it\u0027s about the what does the IETF do when reality is over here and desire is over there and you know instead of having a hissy fit every single time someone sends over a draft can we have one huge hissy fit and just get it out of our systems and then you know be done so Warren quarried largely following it from that yeah I mean either better security or a good answer on why we don\u0027t need security for this but having the same fight again and again and again it\u0027s getting old sure but I mean every I mean we see it often where a drop comes up now like cheesy b mv5 are you nuts and then we go through this thing again on what it\u0027s there for and kind of kind of at the time we did the Rooter rpki protocol we actually did a dance on well okay the the politically correct answer to security unfortunately wasn\u0027t available and we did that we did a dance we did a dance and that delayed the whole thing for some months or even more and kind of the enthusiasm for kicking that stuff off from here is very "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:28:07",
    "text": "limited and that\u0027s actually somewhat a different situation from LDP or BGP where the DS where the md5 deprecation have happened post fact I suspect there are plenty of other protocols that are in very similar situation like we are here and yes next time if something is deprecated we really have to ask the leadership that they take care of that there is running code Brian wise Cisco so I was involved in the TCP OS as some of the rest of you where I think we we did that as a response to needing to replace an algorithm we did that I I think game over we just need to get it implemented okay and I\u0027m sorry as a vendor I have to tell you that you have to tell us apparently jumped a minute and let you buy stuff that it just seems to be the way it works I I do what I can internally and okay so it seems like we\u0027ve understood the problem we solved the problem we just don\u0027t have an implementation why should we have the implementations I think it\u0027s because we wanted to be prepared for when there were problems and we wanted to be able to react quickly okay at the moment we know what the problem is we know how to solve it will react whenever we have implementations that\u0027s not it Boston um this isn\u0027t really about a yo it\u0027s worse than that I don\u0027t know if you remember what we originally did with the RPK router protocol it was gonna be over SSH just plain old SSH we gave up on that because well we couldn\u0027t find anybody who implemented this server-side for this or the client-side for that so said okay we looked at this with that looked at TLS people today oh we left an md5 it turns out the intersection of the things people were actually willing to support was unencrypted TCP full-stop which is what people are using now okay still all right this didn\u0027t go anywhere right that\u0027s still all anybody can use because for anything you name someone doesn\u0027t implement their side of it because people don\u0027t care job Snider\u0027s entity as to implementing TCP authentication options I\u0027m not so sure if the operator community in the BGP worlds actually wants that if you talk about inter-domain a BGP people really really hate exchanging shared secrets it leads to it\u0027s not a technology problem it\u0027s just people are sometimes ridiculous about this stuff what I\u0027m saying is TCP a oh the not so the key sharing so if we come up "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:31:08",
    "text": "with something that and what I would also like to observe everything that has been proposed so far TCP md5 tspa Oh Mac sack IPSec SSH TLS DTLS it\u0027s all protecting the outside envelope and IB I feel we have not yet explored enough of protecting opportunistically by doing it inside the protocols themselves but that is of course a big discussion and emotion Brian well I\u0027m hitting you over the head with my checkbook for is proper implementations of origin validation it\u0027s broken on your routers don\u0027t tell me you want me to beg for TCP a oh this is cider ops give me the protocol john scott her since warren volunteered me for for some design team that hasn\u0027t been formed our volunteer job there were several beats there before that the wake what came back um so i think you\u0027re right that making it actually operationally useful might be you might be a good idea i think that as far as I can tell and you Russ can opine about this it\u0027s AO is designed such that if you had a way that way to manage keys that wasn\u0027t stupid you could just plug it into a oh so it will be valid they have the AR implementation it would be valid to have good key management it\u0027s a decomposable problem we can attack both pieces Brian wise first point on yes the key management or how you would key management so I was also co-chair of carp and we actually had specifications dress specifications anticipating that people would want to stop using pre-shared keys and instead using some kind of automated key management protocol there was not nothing just to continue so that died on the vine that could be resurrected somewhere if there actually was enough interest he see the other thing I wanted to mention is I think one reason to talk about it in an office area maybe not this one is what I was hearing I think little bits of and sag is that there\u0027s issues or concerns about keychains or how would you how would you do order the key rollover and I think that\u0027s a solved problem that needs to be just described at least that\u0027s my opinion I could be wrong and I should be told if that\u0027s the case that it may be there\u0027s an "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:34:08",
    "text": "operational document to be written that describes how to put this all together thank you I think the end of that is not here still think about how to put a major together and then job is going to specify how to do PGP with some better security alright there\u0027s nothing else on the agenda actually thought we were running a lot shorter than we were okay a lot longer I mean see you next time in Montreal bring your French no thank you [Music] "
  }
]