[
  {
    "startTime": "00:01:32",
    "text": "so good afternoon this is the comedy I hope most of you have had lunch I haven\u0027t gotten a chance meeting ran out of lunch I\u0027m Carson Bowman this time of a few minutes and this is the core working group so just a quick reminder it\u0027s Tuesday so I think you are not completely bought by this content yet we assume people have read the draft this is not a tutorial here meeting self to advance difficult issues by making good use of face-to-face communication that\u0027s why we media we work as individuals and try to be nice to each other we were just reminded in the word noob chairs meeting that maybe is worth saying now and then so point are saying that more often and now I have to go to the legal side sorry about that the ITF is working under some principles which include IPR principles IPR doesn\u0027t exist but anyway we have principles for them and so we have to follow them and in short if you know about patent claims to some technology you cannot talk about that technology all you can tell us those are the two ways of doing that and you\u0027ve got some more detailed information when you registered on how to do that and other issues like what happens when when harassment goes on and so on okay so this is the following part let\u0027s look at the agenda we asked for three hours for this meeting or three and but we are still a little bit cramped that\u0027s why we have minutes clock so the minutes are meaningless so we will spend 9 minutes on this introduction then we will have a quick check whether we are done with the actual request hoping the draft may be a quick check of stateless for three minutes warehouse oh right in front of me that\u0027s how to see then we will spend 45 minutes on group communication and the related security issues 23 minutes on Centinela 14 minutes on Calkins I hope we at that time we have enough time accumulated that that we have a little bit more than 40 minutes and then we have some miscellaneous items and if we are way too fast we might be pulling up items from Friday as the slide clearly says so on Friday we "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:04:35",
    "text": "are doing a number of things mostly because people cannot be here today so Frances Peter who is sitting over there cannot be here today so we put the resource directory work on Friday and fortunately cock on stage today and we are going to do various call applications and we even have a new item the the speedy block transfer proposal by Jin who is sitting over there in the first row yes so we would be possible on Friday to have a few minutes for updates on seed draft because yeah I mean we are still discussing some things okay and maybe we\u0027ll have some progress to report there let\u0027s let\u0027s talk about that at the end of the conf part so I spent 10 minutes before the working of chests and talking with Michelle cotton about ways of running this and not quite everything is in order it\u0027s almost done but a few details probably need to be addressed so we may have to come back on on Friday okay a few other things are happening this meeting I\u0027m not pointing to other retinal meetings this time but we we have a number of holy discussions and side meetings and also research room meetings that fit into this so on the subject of coral which we will discuss on Friday in the the resourcedirectory segment we have some some more extensive meetings and so we have been discussing this coral hypermedia format in the t2 TRG for a while and now it\u0027s getting some interest also from core for example in this Rd discussion which will happen on Friday but because the core agenda is already so packed I thought it would be good to have a site meeting in between and that is happening on Wednesday between 3:00 and 5:00 in Rome Karaka and right after this core meeting is the t2 TRG summary meeting where I will have short introduction to coral for people who don\u0027t know it yet and one interesting thing that might interest some people is that coral covers a lot of use cases where we use linked format right now so there have been ideas about eventually replacing with link format with coral if you\u0027re interested in that please come to t2 a DRG meeting and the site meeting on Wednesday thank you so "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:07:38",
    "text": "for those people who plan to go to the how does the router work meeting on Wednesday which is occurring in the same time slot I have been assured that there will be a YouTube video of that so you can that from the comfort of your own couch and can go to this side meeting so is there anything planned about protocol negotiation microphone I built here from a university so we do have a small hallway discussion together with the people from Christians side to discuss this tomorrow at the after the morning coffee break so about 11:00 11:00 27th exactly finalized the location but somewhere in that area so would anybody in this room want to take part in this or a meeting a lot of people so so please coordinate with breaking soil I will send a mail to the mailing list and we can find a place for that okay great yeah pub/sub security we actually already had a side meeting at the hackathon that turns out to be our new unstructured trying repository at the IDF so things get done at the hackathon not just code and we will have some some slides about the results from that later and there also was some some time planned for observe and pub/sub microphone but I\u0027d like to continue on that I don\u0027t have a particular point in time so I\u0027ll send to the meeting this place coordinated with me so that we could meet again yeah it would probably be good to do this before the Friday morning pops up slot yes so like Friday maybe Friday 8 to 9 yeah should we who would want to join that part close Sanchez Jim great ok yeah you\u0027re right we cannot celebrate yet this was the agenda Beijing for this meeting but we actually plan to do the the routine we have developed between the previous meeting and this meeting and have that you\u0027re entering approximately every two weeks so what we will probably do is between the working groups we like doing that like call see bar cozy they all have to start with a CEO doesn\u0027t these will probably agree on a common slot and then we will go back "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:10:40",
    "text": "and forth between car and SIBO and maybe do a cosy meeting in between and things like that so this is the current state of the discussion and what we have to do is find a time when we want to do it this time because really works much better when everybody knows it\u0027s Sunday at 9:00 a.m. or whatever and so we will have to find a good time for that last time we tried that and I really do deal and decided on something and then people came and said doesn\u0027t work for me we have to change it so in the end we had different times for SIBO and core and that was bit suboptimal so this time there will be an announcement on the mailing list and please go to the doodle there and say how things work for you so the general idea of doing this on a widen state does appeal to a lot of people but the the time of course is difficult in an international organization is that all I need to say about that okay so Francesca Jim various chairs who would be in this pool of people organizing that good and now we finally can celebrate [Applause] yeah that was a long time yeah you want to say something about the last minutes until they finally happened what had to be done there just thank you to everybody who gave useful feedback and participating in this work with my designated expert hat on I have a question to the authors I have now received the request for a co-op option number and there is confusion which one you want knowing the number that has been said you know this day but they were introduced as a random number generator and that always says nine when you ask it but that was not it we had discussed this and had come up with a number nine for fun a lot of good reasons so it wasn\u0027t specified anything in the draft except desire for low number yes and then we have been told not to request numbers because this is not how you do registration for Ana but we had a note for Diana to say please ask the designated expert to pick the right number so nine so what just as "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:13:44",
    "text": "a hint to others if there is a number that is kind of obvious that needs to be chosen then I typed this number into other draft and prefix it with the three letters TBD so there is a TBD nine to be defined nine in the draft and everybody knows okay that that is supposed to be a nine unless something weird perhaps okay so that is one thing of the list we still have 26 drafts on various stages so we have to work a little bit faster on getting them done so the core mighty part is in ITF last call so we have to wait until April H we just come completed the working class called on on cinema fetch fetch everybody in this room was aware you can still send in comments but I was completed and the next version will probably then be submitted because there wasn\u0027t anything major the the hop limit draft is really ready for a working blast call and the dev you are in draft I have told Yara that she doesn\u0027t really have to come here because there are no other issues so this is mostly waiting for a chess review and and then we can last call that as well so this is for more documents and in various stages of completion so we are not going to return to these documents during the meetings if you have anything to say about them say them good so we can start with the agenda and already used up half of the time so okay so um accurate echo request I can token processing I think I missed the last part on the introductory slide is about fixing the few security issues that have come up with various interactions of a protocol we\u0027ve received chair review of that and process several commands most of which were editorial kind of the elephant in the room that was that we are still hoping that we are now hoping to have adequately addressed but hadn\u0027t confirmed that yet is the topic of token processing where in earlier stages it was a bit confusing whether everyone now needs to use sequential tokens or whether um or whether that\u0027s just the or "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:16:45",
    "text": "whether there is a smarter way to do that so now the document has been updated to require that the client prevents prevents the the attack scenarios that that is that a response is being assigned to a different request than it was intended for and make suggestions on how that can be done but doesn\u0027t release prescribe any particular way of doing it so of course still doing sequence numbers is one way not relying on not not relying on the on for example a DTLS layer for request response matching because the requests and responses are also protected as well is another way there are others that interact with the dpns tech so for example if you know that your windows are of a particular size and in a particular state then this may also allow you to use seconds in a different way but it now states that the client must take care of that because otherwise there are requests response mismatch attacks that can happen but in general the document is in working group last call so if you have comments please send them I\u0027ll leave that slide here because I if there is any feedback I\u0027d expect it kind of expected to go to this so that\u0027s it from my side any questions comments yeah I just would like to comment that I sent a message to the waiting list half an hour ago I\u0027m sorry at interest yeah that\u0027s just mostly editorial comments on the section 5 so take your time looking at that whether you want to process this and think then we can do the group last four and you found what I\u0027ve been processing yes I the two editorial comments of course I can\u0027t mechanism mechanism even improved further okay thank you I kept a shot on no slides and we and chorus if the while ago a request from the six dish working group for a draft describing how you could create co-op proxies that don\u0027t maintain any kind of per client state so they have the scenario where a lot of plans go through one co-op proxy and for DDoS reasons they don\u0027t want to keep any state for those clients at the proxy and we have now written such a draft in core it is stateless draft and it\u0027s in my opinion "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:19:49",
    "text": "ready for working group last call I\u0027m so there are no open issues left please take a look and let me know what you think so I think there has been some recent discussion on the mailing list this is anybody who were a part of that discussion interested in bring this up here by the way our 6 dish people in the room yes militia training area yeah so I\u0027m one of the others minimal security so I would just like to thank you for the work and the progress it was really quick for us we were blocked unfortunately with our drafts so we were back in second second work working dope last call but that would be happy like to take a look during the working group last call of stateless if this is still fine with us but last time I checked it was it was it was ok first so thank thank you Marcus localize this is another update to group score based mostly on another review we got from gmod after Bangkok and several discussions with other people things what about that so I\u0027m going to quickly summarize the main updates know the toriel ones the texts and I have in line to recap later on still open points for discussion so we reverted the signature bit in the flag by two reserved and set to zero so we don\u0027t explicitly signal the presence of the seizure that is there anyway and we also in order to admit more flexibility included a new parameter in the common security context that is then reflected with an analogous parameter in the external EAD specifying the exact parameters for the use time to censure algorithms algorithm used if any parameters apply of course and the exact structure of this parameter indicating the parameters is of course algorithm dependent right now we are pointing at a new registry that we have defined in fact in this draft so one of my point about this is if it\u0027s instant better to have this registry defined somewhere else and in particular in in cozy beasts and they would require also a cozy policy to specify for every signature algorithm the corresponding parameters and structures they are supposed to have all so there was a long discussion especially between Jim and John about at least integrity protecting additional informations especially the group ID that is used as context ID in group score essentially including it together possibly with other information in the external aad there were in fact some corner cases attack where it was "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:22:49",
    "text": "possible to forge messages to sign in them in a valid way and injecting them into the wrong group so the conclusion was that the possible way to address this would be to include also the value of the score option as additional parameter of the external ad and essentially they\u0027ll solve the problem we also relaxed a bit the initial statements about her wrangling just in case messages are not validated was supposed to be a must to not reply with error messages just not congest the group and now it\u0027s just recommended so that in the end the final decision is left to the application and also adversary can in principle try to fool the server with messages just for the sake of let the server creator is you can context then the message fail validation but what to do with our second context itself and well it\u0027s left against the application about destroying that recipient context or keeping it just in case is not malevolent we triggered error and so on also we added a kind of handling on the client side against possible replies of responses in this case because to be consistent with 7390 of course the client has to retain the token for a given amount of time during which responses can come but under the assumption that only one response at most per server is expected it was same request the client should be able to detect possible replications malevolent or not so the approach we suggest here at least is to have on the client a per request list with a recipient ID that has produced valid response and that with this flushed the moment the token the token value is just to be discarded we had also a number of requests this was from Peter that was also I think horrified with offline discussion during the meeting was most about some conventional names especially for parameters in the external ad we also had other two issues open right before the meeting I guess by John one is still open for discussion that was already some discussion in the list about what are the good countersignature algorithms to support and especially the one mandatory to implement that right now is another curve mostly thinking about trading off speed of computation against the size of the signature and so on so in the past we got good feedback actually from manufacturers that it was good to mandate implementation of the other work here also to push for harder implementations but what we can still discuss that the wise support in general personally I think the broader the better also there was another discussion "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:25:52",
    "text": "especially between John and Jim that we catched up right before the meeting and especially during the akhaten about some use cases that were not specifically addressed in the use case appendix we have few especially involved the presence of the possible gateway as an entry point at domaine otherwise isolated conclusions one that you say use case hey here in particular kate can just work with local score but is not explicitly related to that while use case be it\u0027s good to have justify is even more difference of a signature right outside everything so that can be validated by this even on trusted intermediary and we are thinking had this use case at one more specific covered in use case appendix implementation wise to the best of our knowledge there are three on going from rise from peter m from jim and during the academy we had some test especially between the one horizon Jim there was an actual exchange of Grupo protected messages the request sent of a multicast signature included now we have to pick some things left open and externally a B so I think as a next step we can definitely consider a Morse use interrupt with test cases yeah speaking of next steps this is also about closing a number of open points that I also mentioned before based on feedback we can have today already or or in the list and extend security and privacy considerations that we have postponed so far otherwise we wonder also if there are any other significant issues left that we have been missing so far then yeah we hope for interrupts at the next round at least with three or more implementations so the rest of the time was intended mostly for discussions on the open points especially to about different ability protections the registry possibly to be moved to cozy beefs or Allen points I mentioned before again cast aluminum too lazy to go to that microphone under mandatory to implement issues so to 55:19 it is right now yes so I think that that\u0027s a decision we should make very very very consciously so 7 - 5 - says the mandatory to implement curve is speed 256 we have a few other curves but I don\u0027t know anyone who has implemented the longer ones so anybody who is using "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:28:54",
    "text": "DTLS in this space it\u0027s P 256 C and now this of course doesn\u0027t depend on DTLS at all so this is indeed the first place where we can say okay let\u0027s make the jump but of course there is a certain implication that people who somehow have trouble migrating from P 256 to 255 19 also are kind of stuck with DTLS I think we have to be a little careful how we how we divide this field here I don\u0027t have a specific recommendation at all but again I think we should do this in a very conscious way agree John Watson yeah I think the main trade-offs are is as you say P 256 is already deployed it\u0027s easy to find libraries for that the main benefits of to perform online its speed and on the list has been some proponents for p25 sucks but marker told me now that before some of the people that has been interested in using rock group oscar has been keen on using curve 2 5 and 1 9 because of its speed but I think this needs more discussion and more data to illustrate the trade-offs so you just expanded the the rift a little bit by saying okay that DTLS world over there that\u0027s still using 256 and the new Oscar world that\u0027s all the 255 90 units is this how of course you can always implement something else but I mean from the MTI side here from the manatorian side here is that the per to be the split if we if I don\u0027t know if group Oscar would keep curve to find 119 it\u0027s definitely different algorithm out unica\u0027s Oscar unicast Oscar that doesn\u0027t require any a symmetric crypto no but at some point there will be set up protocols and so on so yeah in that ecosystem it\u0027s a I agree it\u0027s bigger thing yeah it would be good to have I think what we missing is requirement from the from user what kind of latency do they need in software and hardware I don\u0027t know I think that\u0027s that\u0027s kind of missing ok "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:31:56",
    "text": "so looks like this is a good subject for for another hallway discussion thank you I think you\u0027re up next as well yes market price again this is a draft we presented the first time in Bangkok so it was subject to a double update just recap think about just deploy device that doesn\u0027t really know anything and in particular right how to join Oscar security group through the internet group manager there\u0027s even a corner case when you may deploy the device very advanced even before the group manager is deployed or the Oscar groups have been created so we are essentially proposing a way for the pod device to use the resource director in order to find a idea score groups to join and the group manager is possible for the score group is supposed to register its join resource on the resource directory so that a client Johnny nod can retrieve the link at the group manager to talk to that join resource and then join the group this approach is not limited but consistent to the approach to join Oscar groups that we have in the document and this is about performing a resource lookup so as I said the join resource the group manager is registered as a resource of the group manager in those directory and the joining client can retrieve that link together with possible attributes representing additional information to join the group in particular the group ID that was a double update as I said from version zero covering mostly two aspects one was as we already anticipated in Bangkok aligning this approach with way now the resource direct there\u0027s sauce territory documentaries groups and also considering feedback from an interim discussion we had in January and comments we thought about this from Damon Francesca the main change changes are as I said a line in this with the Rd group usage pattern now in the resource directory and clarifying something mostly coming from Jim about confusions between the two cones some groups we are using here so we consider both application groups as a collection of devices sharing a common pool of resources and this is essentially defined as in the resource directory document and instead of score security groups whose members all share a common key material to communicate securely using a score I have a picture summarizing this in the next slide we have renamed a parameter from a score GP to AB GP and that\u0027s what we actually meant in the first version with that it\u0027s supposed to be the name of an application group it doesn\u0027t have to do necessarily with those core security "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:34:57",
    "text": "groups also zoom requested clarified how to use the parameters and their semantics and of course we have dated the examples in the document this is the picture summarizing how we intended to use application groups and security groups differently and now the updated version is essentially aligned to this so in the context of multicast domain you can have for instance two security groups here and you can have two application groups using the first security group and another application group using a totally different security group so in terms of the material and as you can see a same security group can be used in principle by multiple application groups as long as they have the resources partition but a single application group is instead related to a single security group having said that we have the example that I say I can quickly go to one of the most important ones fundamentally the approach is unchanged anywhere here you have first of all the group manager registering itself and one of its resources at the resource directory and especially you can see in the pair this specifies among other things the core group ID and the name of the application group associated to this security group that can actually be a list of GP can appears multiple times the same value can appears can appear one only once only of course so after this registration comes the actually joining client that in this case we have assumed it knows only the name of the application group it wants to join so Group one doesn\u0027t know anything else especially the group ID of your score group the pointer to the join resources at the group manager and the multicast IP address used to communicate in that application group so that\u0027s the first query perform to the resource directory specifying the name of the application group in return there\u0027s almost everything not yet everything this response includes in particular a pointer to the joy request at the group manager framed in red and the group ID frame in blue the joiner assisted missing the multicast IP address used in the group that we say it doesn\u0027t know in advance for that it needs to perform a psycho lookup just as described in Appendix A of the resource directory document this time using the same name Group 1 the name of the application group as value of the endpoint lookup parameter and this time the response includes just as per the resource directory document the multicast IP address used in this application group as base parameter so to summarize the updates were about aligning this approach with the Rd group usage pattern now considering the resource directory and making clear distinction since the "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:38:00",
    "text": "introduction about what we mean with Oscar security groups in this case and application groups just as per vs. directory we have dated the parameter description their semantics and examples consistently there are two open point still mostly from Jim\u0027s comments of course you\u0027d be good to register the two parameters we are introducing Oscar GID and up ggp question is where because the best venue would be a link attributes registry but there is no such registry so I don\u0027t know what we should do about this a we should create registry where and the other open point is Jim of course suggest that in principle this approach can be broad can be generalized to address discovery groups along your score groups thinking for instance of topics for pub/sub I think in principle it\u0027s possible but we like to see how the pubsub activities develop also in terms of security before considering that too in this document or in another document I don\u0027t know other than this wing need reviews or more reviews I\u0027m sorry it seems we have found some use case for resource directory that is a bit beyond what was very soft directory intended for but according to your sites I get it seems to work okay what is a bit funky and utilizes the use of link format like discovering addresses from base URLs and things like that you mean this stay this is just from the resource directory it looks weird this is not that that part of review okay and one problem we have indeed with link format is that the extensibility story is a bit thin so as you say there\u0027s no registry for link target attributes and so on and one thing I tried to improve with Koro as a potential replacement for link format is to solve this extension story one interesting exercise might be how would you do it the same thing but using coral instead and then see if it solves your problems of editing format Kristin I\u0027m just I agree that this this use of looking into attribute values is a bit weird I would rather I would like to have all the information that is passed around here at all point of time as us your eyes in links but the lookup that was was established in 66 90 with respect to what can you query from link format does not lend itself to working with this "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:41:00",
    "text": "actors as you and I probably would prefer them to have prefer to have them and so this is something that stays in the style of link format and yes we would probably want to express that differently when we have a format with which we can follow through links hop-by-hop more easily so if you maybe could go back a slide if that were represented even with the yeah that one even with coral as one idea of how the coral reef could look like then that would be a link from the registration resource to to the to the kind of base address of the of the device in I don\u0027t claim to fully understand this example I\u0027m just seeing that you apparently it is covering and multicast IP address by extracting it from URL which is a base URL and that looks I\u0027d love to see the example in coral as well yeah I\u0027m just not sure how well that works with x mean it\u0027s it\u0027s something that we should look into but at the same time it\u0027s something where I don\u0027t see how the timescales could easily a lot could easily align beautifulness talk the discussion about coral or link format is very interesting of course but I don\u0027t know about the timeline of coral will it be here tomorrow or in ten years time we don\u0027t know if you send a review by tomorrow it\u0027s done by the day after well it should be only discussing it here and Friday yes not standardized when do you want this stuff to be published well next year good yeah I said there are no comments anymore the obvious question is who has read a version of this document who has read the most recent version I think we have a little bit of a review problem still but given that this is starting to converge maybe now would be a good time you could time to actually start reading it and thinking about whether we want to work on this as a working group item so it\u0027s this kind of weird estar said we are moving away from link from it on one end and on the other end we are pushing money forward but maybe that\u0027s just the "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:44:00",
    "text": "result of the the trance case if link format works here in it\u0027s fine with me to use the link from it that\u0027s against that and I\u0027m just looking at these examples and they look like the use of this make use of weird link format and even more we like weird of ways and that needs review good so who would be willing to review this or the next version of the document that many people Jimmy cows will okay okay so let\u0027s go to the next we\u0027ll just use again mark again this is the last one yeah there was some discussion with a few people in Bangkok already and we thought it was good to start this document as essentially an update to 73 94 a number of reason 2014 now and considering only the cup functionalities that were available at the time where there was no security mechanism for groups available and it ended up published as an experimental document it actually started informational and then became experimental later on in the very final steps of the is the review if you look back at its history and in the meanwhile since then a number of things have changed especially a new functionalities for coop we brought forward like block was an observer above all and this feedback I got especially from Escala first also seems the long description for the rest for the restful interface in 7390 is not really used by anyone apparently so there\u0027s something that can be just forgotten or not included in a well normative document so to say plus now we have Drupal core we intend to provide security in your contexts also we realize that practically the group of core document here definitely builds in a normative way open 7390 but since that\u0027s an experimental document we just have to refer it in an informative way that we are doing now but you just be better to build normatively honest and abstract document instead so putting all these motivations together and after early feedback instead meeting after Bangkok we started the document yeah we would the goal essentially to produce a new standard track RFC has an update to 7390 and to refer to "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:47:02",
    "text": "three ninety as much as possible so try to Rea include more or less verbatim of revised only things that are really important to stresses must essentially this would also support work that follow the experiment documented by 7390 and you can especially see that California - recently started to support also group co-op Esper 7390 in the end of last year I think you can also find no CF implementation in go supporting co-op / multicast so the scope of this document is actually focused on updated or new use cases that make sense for group co-op in a much more compact way than in 7390 possible new functionalities developed and released after 7390 both unsecured and secured co-op and if there is security there is group of score and quick principles for mostly configuring and maintaining secure communications I quickly browse on the type of content we start with a number of use case in a much more compact way 2390 then we focus on the use of coop and such so the creation and maintenance of coop groups as network groups and how it is used and here we have a number of specific some sections that are still to be defined for the next version also we treat a special observe because in the observer FC nothing is said about multicast but in 7392 said explicitly observed not supposed to work on multicast so we are essentially reintroducing it for the sake of observation requests that can be sent over multicast well so we are explicitly allowing that here and that\u0027s why formally we are also intended to update 6:41 as well about this but it\u0027s essentially about observing the same resource over multicast multiple servers that are sharing it we treat the no sec mode for non-critical use cases when that is doable that\u0027s essentially like in 1790 but we have fairly good amount of text already for the secured case when you essentially use group of score we recommend the related document in ace for the sake of group joining and key management we have of course number of security considerations both for no sick days essentially do it in your own risk if you know what you\u0027re doing and for the case you go for group of score when you want security in the groups and we describe point to point we essentially reprise what discussed in 7390 how this essentially tackles and addresses a number of security attacks that you have in groups if you have unsecure communication with group co-op as next "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:50:03",
    "text": "steps well we need to actually complete document because there are a few sections still TBD we would like to have feedback a based on the current level of content we are missing any fundamental point that that should be included in this document and otherwise whatever you find it right there is totally readable for every comments and reviews we mostly welcome so who has read RFC\u0027s at 7390 and who has seen this attempted a revision well that\u0027s more than than the discovery doctrine okay so who would be willing to review this Klaus Jim Lawson Jim that maybe I would sin again Cristian Cristian volunteers it\u0027s gonna happen okay good that first we could complete the document for the next IDF meeting then let\u0027s see if that\u0027s enough to take more formal actions with that or we\u0027ve made one more run with formal reviews depends a bit of the matthias kawatche just a quick question you mentioned network groups now how do they relate to the app groups that you introduced previously right here we\u0027re using network groups like in 7390 already so these groups should include only the coop endpoints acting as servers so the network group is a subset of the application group the way it is defined here we are keeping the same definition of 7390 Thomas Fossati also is willing to review the 7390 B\u0027s Thank You Thomas okay really quick summary of the pub/sub a multicast discussion that happened during the hackathon some people were there so I put the list I might have forgotten someone so the background and "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:53:04",
    "text": "the motivation for this discussion is that we realize we have multicast and we have observe and we have pops up and we would like to use something like multicast notification in a pub sub scenario this seems like a good thing to have for efficiency and once we have that we also would like to have some security mechanism to protect communication such as the publication protection mechanism to protect against nodes that are not subscribers getting unwillingly subscribed and so denial of service and also terrorization and authentication of nodes so this this started from the work in ace for the pub sub co-op pub sub profile and realized okay there is more than can be done and possibly might also fit in core so we during this side meeting we identified three challenges the first one is the plumbing which is how to make the pubs of architecture work with multicast delivery notifications and because of the way notifications are defined right now as responses the current multicast wouldn\u0027t work with that the second point is how to protect against these denial service attacks and then more broadly how to protect the communication so there\u0027s a publisher broker publishing subscriber subscriber broker and provide authentication authorization for the notes so this is some work that is starting now and it would fit both both in ace and coring some sense since the pub/sub and you observe is done and the multicast is done here and security nays yes question in your security model did you include anything about inference so if about inference so as an attacker can I infer something about another node because I I\u0027m part of the multicast group and I see that this other node is receiving some notifications does that include it in the security we were not that far yet we\u0027re just starting this discussion so the answer will be no right now but could you let us know your name please Oh Dave wheeler yeah and and so yeah there is the slides that we use that the whole way anything to have more detailed of what exactly was discussed and how this was presented which I\u0027m not gonna go through but please they could take a look at those and see if they make any sense and if "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:56:07",
    "text": "you want to participate let\u0027s let\u0027s pick it up you can quickly say something were just talking about Jen about the slide number 10 slide number 10 yeah the one performance called multi casting notifications that\u0027s that\u0027s why I already said about being more efficient and a security this setting up many brokers subscriber DTLS connection is not really optimal what kind of work do we have to do to make this happen but first of all what I would like to know is where does this fit does it fit here does it fit in ace somewhere else are people interested from from the reaction I got from starting this hallway discussions in the people are interested in this so this is more question to the chairs Koren ace and/or idea what is covered just was comes to mind we had these unsolicited notifications we discussed this with ocf I have no clue where that went and what\u0027s the status about this but this could be probably something that goes together and was already identified that something that we could work on okay Alexei Melnikov has ad I don\u0027t have an answer for you but if you send email to me then I can talk to security a DS and we\u0027ll figure it out okay ou will give you a answer saying you know one of the working groups need to reach out or maybe I don\u0027t know okay if chairs or some oh you can send me a reminder well I think the thing we should argue about this whether we need a cinema working group all right before we go for synagogue let\u0027s talk about one cinemagraph so this is about the data value content format indication it\u0027s a a new draft but it\u0027s already in the version zero one since we got bunch of good comments before the IETF long story short today the cinema records they can "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:59:07",
    "text": "contain arbitrary binary data values there\u0027s the B field for that and how it was specifies an original spec is that the information how you actually decode these values is established out of path that\u0027s part of your application so you can have if you don\u0027t have use for the regular strings in googling on values the rest you can basic put in there in the video field so there you can see in the example how it looks like there you have three records first on it\u0027s using a classic p-value second one is use a boolean but the third record this NFC reader has now an arbitrary binary value out of it so that\u0027s why we envisioned every we\u0027ll be using this ascending a few bits and bytes of information use the DD value turns out that there\u0027s a lot of use for that even beyond we see now currently rather substantial amount of information out there which actually does have structure and for structure information at the IETF we do have a way to express that that\u0027s the media types and imported content formats when we use in the in the core environment so our proposal here is simply well let\u0027s add a content for an indication the records which have the video to indicate what is the value there then you don\u0027t need necessarily have that much out-of-band negotiation there and also third parties that do see these records can make something out of that information instead of just being computed find what\u0027s being exchanged so here\u0027s an example how it would look like right before it\u0027s a similar kind of record but we add this new field CT and equal six to here and for those of you who can decode base64 only and see bore in your head it\u0027s probably already obvious we do have here C bore array that contains a string and an integer inside and it\u0027s base64 encoded in the example because it is the Chasen format if you\u0027re using the Seaboard format you would use the binary value as such in the field and then because the CD valid else is 60 it should be rather easy to decode that that\u0027s the core of the proposal then it gets slightly more complicated so we got feedback that would be highly useful perhaps to also support for media types that do not have these content format indications with core you can of course easily register for any kind of media types but there might be some media types and and there a permit resize versions that maybe don\u0027t make sense in in the index core environment or or or co-op and cinema of course is can be used much much wider context and test Khoa so a proposal would be to extend this and have also possibility instead of using the CT to also use content type and content coding fields to tell the same information in a string format for those types that you don\u0027t have a content format register so you see an "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:02:10",
    "text": "example for that in in the bottom so you have content type for example text CSV and it could be using gzip content coding and if you interested what is the results there you can do a 64 and and G unzip so this seems to be a rather reasonable approach for solving this although we did hit one interesting challenge that we just realized yesterday with this extra weight of two ways of defining this encoding information since you have all the base values in insane ml and for those who are not familiar with with sin ml you have base fields and regular fields and use the base fields or a polite for those records that don\u0027t define any field of that kind that makes it easier to compress information don\u0027t have to repeat same information in every single record so we are proposing to register base fields for all of these three different ways to express this information however in this case you probably should not be mixing both the content format and the content type and color coding things because they essentially can tell the same same piece of information so we may need to come up with a way to undo a base content type or encoding information because now you have the dependency that you for example define base content type in the beginning attend you want to for example combine this with another sentimental pack which is using the other format and instead of changing all those fields together you want to switch that format that you don\u0027t want to be reusing the same base CD value for for the following records so that\u0027s the maybe the big bigger challenge that we have the basic format looks pretty simple and straightforward thing thing for us to do for this we may need to do a bit more thinking but if we end up extending sin ml in this kind of ways also in the future this could be a pattern that we want to establish how can you basically undo a base value but for all I think there\u0027s two quick questions does the group think this makes sense so I see some some nodding there and whether it\u0027s that make sense to go all the way here so we got got to get some feedback especially for those who are using an on constraint space this seems to be a very very useful useful construct and if we say yes to both - how do we solve number three so we have one that\u0027s a tentative proposal that for example if there\u0027s both city winds and you can nullify the city by setting it "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:05:10",
    "text": "to minus one we can see it doesn\u0027t different ways of doing that with that may not be the optimal one but that was always okay while I was sitting here I came up with a sick way of solving this problem in coop we only have non-negative content for my numbers why don\u0027t we provide a way to define negative content from the numbers within a slimmer pack and then we don\u0027t have a problem but I will explain that to you negative content from a number so you would have a record that says minus seven is what was that text CSV + content coding gzip and then in the following you can switch back and forth between minus 7 and 62 all your delight okay and those who are not getting super worried are we extend here is way too long the good thing this is stuff you don\u0027t have to understand so these are not mandatory to understand fields so for a system that doesn\u0027t care it just like yeah whatever but system that wants to make use of this piece of information can actually look in there and that the first format this is pretty much straightforward the question is here and here how far do we want to push but yeah this is already being being used out there so I thinking you know doing this in this group in my opinion would make a lot of sense but I\u0027ll leave the call for that up to the chairs the cost brought up the the meta issue we have all these tiny scenario documents being generated here isn\u0027t that becoming a bit fragmented for for the users and maybe that\u0027s good reason to have another hallway meeting on how to handle this but right now I think call is the group that\u0027s owning sin ml and when if people out there have small things they want to have edit we probably should be doing that so they don\u0027t have to invent them on their own and possibly mess them up in the process so has anybody read this Charles his right edge I cannot raise my hand I\u0027m a co-author but I haven\u0027t read the newest version okay so that\u0027s certainly a problem I mean some people from from the riot project have implemented this stuff so maybe this is one of the places where we have to work harder on actually getting the implementer in the loop okay "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:08:11",
    "text": "[Music] okay so the next one more cinema units actually it\u0027s not my traffic artist rapid ah I was always the one poking carsten that hey let\u0027s this should be done so the background on the cinema units si you know cinema has a units registry that you can use in any of the records to say hey this information is of this kind of unit and it\u0027s you can think of it as an a semantic tag telling more context about the value there so in the Olmec works we are working on this like within protocol and if so models and also the those if some models they have in resources they have a unit attribute its optional there but those were where it makes sense you have to define in the specification what is the unit of this value and some objects even have a unit resource so you can dynamically configure what kind of unit and a kind of an object is using for its value it turns currently there is no rich history for the unit so we were looking okay what is the kind right way to have this more consistent and well it turns out the central unit register seems like a good fit for this purpose and it is also a good fit for the for the reason that Sentinel JSON seaboards all reuse as the serialization format for life with an therm objects so having those units aligned there would make interoperability and translations in general easier however there has been quite some time already new objects and resources registered for the OMA ready and there are some units that are used there that are not currently part of the enemy units registry in particle there is white vault impaired volt-ampere reactive and joules per meter and also decrease as in compass direction in the sentimental document when we were created register we were expressly expressly saying that okay it should be one unit for the one kind of eye I think you are expressing we do already have for example bit for for information content so what the question is like should should we still also register byte only on the other hand we had the similar discussion on the Carolinian Celsius even Kelvin is like that one iso spec is perhaps slightly more recomm strongly recommended they also iso specs I do recommend while to mentioned using Celsius as a temperature unit so with bit and bites his bite is much more commonly used in certain contexts or information content it perhaps it makes sense to have along the same analogy also also byte there so all I know seems at the moment the analyst is still ongoing if we register these missing "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:11:11",
    "text": "units or cinema we could be using the same register for the hip so we don\u0027t need to come up the new register new new ways to do that and of course the good thing is that also does support all other use of sentinel so this is nothing if so specific those units are universal so anywhere where you would use sentimental in ipso context or outside you would be used same units so we are actually serving both communities at once so there\u0027s a draft for it that we don\u0027t have to make it an RFC to do the registrations for IANA cause it\u0027s just expert approval for it but of course we could be collecting more of these kind of units in this draft over time and eventually published as an RFC hey how compete erson and just have a question about the units this recently saw on the Bluetooth standard they have like a 15 page long table of Units is there any chance we can have some conversions there that was one of the registries that was being considered report for the hip so on the one that we actually need here is this source string auditor do you need the Bluetooth one had and it was integers or anyway they had a numbers for it here we actually do need source strings there was a bit emits much and then was also the question of the registry control if we come up let\u0027s say and if so context a with a new unit that it\u0027s not in the registry but who doesn\u0027t seem use for it however these the if so use and cinema use are very well aligned already so we see a bit more natural fit there the other one that was considered was the you come rate registry of units but actually you know in in send ml one of the implied policies there is so if it\u0027s in you whom we can actually easily fit in there there are also some things in you can we actually may not want to be it\u0027s a rather rich set of units are some stuff you may not want to have there but also it\u0027s missing some so not remember which one of these units but some of them actually did not exist there but they are still widely used in your example ISO specs so it seems to be a right thing to have it there but long term actually one thing what we have on the agenda is they had to have the chat with the ukume guys and you know see like how we can have alignment in this face altogether this is Matias so in terms of convergence I also wanted to hint at this you come Burke I mean that was something that was picked in the very very early days of of core actually to be something of interest but somehow never progressed I learned that the semantic sensor network ontology they also now aligned with the you come system and there\u0027s even some activity going on that there is a Java implementation there is I think even a Java extension so something that should end up at in in in the JDK at some point where you can then automatically basically resolve the different units and get the actual value in the target I mentioned that you want so it can also with the weights sorry I couldn\u0027t we "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:14:13",
    "text": "don\u0027t know what\u0027s the proper term for this this kilo mega and so on males yeah the scales scale factors and so on and and also converting between equivalent kind of units and get as some work going on to do this automatically so this is quite interesting for machine to machine where you always have to make sure that there is something that can actually match the units that are actually compatible but because you use the different string they\u0027re not yes and that\u0027s something we were discussing in the context of my spec works like where what\u0027s the right place to express the scale um if you have it in the numeric value then like comparisons become trivial you don\u0027t actually have to look at that they unit but then luckily there are there are some environments that don\u0027t support floats very well so if you don\u0027t have a floating-point implementation you it might be hard for you however for example in both in the Chasen and c4 format it\u0027s an easy way to go around that you can says use the exponent so basically use your value as such but you define the exponent in a way that it actually matches your schedule so if it\u0027s a kilo you put you know they\u0027re three if it\u0027s a mega you or if it\u0027s a microwave with -2 management etc so there is a way around but without doing floating-point operations actually but but a good point about the Yukon on the java part that\u0027s something interesting to have a look at and also i heard they are doing I think aligned with the qu DT so there\u0027s some wider alignment activity going on there and yeah we have it on our list actually have a closer look at that I think these different registers an interesting way to learn how different efforts can different their objectives so you come is pretty much trying to be the the collection of the most obscure things you can think about they have about a half-dozen of definitions of British thermal units because over time British thermal units have changed a little bit I mean this is something that you have to know some things like inch had a different definition seventy years ago than they have today so if you still have a map that is based on the old one then you may want to reduce this this unit this is not quite what we need for for the Internet of Things so there we can can actually favor a style of doing things that\u0027s actually based on the base units that are internationally accepted so the cinema units registry actually tries to be minimal so we have a dual parameter but we don\u0027t have a what our per kilometer because what one is just the other one times three point six millions and that of course simplifies working with the stuff but it also means that if you have "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:17:13",
    "text": "a sense of that that happens to output what hours per kilometer then you have to do some work and so when people say oh you come is so big let\u0027s adopt it yeah it\u0027s big in a way that maybe we don\u0027t like and also I was really surprised to find out they didn\u0027t have water pairs and for the PS rate of India which is very strange if you come from from Rio cheapo Mita kind of environment where this is standard trail yeah the powers that the ITF is not in the business so we would be much happier if we could just factor this out to someone else and the the the group that is closest to here is incredibly I saw they have I saw eighty thousand and and we I see parts of I saw eighteen thousand but it\u0027s a needs to be translated into ASCII and that that\u0027s the small piece of work that we probably have to do okay next item so if either do you want to talk about Cochran for anybody else doing that thank you okay so hello everyone my name is Gerardo Parra and I will be presenting the advancement of cocoa so okay I will start and I guess I will have my sites in a moment I mean okay first about Kamiya draft had there were no real changes in the last idea and the last idea there was interrupts between different implementations so it seemed that the draft is rather stable and for me once we resolved issues with the seat draft and the yangtze board drafts we can go for working group Roscoe anyone disagree okay okay "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:20:15",
    "text": "so next part okay I mean I can start with the citrus which is actually maybe the more interesting part of the presentation and then I will come back to the Yangtze bar trust so for the seat draft we received quite extensive reviewing comments from Peter so thank you Peter we tried to to adapt the draft accordingly we had yes it was yesterday a lot of discussions with people from Ayane there are a lot of things we would like to simplify due to those discussions right now it seems that the draft is a little bit still difficult to understand so a lot of the changes are editorial but there are some real I mean no mandatory changes so let me just go to the appropriate light okay okay a lot of things being moved from the introduction and from the seat life cycle section to appendix because they were just informational and explaining how things could happen for getting a seat assigned to some yank mod a number of seats assigned to some young mod but as this is not the only way and it might drink some confusion to people we decided to move them to appendix this includes the automatic generation and the seat life cycle part another quite important parts from the modifications I would say is the change of and this range is 0 to 999 I mean some of the seats range that\u0027s right now we\u0027re not very clear how we want to handle them for the a unmanaged repository and now being reserved for future use so they will need to be unlocked at a later stage when we know a little bit more how we want to use the seats from this "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:23:15",
    "text": "smaller yeah the seats with the smaller numbers we don\u0027t want to risk being something support team Oh in recreating that in the future and there was a section 5 that was informational but it we decided that it cooked me to some more confusion so we just removed okay that\u0027s fun okay so yeah think I should check the PDF that was generated ok so the next thing was that the seat type of defining the coma I yank module which was kind of redundant so what we decided to us to name it on the how to the seat act module it was also requested approximately at the same time on the made increase so this is good thing I mean that people agree with our decision another point which is also quite important I would say that instead of creating kanuto Satori where sit files are added we are attaching the seat valves to the rank name registry and so this has been discussed to it I am there were some details to be cleared out about this but it is the way we plan to go okay you don\u0027t know this because we were just talking but we might actually change where we post the CID files it might not actually go into the module registry for various different reasons that we\u0027ve been talking about back there so that might be something that changes so you\u0027ll we\u0027ll talk more about it and if there\u0027s a change obviously the draft will get updated and then everybody can provide their feedback but just wanted to let you know that okay so I\u0027ll see what I will present the rest of the time but hopefully some of the other things that I will be presenting could not be wrong so Alexander here so just to get "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:26:17",
    "text": "everything here basically what we did was really really simplify all the things and it was super interesting talking with the people from Vienna because things that look really really obvious when you talk on the process and how things are working with Ayana because they are the guys that will actually be running the thing that we define here and you\u0027re like okay here that\u0027s really great idea but how do we do whenever you have like an RFC required and then later you need so we are getting really really down into the process of how things get registered and even things that look super straightforward when you put on the process on top we say okay well that there might be some little modifications to do but it was really really impressive the progress that we have so we\u0027re basically fine-tuning some of the some of the things and and then this is when we were like talking in with Carson were talking a little bit earlier and and we basically said okay well we agree it work and we need just to define that little thing over here and so that was the reason for that and sorry for interruption yeah sure I would just need to reverse a couple of I revert the cap of commits by device it\u0027s fine so I think the the the complexity here comes from the fact that we have different stakeholders we have the people who actually want to write these modules we have one of the people who actually want to find those monuments we have Ayana and in the first two groups we actually have two subgroups which are the people that that we\u0027re actually working for that want to do this for the constraint space but there are other people who want to use zebra encoding and the efficient form of zebra encoding and they have much larger and many more yang files and so on and to support that constituency as well which of course increases the availability of software to do all the sorts I\u0027ll turn our interest we have to be able to scale up more than then we initially thought so this is the reason why why this is getting a little bit more complicated than we thought so this is one part are you going to say something about games ago yeah and there is okay for example here so yeah for young C bar what I can say that it\u0027s rather stable the only thing is that like on Saturday or something like that we received some comments very valuable reviews but the input to assets oh great but there is one thing like multiple items inside the Union that currently is not handled like very clearly different implementations "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:29:18",
    "text": "might get different results which is not the something who would want so now the question is how do we resolve this proposition that Carson might was to have seats assigned to valor synonyms to me personally that sounded that\u0027s a good idea the only thing was to assign the complexity yeah so just a small comment so I the the point is that they aim to see Boer is really getting interest so people are from different communities are really looking into it now and the feeling that I get is that when yang was made and and the encoding in XML and G and Jason they were actually quite permissive so people are doing stuff that were not really well defined like having these enemies so you send just a string that says zero and the other end just tries to figure out okay well is the zero from the first anymore for the second mmm for the third in them and right now they figured out that all that poses problems in some time in some cases and they want to solve it well in the yang to see Boer they want to have something deterministic so this is where it gets really interesting because we need to answer some questions that arise after the yin the yang community operated things yeah Germany we call these corpses in the basement so the the problem we\u0027re having is that while ago we decided we don\u0027t need much tripping unions into in inside unions that\u0027s not really something we had constraint devices are interested in so we decided to just not solve the problem and now again what has happened is that that the restaurant people have found out that having a civil representation for the interchange would make their service so much faster so they want to use it and again it is in our interest I believe that maybe you see that differently it is in our interest to have these communities on board so we get much better software support that then if this were done only for for the ugly space so we know that now that this is from our point of view done and we push it out and ask the young community to review it we notice they they actually want to use it as well and they are actually interested in making the corner cases of being actually work and the most interesting part of this debate is that there are already is a difference between XML and JSON encoding that that has been crossed over so what we would be different yet again but maybe in a "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:32:20",
    "text": "slightly more destructive way so it\u0027s probably worth fixing this and I have no idea what will happen about these annotations so far you\u0027re going to say something about that so for the annotations I still haven\u0027t looked into them I mean obviously we would love to find a good solution for that as you said the wider the adoption the better it is for us but so far I don\u0027t have a solution that\u0027s worth mentioning okay now let\u0027s comment so actually I\u0027ll have a question to the chairs how do we proceed with a into Siebel do we can leave it open until the people from the yang community they bring up new questions and you know we find solution to adapt to that or do we have like a catch-all phrase saying well you know this is the way it will be working into SIBO v1 we try to - to - freeze it and then when whenever you\u0027re going to have a if you have new things to add there will be a revision in in v2 in one year and the at least we can focus on something yeah that\u0027s a good question what one important thing here of course is if we come up with any solutions that would require us to change this advice we better have that now so those may be much harder to change that than anything it\u0027s apart from that if we can stick with the same seed files yes we might have a partial solution I think it\u0027s a bit of a perception whether this is just a tiny thing we have to fix here or a major thing that has to be added to make it work and I think we\u0027re still in the process of finding out which of situation is the case so I don\u0027t really have the answer here last time we said we\u0027re ready to work with us call all this except that we haven\u0027t done the interview testing that we wanted to have done how much further are we on that line we are late on the inter probability I mean we did the intro probabilities like a year ago and thanks for working since then we move so we changed some things and we have not done interrupts on these new things so even though it seems straightforward I cannot save 400 it is not like running code that we can say well the thing is running so into actually it is minor details and simplifications compared to the last the previous interrupts that were working but today we still need to "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:35:21",
    "text": "forget interrupting the sense of two companies working together or open-source implementation working with with another open-source implementation so that probably if we are waiting for this we need to to to focus on that before then the new the next idea okay so what one way to paralyze this a little bit would be to get the net worth net worth people involved and probably the only way we can get them involved is doing a wedding dress code so we could decide to reverse this a little bit and just do a reckoning breath code to get their attention and be aware that that the Interop work might uncover other details even though I don\u0027t think it\u0027s very likely it might happen and there\u0027s always a second pregnant girls call you don\u0027t you haven\u0027t heard me said that yeah I think that we at some point you know they were in yang keeps changing also so it\u0027s like a never-ending cycle so at the end it\u0027s it\u0027s better at some point to say well you know we have done a really great job until now everything else it\u0027s like trains strings so it\u0027s not going to be really efficient but at least is going to become behaving in the way that the Jason encoding is working so that\u0027s good for you and working group last call and in case the people from medical mad knots the scream really loud that okay that doesn\u0027t work like this and we need to fix it we\u0027ll fix it no problem but at least to have this this deadline of you know think about this really hard now with some some items on the mailing list like moving some stuff between the documents and so on which I think needs to be done before we can do that so when will be the set of documents be ready for such an exercise so I thought I had the seed draft ready for review but obviously this will still require a little bit more work hopefully by the end of the week yeah yeah so all the things that I saw on the mailing list but maybe we can go over it once again all the things that that I saw are already in there so the last review sweetie I with Ayane were really simplification so moving non normative text into the appendix so nothing really changes we just renamed a couple of of titles - sorry yes so so for me everything is "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:38:23",
    "text": "already done we just need to the major work is done in the verm in the draft that we have with we\u0027re going to reveal it once again and it will be done by the end of the week okay so it seems the the plan is to actually go home grass call this there is a little detail that we haven\u0027t taken care of yet which is the yang library document which isn\u0027t even a regular document so it\u0027s a bit hard to do a working last call on that who in this room is actually read that term the many cameras as well and I think Alex of course yeah this mean we should be doing an adoption file for that document our what we beta if there\u0027s more than three people having read that well it\u0027s Alex it\u0027s it\u0027s a very straightforward document but it\u0027s just a young module saying how do you get information from a device like it\u0027s a meta it\u0027s a young model that tells you how do I get what are the modules on this device and so forth so it\u0027s really simple and straightforward stuff and I think that place would be more in core to do this work because we mostly know how to interact with constrained devices then in that mode its yang like it\u0027s basic yang saying I can water move the modules there water blah blah blah so yeah it you can go and read it if you wish but for me it\u0027s really straightforward and logical continuation of coke off okay so I would expect that there will be a resubmission of that together with the other ones yeah and we try to be ready at the end of the week and maybe there would be a little bit more hallway work going into that so we are actually three minutes out of schedule so we are "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:41:32",
    "text": "in the miscellaneous section who had has read this document of these who didn\u0027t like it okay should we do this in this working group see some nodding okay Franciscan let me plus one in Java okay thank you I mean it\u0027s definitely useful and helpful and clarifies things that might have been a bit unclear in the past maybe we should make it larger and try to go for a larger ITF audience than just getting consensus in core yeah so that would be the next step so one of the the important things to get the the attention of other people is to not load it down with outreach specific things so that that I wouldn\u0027t want to make it larger I would like to make the carriage larger that looks at it so that might indeed be a next step to involve people like HTTP this and so on and see whether they can live with this document whether that just stays our terminology or other working groups I actually also interested in this technology that\u0027s a good point okay I leave it to my co-chair to read this room I recurrence quick comment you have fun very useful I see myself calling the document over and over again when I do updates cuz that terminology is so easy to get wrong so and there is no single right or wrong until now so I\u0027m glad we\u0027re doing that thank you so basically if I\u0027m mistaken there were about nine people in the room that have read it out of which zero said that it was a bad idea here good positive comment so maybe we can move it forward right all right you can talk speed yeah anyone else I mean now is a good time to voice any disagreements on this otherwise we can do working up adoption already on the mailing list all right so then that\u0027s it thank you so then there was this beautiful meeting of the sec dispatch working group on Monday who in this room was there okay so quite a few people followed that and as you know people are using x.509 certificates for many things not just "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:44:34",
    "text": "the same things it was designed for and many people tell us they really would like to have the flexibility provided by CW cheese instead to get their authenticated assertions and enter their systems so the question was can we maybe you write up a document that explains how to do that this is not about standardizing stuff because gwt\u0027s and cosy already exists and this CWT proof of possession document but it\u0027s really about the certificates that that we are seeing how could these be translated into a CWT word so that\u0027s one document we talked about and I have have not paste it in your slides genre there\u0027s also another document that is for something completely different except that it actually looks very similar at the end which is instead of doing something new that solves the same problem we can of course take the existing x.509 certificates and and well kind of give them a new paint and we encode them in NC ba and the the only problem of course is that the signature that is in that Excel valign certificate is computed from an ace and one representation so you are sending someone a SIBO representation and that someone is supposed to convert that back into an x.509 specification extra line document then compute the the fingerprint of that and and verify the certificate so this is a little bit of a wart the other one is that it does inherit all the semantic baggage and and uncertainties of x.509 although there is also a component to the effort which is about profiling x.509 itself so some of that baggage will be taken away but still there\u0027s some stuff in there that maybe is hard to find out what it actually means but in any case it means a constraint device that wants to make use of these certificates would either itself implement AAS and one x.509 or would possibly delegate this out to a verifier that that has that for the fridge so that that\u0027s related work that is currently being submitted to ace to the ACE working group the other document that I talked about that "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:47:35",
    "text": "that that is actually in the car submitted to the car working group and now the question is does that even work and if we read the charges of the two working groups the answer is not really so we had a side meeting about a month ago mostly powered by by the cozy working group chairs who had been toward this might be something that could be done in the cosy work group and they were vehemently saying no that\u0027s not something that should be done in the course you know and so we try to look at what what\u0027s out there and came up there are essentially two candidates that make sense which are ace and car is because a zone CW T\u0027s which also was kind of a very loose fit I mean took a while until we found someone who was willing to do CW T\u0027s and it landed in ace and the core group on the other hand has the requirements for getting these assertions so these were the two groups that kind of came out as the selection of that cosy hallway meeting of course there\u0027s also the ability to create another working group or use another existing working group but there\u0027s no no obvious candidate for that and of course there\u0027s also the the ability to just not do the work and and live with x.509 as it is but most likely people will still be using cedar your teas for this and just in a more uncoordinated fashion so with that we went into the the SEC dispatch meeting and of course everybody started confusing the two efforts and started thinking we wanted to redo the whole mess that that x.509 is and and decided redoing deafness needs above and yeah so that\u0027s where we are at the moment so most likely there will be above four for doing this group forming buff and we probably will have a charter proposal and so on but as the core working group we are of course interested in making some of this happen and and allow using these authenticated sessions in our security mechanisms so that\u0027s the situation we are in we will have a little bit more delay before we actually can start working on that and I would be interested in additions from anyone who was there on Monday as well "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:50:36",
    "text": "[Music] so who has actually seen one of these two blue dot things here so I need a human or the seawall certificates document one two three four five six people okay good who would be willing to contribute to an effort to get another Wigner going on this one two three four five six I think I\u0027m seeing one hand more unless they arrived at six but I saw six David\u0027s militia Jim available John this time okay good anything else we can do on this at the moment good so we are done with this one as well and now we are on in the middle of fighting from from the agenda so we have nine minutes left so welcome to Friday [Laughter] [Music] so Jim did the right thing and and and escaped so he cannot be talking about speedy blood trends the complications really need miking who cannot make it today I think and yeah the only other thing we could talk about is the resource directory there will be different from you talk tomorrow right yeah okay go ahead let\u0027s use those nine minutes [Music] extensions um yes give me the give me the TOC so hello this is Christine answers on something that was planned for Friday so the resource directory is in a state where we are now officially in working group last call and there are some things that came up during the discussions of resource directory that could have been integrated there but we "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:53:36",
    "text": "were already trying to get the number of pages down and we do have extension mechanisms in resource directory that allow many things to be defined later on so I started a document in which I\u0027ll I\u0027m currently just enumerated and drafting specification for things that can be done with a resource directory and that may assist in in operating it okay so I think we can stick with the with the table of contents for starts so the largest part in there is its reverse proxying now this is something that has been introduced in the even in the in the motivational examples of the resource directory today a client connects to the resource directory be that by actually sending UDP messages but making everything in between aware that that UDP messages can now go back and forth here be that via coop over TCP and thus creating a more persistent connection or be that by a coop over WebSockets because that\u0027s the only thing that device can do because it is a web browser actually and when such a device read and windows that device registers with the resource directory it could ask the resource directory to play from to play reverse proxy for it because in the coop or WebSocket example if device is actually a browser application no one can connect can connect there this is also something that conceptually is happening in many likely templum deployments where there are no other connections than the one that the device is opening towards its lightweight FM server which is the resource directory so basically what I am doing here is just suggest a way of discovering support for an option that can be set with a resource directory at registration time that says I suspect that I can\u0027t be that I\u0027m not reachable from the outside um please serve as a proxy for me and rather than announcing the address from which I am connecting which is utterly useless to everyone who doesn\u0027t have the connection open please mint please mint an authority component and announce me under that which is basically aligning with the alternative transports and the protocol negotiation but from to the to the to the lookup client that is working with the resource directory it won\u0027t tell it it won\u0027t know the difference it will just it might observe that the maybe we have an example bit lower here yeah so the look yeah um the lookup client may may notice that this your I here looks like it is host it is somewhere "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:56:38",
    "text": "close to the resource directory but without looking into a big identifiers it doesn\u0027t really make much of a difference so this is this is one thing that I think it would be useful to have spelled out somewhere before people start doing it without having thought about what could go wrong with it so the another is a much smaller thing that was um registering with infinite lifetime so that was a request from from Jim if I remember correctly that we currently specify lifetimes on there might be situations in which it may be okay to say that my life is infinite we don\u0027t need to specify that in resourcedirectory that can be an extension it can be discovered and it should in my opinion look like that and with that for example an application that registers for being proxied can say that my lifetime is practically infinite because you will know when my connection terminates and then you\u0027ll kick me out and as long as that doesn\u0027t happen Here I am that one that\u0027s and the third one I\u0027d like to point out is is so identifiers that came in very late in the in the in the resource directory when we thought about what does it actually mean if someone registers with a link-local address because lookup clients might not be on that link and what the resource directory now says is that there is a split horizon situation the resource directory needs to know that there are there are clients on this side and on that side but to the administrator this means that because the administrator comes from some point and then at work it might not even be able to see some registrations so in very particular situations it might be a good idea to allow returning your eyes that contain seven identifiers if it was specifically requested and the requester um it was adequately authorized to obtain that information so this is something that might be useful to in in the management interface this is something that I wouldn\u0027t expect to be implemented by default in a resource directory but if someone wants to use it this is how it could be done and also this service is an example of how the resource directory can be can be expanded what how those expansion points are used I don\u0027t really know where to go on was a document because I\u0027m not using all of the features that I\u0027m describing in there so my question is are there features in here that that have an appeal to the working group are there features in here that you may be using yourself or other just that should go in here so who in this room has a problem that one of "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:59:39",
    "text": "these extensions what Oliver would address nobody using it let me kind of Jim job I don\u0027t have any problems that you need us ever solves because I don\u0027t have any of this stuff the other place that I was looking at the infinite lifetime for is if you have somebody go in and be a third party configure you put it you put a device into the direct resource directory it makes sense to just go ahead and say it\u0027s there forever rather than forcing the device to register itself so I think that\u0027s actually a really strong use case for that particular thing it\u0027s like if you decommission that the Nino to go back and take it out of the directory so maybe I cannot speak for our me but I obviously see a value on the infinite lifetime because that\u0027s a continuous problem that you need to keep renewing the registration of a lightweight and to imply it maybe other people from oh I make could also voice an opinion but I think maybe the problem is that we haven\u0027t read the draft so it\u0027s hard to have an opinion yet but I I that\u0027s another thing I will at least review it for sure thank you yeah so the time also is community up so take you to the list is the correct answer here so if any any of this sounds like you might want to use this please send a message to the list that will help Christian decide which are which of these we want to take up and which of these stays on the back burner for long thank you so see most of you on Friday I hope I\u0027ll see what most of you in the thing to think wizard good meeting in eight minutes one blush I know Alex will be gone "
  }
]