[
  {
    "startTime": "00:00:27",
    "text": "yeah it\u0027s good thanks Vonnegut before we get started we would need a minute particular I\u0027m looking for volunteers so someone - it\u0027s a great opportunity for any of you who happen to be actively involved in this little trip before to join you until cookie at some of the other places we really am looking for volunteer to a minute makeup okay we have a Java scratch that and we need to big job of making like only to make take our home there\u0027s any little template okay rewarding not they audience is this all first session keywords "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:04:03",
    "text": "[Music] [Music] this meeting is under a denote well since you said that if you see or you write is under your software ears that proposed agenda and a beta he gives you SEC PCL we put previously a you know a free transfer discussion there but we found that in anyway forgiveness passed in the first application by step so essentially it\u0027s definitely remove this then that I can remember this during the first invasion by staff who shoots in en PMA architecture enough any change [Music] Eadie\u0027s pointed out that he doesn\u0027t have new slides for the asynchronous management architecture presentation he basically wants to cover some of what he would like to propose so I don\u0027t really hasn\u0027t done any new slides because we\u0027ve done all the slides for 30 seconds there so we should be very short pieces most of us are familiar with what in for voting anyway so it\u0027s more the discussion and look we need a minute taken I\u0027m going on Vicky thank you very much okay so I was looking at the mile stones yeah okay so if you look at the DTM data track though you can see that we have a set a milestone for Joe charted items and of the work that is currently actively in progress apparently we were going to finish 50-50 place and TCP CLV fall by December 2016 now obviously that hasn\u0027t happened these milestones aren\u0027t fixed in stone they\u0027re aspirational but obviously we are slipping on this and the face the ad they like to point out that this is a surprise to him for some reason the main point of this slide is not to say oh my "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:07:04",
    "text": "god were slipping on this it\u0027s it\u0027s the point out that these are key items that we\u0027re still working on and there is some pressure to make progress because if you look at the next slide these are some of the other items that we have on the Charter that are are hanging waiting for the core building blocks to complete so there is some pressure to the primary authors and the working group to really get going back on slide RFC 5050 base TC it\u0027s the Barbie we have a wavy main projector for noticin and we need to get 50/50 base and TCP CLV floor done they feel in lasts more once they\u0027ve dropped out of last wall and lighter changes at the working group and the main author team have wanted to make which is fine we do need to get these finished so that less of a demand on the or between it\u0027s more of a demand on the rest of the work really please have a look at these documents give them an even a a light review I\u0027m looking at some of the younger guys in the room which one of the old hands and say have read if there\u0027s stuff you don\u0027t understand if you could if you don\u0027t see why it\u0027s there please ask it may be an omission then may be a valid reason for it but a good bit of discussion on this is productive at this stage and then we can put it back up the RFC view and really get these moving the other two items at the bottom of slide has to be obviously stop is going to talk about the sticking out of trust to be out of the 450 15 s that what I can imagine we\u0027ll take a compare amount of time this morning and the other thing that came up over the last two meetings was bundled security protocol is relevant in this context it may not be applicable to all the users of undal protocol there are those out there who want some way of securing bundle protocol and it without it I think we would get serious questions from the IES three of the why\u0027re you releasing a protocol that cannot be secured in a standard way okay I\u0027m sure Scotty and look it\u0027s not moving at this point I\u0027m sure there will be ways that we can say you can encrypt your payload and the fumbling bundling capsulation will give you an 20 encryption of the lightweight encryption but in the same way that IPSec helps IP or works alongside IP the proposal is that under security protocol acts other than the B team set into the name so that is another critical early delivery from from this working group though and given its security related that needs some federal review if there needs to be some visible comment on that document I "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:10:05",
    "text": "know it\u0027s being reviewed in other places from the IDF but we do need to good feedback from the IDF themselves otherwise if this started after the security groups they\u0027ll say okay you say it\u0027s been reviewed we see no evidence of that we see no no chatter on the working group mailing lists about this so this is a visit Niq leading with loading Roman roads on the audio stream amazing alert alert please can you have a good look at you can say and 50 50 beds empty CPC out these are the next items charter items that we have not really started working on I know there\u0027s various within the room who have opinions and some ideas and labor discovery have knocked up draft so far on things like key management have you managed ETA Mises and I know it\u0027s gonna speak about an architecture he\u0027s had pick around for a while there\u0027s also addressing enough in a wider scope howdy how do we handle multiple addresses for multiple DTN domains are we going to try to force a single naming scheme there\u0027s a pinging circulating on this but they all need really be the bits finished we need the basic building blocks in place so that we can build on them so yeah they\u0027ve got early 2017 dates it\u0027s not happening but you need to be aware that these are milestones that you have to deliver but does anyone have any comment about the fact that we are delayed okay Schiaparelli just one point that I will bring up now and not emphasized later on which is that bundles and Bunnell encapsulation and VP SEC are not alternatives bundle mone encapsulation security depends on VP SEC existing so it\u0027s it\u0027s not like it it it\u0027s supplants it in any way DP SEC is required in any case it\u0027s not good though it still is great I can see "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:13:06",
    "text": "test it okay it\u0027s on good okay thank you okay good okay okay okay good all right thank you I\u0027m Scott Burley I\u0027m here to talk about a couple of things the latest draft of the beef abyss specification and and as as part of that a discussion of custody transfer and and a way that we might separate custody transfer from from the bundle protocol itself so next slide I think this is the the only slide on on BP is which is essentially that the seventh draft of the specification was posted in middle of June I believe that this draft reflects whatever we had reached in a way of consensus on all the comments that have been received on the sixth draft except that there are still needed to be authoritative references to the CRC specs because I was I was unsuccessful in running down good references and anybody who is able to do that I think there was some traffic on the net about some possible references and I\u0027m happy to take that and incorporate that into the spec and just an oversight I stupidly failed to move the CRC to the end of the canonical block header and that was just an oversight that I will fix that also I think there were a couple of small comments that came in on on the email list in the last couple of weeks and those I\u0027m quite happy to incorporate so at this point I believe the the sevenths are after the BP piss Peck is reflects everything that we had agreed on in addition to that it reflects what I think is a was a tentative agreement to extract custody transfer from the bundle protocol spec itself and and define it in a separate document there are a couple of ways that we\u0027ve discussed doing that one is retaining custody transfer as as an extension block and and as a set of modifications insertions that would go into the bundle protocol specification itself in several places and I think three or four months ago we "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:16:07",
    "text": "posted a sample draft of how we might do that sometime after that draft went out it occurred to me oh I think I\u0027ve got a better way of doing it I think we could do it you know simpler and I think more powerful way if we combine custody transfer with bundle and bundle encapsulation and and do it as essentially a a new reliable convergence their protocol and so I\u0027ll talk about that for a few minutes next slide this idea went out in a draft that I posted under my own name rather than the working group name because it\u0027s really it\u0027s just me thinking out loud at this point and the idea is move custody transfer out of bundle protocol and standardize bundle and bundle encapsulation and and make custody transfer a feature of bundle and bundling capsulation since the idea of making custody transfer reliable convergence layer protocol entailed encapsulating in bundles anyway and it dawned on me I want to combine the two things I think there are a number of advantages in doing that and I\u0027ll come to those in a moment so in this formulation custody transfer would be an optional feature of capsulation and once again turning the ibe into a reliable convergence layer protocol along the lines of TCP CL and LTP that would be able to operate over disrupted links which which I believe no other reliable convergence they are protocol that I know of can do it\u0027s this is potentially very useful next slide so the advantages of of this approach one is that the the I think what what I\u0027m aware of is as the key benefit of custody transfer is is preserved by by doing this and I\u0027ve not been a great fan of custody transfer for some time the there are a number of reasons for that the the the one is that custody transfer reliability relies on retransmitting the entire bundle no matter how big it is rather than portions of the bundle and another is that that retransmission is driven entirely by expiration of timeouts and the the timeout interval is "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:19:09",
    "text": "something that is I will argue impossible to calculate in the RFC 50/50 world because custody transfer it no node is required to take custody transfer so you don\u0027t know which node is supposed to acknowledge it so you have no idea how long it\u0027ll take for the bundles to reach that node and come back again so any thing that you do in in in in custody transfer an IRC 5050 in terms of retransmission is is by definition you know less than then efficient it\u0027ll always we transmit either too early or too late because you can\u0027t do it accurately I think that for these reasons I\u0027ve been saying for a long time just use reliable convergence there are protocols instead and I think that is still the case but Keith Scott has made the point a number of times that there are use cases where nothing but custody transfer can do the job because the there there is no reliable convergence there protocol available for some of the use cases he\u0027s been looking at you really need a reliable converters there a protocol that handles transmission over inter directional and possibly disrupted links and nothing but custody transfer does that so the this work is an attempt to reconcile those two I think two entirely valid points of view and let me recognize your God who has something to say at this point yeah your I have a semi semantic question yes it occurs to me that TCP in the especially when you look at the end to end model of the internet secures bytes on the wire but doesn\u0027t do anything how they are being handled at the receiver side so it\u0027s a reliable transfer it\u0027s not a reliable pick up storage and whatnot and so so comparing custody transfer which also says something about durability in the receiver side storage may be marginally or subtly different from transport semantics and just wondering whether you are taking those two semantic aspects apart or whether you are intentionally or unintentionally mingling them a bit I so it takes some some discussion to exactly narrow this down but I will I think argue that the approach that I\u0027m advocating here unifies those those those two concepts that it that it provides depending on how you implement it it provides security on a hop by hop "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:22:13",
    "text": "basis and provides a reliable transmission that is compatible with that security but also and so it also it is supposed to guarantee us that you\u0027re going to have enough space ever having received something reliable and keep it so I\u0027m not worried about the security yeah I read about the the reliability part in storage so if you get the next bundle you and if you have taken custody you can\u0027t evict it and drop it on the floor because you have taken custody where is just the fact that you have received something reliably completely and so on still would allow you to drop it and this is the semantic difference I\u0027m wondering and I just well I\u0027m not saying that this is bad to combine the two I\u0027m just wondering whether this is happening in intentionally whether we should spell this out jail I\u0027m inclined to think we should spell it out clearly right and I think I think that that there is that implication and and I think we should confront that implication and and and and make sure that we understand the what what would evolve from that I mean I think we need to be aware of it absolutely right so so this this first point on this slide is again thinking in terms of the many conversations that the Keith and I have had on on custody transfer and how he has use cases that absolutely need it I believe that this formulation preserves that capability that is the idea here is that when you what when you\u0027ve got a portion of the into NDT and network path that cannot be traversed successfully by any any of the reliable convergence layer protocols that we\u0027ve defined so far tcp CL or LTP or others that that encapsulating the bundle in another bundle whose destination is the the convergence layer next hop provides that capability it enables the the transmission on on that that segment of the path to be unidirectional in in each direction to follow different paths and and for the the the transmission between the two to be over links that are intermittently connected and possibly very long delay so I think that\u0027s that that\u0027s the number one advantage I see is that the the advantages of custody transfer are retained in context that I "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:25:16",
    "text": "think makes sense in the overall DTN architecture the second advantage that I see is that removal of custody transfer from bundle protocol and substantially simplifies bundle protocol and simplifies implementations there will be potentially some implementations that would not want to support custom transfer and and or might might want to not support it initially but add it later on and I think this structure supports those those kinds of implementation efforts I\u0027m thinking in particular of hardware implementations or firmware implementations where the complexities of custody transfer might be difficult to support at least in in an initial round of FTA is that sort of thing the the interface I think is is quite clean here in that the the the bundle and bundle bundle and bundle encapsulation protocol is is a self-contained I think well structured specification within which custody transfer operates but without relying on inserting any new procedures into bundle protocol itself the the end points of the custody transfer are our functionally convergence layer end points even though they happen to be bundle protocol end points it\u0027s it\u0027s tunneling an advantage I think that is less obvious is that we\u0027ve been thinking about bundling bundle encapsulation for a long time as a mechanism that supports an additional layer of security for in particular security against protection against traffic analysis and that\u0027s because the the encapsulated bundle can be encrypted as the payload of the encapsulating bundle and the destination of the encapsulating bundle can be you know anything at all and something innocuous and once it once the bundle reaches that that interim destination at that point it can be extracted from the encapsulating bundle and and routed to its real destination you know safe part of the internet we\u0027re not worried about traffic and analysis next slide something that I had not expected when I started trying to write this into the B IBE spec is that it simplifies custody transfer itself there is no need to deal "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:28:18",
    "text": "with the partial custody transfer procedures that we talked about at the last meeting that methought about it over or a longer time and had been in lurking in custody transfer in RFC fifty fifty all along that it was always going to be a huge problem if there were fragmentations of custodial bundles on the end and paths we had no way of dealing with it it just wasn\u0027t even considered in RFC fifty fifty and one way or another is going to be a huge problem well this makes that go away because if there\u0027s fragmentation between the source and destination of the convergence layer of bundle and bundle encapsulation transmission that\u0027s not a problem because the by definition the the bundle has to be we assembled from fragments at the destination and no matter what what the fragmentation was the bundle that is going to be acknowledged in in in a custodial acknowledgement is the entire bundle we assembled from whatever fragmentation happened on the on that that short path and again there\u0027s there\u0027s no need for any special procedures in forwarding nodes that don\u0027t want to take custody because the forwarding nodes that don\u0027t want to take custody are just forwarding those the custody is is only happening at the source and destination everything else that happens to be in between they\u0027re forwarding there\u0027s no expectation that they they can or need to or or even will take custody of the bundle only the source and destination are of the custodians it\u0027s compatible with multi point delivery which has always been an issue in custody transfer and RSC 5050 the look through our see 5050 and and and it will say everywhere that multi-point delivery of custody transfer is undefined well there\u0027s good reasons for that right because if you if you go with the the original RC 50/50 definition of custody transfer if there were multiple possible custodians custody acknowledgments would be received from multiple places and the current custodian would have no way of knowing which ones are sufficient to authorize deletion of the the bundle that has taken custody of it the there there might be multiple possible custodians that that refuse there might be multiple possible considering this that receive it and don\u0027t say anything at all and the the current custodian has "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:31:19",
    "text": "no way of knowing anything about how many copies it needs to resend in in this formulation that goes away entirely because if there\u0027s a multi point delivery then each of those points each of those neighbors that you would forward the bundle to can be a custodian you you send it custodial e over over because convergence layer hop that happens to be bundle protocol called the ib e and and each one of those transmissions is a separate custodial transaction and and is booked kept because individually in the implementation so suddenly we gain the ability to do custody transfer through a multicast tree because each of the branches of the multicast tree is its own custodial transmission one more point I think this is the last one is that several years ago a visiting researcher at JPL worked out procedures for bundle delivery time estimation based on contact plans the contact the the basis for contact graph routing in the in the ion implementation of DT N and that that work was was published there\u0027s still think more things to do along that line but I thought that at the time that that was a very promising way of getting a plausible idea of how long it would take for a bundle to reach a destination and over a range of probabilities and and and that in turn is I think a a plausible way of of estimating the the round-trip time for a custodial transmission and and and given that this approach offers the promise of reasonably efficient custodial transmission because the round-trip time may be something that you can estimate with some accuracy which we never could do before and the key to that is that the next custodian is the destination of the encapsulating bundle you know who it is you can estimate how long the bundle will take to reach that destination so I think there\u0027s a lot of attractive features to this formulation Nick\u0027s line there are a couple of disadvantages that that I think we all need to be aware of and and and spend some time talking about one is there is a little bit of extra overhead because you encapsulate the the original bundle in in another bundle and that means that there\u0027s a another header primary block and extension blocks but onto the front of it I\u0027m very sensitive to overhead we "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:34:21",
    "text": "care about that a lot in in in spaceflight operations communications we don\u0027t have an awful lot of spare bandwidth but even even given that I would say as long as the bundles are not tiny the the additional overhead is as a tolerable cost I think the advantages are compelling enough to to motivate using this formulation even when there\u0027s a concern about overhead and the other is and I\u0027m sure this is I\u0027m accompanied in discussion there the the key difference between custody transfer in this formulation and and in Narsee 5050 is that you must know in advance who the next OD is going to be you because that\u0027s the destination for the encapsulating bundle I I think that there\u0027s been a sense for some time that there were important use cases that where that was not the case and I and I\u0027m certainly I think we need to talk about those my own personal expectation is that in realistic operational use cases you pretty much always know who you want the next custodian to be I think in all of the the use cases that Keith has identified for example the the next custodian is known it may be two or three bundle hops away but but you know you do know who you want it to be if you genuinely don\u0027t know who you want to take custody then again I will argue if you don\u0027t know who you want to take custody then you have no way of knowing when to be transmitted and and in that case I I think it\u0027s I think I would argue that the potential impact on never performance is I would say not acceptable but that\u0027s a that that\u0027s my own personal opinion on it I would say that opportunistic forwarding is not necessarily incompatible with this formulation because in opportunistic forwarding I will I will propose that the next custodian is always the neighbor right you discover a neighbor and you want to do custody transfer out to the destination great the next custodian is the neighbors you\u0027ve just just discovered if they don\u0027t want to take custody then it\u0027s not clear that you want to send them a copy if you if you want to send them a copy any way you can and and in that event you maybe don\u0027t want to turn on the custodial retransmission switch I think that the advantage of being able to do "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:37:26",
    "text": "somewhat reliable custodial retransmission by knowing the who the next custodian is and knowing the round-trip time on that basis outweighs the advantages of being able to operate in an environment where the next custodian is unknown I think that\u0027s the end of my slides and so any questions well shit oh within a DTN network many nodes say node 1 2 or 3 4 node 4 is destination node 1 is the source and I know that from node 1 perspective know 2 \u0026 3 are custodians all right and they\u0027re possible additional nodes in between okay so when node 1 does that it will address to know to ask us to do write it in the destination of the encapsulating bundle right I would say if it if it knows that node 2 and node 3 our positions are potential custodians yeah that it could address the encapsulating bundle to node 3 and and have it go directly that way okay and and not expect custody to be taken by node to its vault because it\u0027s won\u0027t be addressed right right right right right and and but then I think that\u0027s that that\u0027s a an operational option but that you need sort of do it either way okay but then if it\u0027s a you know for it well but you said summarizes they only have really one pursuit in my network but if I want to use many because I mean it\u0027s a very unreliable path and it may take forever between whatever for whatever reasons my question is how does so no two will actually D capsulate Andrea encapsulate right yes so how does node one tells no 2 no 3 is the next one or it doesn\u0027t know well ok so I think it\u0027s two answers to that one is it can be argued that it should not tell node 2 that right because right because its source routing and maybe that\u0027s not a good idea the other is that if it really wants that to happen and and I think we should thank Lord wood for pointing this out on the email list you can do that right because node 1 could encapsulate capsulate the original bundle in a bundle that isn\u0027t in it that is whose destination is node 3 and then take that and encapsulated in "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:40:28",
    "text": "a bundle whose destination is no - so you can you can do the source path routing if you want to it\u0027s probably not a good idea but but but if you want to I think you can do it that way okay so that means unless you do that kind of trick it\u0027s kind of a a buy up custodian thing yep that\u0027s right yeah but but I think that\u0027s why a system depending on the knowledge of the right Zaca seed into the next one right and I think that\u0027s okay that in itself is is consistent with what RFC 5050 right you could you could have multiple custodial hops on the end and path and and you can still do that the the difference in in this formulation is you need to you need to determine in advance who the custodians are any top John that\u0027ll um thanks Scott really interesting my initial reaction of oh you want to psych Casta transfer out of 50 50 bits great put it in bundling bundle not convinced but you make some interesting arguments there do you in in in the world of opportunistic forwarding I\u0027m keen to be able to move custody in more than one direction yes so sort of multipath absolutely yes do you think that this supports multipath custody tracks I think it absolutely does yes and I would say it does that because suppose you\u0027re sending four different copies right you send one opportunistically and you may not think you may not get there may or may not so you so you hold on to the bundle and you\u0027re going to send it again the next discovered neighbor on each of those transmissions to each of those neighbors as you discover them I would say on each one you would do a custodial bundle bundle encapsulation transmission to that to that custodial node and and that node itself then would extract the encapsulated bundle from the encapsulating bundle and could determine on its own whether the next hop on on its path to the destination needed to go over a bundle encapsulation or it could just be sent over some other reliable convergence their protocol okay thank you and thus last one and you said a couple of minutes ago that I recently had this in my head as though all nodes of the network need to support custody transfer I think you mentioned a couple of minutes ago that you could send more than one bundle hop away and get the distant mode to accept custody - yes is that correct that\u0027s I would say that\u0027s correct yeah absolutely okay there the the intervening bundle hops would not be custodial that the transmission between those might very well be reliable the custody signal "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:43:30",
    "text": "would come from the the destination of the encapsulating bundle okay thank you Rick Tyler and thanks Scott I like this for two reasons first off there\u0027s always been a danger in my mind that 5050 base with custody transfer inside became very close to routing and there\u0027s always been a sense in the in in the working group that fifty-fifty should 50/50 base should be about transport and not really touch on routing because it\u0027s a pretty open research area in places I think we\u0027ve got some ideas of how it might work coming out of the the research group and so I like the fact that the separation of custardy Transfer had a 50/50 base kind of puts custody transfer and it\u0027s almost routing into its own document the other part I like is bundling bundle is gonna happen and so we may as well define it properly somewhere I agree completely any I know there\u0027s been a lot of pushback about oh we don\u0027t need tunneling it adds overhead we don\u0027t need tunneling it adds overhead but people are going to tunnel so let\u0027s define it so I\u0027m I\u0027m in favor of the separation and actually describing both thanks hang on yeah John Darrell as JavaScript adds asking a question at brain in VP second we had difficulty with security destinations because it presupposed routing information if you select a custodian that is more than one hopper way will we run into the same problems as when we try to define security destinations alright that\u0027s a fair question I think we don\u0027t the reason I think we don\u0027t is that because we\u0027re doing this is because at the convergence layer the the the route from the the current custodian the local custodian of the bundle and the next custodian can be entirely defined by the routing protocol right the the the the route that it if you\u0027re going from from A to D and and there are bundle routes bundle nodes in between the convergence there protocol B IBE does not know or need to know anything about the the specific nodes along the route that can be handled entirely by the routing so it\u0027s it is a little bit sort of brain bending because it is bundle protocol at both levels but I but I think it avoids the the the the "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:46:32",
    "text": "problem that we very properly I think identified and reacted to in the in the BSP specification that is the the the the convergence layer transmission is is something that we already have in in the in the architecture I think it\u0027s a clean separation between the what essentially is is end to end at the convergence there and and the route that it the bundle takes to get from one end to the other at the convergence layer and I jump in there sorry regulator and I seem to remember during the discussion about the removal of security destinations in EPP set one of the reasons given for removing it was we could do this with bundling bundle encapsulation I think sort of self-fulfilling prophecy I think that\u0027s exactly right I think that that\u0027s there was part of the idea of bundle bundle encapsulation from the beginning precisely okay next question stop are you asking for funding for the encapsulation to be to be accepted as working group document if if the sense of the room is that this is ready to go then I think we should go ahead with it because we\u0027re you know time is is ticking along if if we need to spend another cycle talking about it first before everyone is comfortable with it I\u0027m fine with that either way is okay you want to explain the employee would you like a chance to ask you sense of the world and I kinda maybe there\u0027s a I personally believe that this idea is mature and I don\u0027t know of anything that I would want to do on it in the next four months I think it\u0027s ready okay so the room has actually read this deal okay all those who read it how many don\u0027t you think this is ready to be accepted as a working great document in you\u0027d like to start to their way and rethink it obviously that\u0027s a very low number so we\u0027re gonna take this foolish [Music] so anyone listening to the audio screens please get on the list as soon as you get a chance ie money to actually daylight wherever you are and raise any objection because and obviously we will get that on the list but within the room but I as a "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:49:34",
    "text": "chair I think this is probably yeah John daddle um just a point of order really I suppose so as you mentioned just now I think somebody\u0027s going to do but gonna want to do bundling model anyway personally I think this is worthy of working group adoption anyway question is does it have to be absolutely perfect before the working group adopter I would suggest not perfect the question was is this yes personally I think yes thank you so next up we have a prey who is hopefully able to remotely participate I can see him on meet a co-ed with your there can you try pressing whatever button either involved with your end okay I think press those buttons you\u0027re very loud and very small Hey yes maybe I can turn into being very large and very quiet I don\u0027t think so I think I\u0027ll need you to flip for me okay hi my name is Ed borane I\u0027ll be presenting the BP SEC updates this would be the low five version of BP sac and we talked about the O four version last time we received a couple of comments in the meeting and then I received a few comments directly since the meeting some got rolled in to the O five and some didn\u0027t and I\u0027ll address the ones that didn\u0027t get in before we had to upload the latest version next slide I\u0027m not sure if the next slide is up the mix Lloyd\u0027s offense or become incredibly loud oh I\u0027m sorry I I can try and speak softly so I wanted to go through a summary of VP Zack for those I guess what I wanted to start with was to ask who in the room has read the BP stack document anything from oh four oh five we have two three okay so let me start I have a couple of slides of summary and then the updates from oh five and then the outstanding comments and then "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:52:35",
    "text": "addressing the cipher suites so if we go to the next slide the next slide so the so this summarizes the major points of the BP SEC approach the first of course is the motivation why do we feel we need a BP SEC protocol BP SEC is meant to be an in bundle security mechanism what this means is for the cases where different blocks inside of a bundle need different security services and this is to try and recognize the fact that sometimes not all blocks are put in a bundle by a single source or when they are put into a bundle by a single source they may represent different kinds of information and a classic example is a case where a user would want a payload block to be encrypted but may want other extension blocks to only be integrity signed so that others along a path could look at them the reason we bring we point that out is if you don\u0027t want in bundle security there are other ways of trying to secure BP of course users can protect their own data at the application layer and give cipher text or payloads that have already been capsulated using other standards for example if a user was going to apply something like CMS and generate a CMS document if you will as the payload that could be sent along and give users and and application layer security similarly and has got touched on earlier users could select a secure convergence layer protocol if they exist in the network and also get security from that perspective through a chain of trust so BP sack is is meant to address the case where the security is is implemented in the bundle itself by the BPA not by the users and not by the convergence layers actually just a comments copper Lee and I wanted to add an additional note on motivation which is protection of data at rest if you\u0027re doing multi hop transmission and the data resides in in in the bundle MO somewhere along the end and path III will contend that it needs to be secured while it\u0027s sitting on that node rather than only while it\u0027s in transmission between nodes yeah well completely agree and and that I believe is is in the spec I just didn\u0027t pull it into these slides so if we take that as sort of some of the driving motivations for the document the next thing the document talks about are what are the design decisions around BP sac the major ones that came out was of course that different blocks in a bundle can and should have different security that the processing order of those blocks at the various receivers must be unambiguous and that we must be able to add new cipher suites at future dates as "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:55:37",
    "text": "more come available next slide so so then the the spec goes into what does it actually mean to have security inside of a bundle and to do that we use extension blocks to house security mechanisms in that we have a confidentiality mechanism and an integrity mechanism we decided some meetings ago not to have a separate authentication mechanism there\u0027s a fair bit of treatment in that in the document and we\u0027ve also made it a topic of at least two or three working groups in the past so for the blocks that we define we have a block format what we call an abstract security block which was a concept kept from from the original BSP and and that abstract security block is recognizing the fact that all of all of the two security blocks that we use in this back while the the BI be for block integrity block and the BC be for block confidentiality block have a fair bit in common they both capture the list of targets to which they apply they both capture sort of that key information is part of cipher suite configuration and they can both hold extra data associated with the results of applying the cipher suites the block integrity block itself holds a signature or signatures across the set of targets that it applies to and the confidentiality block notes that its targets have had their block data replaced with the results of an encrypting cipher suite and the confidentiality block may also carry any additional results such as additional authenticated text that that is beyond just the cipher text that would be produced by a confidentiality encrypting cipher suite so then another interesting part about the block format was we did come back and make an optimization several working groups ago that said an individual security block can target one or more other blocks in the bundle and this was meant to capture the case where if you if you made it a one-for-one if you made a one for one mapping between a security block and a single security target you may have cases where multiple blocks need to be signed or multiple blocks need to be encrypted with the exact same key information with the exact same cipher suite parameters and at that point you\u0027re just repeating redundant information in the bundle and it\u0027s far more efficient to simply have a single security block that says the the security controls and configurations in this block applied to this range of targets we did originally have a concept of a separate CMS block in BP sack through through significant discussion in this working group and in some other groups we said that that was probably not something that we were going to pursue in the core BP sac document and we created a section that said if other specifications wanted to "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:58:39",
    "text": "define new kinds of security blocks there were certain considerations that needed to be put in so that new security blocks would be compatible and could coexist with the security blocks in this document finally there was a section of block processing rules again determinism is important here there were many cases in the original BSP where we lost Turman ism and we wanted to make sure that we didn\u0027t have that issue again so there were some rules there in terms of if a BCP target is encrypted than integrity on that target if there\u0027s integrity on that target it must also be encrypted bibs don\u0027t target B C B\u0027s or blocks protected by BCPs to avoid circular dependencies if you do those kinds of things than at a receiver you can come up with a strict processing order for security blocks and that\u0027s something that\u0027s helpful next slide and so then as we finish up some of these we we come back and say that we really don\u0027t want to apply security directly to bundles whose payloads represent fragments in that case we would recommend some kind of encapsulation mechanism such as bibby if you want to turn that fragment into a non fragment block by encapsulating it implying security services to it and then finally nodes themselves determined by security policy if they are the destination as we mentioned just prior there were concerns if a source node tries to assert a security destination because that starts implying routing decisions at the bpa layer itself it is it is better to have the individual receivers determine whether they feel that they are the security destination and should be processing these blocks we\u0027ve created a security considerations area to this document which attempts to list out the attack types we see in a DTM and mapping how BCB and vib apply in these cases and then we also as part of the security destinations make the argument for why security policy should be out-of-band configured in the network and not included in the bundle itself while confidentiality and integrity blocks can be included in the bundle the policy that says whether the block should exist or shouldn\u0027t exist or if they are existing what kinds of keys should or should not always be used that\u0027s dangerous to put into the bundle because if you do go through a malicious BPA and that BPA may drop blocks even if a BPA can\u0027t resign or add new blocks or intelligently modify blocks they can certainly drop those blocks from the bundle and if the blocks that are drops or are ones that are carrying security policy then the receiver wouldn\u0027t have all the information necessary to to handle the implementation of its security policy so that\u0027s a brief overview of the VP SEC "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:01:39",
    "text": "document for those who have not who have not had a chance to read it or whoever read some of the latest drafts what I wanted to talk about next were just what are the updates since the O 4 version next slide please so in general there were some minor editorial cleanup through the sections if you do a diff between a 4 and a 5 you will see some some wordsmithing and some correction of grammar the major updates are in section 3.5 the block representation we did add something that was missing which is to really just explicitly state you can\u0027t have duplicate targets in a target list for a vib we then added some an illustration for both how we think cipher suite parameters and security results as fields would be represented in the security block one of the things that we and then we referred to section 310 which we talked about on the next slide in terms of how those would be populated next slide please so on the when section 310 originally we had put into the BP sac document the list of the list of common security cipher parameters and result IDs and one of the comments that we got back was really BP sex should not be inventing their own IDs for these things that there would be other registries that we should try and look at a Cosi was one that was brought forward and I read through the cozy documents and really it looked like the the cipher suite parameters and the result IDs were based on the cipher suite itself and so that\u0027s what we tried to adopt as a philosophy and BP sac I\u0027ve cut and paste the text of the specification here but essentially what it is saying is that a bi b or b c b block must have something in it and as part of the block format that says this is the cipher suite that we are using and then the parameters the key information the result IDs that are associated with that cipher suite the identification of them how they are see bore encoded how they should be interpreted is really up to the cipher suite definition itself and isn\u0027t something that we would put as a registry in BP sack next slide we cleaned up some of the canonicalization the canonicalization area for BP sack it\u0027s noted that the primary block is now immutable and therefore does not need a custom canonicalization and additionally really all of the non primary blocks can be canonicalized just as they are in BP bits with small exceptions the exceptions being that when we are canonicalizing for confidentiality then "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:04:39",
    "text": "we all include the block specific data because that\u0027s the only data that is turned from plain text into ciphertext and then the other is we we choose not to include reserved flags when we do canonicalization for integrity or confidentiality in the case that reserved flags are not preserved or somehow changed along a route we removed the conformance section which was section 11 in Oh for the the only text of the conformance section there was that some thought should be given to authentication we didn\u0027t think that that sentence or two really warranted a whole section in the document for the IANA considerations we will need a registry for cipher suite identifiers and we do need to allocate block types for bi b and b c b and then we added a reference for Co C at the end next slide so so what we have presented in terms of updates were the requested the observed changes from the last working group and from some review that did not get to the list and I\u0027m encouraging reviewers to post to the list after fo v was posted for this working group we did get some additional comments which I\u0027ve listed here and I think that author will also be posting this week to the Tamilian list to start the discussion not none of the issues that came back were really particularly significant there were there was some discussion that says even the reduced discussion in 310 about how cipher suite parameters and results are stored would be too much and couldn\u0027t be piece X simply say that the the block in that in that scenario is really opaque and then it\u0027s completely up to the cipher suites as to how they populate it and and is the concept of cipher suite parameters versus security results itself presupposing a design of the cipher suite and we can certainly look at that the reason why I say that\u0027s minor is is that the the the text that we have now and BP sac relating to this area already points to the cipher suites themselves is providing the definitions on the enumerations and the format of these things the other is that there were a couple of cases I counted 5 where we felt that must is being overused and and I agree with them and they\u0027re relatively easy to change and then in section 8 to 2 and this is in the security considerations area where we\u0027re providing an analysis of of BP sack in the context of certain types of attacks there\u0027s an assertion that sign in a crypt implies a certain level of security strength essentially that an attacker cannot successfully modify a bundle if they cannot decrypt the bundle and that if you really were to split hairs there are some people who would come back and say that\u0027s really maybe not always the case "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:07:40",
    "text": "and instead maybe the appropriate security verbage is that you require an IND CCA - encryption scheme and and there are some other text associated with that which again we would put up to the mailing list none of that actually changes the protocol and it doesn\u0027t significantly change the analysis but it would be a correction of the assertions that are made in the security analysis next slide one of the things that was brought up at the last working group was that BP SEC could go forward in its current form but would require at the very least an interoperability cipher suite and so I have posted a a draft cipher suite that says here is a common integrity and a common confidentiality cipher suite that should be used for BP SEC for interoperability we picked something that was relatively simple not certainly as simple as something like H much sha-1 but H Mac sha-256 and AES GCM 128 are both common cipher suites they\u0027re well known they are both represented in cosy which means that they also have a predefined sort of representation and Seamore which would also be helpful since these will be busy extension blocks and VP biz is going into Seaborg so that is a draft and we probably aren\u0027t going to ask for that to go into last call right now I think it would be good to get some other eyes on it but probably by the next working group meeting I think it would be ready to go next slide so to sort of wrap up we really haven\u0027t seen any significant concerns expressed so far in BP SEC certainly moving from four to five week we did address the issues that we have so far the largest remaining issue seems to be any discussion on the common of whether BP SEC says that Cyprus we parameters and security results are simply opaque and to be determined by the cipher suite or whether it enforces a key-value scheme and then just allows the cipher suites to provide enumerate the keys and provide the encoding of the values I think we can probably resolve that without much issue and then I think probably by the next working group meeting the interoperability cipher suites which are out there in draft form now would also be ready to go so that that is that is the current status of BP sac so at this point we\u0027re really not aware of any significant issues that would prevent this from going forward "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:10:42",
    "text": "[Music] that\u0027s okay OS - Spenser Dawkins the responsible area director and this one\u0027s for Edie just making sure I understand the reason you need a de registry for cipher suites is because this is going to be they won\u0027t be one this is the list of the ones that are specific for BP sick or is that writer yeah that was the thought certainly there are cases where we would point solely to existing cipher suites but in our security considerations area we mentioned that the nature of DT ends particularly things such as security at rest would likely provide constraints or recommendations to cipher suite parameters specific to in a DTM and that would probably mean defining new cipher Suites okay so that\u0027s next one answer I guess my next one is probably for the work probably for the larger working group when when do you all expect to be sending this for blast i TFS call share the working group do does the room and by extension those on the audio screen think this document is ready for last call ed said he had a couple of little mates who wanted to sort out as part of last fall it needs some more public review on the list but I think that is aware of that and I know some of these offers for viewers have been asked to post their reviews on the list of those in the room can I see a hand if you\u0027ve read this recently I asked with three or four of them any of you think isn\u0027t ready and that you would have reservations on dad or is it worth getting an early security ID review do they do that sort of thing yes I believe they do they absolutely do this mr. Dawkins again and just as an advertisement for this pretty much all the review teams and directorates will do review as requested so you don\u0027t even have to know you don\u0027t have to wait till you\u0027re close we\u0027re transport is doing a review for a six load document that the working group is considering adopting but they want to know what they\u0027re getting into "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:13:42",
    "text": "so so the the review teams are really becoming a lot more helpful and a lot less of a source of late surprises a direct review absolutely chock-full might be a good thing to save any surprises we\u0027ll take the final question on last nor to the list the only question is the security guys who like to see more comment on the list to show that the working group [Music] just to cover our private conversation um mark raises the point that one thing that the cause BP SEC to drop out of last fall like a stone is that if we suddenly make a change to DP base be a 50/50 base so I\u0027m looking at Scott and given the 50/50 basis in law school and the working group believes it\u0027s pretty stable now we\u0027re fingers crossed that\u0027s not gonna wreck the process of abuse [Music] ex-cop early at this point I do not anticipate any changes to any significant changes to be be dis there may be some that I\u0027m aware of but as far as I know I think it\u0027s stable at this point yet yeah apparently the chairs mic wasn\u0027t working this now good lord yeah apologies for those who could only quietly hear me so next up a brain seat boss if you\u0027re there edge so I\u0027m gonna push the red button to make you two always gone thanks Brian can you hear me whatever time zone Brian is in I have to "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:16:52",
    "text": "press the red button what happens do I just press the button hello Brian we can see you sorry I press it again okay that was my bad touch anything okay so this presentation is even shorter than the last IETF one and it represents even fewer changes and hopefully the final changes for TCP CL before so next slide please and I\u0027m just going to discuss in here changes since the last draft revision which are very few and then hooked up to questions actor so next slide please so these next two I believe slides are identical to last presentation and are just included for background information that the motivations and drive for this updated TC PCL hasn\u0027t changed since it was originally proposed and the point is just to both simplify and correct what was already a proven convergence layer in TCP CL v3 so the next slide please so we are continuing down the road of not making any major changes to the workflow of TC PCL the current v4 workflow is simplified there are fewer branches and fewer options than in v3 we now have a proposed new set of Ayana registries for the type codes and region codes before t CPC open for just two completely separate them from v3 since the registries themselves are easy to create and it makes it more obvious that v3 is B 3 and B 4 is before if somebody is actually implementing both versions they will probably notice that the codes which I\u0027ve shared semantics between the two versions are numerically identical in their proposed registries but they are separate tables and since the "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:19:53",
    "text": "workflow of v3 is preserved there are only a few additional types and codes in those new proposed tables next slide please so edits since the last keep IETF have been that there has been no change to what\u0027s been written regarding the transport security using TLS and it is clarified that GL is mandatory to implement as part of the CL before but optional to use for any particular session and it\u0027s negotiated per session so it\u0027s a combination of the two end points establish a session of whether or not TLS is to be used as I mentioned on the last slide we\u0027re proposing separate IANA registries just to keep the two namespaces independent of each other and protocol extensions have been added to the contact header although the form of the extension is defined in the CL spec no uses of the extension are defined right now and then the very last change is as a suggestion off the working group the individual message content headers have been modified to make the fields octet aligned which avoids bit backing and in some cases avoids having unused flags or certain types of messages so it\u0027s likely and this is the last in the deck so all of the comments to date at least I believe have been incorporated into the the current spec and this is good in that there are no as far as I know open issues but there is not as far as I\u0027ve read a lot of concurrence in the current state so that\u0027s something to bring up and another thing to mention although I realize now that I omitted the link from this presentation although the last presentation does include it there is a working implementation that\u0027s very in a sense trivial just to prove out the protocol itself but it is full-featured and it is something that can be used for interoperability testing and it\u0027s purely convergence later it has nothing to do with the agency so it\u0027s just getting what we would call a bundle but there\u0027s really two the big data from one end of "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:22:55",
    "text": "this session the other end thanks Brian I think we got a question yeah John dad I\u0027ve got to say the second one in terms of the TLS thing you say it\u0027s mandatory to implement the optional sorry optional to use Y optional to use if it\u0027s mandatory to implement why not Manchester to use that was brought up as a question at the left IETF and there were some strong objection to strong objection from the point of view of I believe the IETF I\u0027m not sure what the right phrasing is not best practices but security practices that mandating the use of TLS across the board is not not the right way to go as far as getting approval from the wider IETF I believe in IHG the Rick Taylor chipping in on this one and it\u0027s viewed as fairly standard IETF practice to mandate TLS to implement but obviously you can\u0027t prevent somebody just choosing not to use it so it\u0027s a good compromise position and the protocol is that provides a way to enforce the policy in both directions from an endpoint so an endpoint can either declare in the contact header that it simply does not support TLS and don\u0027t try to use it because it\u0027s not going to work but contrary to that there\u0027s also the case where an endpoint can choose to say yes I do support TLS and if the other side of the connection doesn\u0027t then the connection simply refused at the point of contact ideally all of the end points would be set up to be cooperating brain can I ask you to post a link to your Python implementation if it\u0027s faster you\u0027re you\u0027re willing to because that would put put it on the mailing this to be really handy yes thank you any other questions security considerations section and it was kind of ringing a couple of little alarm bells to make something I\u0027m helping to do the same in another working group and I kind of got the feeling that because this is based on another protocol we should somehow be referencing the security considerations and the other protocol ATT speeded and what new security uses are arising from "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:25:55",
    "text": "the use of this extending effectively ascending this thinnings tcp are you offering to suggest some text John yes I think I am okay it\u0027s in last call at the moment okay so this document is in last call I suggest that perhaps given we\u0027ve got some queries and John is gonna suggest some text sure we hold this in the last call for a little bit longer hmm this is back to the milestones and the we have lots of things lingering in last call conversation I had read mark earlier about the number of documents we have in last call of course July August is very difficult because everyone is on vacation so putting it to well everyone in quotes is everyone seems to be on vacation so if we were to say our standard two-week last call then we push the buttons the concern is that a number of people are currently or just about to disappear on vacation so we\u0027re tempted for those documents that are currently in last call to suggest a sort of end of August go ahead so that gives the documents that are currently in last fall which is BP BES BP sec oh no sorry Pisac is not in last call yet tcp CL this is your chance to comment through those final reviews and then we\u0027ll get those buttons pushed and get it moved into the review queue for certain start in September Scott Pearlie if we on the list determined that the SEC was also rated for last call could we add it with the same end date I\u0027d be happy with her well we don\u0027t specify the end date we just start we push it up the chain and then it takes on a life of its own they were all come in to come out of last call T and start moving I agree that they they probably will end up in sync at the very end of the kid any other questions for Brian or no thank you very much Brian okay and I\u0027ll wait then comment yeah comments to the list please so next up we\u0027ve got aired again we have the same slides from Ed from last working group he promises not to go through all of them in great detail again he just "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:28:55",
    "text": "wanted to raise some questions about the asynchronous management architecture in detail and if you\u0027re there I\u0027ll let you Karen okay I am here can you hear me yes and the volume is appropriate now yes okay however I\u0027m sorry what\u0027d you say can you make your window bigger you\u0027re in a tiny do is that right there we go that\u0027s good ok so hello this is that again I wanted to talk a little bit about the asynchronous management architecture the reason the slides are the same is we didn\u0027t update the draft from the O 5 version that was here at the last working group because we have not of the people who have reviewed this document to date we\u0027ve got no additional comments saying that there\u0027s something specific we wanted to change through the working group we I did get a few emails this week related to whether or not there are things we wanted to add from a section point of view but ultimately when we started looking at network management quite a long time ago we said that there certainly a you know a set of standards and ways of doing terrestrial network management how was it different in a DTN and the answer that we came back was the asynchronous nature of this the the need to bake into a network management solution some level of automation and perhaps some level of autonomy and the asynchronous and and that sort of captured in terms of how did you manage a network asynchronously well you need automation and autonomy to do that so the AMA is is a capture of what we think it means to manage a network asynchronously the question from last time from last working group was does this document or could this document satisfy the need for a set of network management requirements for DTM or what would need to be added to this document to make it satisfy the requirements for that so with that context I wanted to briefly represent the materials and the topics that are covered in this document and then ask the question if there is something missing from the materials covered what would it be and could we adopt materials are add to this document in the context of a working group item as opposed to just an internet draft format EDA I\u0027ll do that for a second chair quick quick question to the room how many here are completely unfamiliar with the asynchronous management architecture okay so one or two Eady "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:31:55",
    "text": "just because you\u0027ve presented a lot of this before can I ask you to keep this very concise please because most here are very familiar just what everyone\u0027s time and effort I am happy to not talk through any of the specifics if we wanted to just go to a conversation on do we feel there is something additional that we would have to add to this document to make it capture network management requirements and could we do that in the context of a working group document I\u0027d be happy as a chair to move on to that I might refer those who haven\u0027t read this document it is actually well written and the slide pack which is available in the meeting materials is a good slide back so can I suggest those who aren\u0027t familiar with this catch up with it and probably we jump ahead to a conversation two people have opinions about this in class management architecture Edie but well so my opinion is that this to me although as the author and biased is to come back and say this this is what we felt defines what it means to asynchronously manage a network we didn\u0027t break out requirements in terms of shell statements but we did spend a fair bit of time explaining desirable properties constraints why we need asynchronous mechanisms and what those mechanisms should look like and what features they need to provide and so I think from that we could either add a set of specific requirements and assumptions and constraints or simply say that they are inferred in this document there had been a previous out of the IRT f network management requirements document and we could adopt portions of of that table of contents the difficulty that we had when we were writing that up in the context of the IRT F if I recall was that while we broke out different architectures and different scenarios because they looked different from a physical standpoint many of them collapsed similarly from a network management standpoint and many of them really came down to just needing that kind of asynchronous management that we\u0027re talking about here so in terms of the things that make this document a little bit different from the network management requirements document I don\u0027t know that we need whole sections on architectures and whole sections on system concepts beyond that which is already in the AMA okay I mean Rick Taylor but the lunch a ton personally I think this is incredibly useful work this is useful for my day job and also I think it\u0027s intellectually interesting to look at how do we manage disconnected networks and it\u0027s it\u0027s an interesting problem and also very useful to solve I "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:34:57",
    "text": "think we could spend an awful lot of time wordsmithing the most perfect architecture document but I think that might be a waste of valuable effort I would prefer to see the architectural document being concise to the point and fairly general as an informational document without getting too caught up in the minutiae and I think it\u0027s a lot of it is there already and I obviously need to do a good review of this document rather than just critiquing it at the mic but I personally I mean I\u0027m supporting it on this one I think this is valuable document to people think that from my perspective it has done a lot of work on this already the IRT F did a lot of work on this already so we\u0027re not proposing burning a lot of cycles creating new documents the suggestion would be to adopt to this document as it currently stands finish it a little bit if required and then it\u0027s a useful asset for for the working group yeah careful man where\u0027s Edward this is a would be a target informational document not a protocol document yeah so informational yeah John that was kind of my question I can see this ayah this as an architecture document I guess informational but what is the road map for this topic now is there an intent to go write another document that says this is something you can conform to if we looked at the trailer it says we cannot work on a product call itself therefore it would be either a recharger or sending to someone else or so but I guess we need to discuss ok Scott beryllium I\u0027m just speaking in support of Rick\u0027s idea that we adopt this as a as a working group item so expensive Dawkins is responsible ad having some familiarity with the Charter what I thought that when I thought that text meant was that you would not go into business for yourselves and like say oh we\u0027re gonna replace that comp or you know something like that so so what I was what I was wondering was whether you would could be a would be able to do like an applicability statement that and this bit of proposed standards so you know that\u0027s something that people can perform to and stuff like that based based on the architecture to occupy I\u0027m not saying that you should I\u0027m asking if people have thought about it and I\u0027m kind of saying if that seemed like a good idea to you it would seem like a good idea to me just to respond to that I know ed and myself and various others have been talking to the various neck on "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:37:57",
    "text": "for net mod groups talking to the there\u0027s a seaborne light weight management group that\u0027s kicking off I can\u0027t remember their name at the moment the point of this document is to say here is a heir of the architectural requirements specifically to DTN but they have applicability outside of the traditional DTN communities so we\u0027ve got some interest from some of the data center guys to say well actually asynchronous management starts to become useful to us when data is moving so fast that you you you can\u0027t consider it you can\u0027t do stop the world anymore because you you lose millions so yeah awesome yeah so that you know most be delay becomes relevant again so from my personal perspective is yes this isn\u0027t on the Charter at the moment but I think this is relevant work whether it gets done in this working group or whether it gets done elsewhere or bits get done here there and everywhere I see this as a as a multidisciplinary effort not a DTN reinvents management for them because there\u0027s not enough of us and we\u0027ll get it wrong and that you don\u0027t have to so what what I\u0027m like I say I what the working group to decide what the working group wants to work on because that\u0027s what working groups do if the working group decided they wanted to head off on that direction and thought it was the right thing to do I would be supportive so they just have to have that as a data point as you\u0027re having the conversations mark I think part of to me the answer of this is having at least some drafts of what that would be then we can discuss if you know then this is Jefferson Noby I think that there are some specific parts of the the the old draft didn\u0027t network management requirements that maybe should be that would be be merged on this one or the other option is to to leave this work as a new draft for the art or in MRG team so you know I\u0027m think about the Spence I chose to do that so if you\u0027re willing to suggest the comments on the on the mailing list is the best place to start I mean if currently this is a personal draft if we accept it as a working group document then I think it\u0027s quite legitimate to spend some time saying well how much work do we want to put on this are there ideas as you say that we can bring in from my RTF or from other groups I see energy or or whatever and say well actually we can use some of this and spin into it into a nicer document without reinventing the wheel law or "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:40:58",
    "text": "because I don\u0027t want to say the informational RFC sound useful but I don\u0027t want to I don\u0027t want given that we have important things like BP base BP Zack the you know these core technology protocol stuff that we need to get through I don\u0027t want to say oh let\u0027s stick some more things on the working groups desk and waste time on it but get your ideas on the list see whether it can be brought in if okay I\u0027ll just pull it back how many people in the room think the working group taking this document on is a waste of our time and we have better things to do so I\u0027m asking for the negative who doesn\u0027t think this should be worked on in the working group okay and then how many people actively support this and are happy to contribute comments and reviews and good ideas okay so that\u0027s a that\u0027s a pretty good for this group given I know some people are sitting in just to see what we\u0027re doing so obviously we\u0027ll take that to the list as well just to confirm but I think ed people are happy because you can\u0027t see the content of the room that this is a useful piece of work for us and it is a charter item right mr. Dawkins again so I guess the thing I wanted to say on that was you\u0027re observing correctly I believe that this is you know this is not what DTM does particularly but if DPN was chartered to do this as part of what DTN does it is it seems more likely that you would get more get people who are not participating in BTN now and to work on this so you but you may be looking at more than just the people in the room to do you would be the ones who would be you know doing the work so you just to mention that this this is something again I\u0027m gonna be sure and mentioned to the rest of the isg in the IEP our Friday afternoon session thank you thanks Spencer I know following up from what I said earlier Edie and I have been talking to Benoit and some of the things the net mod groups have been doing with what they did call yang push but asynchronous notifications and building on that we\u0027re not talking about protocol definition at this point we\u0027re told this document is about describing the DTN perspective of management how that is addressed may well happen outside of this group but we may have a little magic DT any bit as part of a much bigger picture and I think it is you\u0027re right beyond the scope of this group to solve and to all of that we can find a home for it at some point okay any other comment no no comments "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:44:01",
    "text": "for me thank you very much sorry Magnus here so as chair trying to summarize next action items we haven\u0027t specifically as a room but I guess we\u0027re deep abyss is going to another working group last call given you know major change structural change in it we would ask for and that would kind of an end August timeframe for the working group Lascaux given as it\u0027s more than just you know small changes we\u0027re actually you know removing custody in it just me to be precautious um so we would love to get people you know saying if you agree with it then just not be silent but says I read it it\u0027s fine you know go forward we would like to get those kinds of emails on the mailing list kasi transfer we would ask for a ring adoption you know in the next week\u0027s maybe tomorrow you should ask this afternoon and give a couple of weeks to to respond to be sick yeah we would go working group last call with the BP SEC there is this ah with the BP SEC that\u0027s the second document of the interoperability cipher suites the question for me is whether I like this is a question to the rest should that be rolled into the BP SEC document as a section to say if you\u0027re using BP SEC here are the cipher suites that the IETF suggest you use or should that live outside as a separate document if he lives outside as a separate document then it probably needs to be adopted and go into the last call alongside because I can\u0027t see putting forwards the security protocol without a standard set of Interop cipher suites is going to work I my personal opinion is push the two together but I think we\u0027ll take that to the list sorry Karen [Music] sorry TC PCL I think it\u0027s done we may have additional comments so let\u0027s say that by the end of August we\u0027ll will essentially close and then you know push forward with BP best to to the is G and AMA the architecture document we would ask for we can group the option you know in the next days a week this does that summary make sense to people or yes just a comment from Ed brain Christian at last working group ransomed okay with these as a separate document but okay yeah I think it\u0027s proven that "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:47:03",
    "text": "you separated Cyprus sweets yes so you could I think the point was at the time was that if you separate the cipher Suites from the core document and you can up rev for the recommended Cyprus sweets without having to touch the core document I think that was the idea just in case someone suddenly breaks sha-256 or quantum suddenly works and then okay so does anyone have any final comment they wanted to make any questions particularly in light of the custody transfer split out which I thought was going to be a much bigger debate point than it has turned out to be any other business basically otherwise thank you all very much mark and I will do our best to get these take it to the list comments actually on the list this time and we\u0027ll see you all in we\u0027ll see you all in Singapore and on the lists thank you very much "
  }
]