[
  {
    "startTime": "00:00:11",
    "text": "all right it\u0027s ten o\u0027clock it\u0027s time to get started so morning everyone welcome to the last day not quite the last session for the week you are in the remote at the stations procedures working group if this is not what you\u0027re expecting to hear you may be in the wrong room by now good morning everyone women do tell you in case you\u0027re confused why I\u0027m here I\u0027m neither Nancy nor Ned who are remotes on just up here as the ad helping cap so Kathleen and then who are the co-chairs our remote so continuing on everybody should be familiar with the note well so let\u0027s proceed on I want to thank Peter you for taking awesome notes he will be one of our note takers you may not see his notes on etherpad so Frank if you could put some of the notes on etherpad I think it would be great encourage others to also observe and augment as you see on the ether pad as well and Akira are you okay being Jabbar scribe okay great thanks so with those logistics out of the way I just want to do a quick plug I don\u0027t see Hannes here no okay that\u0027s why he asked me to do the plug okay so since there are interdependencies between teep soot and rats we thought it would be good to begin some joint hackathons so there is a plan to do just that in Berlin in the February time frame the slides should be there you can upload them but mainly for more information you can go to the s io t hackathon github IO so with that said let\u0027s do a quick agenda bash since we have a lot to discuss today so if you might have noticed if you were tracking the agenda through the week we\u0027ve modified this so that we can focus on work that we should look forward in getting adoption so that we can actually formally track the issue and have a working document on to work against so with that what we\u0027re going to do is begin with the security considerations for remote integrity verification draft guy is remote then we\u0027re gonna have deep site sealer on behalf of the new Zion slash editorial team for the architecture draft go through that so given that this is new work that team has met I know quite a few of you joined during the week so we\u0027ve allocated 45 minutes for that then we want to discuss and get to some questions visa vie the draft titled "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:03:14",
    "text": "the basic module so I want that discussion to be scoped more on getting us guidance as to what we want to do with the document what the group wants to do visa Vee adopting game as a data model and then Wang will be substituting for Frank to present the pub/sub model so even though Frank is here he\u0027s lost his voice so Frank has asked for his co-author to present so I\u0027d like to have the discussion for adoption throughout but I\u0027ve left some time at the end to do conclusions or to do further questions if needed at the end and hopefully hopefully we might have a couple minutes at the end so with that any orders of business that I might have missed going once twice okay let\u0027s move on so yeah guy if you can beyond we are going to bring up your slides yes I see my first slide thank you very much perfect Nancy thank you for guy just yelled next slide when you\u0027re ready yes okay and thank you for being there in person I know it\u0027s a long way so what I wanted to do with this session is to try and get fairly quickly through the changes that we made to the Riv draft in the in the since the last meeting in which we have added the conditional security considerations section of the document what I wanted to do with that was to outline what some of the kind of considerations are in RIF from a point of view of a of a TPM guy as opposed to all of the other kinds of considerations that should go into this from the IETF point of view so I\u0027ll go through this fairly rapidly the first couple of slides are review then there are a number of five slides four slides which address specific attacks and the relevant mitigations and i think jessica is on the line as well so if there are questions either one of us I hope can respond so the first slide first slide is simply the yes next thank you the first slide is simply the introduction to the work again based on the TCG "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:06:16",
    "text": "document originally but it\u0027s evolved at you know quite a bit by this point next slide please the problem statement as before we\u0027re simply trying to determine what software it is that\u0027s running on a remote device and of course that includes remote devices which have already been hacked so they may not be totally truthful in their response the point Riv is not so much exactly how the measurements are collected but rather how the workflow works that is how the results are conveyed requested and conveyed and verified through the loop there were questions about the scope of Rev and I think what you know we have not tried to put this in in you know standards compliant text but basically at the moment the scope of Rev is things as in IOT things not you know embedded systems that have a TPM that use yang and that don\u0027t sleep the TPM part of course is kind of critical to this work the other pieces are more convenience to get the entire workflow done without getting too bogged down in in the many different ways it could be applied the obvious next step for work like this would be to extend it to other domains for example industrial IOT would find would have similar problems but wouldn\u0027t find yang very attractive I think and consequently would want to use some other transport protocol and and without being an industrial IOT expert I remember what it is so we we\u0027d have to find the right expert to help extend it similarly sleep sleep modes can be handled with the TPM but it\u0027s a little complicated so I postponed that until we have a good reason to want to do it next slide please the information flows again this is unchanged the the verifier and relying party issue a request to the tester and expect of response I know rib does make a distinction between verify relying party in this in in rib unlike rats in Riv we have not made that distinction that doesn\u0027t say it couldn\u0027t be made and if rats does specify an "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:09:17",
    "text": "interface between the two that\u0027s fine I I don\u0027t there\u0027s no there\u0027s no inherent reason why I don\u0027t want them distinguished it\u0027s just that the focus of this work is is the stuff that crosses the red line on this on this slide between the the combination of verifier and ruling party and the a testing device next please okay so this is the start of the new material for this this work in security considerations i\u0027ve we\u0027ve we factored in key mitigations for key compromise counterfeit devices man-in-the-middle attacks and replay attacks and let\u0027s go through what each one of those would be next key compromise again I\u0027ll I don\u0027t mean this as a general statement of all kinds of mitigations but rather the ones that are unique to systems that have that have TPMS and that we\u0027d like to not break in the process of merging this stuff into the rats world so Riv depends on on keys which are generated inside the TPM for both identity and at a station and a tenet of TPM methodology is Oh interesting where did say oh I see there\u0027s like chat in the bottom right corner and and and see that must be on your machine it\u0027s on the chrome I don\u0027t yeah okay anyways one of the tenets of TPM design is that keys which are generated inside the TPM cannot be exported so this is not this is not a rule of unless you have the right privileges they cannot be a secret keys cannot be exported unless you can find a bug or or mount a physical attack a very challenging physical attack so for most purposes we\u0027d say secrets cannot secret keys cannot be exported from the TPM and that is the the fundamental premise in how we defend against against compromised of course the whoever puts the keys there and puts the certificates there needs to be sure that they are careful about what they sign but the the keys themselves that prove identity in annotation are challenging to steal or compromised or "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:12:22",
    "text": "extract in any way next please defence against counterfeit devices if you\u0027re going to attest something you\u0027d like to know that you\u0027re attesting the thing you think you are testing in the case of riff that has been accommodated simply by expecting that the manufacturer will install device credentials when they before they leave the factory so if a manufacturer provisions an initial device ID using a doe 2.1 AR then that provides the serial number and a certificate which is signed by the manufacturer when you retrieve that information the user the verifying the verify or the relying party presumably the the the person who owns the machine knows the serial number because everybody\u0027s systems track serial numbers already so if you know this Ariel and you know the manufacturers and you can verify that the device you are testing is in fact the one that you purchased and put in the location where you expect it we have asked for pre provisioning of the device ID and the attestation keys in this case pre provisioning them to allow for secure zero touch provisioning as in RFC 85 72 that is not fundamental to RIF but as far as getting this to work for let\u0027s say ordinary enterprises we\u0027re trying to make it as close to an out-of-the-box experience as possible that is you know this aerial number you provision the serial number in your own management system and beyond that the rest of it just plug the box and it\u0027ll figure it out itself next please the men in the middle attack attacks there are of course many but there are a couple that are particular one of the there are a couple of issues to deal with here the identity of course depends the identity of the box depends on the device ID which has a key which we keep inside the TPM but the attestation evidence which shows which you know what the what software is running on the box that attestation evidence also is collected inside the TPM and signed inside the TPM so we use a separate key "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:15:29",
    "text": "for attestation and identity and this is probably not completely obvious why we would do such an annoying thing but the purpose of the device ID he is to prove identity of the device and to sign whatever it\u0027s given to prove that it has that key what we do not want is for the attestation evidence to be signed by a key that can sign anything else and this is to prevent the case where a a system which has been compromised could make up a quote or showing a particular software configuration get the TPM to sign it and send that back so as long as attestation is done using a separate key then that cannot happen that block say a thing which was has been called the ISO can attack RFC 681 three which in which a faulty device compromised device proxies to a good device to get attestation results and then sends those back as its own if you\u0027re not careful about which key is which then the verifier could be duped into accepting the bogus results that were effectively created by a man-in-the-middle that is the device that is has been compromised so that is what leads us to ask for separate device ID and edited station keys to ensure that those keys come from the same TPM we have asked that the attestation certificate should contain the same identity information as the dev ID so that means the same serial number and the same manufacturer\u0027s signature on those two certificates and at that point on the receiving end in the verifier you can look at the two certificates see that they are signed by the manufacturer you trust and they contain the serial number that you think is the Box you\u0027re talking to and at that point you know you\u0027ve got the attestation results from the right thing and not not a NASA can attack wrong thing next please this picture just illustrates that that the the lower part of the picture that the device identity simply signs a nonce with a key which is inside the TPM and returns the signed nonce to prove that it holds the identity key along with the identity "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:18:30",
    "text": "certificate the upper part of the picture is the attestation information the evidence and that is obtained by receiving measurements from outside the TPM storing them inside the TPM creating the response the quote which includes an odds and signing it with it with the attestation key that\u0027s inside the TPM that can be used for nothing except signing that quote and as long as the two certificates have the same identity information in them then you can tell that they are from the same place in TPM lore there are a number of ways of doing this some of which are privacy preserving and some of which are kind of complicated and we\u0027ve tried to sidestep all of that by this simple mechanism of provisioning the keys in advance in a way that you can tell what they if you trust the CA you can tell they come from the same place next please finally the defense against replay attacks I think this is extremely conventional anything that wishes to prove identity of course the way you do it is by signing up by sending a nonce and making sure that nonce is signed by the secret key that corresponds to the prize the public key that you know so that proves freshness the address Asian evidence is handled more or less the same way that the when the TPM is used to sign construct and sign the quote it includes a nonce which comes from the verifier so the evidence coming back from the TPM for a decision includes the nonce which came from the verifier again proving that the result is fresh is his current there\u0027s an alternate approach called to do that Hank has worked on that doesn\u0027t require as many back-and-forth exchanges but that currently is not part of Grif could be but not at the moment so I think the the replay defense is pretty conventional so next slide please just to finish up what we the point I guess I\u0027d like to make is that the rules imposed by the design of the TPM provide "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:21:32",
    "text": "evidence of identity and software integrity both of which are quite difficult to forge and don\u0027t depend on the good health of the device being attested that is the the device can be hacked any way you like and if it responds to the request for a decision at all then you can be sure that it came from the TPM and has not been messed with by the tampered device or anything else in the chain the result of this the the implication of this this statement is that the TPM data structures really have to be transmitted unmodified and that has been a that has been accommodated in the yang model as it is but we we need to preserve that property as we go forward with this and with that I think I have covered the points I wanted to cover Nancy if there are questions of course I\u0027m quiet yes so I\u0027m going to allow two minutes of questions because I want to give ourselves if I can two minutes to ask the question about the draft so let\u0027s do two minutes of questions about the draft but the question that I want to pose to the group and actually first to the authors is the intent for the draft with respect to rats go ahead my own opinion about that to the Clarion Michael Richardson I have a clarifying question fergie do you think it would be useful for us to have another name that\u0027s not I dev ID or el dev ID for the dev ID which is in the TPM which is not the same certificate as the other things even though the TPM may have the idea of ID now dev ID things in it for other purposes it sounds like we need a new term for that or and I wondered if there is one and given that it is signed by the manufacturer of the TPM or the device I\u0027m not really clear on that but it has to have the same info on it I would like to have some additional as a user of an eye dev ID in my protocol I would like to have some understanding of the certificate path relationship with the thing that\u0027s doing that part and it almost sounds to me like my eye dev ID should actually be a sub-sub samosa Mertzon subservience certificate from the one that\u0027s using attestation if that actually might simplify things for the manufacturers processes Michael thank you so I this is this is an area where "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:24:34",
    "text": "on that first and that early slide where we the scope or the word thing is is the escape hatch here by scoping this to embedded devices that means that there\u0027s a relatively clear manufacturer and that the the manufacturer has some control over how the software works on the thing is well I shouldn\u0027t mean to say this is fundamental but as a way to think about it for a router we build the router when we manufacture the router we solder down the TPM and before we ship the router we configure an IDE EV certificate in it and sign it with a key that\u0027s traceable to the since I work for juniper to the juniper root you know to the root root certificate of the manufacturer the iak the the attestation key I would see as a peer to that that is signed using the same the same chain back to the the manufacturers root key which is which would be published and well-known okay we\u0027re kind of running out of time here guys so sorry Lawrence Lawrence is in the queue and you will be the last one but it has to be really quick okay Lawrence Lin blade so in your first bullet on the conclusion there I\u0027ve believed that you\u0027re talking about identity and sark software integrity at boot it only does all that all of us that you\u0027ve discussed about integrity anti tampering and identity is all at boot you know one second after boot if there was if there was tampering or something was modified with the software somehow bug was found none of that would be detected this this primarily is focused on boot not on run time attack check later is that correct yeah there\u0027s a gray area when so for bios and loader that\u0027s that\u0027s completely true for OS level attestation it gets a bit grayer because I mean we we are assuming this is based on something like ima and ima continues to run through the life of the product but the life of the boot but once the thing I think your point is once something has been launched it measures at launch and after that it\u0027s you know "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:27:34",
    "text": "uh the riff is out of the out of the picture so it\u0027s not intended to provide runtime verification it ensures it tells you what it was that launched it doesn\u0027t tell you what it is it\u0027s running continuously does that answer your question yeah Laurence is shaking assent yes okay thank you okay so with that what I wanted to ask you and just as she\u0027s on to me to go as well as the authors of this draft is the intent that you would like to see this draft adopted as a working group item or something else Nancy so I will defer to judgment of people who know better but it seems like this could turn into an informational RFC right that it\u0027s not intended to be normative but at the same time it does seem useful to have a use case that works all the way through the whole flow and so we can tell whether all of the parts are there and they and they all work together okay so I guess the question is and I will pose it to the group um I\u0027m sorry now so since we\u0027re talking about this topic so it seems like what I\u0027m hearing you say and what I\u0027ve heard from some of the feedback is that there is value in what you\u0027re describing potentially as a use case or potentially as an influence to what may be in the architecture so what I\u0027d like to hear from the group is your opinions on the content either being in this draft and going informational so the three options are going informational with this draft incorporating the content into either a use case or part of the architecture or both or the third is nothing at all so well no I said I was leaving that 15 minutes as a buffer at the end but given that we\u0027re in this context yeah yeah so so if I could just inject kind of one more thing before we start talking just as a reminder based on how thing how we wrote up some things in the chartering use cases we\u0027re gonna specify the use cases to document and achieve consensus but we do not expect to publish them per se just to remind everyone that\u0027s what grows you set out so I\u0027m gonna set four minutes for this discussion and then we "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:30:35",
    "text": "move forward da Michael Michael Richardson so having read the document um and and felt that yes it was very useful input into the architecture in the use case pieces what I assumed that was going to happen to the document was the document was going to net then proceed onwards to stake some claims and write some normative language and become a standards track profile of the thing of the architecture okay so that if I wanted to buy a product that had Riv in it I would specify this standards track document which would then refer to the architecture and the N eat if that was appropriate or whatever that\u0027s what I assumed that this was going this document is going to that yes it only describes a use case right now is because they don\u0027t have a we haven\u0027t told them how to describe this the solution based on the architecture but that that would come late that would come afterwards there and that the part that\u0027s there now motivates the rest of the piece of the implementation right sorry the parts that\u0027s there the piece of the document that we have now was you know saying this is what our problems problem that we want we don\u0027t know how to solve it yet but so please build an architecture so that we can solve it and once you\u0027ve told us that we\u0027ll explain how we\u0027re using the architecture to solve it that\u0027s what my understanding of the doctrine was but maybe that doesn\u0027t match other people\u0027s Taylor I agree that all four of those mean the three that Roman mentioned and the one that Michael mentioned our options I don\u0027t have enough information to choose between those yet I have comments in the document but I don\u0027t have enough information and so I think Michaels comment was similar that he doesn\u0027t know whether they intend is to be standards track or not depending on what the working group wants to do what the authors want to do with this document I will say that I think that the title of the slides was actually work there than the title of the document and so what is the scope right is the scope going to include claims is it just the informational stuff which is what guy was talking about if you stick with what guy said meaning it does not include any normative content that Michael was talking about then probably somewhere between option two or three I\u0027m fine with either of those I don\u0027t remember what option number one was other one was adopt the document as working goodbye to me oh I hope that was what number two was no number one was adopted as oh sorry okay I don\u0027t 1 or 3 I don\u0027t have a preference between those two as long as the scope was right I don\u0027t have enough information to actually have an opinion between those and I would say Michaels option is actually a third one which is one three or four but not to to I think it should be so the architecture document should be very generic and this has a bunch of specific things in there there are pieces of this that actually do do reflect and are already in the two-sample architecture documents and Hank is nodding I don\u0027t think more details at the level of this one goes in the architecture documents yeah hold on Kathleen is on "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:33:37",
    "text": "there hi um so just to clarify if this is adopted as informational I just want to make sure I heard what Roman said correctly it wouldn\u0027t get published anyway and are we looking at the architecture in use case is not getting published sorry I was reacting to we were talking about this as a potential use case document and I was just rereading the Charter here and reminding us that the way we wrote the Charter is that the use cases do not get publishes okay all right no I I think this goes a little bit more into detail than the use cases so without any hats I do support it being adopted informational or getting merged somehow but I think I also agree with Dave that it doesn\u0027t quite fit this specificity of it into the architecture document but it\u0027s good work yeah I think I have to agree that the community shouldn\u0027t lose the content and and Micah I think both are very good this is option 4 we have the option to create profiles that are information implementation specific refinements of the architecture that help you to actually implement all the parts for a specific domain this concept is called the profile of the article a better term of this it is literally using the building blocks to define a complete solution for your domain of application and that is very helpful roof is a explicit domain of application for the pets and therefore it could be used as a first try out to create such a solution document again profile being a working title of the architecture ok so I think we\u0027re done with this discussion since I said four minutes we\u0027re new into five so what I\u0027m hearing from the working group is that more clarity on the intent of the document from the authors is needed so guy in just maybe we can take it offline but I still encourage feedback on the document from the group but recommendation and guidance guy in and Jess\u0027s that help the group get more clarity onto the intent moving forward with the draft okay okay thank you I do have comments from Dave which I will incorporate I didn\u0027t didn\u0027t have any time for this but we\u0027ll we will respond to that okay thank you so okay with that we can move on to the architecture yeah so um for those who may not have been monitoring the mail list closely we up until anyway for a "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:36:41",
    "text": "few weeks we have had a lot of discussion on the mailing list because there are now two different drafts that speak to a rat architecture it appeared from the chairs view that we were not going to reach consensus so from that standpoint as chairs we defined an editorial slash design team to come up with an architecture draft with a new architecture draft that can be used for the frets so in the design team we have Dave Thaler hey Burke Holtz Michael Richardson and then Smith so they have met and they I think to three side meeting at Street this week and so I asked them to report out on the progress and path forward and so Dave I guess you\u0027re the short straw and is presenting the results okay Thank You Nancy yeah so we met once during the hackathon and we met on Tuesday morning and then again on Thursday morning so Thursday morning we actually went over these slides I don\u0027t think that they\u0027ve changed other than the editors are that the people in the design team that sent me Corrections I think are all in here and so let\u0027s go ahead and start where you got to go into full screen mode and see sometimes you have to do it twice all right yeah okay so the first question was actually posed in the list but I think it was your guns months ago so the first question is is the architecture document intended to be informational or standards track because they\u0027re actually across different working groups or exist precedents both ways and so we asked the chairs and at least one of the chairs said informational please because the dot that charter doesn\u0027t actually say and so this is a question for the working group if there\u0027s any objections to that list no but otherwise the editors you\u0027re in agreement and so that is what we\u0027re working with right now unless we\u0027re told otherwise okay after we got past that which was in the sunday meeting then the next question was well and this is kind of a question that Jurgen raised which is I see 2119 language in a document that I thought might be informational is that appropriate and so we actually had this discussion that says well who actually want to use normative language in this architecture document given us informational or not because again there\u0027s multiple precedents both ways across different architecture documents of the groups okay and so in that discussion when talking about 2119 language you know must should may one of the questions is if you use it then who is your audience of these mustards mays that are meant for implementers or are they meant for say admins that deploy it or are they meant for spec writers okay and so usually you pick one or perhaps more that\u0027s a little bit more complicated of those and so after a "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:39:43",
    "text": "bunch of discussion our straw man proposal which happens to match the same discussion we have we had an equivalent discussion in the teep working group on Wednesday on the tea parka texture with exactly the same questions and the tea parka texture discussion had the same conclusion that we talked about in the straw man proposal here which is the that we believe as editors that the the normative language is best in standard or PCP documents and so if you pick informational that is most convenient to not use normative language and so non normative advice can be done without 2119 language right we can save the same things and just not use the must should make language what can you say the same things in just normal English okay and so this is what we propose as the answer to your against question unless there\u0027s any objections we\u0027re just going to do this okay all right this is the process that we\u0027re planning to follow for creating the new architecture document based on the two previous ones and any contributions we receive from you know lisps or poor requests or whatever we have already created a github repository Thank You Nancy and Hank did the first straw man check in at the first skeleton check in it so the process is as follows and if you\u0027re a tea person who happens to be in the room this is the same process that we\u0027ve been following in tea for two years or something okay different working groups work differently in github given the overlap between tea and rats we\u0027re proposing use the same process that we\u0027re using in the teep working group which is anyone can file issues in github okay if you want to make sure we don\u0027t lose it you can post it to the list but if you want to make sure we don\u0027t lose it it\u0027s helpful to file a github issue otherwise the authors or editors can file those for you which can also happen so it\u0027s not an obligation that you can\u0027t submit feedback without following an issue no no we\u0027re just gonna use that as the tracking mechanism if you sent it and we think there\u0027s an issue then sure I\u0027ll go ahead and file the issue for you if you don\u0027t so the word caution there\u0027s is it may take longer yes this is true but at least we don\u0027t miss anything so yeah that\u0027s why feel free gave us feedback if you don\u0027t like this process but this is so for poor requests the authors or anybody else anybody in this room or listening or reading the minutes is welcome to file pull requests which then allows people to review it and comment on specific lines far more easily than tracking stuff and email where it\u0027s harder to figure stuff out and track things so it\u0027s a great tracking process the authors think those four people will review the pull requests and merge if the author\u0027s agree but the github issues will be closed by chair is once they verify that yep they think the that the editor is did the right thing or at least followed the right direction and of course new issues can always be filed after that right but so authors poor authors merge and chairs close and so in future rats meetings will just reference issues by github numbers where they exist to make things "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:42:45",
    "text": "easier track okay if you have comments feel free otherwise I\u0027m just gonna go on unless there\u0027s objections yeah all right clarifying questions welcome Hank you\u0027re tall mrs. Elliott the question is simply relating to consensus and working group consensus which is where is that represented in this process I\u0027m going to give you the teep answer and the hopes that that it would be representative of what the chairs would say for rats the teep answer is it happens here at the chairs close github issue step and of course the check on that is eventually as a working group last call that would be after that that new issues can come up and so consensus happens when working group last call says if there\u0027s consensus on the document okay so you\u0027re not gonna try and gain consensus on individual issues on individual issues that is the job and the t p-- working group here is it\u0027s the text that I\u0027m worried about yes as authors review memory there\u0027s just a design team proposal right okay and so the the chairs can say do they believe it\u0027s consensus they could choose to keep an issue open for multiple IETF meetings and whatever they want that\u0027s up to the chairs okay and so the authors would just merge and leave it to the chairs they\u0027re showing consensus Michael Michael so I\u0027m not gonna walk the boat on what you\u0027re doing because I\u0027m willing to give it a go the my experience is that github is awesome for the design team discussion because we can share the share of screen in our in our group discuss it and we can actually bash the text in front of her eyes and agree on that thing I find it\u0027s less you Foles great when when there\u0027s a end users people not in the design team opened the issues to record them I find it\u0027s less good for actually getting their consensus agreement from there and so I would say to to Elliott that my approach would always be to email back on the list to say we believe that we\u0027ve solved your problem in the following way here\u0027s the DIF okay and creating the thread that allows them to agree or disagree without necessarily going back to github because I find that we lose we we lose the the drive by opinions that would otherwise not have bother to look and didn\u0027t realize we weren\u0027t solving something so the clarification and the reality sorry I strongly agree with Michael that actually is the reality only it is we go through especially in the face-to-face meetings we go through even if the chairs have closed them we go through the issues as we go through the revision updates Elliott\u0027s not on the mic but I think that the part of "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:45:47",
    "text": "Michael\u0027s main point if I got it right which I agree with right is that for back and forth discussion on the list to get consensus on text that\u0027s better done across email rather than as a bunch of comments inside the github issues it\u0027s okay either way but Michaels saying is actually better yeah I asked normal list discussion and that\u0027s the part that I said I actually agree with that and so thank you for summarizing that way yeah lawrence l\u0027m glad we can take this later if you want but I was going to ask about the pace of publishing drafts and and what the decision points there if there\u0027s anything in that we haven\u0027t had a discussion among editors and so if you have a request we are listening just between the four of us we didn\u0027t actually ask that question as to how often how often do we want to publish another submit an internet draft versus working off at the github copy great question I don\u0027t have an answer personally I would concur with the chairs and go along with what other people want so all right and since that was a question that a request to follow a process I want to keep going you get two technical points here so we have time to get to technical stuff yeah all right so discussion of use cases okay both of the individual submissions around architecture do cover use cases with text that has adapted from micro Richardson\u0027s use cases document that was not intended for RFC so both versions actually do pull in some things in his document there\u0027s actually two categories of things without using a term for those things there are solution agnostic scenarios and again I\u0027m making up terms here and there are things that are solutions specific mechanisms you can see examples and things there that are solutions specific that it walks through they\u0027re actually two different sections and so the question is should the architecture document include either those two categories right and so the precedents from both of the individual submissions are as that category one is included in the architecture document category two is not included in the architecture document okay and so this is a question because by default we will follow the same thing since all the editors were kind of used to that neither document unless the working group wants a different answer and that gives if you don\u0027t want category one in the architecture document at all let us know Nancy did suggest moving the use cases to an appendix in both of the contributions there in the main body towards the top were open to that discussion as well again by default will default to what the editors did in the source documents but if the working group has direction this is not a technical issue right so we should time-boxed any comments and this one but yeah easy time watching hi this is Hank I just wanted to highlight that Nevada I wanted to have use cases early on next to the terminology and not in the appendices in order to catch the readers eye so that is easy for a new leader for the document to identify itself with the architectural document with same goes with the message roll on diagrams we have in order to create is feeding okay if I can find myself in here again this is just one information at all I comment "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:48:47",
    "text": "about the structures document and we can of course sure put them in the appendix but there\u0027s related to or both approaches so those are our three options keep it where it is in the body move the appendix or have them not me draft currently they are in the body I don\u0027t know if we want even asked the question right now or just say if you have opinions please send it to the list I would just moving on let\u0027s actually get to the technical topics here okay in attestation you have entities that need to trust other entities and that means you have to have some way of provisioning that initial trust relationship okay currently the establishment of the trust relationship is not a cessation itself and so the solutions for establishing that are currently treated as being out of scope of threats working group to the solutions but the existence of trust establishment and the relationship to attestation how you provision it is in scope you have to describe the intent thing in the architecture and so the current belief is that we should talk about it in the architecture but not going to solution details there\u0027s no solution documents goes out of scope for the working group well we at least have to describe the relationship and the expectations around what would be there okay and so here\u0027s examples of things that\u0027s in the trust model section and the failure architecture as to who trusts whom and this is the style of stuff that would be in the architecture document when we combine stuff so you can see so-and-so trust so-and-so and who let\u0027s see there\u0027s a term here on other slides and stuff we\u0027ve been using the term a searcher but a bunch of people who are claiming that a searcher was confusing I was one of them but a bunch of people on the list said that and so among the authors we are not when they use the term endorser for the entity that sends endorsements okay a potentially other things besides endorsements yeah yeah the in other words this is just a rename of this term to that term because a searcher was found to be confusing between things that generate assertions could be other those rules and this is and so on and so that\u0027s just a highlight that we\u0027re planning to change that and so the endorser formally the ax tester right is often a manufacturer that imprints key material into the tester but it could also be some other entity that prohibitions key material later on if there\u0027s a way to do that and for example some documents you determine for this okay so I\u0027m saying this is a style of discussion that would be in the in the combined document okay there\u0027s a catch hi I am the jabber scribe because apparently there isn\u0027t one in the room so I don\u0027t know if you\u0027re taking jabber spread comments like that Kira I curious in the back there\u0027s been a bunch and they haven\u0027t been done before though I always like to relay Kathleen go ahead yeah Thomas harjo no and I\u0027m sorry if I mispronounced your name yes needs to state trust relationship for example business and legal relationship without stating solutions "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:51:49",
    "text": "yeah that is the proposal okay all right so I\u0027m gonna keep going then thank you all right next topic this is all right so there was a bunch of previous discussion around background check and passport models and of course we should keep in mind that models are just models there\u0027s no intent that models is like prescriptive or by way of limitation there are useful way to describe things so that when we\u0027re talking about things we have some reference things just like the the interaction model discussion right you don\u0027t have to do it that way because a reference guide and so bottom point models are intended to be representative not necessarily complete or illuminating please keep that in mind okay so there was a discussion that the Riv document triggered that was about verifier initiated attestation and exactly how that fits into the background into the models and whether we need to do model and so on and so one of the discussions at the hackathon we said well would it be useful to describe what the use cases are and maybe you\u0027d have a different term than use cases what the motivations are for having verify our initiative things and so here\u0027s two examples that came up in that meeting or in the hackathon discussion of the tea Pratt\u0027s table and so example number one and this is summarizing but abstracting what\u0027s in the RIF document right so the first one is as an example the network notices some anomalous traffic that comes from a device and says whom something suspicious here maybe I should find out what its access station or posture status is right now and so it proactively goes out to query that thing to say hey you still Elfi or did something happen an example of another case that that may have happened is yeah so the health may have changed since it was less attested maybe it rebooted or what something got installed or whatever so this is agnostic as to whether it\u0027s TPM based or anything else it\u0027s saying I gotta reach out and say hey did something change what\u0027s your current status something was odd second example is the network hasn\u0027t noticed anything that\u0027s odd but it wants to go off and do that anyway maybe does it periodically or maybe the networks definition of what\u0027s healthy has changed you know so if you\u0027re using reference values maybe you\u0027re said if reference values changed and now you need to go and wreak worry Andry compare that kind of thing okay and so those are two examples of where you might want to do attestation that was initiated by somebody other than you test her she got to reach out to the administer so that\u0027s the case here in my document the o1 version added this picture which was derived off of a picture in roof and so in this example right the tester talks to a relying party which talks to a verifier which then needs to go and get the evidence via some other mechanism and Garett some result this is just one of many variations again this is not prescriptive your variation may vary from this picture okay so the point is that the well first of all there\u0027s this notion of Auto band conveyance or in band conveyance or pick your favorite "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:54:50",
    "text": "term right so in band conveyance means attestation is communicated across whatever other protocol between the ax tester and the relying party is already using right so for a tester is trying to use HTTP or OPC UA or co-op or whatever it is in ban means you\u0027re doing at SAS station across the same protocol whether you\u0027re passing evidence or attestation results maybe re right you just passing claims across some existing message that would be in band okay out of bands means you\u0027re using some other protocol than the one that you\u0027re naturally using to access the relying party okay so the next two slides show four different categories of solutions with example diagrams again before I go on the next slides right the diagrams are not synonymous with the categories each diagram is an example of something in the category everybody got that okay so the definition is the retexe not the diagram don\u0027t beat me up on the diagrams here examples of categories okay okay great yes you not a thank you okay now I can actually show the diagrams focus on the text so the diagrams are in case you don\u0027t understand the text okay here we go first example is the verifier queries the ax tester over IP right so net comp is an example of this right so the verifier sends off the message to a tester and comes back and of course this is at some point in time you know other things are happening too but the main focus is the exchange over here right the verifier reaches out and touches the ax tester okay and as well go through these you\u0027ll see none of these categories are perfect right every category has some disadvantage which is going to motivate a there\u0027s is no one-size-fits-all okay so the first one that the example is well it doesn\u0027t work if there\u0027s like a firewall or something inside here that the verifier can\u0027t just reach out and touch the attest right this assumes that you\u0027re actually have a server piece that\u0027s actually reachable on the ax tester okay but if you do that then of course yes this category works fine second category is where the verifier can reach out and touch the ax tester underneath IP so maybe there\u0027s some eat messages or something as this is just showing you got some long yeah low-level channel but it\u0027s sending the same type of messages across okay and of course this doesn\u0027t work on all link layers it only works on link layers that use that particular you know below IP mechanism right that second category here\u0027s the third category which says the relying party just gives like a referral or a notification that says hey please reach out in contact verify your X you\u0027re not going to get any farther until you pass the information to him okay and so in this case well this doesn\u0027t necessarily work with all these protocols because this depends on you be able to pass this referral which may be an extra message that didn\u0027t exist or something right so this is like your referral or a pass I don\u0027t have an example there I don\u0027t know if there is one but it is a possible category not shown on this diagram they should have those extras have these def Jerris here that\u0027s not intentional that arrow there should be over there too okay and that\u0027s an answer to where didn\u0027t realize come back yeah so it could be for example and ever these diagrams are examples it should be one two three four or it could "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:57:51",
    "text": "be one message two three four there\u0027s lots of different variations of this right but yes sorry my bad that little arrow should be between their two all right and the fourth category is the attest er keeps some persistent connection open with the verifier over IP such as you know a WebSocket or pick your favorite protocol which is a connect on the outbound direction that happens say at boot time or whatever and then some later time whether it\u0027s immediately or much later on there\u0027s some query or subscribe or whatever it is such that later there\u0027s an evidence err okay and so there\u0027s maybe a time delay between what certainly a time delay between 1 and 3 and whether to happens a time of 1 or 2 eopns time of 3 may vary by solution okay so like WebSockets write the query may happen in much later time but for something like pub/sub the query may happen immediately on connect and the pub happens way later okay Dave yes just clarifying questions so this would be at was Elliott by the zeliha so this would be in the case where you know it\u0027s happening in the application protocol and in bandwidth in the application in the band is always the line this horizontal at the bottom this is the in band stuff is at the bottom here anything that\u0027s this vertical lines over here that sorry the diagonal lines is all the auto band stuff so this is some other protocol besides the normal resource access protocol though so boom all four of these are in the outer band okay section okay none of these are the regular in band ones is what\u0027s shown in the classic slides for a background check and passport model beause the in band ones these are other variations of the auto band variations we have more of a triangle type relationship which the RHIB document does have one of these triangle relationships and there\u0027s many different variations across different solutions you could construct that\u0027s fits in this category so that would be useful to have this tile style of discussion in an architecture document taking into account whatever feedback have for us whatever feedback people have for us okay buddy okay all right I want to keep going in all right next topic you have a question can can you get ring a minor I\u0027m from Thomas can a pistol don\u0027t find evidence at local stores to be pulled in later by verifier yes yes yes Ida band that would be another very a I said all these are just examples of categories that would be another example in one or more of these categories yes Michael David liquors to me as you\u0027re discussing the in band and out of band mechanisms it occurred to me that whether or not to ask whether or not there we need we want to distinguish between cooperative and uncooperative in band solutions ones "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:00:51",
    "text": "where essentially we we can and the protocol owners wish to extend their protocol to add communications for attestation and ones where we have to do things like stuff via hide the attestation and in you know a certificate extension that the protocol doesn\u0027t really know it\u0027s carrying and sort of it\u0027s uncooperative right but the two ends are gonna probably pull it out and do something it\u0027s like a I don\u0027t know what the right word is hiding hiding it\u0027s an encapsulation but it\u0027s a you know we\u0027re it\u0027s a hack it really okay and so I wonder whether that is a worthwhile attribute to a use case to say well we\u0027re having to work around an existing protocol and that\u0027s why we might do something weird I don\u0027t know if that\u0027s worth a comment or a category I don\u0027t know just throwing that out there no thank you yes I understand the distinction that yes the distinction is important I don\u0027t know yet whether it belongs the architecture so far what I\u0027m hearing from you makes me lean towards yes but I have to think more and see if there\u0027s any reason for no because yes I understand the distinction and it\u0027s been useful for protocol discussion say in the Microsoft document series to have we actually have terms for the difference that you had there so if other people have an opinion on that then we know but yes great point well Michael you\u0027re part of the editorial I know so yeah anybody editor has been opinion let the editors know okay moving on to the next topic relationship among formats again many of this discussion has already happened but this is our attempt to say we believe the architecture document needs to have a discussion this is the style of discussion that we think is high-level enough to belong in the architecture document are we on the right track right that\u0027s the intent of me showing this is to not really tell you hopefully things that you don\u0027t necessarily already know but to say this is what we believe belongs in the architecture document is this style of information okay evidence attestation results and endorsements are three types of conceptual messages they can all have different claims formats and so I\u0027m just gonna show I\u0027m not going to show the endorsements in the slide because it wouldn\u0027t fit and so between a testers and verifiers there can be many different formats and this is only showing ones that are either standard or at least potential standards from different organizations right now and on the right between here fires relying parties same thing and again there\u0027s dot dots because there exists many proprietary formats that are not in here right now so for example Intel\u0027s SGX format is not a standard and would go in this table so that\u0027s an example of a proprietary format and so the point is there\u0027s many of these there\u0027s many of these the ones on the left for any particular path may be different than the ones on the right if this was what was in Lawrence\u0027s presentation in the first Rats meeting where we talked about this in the e presentation okay this "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:03:51",
    "text": "continues on from the previous slide and so saying if we\u0027re going to use attestation with existing protocols right because the things on the left in some cases evidence might be in banned in some variations and other variations attestation results might be in banned so evidence is in band in the background check model attestation results is in bound in the classic passport model and so all those are possible and so it says if you are using in band like in an existing protocol then this affects how we explain things as well as some constraints on things that solutions have to take into account if doing in band okay so for example since you need to be conveyed inside an existing protocol this is what Michael was just talking about you convey it in a way that that protocol is aware of like you\u0027re extending the protocol are you conveying it in a way that the existing protocol is unaware of and so you\u0027re kind of using that protocol as a transport alright those are the two terms I mentioned that we use is we use extension versus transport you can pick better terms those the terms that we\u0027re using right now inside Microsoft for those two concepts and so some existing protocols constrain the set of formats and so if you\u0027re going to use it as a transporter encapsulation so as an example of one that constrains OPC away only supports you got to make it look like an x.509 or encapsulated inside of an x.509 or two passes okay and though so what that means is that any particular solution fits into one of three categories at least I couldn\u0027t think of a fourth so the first one is to say whatever the native protocol uses right you use that format for claims okay so if it passes x.509 you it is x.509 extensions if you\u0027re using HTTP you can put it in a bearer token you can use a JWT or a CW T or whatever because that\u0027s native right second category is I could take the clings in whatever format I want and then encapsulate them the other format all right so I could add an x.509 extension that has a CW t or a cadet a CW t claim and as a JWT or I could add a JW cleaky clean that has a TPM thing or whatever it is so that\u0027s the encapsulation mechanism this one is we\u0027re problematic for constrained nodes because you need multiple parsers right and so people have talked about I want to do this all with only one parser and my constrain no not have multiple parsers so and so that again for example that\u0027s why people like C bar is if in the constrained node you\u0027re already using C board then I don\u0027t have to do encapsulation I don\u0027t have to have an asn.1 parser or something else too the third category is to do out-of-band right which is used some other protocol to acquire the claims okay and so this just requires multiple protocols more messages and latency or typical amount of bands maybe you can find ways to optimize that and so out-of-band ones might be more problematic for constrained networks or notes okay and so the point is any particular solutions you just say which category it\u0027s in and what the what the domain clickability is or its assumptions but generally as far as I know those solutions tend to fit into one of those three categories the fact that we have multiple formats especially like multiple native formats is why this "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:06:54",
    "text": "motivates and we think that having the architecture document explain the motivation for an information model is important and so the fact that you have to for in-band ones there\u0027s a desire to use native formats for things is why you have arguments for all these things on the left or on the right depending on which model it is and so that\u0027s why having the information is useful and that\u0027s the type of argument we can make any in the architecture document that then it justifies why it would then informatively reference information I\u0027ll locking it um this is thank token preferring from the Jabbar multi-vitamin highlights that this is this working group is intended to be recharter if our phase two and this in this second phase yeah okay now I trust the hardware now let me check your similar software and then do the attestation so there\u0027s this this this role of the endorser that is a little bit of background now we only talked about it then very prominently use the same invent all band thing is as we are describing here and we should be able to reuse all this concept in the second phase and then Auto not true make them let\u0027s run again thank you yeah Lauren stone but I don\u0027t know how far you want to go into the details of this discussion you mean now we\u0027re in the document yeah now I think okay I\u0027m gonna do the time check you have six minutes left okay then I\u0027d like to go on okay all right so if you have detailed stuff send it to the list or follow up afterwards if you have something extremely high-level and less than 15 seconds feel free so I\u0027ll come it just you know I think this needs to be addressed but it assumes that there\u0027s a lot of things that need to be thought through here and like you don\u0027t mention signing formats which is a gating thing here what what the harbor can sign and stuff like that so it\u0027s a question of how much detail needs to be in the architecture so again just to reiterate the process we\u0027re going through all this there is a github repo so Lawrence for any of these you can issue file an issue yeah yeah I don\u0027t think it\u0027s even an issue of the architecture it\u0027s an issue of what drafts and what documents and what formats we\u0027re going to decide what we\u0027re going to do this presentation that\u0027s a charter discussion all right next topic is about claims profiles which we have talked about the need for but there\u0027s nothing that actually specifies any requirements the existence of it in a document and so we said the architecture document should explain the concept of a claims profile and any architectural expectations around the creation of claims profiles okay and so the point is there\u0027s many different use cases or relying parties different relying parties expect different things and different claims so for example in teep "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:09:54",
    "text": "the tam is a relying party that has very specific claims that are necessary or expected by the Tam so therefore it needs a claims profile and so a claims profile there\u0027s a short sentence on the slide here proposing a strawman definition and a process that we have talked about in a previous IETF I think last time we said that claims profile should be done by the group that owns the use case well that\u0027s this group or T or some other working group because there\u0027s different use cases and there\u0027s various precedents in terms of how DHCP options and yank modules and stuff is done so we could do a claims profile in here but other groups over time will do your own claims for false as our expectation and so we would say something like this New York detector document unless there\u0027s a more natural place to put it certainly existence the claims profiles the process may or may not belong in here I don\u0027t know yet okay okay a testing multiple components this is a topic that also came up last IETF where were in Montreal and so we believe that the architecture document needs to have a discussion about testing multiple components and how different I\u0027m going to use the word claim sets because I don\u0027t know a better term for the sake of this discussion a particular piece of evidence or as a station results or whatever may have claims from multiple components in the same device there are concepts a testing and attested environments that have been discussed a lot that I\u0027m not going to repeat now because I think we\u0027re familiar with those terms but these can be chained or layered it\u0027s so for example in a dice certificate chain right the hardware attest the firmware which then attest the OS which then attest the app so if this is in a te for example this might be you know trustzone and I put in trusted firmware and opti and some trusted application and so what you have is a search chain where each entity is the attested environment for the previous leg and the attesting environment for the next leg and so you get this chain of stuff each with its own set of claims another example is where so this is a linear relationship example then there are one-to-many relationships and here\u0027s a bunch of examples here of a case we have a single environment that a tests multiple what\u0027s the term that we used on Wednesday so sub mods or something as an example and so there\u0027s a bunch of examples here so this notion that you have a root and various links between things as opposed to just a test Jenny environment and a test did environment okay can be more complex relationships and so in general you have this tree of components each entry in the tree of components and the evidence or attestation results can have its own claim set with its own you know information in it from Thomas also neat [Music] very far to ask for only subset of claims not really under study okay sorry "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:12:57",
    "text": "tickets also need to allow verifier to ask for only the substance of the claims ah ok good point let\u0027s make sure that pairs in a minute so I don\u0027t have to listen to a recording or at least between the editor is one of us will remember that okay thank you alright so the next steps is we have github merges work-in-progress and so our next steps are to try to take the information we received so far and submit a new draft and the hopes of the cherries will approve it as a working group document and that\u0027s why my title slide had the proposed new file name which is draft IETF rats architecture do you have a timeline for when you might have an address I\u0027m looking at the other editors no not yet but we\u0027d like one yes soon okay at some point nothing for Thanksgiving Thanksgiving was in October so what\u0027s the problem so so I think we need a week to regroup have an edit and start a frequent editorial design meaning so next week is Thanksgiving right okay so that\u0027s already done so I would say that we what I imagine is that we would post absolutely a new Rev you know a week or two middle of December okay and then probably post a new document every month or so okay because integers are cheap that sounds like a good stir okay that\u0027s assuming that we get adequate participation okay great job okay so thank you Dave thank you architecture editorial team we\u0027ll look forward to reading them you draft and with that let\u0027s move on to the yay module hi Hank had a room hello group this is an update about the feedback from the listen what we do adage about its respect to the yang module I am the presenter for a lot of people the list as large as you can see so there was some need for clarification how why and in which form we are using the yang module in the other yang in general in the concepts and the scope of rats the remote authorization procedures here to give a click overview yang "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:15:57",
    "text": "modules and generals are written data models as a specific language to write them these data models describe data arrests but they also come with a certain set up the api\u0027s for conveyance in this case we use them for remote attestation this module we have here uses a specific secure element this the TPM the TPM is has a very very defined interface that is by this so popular and that is why is often used please let me highlight that a TPM is not always a physical TPM and it can be a so-called F TPM which is a basically a TPM running and a te or some other shielded execution environment it is to really complete and its basic all the firmware TPM also there can be virtual TPMS those run in hypervisor Tom\u0027s and are accessible for VMs for example so they are all using the same interface they can all then have the source for the data store as as a yang module this is important backgrounds here it would we would like to be a little bit more agnostic about this and not using only this interface but it is super common as even other stos tend to use the TPM interface because this is there and it maps to the needs so if we have another fully complete interface to another es e or hyper security model you could make this a little bit more Hardware agnostic but please again let me remind you the Hardware agnostic miss is already gone it is abstracted by the interface to the TPM the yin-yang module always comes with an English description so every is like a tree and it is trees are statements the yankles all these elements statements every statements requires you it\u0027s mandatory to have a semantic description of the statement otherwise you cannot host it as a coherent yang while you and the data tracker as a union yang sign because written says no this is not good you forgot description text and finally I was already talking about api\u0027s there are a lot of encodings here they\u0027re called encodings in yang some people call them civilizations for the protocols that are already used they are using all the same operations same api\u0027s abstractedly but they can the conveyance civilization is xml Jason LC bore the corresponding protocols are called Netcom fresco and cork on at the moment so there was one big item about conveyance of the various formats that we create here and the most prominent said invent opened agnostic forma that we have is eat it is a CWT with a could be a very big set of our claim sets to express both at station evidence and "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:18:58",
    "text": "potential other profiles later on as they was highlighting and architecture slide before so we propose as it was requested on the list to have a very simple and opaque conveyance mr. metha method in our yang module for eats that is relatively easy the only thing to proof is a pointing your Supra freshness so we have an RPC tiny X in front of this tree representation represents an RPC this RPC would input a nonce that will be reused in the creation of a each so we assume the eat is always created recently and freshness is proven by the inclusion of the nuns this cryptograph resigned into Z this is a rather simple PC so to speak but yang wise speaking I was speaking to - yang doctors and they are there if this is an additional thing to other all semantics you always have the other RPGs this is okay this is a convenience our PC to convey the same information in a very common data of civilization that you have in your working groups provision space and now Michael goes to the phone michael chesson so sir those with vision problems that says our PC not RFC so it\u0027s not a separate document is a separate call I have you know that not a typo no okay I was like huh oh yeah another document I\u0027m all for another document okay that may realize that wasn\u0027t what you proposed so given that it is another RPC and and want to make sure that people in the room understand that that yang describes mostly RPC type things but some of us hang on but some of some of us are more familiar with using it to describe data at rest but that\u0027s not how it was originally envisioned and and this is in this is an RPC mechanism not a data at rest mechanism okay I\u0027m just an important point to make for Peter that may have come to hang in different ways so my question is does the the resulting challenge-response which is the eat thing does it depend or contain any of the values which we would have found through any of the other data model interfaces to the TPM is there any relationship to what\u0027s here to what\u0027s in the rest of the piece of the dark not yet at the moment a each can only conclude what it is the each raft defines so if you\u0027re in a catch-all exhibit TPM structure claim for example which I would not recommend in this page Rosario then yes but per definition and "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:21:58",
    "text": "each can only contain what is defined for each there enough that\u0027s that\u0027s that doesn\u0027t answer my question because as far as I know and from reading your document the rest of that the yang model TPMS have things like enough time not value which we haven\u0027t eat claimed for yeah I write there\u0027s more comparison of a few acclaim this is assertions that actually as a semantic identity of things that are involved both worlds so would they be there would they be there in that in that thing that\u0027s what I\u0027m trying to uh no it will not be the consensus the tendency on the list was not to do this information model mapping because it would be complicated and would require an information model that is not only in one document but would be a global one because this semantic overlap we are describing here is just one sitting in this module now and would span across a lot of things we can do this this is up to the group to decide I personally am very agnostic to this I would really like to see this mapping because it makes interoperability very very very easier but it has to be feasible Smart\u0027s so this looks pretty good to me if you had a device that does each style at a station and not TPM style it seems like this would be what you need if you wanted to talk to it with yang so this looks pretty good to me the only addition I could see there is on the input side is being able to select which claims you want in the eight yeah we can have something exists in the the yang what do you could find an issue when this is adopted because maybe this is close to adoption I think and then we can run that in but I can refer that topic to the novel side yeah so thanks a l\u0027heure on that topic which is not why I got up here I probably would want to see slightly more alignment on the information model stuff so I\u0027m not sure we\u0027re not talking yeah I don\u0027t to call it information low I\u0027d like to see more overlapping claims like Michael is asking when I got up here to ask unless you have another slide on it is how does the color know which RPC to call how does the caller know which are pieces the network management station or whatever that\u0027s that the network no speaking module unions are distributed the network client has it and then you can create a corresponding request my question you\u0027ve got two different pieces in the same gang module you have the energy attestation token request and whatever the one that\u0027s the TPM data this already five are pcs in there this is 1/6 again dude you have to make a decision what is the expectation for the courier is he supposed to know I preached making the call as he supposed to know whether there is a TPM or an Eaton he has to make the right call how do you know which one of those two is in the other end it\u0027s my question ok "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:24:58",
    "text": "the document doesn\u0027t talk about it because this one isn\u0027t in there yet right it is correct it is with every IP API and it has multiple functions how do you know which function of an API to call for your specific purpose right for this instance of that device how do I know whether it\u0027s the kind of has a TPM that kind of hasn\u0027t eat which way how do I know how to call it oh this would be this information which information scope is in there will be in the RFC\u0027s or the internet draft then the doctor highlight the scope just for the convenience of the reader and refer to the respective documents my question that I don\u0027t get your question please rephrase the question then how does it know how does the color of the RPC know how does the color of the yank has the network management station know whether to ask the device for TPM information or to ask the device for each information how does it make that decision I think there\u0027s a circular question because if you implement this you may have to admit implementation choices so if you are a conveyance if you want to have a conveyance we eat you know that as an implementer or a management station shredders online she may be ok can you hear me yes I want to answer Dave\u0027s question I think it makes sense to there are two ways to do it one they can use other models like the platform our inventory model to figure out whether the device supports TPM based artist or eat smith\u0027s at the station and call the pc accordingly which is complex or keep the eats and TPM based our pcs in two separate models so that the advertising device which says support for a specific model itself will be sufficient to determine which RPC to call you could add a feature statements of the the yang module please add the entries into the document but thank you for understanding answering my question yeah that didn\u0027t get that so yeah there\u0027s a feature option and yang statements that can tell you which are the features provided by the young module you can select by that thank you oh yeah having said that so from the list but probably derived from the list is that one of the things that were came up with the call for adoption is that how is this inclusion of the switchers actually going to work and this question basically is yours how is it going to work now with another RPC how do we know what can we request actually from device what is there so this is not about the concept it is more about how does yang function in this concept and the other side the remaining my mic voice is going away this is right so the remaining so [Music] on the lists are on the on the detail "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:27:58",
    "text": "side and on the feature section so it\u0027s really going away and and we were using the political process as we provided them for TV on let\u0027s architecture already thank you I\u0027ll stall for a second we enjoy spent my comment is actually a comment for a rib in other words I believe there\u0027s some ones not answered in your document and I believe it\u0027s okay to not answer in your document which is how do you know the dress of the device to query okay I don\u0027t believe that\u0027s responsive we have your document but it is the response from the other one to say how this fits into a workflow which is their stuff that happens that you get the larger context so hey rib document people please take this into account and answer the question there because I don\u0027t believe that this document is the place to answer my question taking good care of me no equipped I would come to the basically last point here we had a discussion about is the title appropriate because again it\u0027s very illustrative at the beginning the lot of this using the TPM interface now as we are introducing the each conveyance mechanism also the Contra comment on the list was maybe the name should stay so actually we are talking about content adoption here how we added the title of the draft it can be decided by the workgroup at anytime before working group last call so I think this is a no issue and we\u0027ll just see how the document develops and go from there so this is my last point on this slide I think yeah the adoption question my question is a scoping question because it sounds like you believe that you\u0027re going to add the each stuff into there right we talked about how there is potentially a bunch of other formats is your intent to keep adding new formats over time or to keep the scope constrained with fixed set today is my question I\u0027m at my assumption is that there will be no there will be a zoo of other let\u0027s call them representations or encoding we want to push the opaque our PC could be easily enumerated identities it can be vendor specific we can add that and then we are done with eat and yang here and and we have identities for other formats that can be vendor-specific augments to this draft and we are literally extensible then there is a standard yang method this is "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:30:58",
    "text": "frosty we have netted yet because the obviously is kinda new but yes we would stop at the scope here but allow for very specific or custom augments okay so sounds like you\u0027re saying you feedback I think the answer is you believe that we can stop at a fixed set as long as there\u0027s an extensive mechanism for the vendor specific stuff and so we would have all the standard ones in here in which case we might actually consider adding an x.509 you know dice chain right based one because that\u0027s not vendor extensible and then maybe stop at the four or something that was on my slide my question was the scoop for this one because he was asking about the title yeah and you can keep the title as it is right now with your answer that says if it\u0027s all the standard ones plus and extensibility mechanism and I think your titles fine and bringing guys into the linux here is was a very good example of another well I\u0027m glad I did the first call for adoption cuz it\u0027s burned well over 150 emails only of which a handful besides the author\u0027s actually said I approved the call for adoption so so from all of the feedback and now the discussions and the proposals that Hank and the authors have made I think it is appropriate to leave it as the base yang module so with that I didn\u0027t hear any well not here I didn\u0027t read any strong objections to the draft itself a Michael Steele correctly okay go ahead does the word I\u0027m going to leave it as the bass yang module mean that there\u0027s not an eight part in it no no I\u0027m saying we\u0027re gonna leave the title as is oh okay we\u0027re gonna add the other stuff okay right because the original call for adoption was based on the first set of feedback which was this draft is two PM specific so perhaps it should just be titled as the yang module specific per tip so with that if we leave the title and knowing that what Hank has proposed with the addition of how you can incorporate it as an encoding and we know that there\u0027s more work that needs to be done much like what we said with eat is does the group have any objection to adopting the current draft as a working group draft and then we can actually allow people to put issues that we can track and formally discuss so the Stickley object again to adopting the draft please hum if you are for adoption you "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:34:09",
    "text": "were asking for objection first yeah okay so let me let me rephrase it sorry what I meant to say was I didn\u0027t hear I didn\u0027t read any objections so a question to be hugged is do you approve for the working group to adopt this draft as a working group item please hum if you\u0027re in favor of adoption do we have an responses on the Java Akira okay so for the note takers can you please note that there are many cameras on the jabber as well okay please hum if you do not want the working group to adopt this draft please hum now so I didn\u0027t hear anything okay anything on the jabber nope okay so I think we have clear indication that we will confirm that on the list okay so finally we can start tracking the issues all right thank you yeah I think you\u0027re for taking somewhat care for you sir this is your one okay so way young hi everyone my name is Wei pan from Huawei this is a new draft from Franken me and we want to bring the Netcom pops up and the mechanism to the rats to use it to extend as an interaction procedure in the action model so for the interaction model we now usually have the classic mode on the challenge in a response mode it means that the world of I will first send a request to the a tester and the band that has to respond with the evidence to the verifier but it\u0027s it\u0027s kind of on demand remote attestation so it may not be suitable for a very large network so we push we bring the young pops up and push mechanism here to see the other model is a published in a subscription push model and the first the verifier key just a subscriber to many devices to "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:37:09",
    "text": "say that it wants to know the to do the remote attestation with these devices and then the devices can periodically or unchanged to respond to sender there clams evidence to the verifier so it\u0027s more suitable for a large or a medium or large network and it\u0027s our unchanged remote attestation so the inherit benefits of yum pops up and the push mechanism is also suitable here the flexibility efficiency scalability and the filtering capability the key points of our are now in our now Draft are three parts first is a subscription we defined that we now define you will subscribe the integrity evidence and you can use the configure configure subscription or dynamic subscription and you can define the selection future filters next is a is a periodic push the device a pastor can periodically push his evidence trying times to the verifier it more suitable for the general and a non critical information collection we think the third is the unchained push or in ventricle push it\u0027s more suitable for monitor to monitor the critic or integrity evidence when change happens for example like the new line cards are plugging and like some switchover i\u0027m kind of thing like that the next day is about the subscription parameter is handling the the remote attestation subscription parameters parameters are appearing Abel the dynamic negotiation with the tester about what information the verified need and how to construct them together it\u0027s already native from the challenging parameters and generally we think the most of the parameter is carried in a subscription message won\u0027t change during the Renata\u0027s testing procedure for example like the hash signature algorithm you want used and the TDM them and the most difficult part is about to announce now is for freshness validation and it will be a little complicated in this situation for now we the nas is to ensure that we need to ensure that and announce carried in every notification message is different - - for the security purpose and the post a tester and that the verifying can know the correct values in advance we have some "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:40:11",
    "text": "possible solutions for example the time stamp or counter and the same Orangina seed in a run in same random function at both sides also we consider the rat student mechanism but it\u0027s not very complementary or complete here it\u0027s just we thought in the preeminent preliminary stage next are two examples which is first a the configure subscription with unchanging update trigger and next a is a dynamic subscription with periodic update trigger about next steps we know that as the solutions may not - very complete and may not quite suitable for every cases but we want to keep on updates to complete it and we want to get feedbacks from the group are interesting are you think it\u0027s a good direction to we to solve the problems are valuable work think they were on your points about freshness I only stood understood half of that you talked about a counter and orangey and I didn\u0027t understand how those provided freshness I get the timestamp point which I understand which recorder synchronize clocks and so on but I didn\u0027t understand counters don\u0027t give you freshness unless they\u0027re using some mechanism that\u0027s not explained in the slide Oh actually we mean we we mean like the sequence number like the counter you send a message and it\u0027s just a message sequence number you have no guarantee of freshness that yeah you don\u0027t know if that sequence number always use three days ago or something that doesn\u0027t actually give you freshness is my point okay okay but the timestamp would and so if you\u0027re only using mechanisms that in meaning protocol mechanisms that yang already has and you\u0027re saying oh yeah Yong has this pub/sub model it has a way to do that and here\u0027s how to apply it to that then I might ask is this a sort of thing that could be combined into the basic yang module document because used to saying the data model is the same it\u0027s saying here\u0027s a way to do some other yang features in the following way and it could just be a section in that document is what I\u0027m trying to figure out because the use of pub/sub sounds fine especially if yang just sports that right and saying here\u0027s what it means and here\u0027s how you do the freshness point which might require synchronized clocks and you had unless you have some other are pcs to get the nonce or something like that getting in the way I could have envisioned doing that and I\u0027m looking at Hank right yeah thank you yeah that\u0027s a levy of three-year push drafts are basically intended to be put into what the data some modules that have the we are doing a subscription to a data store I think and this data so subscription we already up we have the three that\u0027s correct we can apply that "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:43:11",
    "text": "there will be a lot of imports and some specific identities that potala a to the rats comb but this is basic the standard Verkhoyansk yes so this is intended to do exactly proposed right so thank you for Hank for answering so based on that answer I would say I think this is interesting I think it would be interesting if the author\u0027s would both think that makes sense for the concepts of pub side being pulled into the same document we just talked about adopting now for the freshness issue I think that means you even need to assume like a two-time Sam\u0027s or have an RPC mechanism to say it as a way to pass the Mount Ayr that could be added unless it\u0027s already in there yang has some other way to do that which I don\u0027t know so I\u0027m creating a yang module for today is super easy first of all so I think subscriptions are yeah this was after the last discussions of the last half-year true that was not my greatest priority but we will keep up that again and I think it\u0027s a hybrid here you can initiate the subscription stage with a single month and go from there because of the subscription state establishment is the yang push is is a handshake and then from there you can start with probably the time stamp based telemetry that is our assumption at the moment come back here if you have when using time stamps or even relative time stamps like time since the subscription or whatever as long as you have a way to solve clock drift because you don\u0027t want to have attestation fail simply because you have two things that drift over time okay of course we\u0027re doing about the pub okay so this is inherent in the pub sub saying how do you get the nonce and freshness in the pub sub one this is the topic on this to say you can put in the same one in the same document which would be my preference you might have heard so far but that means there\u0027s needs this discussion of freshness because the query response mechanism doesn\u0027t even a sort of gets it for free and this would be adding a new constraint that\u0027s not there in the base document and so that\u0027s why we means to discuss this right Michael I think that the nonce issue is in fact the issue for the pub/sub okay and so you know document should that\u0027s essentially what does I\u0027m I don\u0027t have a specific solution but the the the the method mechanism I was imagining is that the I\u0027m going to say the observer the the thing collecting the data or the things collecting the data that\u0027s may be an interesting variation as well arm would announce a new challenge to every all the nodes and that would be mixed in with something else that\u0027s unique to the "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:46:12",
    "text": "node and that would become the knots okay and the unique to the node is essentially becomes a you know a one to one secret and I don\u0027t know how to do that exactly yet but what I\u0027m saying is that that that\u0027s the thing I\u0027m imagining somehow is there and maybe we don\u0027t actually need to mix too many things but that the that the the challenge would be somehow broadcast on a frequent enough basis that you now it has something which is a little bit essentially like having a secure time it just doesn\u0027t increment it\u0027s it\u0027s the result of some other yeah so so I don\u0027t know the exact answer to that but I think that that\u0027s the space that a document once adopted by the working group has to kind of shop around for some solution like that okay we have to agree that we want to solve I think that we agree that we I think we have to agree that we want to solve the problem by adopting the document at which point we can deal with the technical problem of of this and I think that is the the technical problem that makes pub/sub different than anything else so thank you for that Michael because that gets me to the next question how many people have actually read the draft okay I yeah I think we need more readers and more feet more reviewers and feedback so I would encourage people to read this and then provide feedback the two questions that I\u0027m hearing or the two options that I\u0027m hearing basically three is do we add raw do we adopt the draft listing out whatever issues do we believe that the draft should be incorporated into the yang module draft or do we not address this at all so as you\u0027re providing feedback please do that over the mail list and we\u0027ll get more feedback in okay and an idea and guidance okay all right okay so with that look at that we actually have 10 minutes because as I said earlier I was going to fold my 15 minutes for call for adoption so this is great we we have a little bit of guidance to provide to the authors of the Rif draft we now have the base yang module draft so I will create the github repo so for those authors you can rename it put it in there okay okay so orders of business it\u0027s much better Michael it\u0027s much better if they transfer their existing github sorry okay and just and because if you create it then it\u0027s all confusing because that lets some people the issues that\u0027s the only way that lets "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:49:12",
    "text": "them keep the issues is creating or giving them access to the rats organization they\u0027re gonna do a transfer and you\u0027re going to say I accept I think they have to be members of the organization they have to transfer to your organization and then you already has access so they\u0027re okay so but thank you for that clarification Michael so it will become part of the the rats organization into github so orders of business we have good momentum we now have a lot of a lot three drafts that we can start working on potential - - and the architecture and yang that\u0027s three right I think I can count three yeah okay so the I\u0027m going to advocate for a minimum of one virtual interim is there interest to have to I see a lot of nods so I will know yeah so what I\u0027ll do is is um confer with my co-chairs and we\u0027ll put out doodle polls for the two virtual interns I\u0027m presuming that the first one should likely start in January although Dave you have a question or comment Dave failure as a teacher yes the working group was discussing having a virtual interim co-located with the hackathon that Nancy had the slide up early in the session which would be at the beginning of February which would be a hackathon that would be joint keep rats and suit and one of the reasons he was looking at that is because it was the hope that soot and rats people would be readily available to participate in that and so you might consider having a rats virtual interim at the same time either in any of the afterwards or before or whatever so I would think that would be a great oh yeah the first one or the second one so um no comment there no preference on those but I\u0027m saying that is a good day to head one well what he did so this is actually the second hackathon of this style okay there was one was like a suit in my and keep combined one before and so there was a day or more of hackathon and there was one hour of it which was a virtual meeting which was both physical presence and lots of remote attendees the suggestion may be that we have a joint virtual interim with suit and peep but but well I\u0027m just saying we could do it in addition to depending on you know what shakes out with the requirements and questions with deep and did you have a comment I was just gonna have a process reminder I heard both virtual interim and that I heard interim and just a reminder the lead time on notification on an in person "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:52:14",
    "text": "yeah so I think it\u0027s four weeks versus two weeks not yet because a lot of it will depend on due to poll results and chair availability Lawrence I guess I I\u0027m not sure what the procedure is but if you\u0027re going to make it after the 19th I\u0027d like to know sooner than later if it\u0027s for the I mean I\u0027m planning to attend but if it\u0027s before the 17th no problem it\u0027s after the 19th I don\u0027t know I will try to put out the doodle poll in the next week or two so that we know dates okay but I need to confer availability of co-chairs as well okay so that was the last order of business that I had any other any other business going once going twice Wow we\u0027re finishing six minutes early it\u0027s Friday thank you everyone so troublesome every safe travels home and we\u0027ll see you man Vancouver or if not in Berlin all right "
  }
]