[
  {
    "startTime": "00:00:04",
    "text": "foreign right oh wow I guess we're done sounds good to me tired tired of working hard"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:02:02",
    "text": "calls coming later Paul's coming up early uh Paul's Community well we don't need him to the end right we don't need to delete him you want to get started don't get started I thought I might give a QR matches because it's so thin what's that I might give it a few more minutes we've got half a dozen extras in the room in the uh online probably not seeing much for being here the beans in the online room so maybe he's joining us if someone online would indicate that they can hear us just fine that would be good foreign thank you we'll get started in a couple of minutes as people drift in from lunch come join the fun side of the room Mike thank you guys give cleansing credit for saying"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:04:00",
    "text": "that people would Fade Out that's true oh by the way everybody look up at me for a moment every look up who wants to take notes come on someone take notes for us did you agree yeah yeah no that's not fair excellent yes secretary for five years thank you sir here I know Alexander yeah well we can start going through intro slides all right why don't we at least start getting through the intro slides and fun stuff like that welcome to rswg it is only Tuesday so we shall note the note well although everybody in this room better bloody well know the note well at this point um We are following ietf procedures if you've got questions about them perhaps you'd like to step out before you participate there are a list of ietf procedure documents including code of conduct that you want to make sure you know all right here is our agenda um so we've got a discussion of the SVG stuff up front what we're going to do about the SVG profile then a discussion of the 79 91 bis as is"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:06:04",
    "text": "draft and whether that needs to be adopted Etc and so forth and then a 79.91 this what we want it to be draft and then after that discussion is done all other business any agenda bashing anything else we need on here he looks to the room he looks to the chat Lars I could have a very minor point but the naming convention is starting so 1791 Biz as is versus Biz we need to pick some better attacks yeah because this is really hitting the limits of our naming conventions hard yeah that's my fault we'll figure something out foreign seeing nothing else we will call that an agenda and that is the end of the general slides who's up first Martin you're on first third base um which slides am I doing uh why don't they see the SVG slides in here did you not okay let me do a refresh and see if they pop in cost of thousands yeah they have they were not uploaded yet no problem can you dance a little jig while we're waiting yeah I'm just wondering why the only bit of this I know stages I see issues ah there we go okay"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:08:01",
    "text": "yep yep yep got it it just so happens the only part of the stage that Creeks is the part that has the X on it all right so um not moisturized not my draft but um someone has to stand up here and do the presentation so that's me next please yeah hold on there we go thank you standing back here right so um Brian submitted this draft uh it's a collection of uh I guess you might say problems gripes and um aspirations as to what we can do with svgs um this applies to now he says SVG RFC 1.2 I don't know what 1.2 is so I'm not sure what that means but presumably this means 79 7996 the um the list has discussed some of these things um and Brian speculates that the reason that the diagrams uh restrictions are as they are was for vision limited people I would probably contest that myself I think there are a number of reasons for the restrictions in 7996 and um that was maybe one of them uh next slide please so I think probably the biggest problem that we have here is this first point there are some tools that can produce spgs that comply with the profile that we've invented but not very many of them there's a and a large number of SVG features that a lot of tools will innately rely on when they generate content even the most simple content and uh it turns out that it's it's very difficult to programmatically clean up some of those things as markers and fonts and all sorts of other things that"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:10:00",
    "text": "have to be stripped out which makes it very very challenging for SVG check to produce something that that looks the same as the input image when the output has to be so narrowly constrained um and Brian makes a point about black and white uh I think we should probably have a discussion about uh whether there's room for grayscale or colors or a limited palette or other things but we'll get to that on on subsequent slides um there's um a whole bunch of things um that the Brian identifies as being problematic in tools I don't think this quite covers all of the the things there are quite a lot of features that I would love to use in fact that aren't available in this very narrow profile that we have next yeah this surprised me but it turns out that some tools put Javascript in svgs because and likely for good reasons uh not all uh viewer tools were like we'll process that JavaScript but there's uh a number of cases where they put it in just in case because we've got certain browsers if we need to work with or something I don't know um there's a whole bunch of transform metrics and and things like that I think the point here about transforming text into separate letters is what I would call a bug on the part of the tool that generates the SVG I took a brief look at one one example which was I think the goat tool does that um that's a to my mind a bug I have an implementation that does basically the same thing that puts all of those characters into the same string and it works perfectly fine modulo some font metric issues um and the other one that's uh that's come up and we've had a bit of debate about is the restrictions around width and height and view box and the interaction with those in terms of how"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:12:00",
    "text": "they get displayed in HTML in particular I think there's some constraints also on on how PDF generation works with this as well so um Brian also knows that the ASCII art uh Alternatives although I believe that's largely been addressed from the perspective of the format itself there's potentially a need for some of the tooling around that to ensure that something sensible gets produced on the ASCII side of things when we have a diagram produced as SVG uh last slug please so a suggestion here is to take a look at 7996 and uh change it uh concentrating on the things that are forbidden is probably a sensible approach in my opinion as well the restricted grammar has turned out being to be rather restrictive um and it's probably not the case that the that the tooling we have is incapable of dealing with a lot of these things it's just that we've profiled them away and um that part of the reason I believe that we were profiling them away so it would be easier to implement the SVG thing but as as a practical matter SPG is complex and large and the set of things that are widely implemented changes over time and is probably a great deal larger than what's in this tiny profile that we have the accessibility side of things becomes particularly interesting and we've had a number of discussions on the mailing list about this particular aspect of it there are probably some accessibility guidelines we can lean on for for this and then we also have the question of how much of that belongs in um style guide as opposed to sort of policy format related documents and we'll probably have to work through that"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:14:01",
    "text": "in practice as well as in terms of understanding what the the format documents say in the end we have a queue this is the end I wanted to get to the end because I didn't have much to say Robert so the word in the upper left corner where you said replace verbally you said um change I think that we try to pretend that 7996 never existed go down the path that you're suggesting here um build a set of recommendations about what can appear in rfcs yeah speak in terms of policy not in in terms of implementation but keep in mind that we will have to build tools for the authors and tools for the RPC and in particular watch out for making it hard to um build something for the RPC that would let them make something that meets the spirit of the recommendations out of somebody that handed them complete smash yeah right yeah so we've seen a number of cases where the complete Mash has been been dropped on people and I I think that whatever we can do to to first of all have a style guide that says these these things and not sensible please don't submit these and then at the tail end turn it into something that's practical for for the tooling and the people because ultimately we've got to put this through that process to the net bullet that you had about you know turns out that you can have JavaScript um there's actually a couple of"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:16:00",
    "text": "languages that you can embed inside SVG yes a JavaScript is the worst defender in that it is pretty much the full engine it can like jump on the network and do stuff yeah I I think that probably having having no scripting is a pretty simple thing to do and a pretty simple thing to remove but when it comes to some of these other features we have to think about the entire production pipeline that we have and everything that it touches along the way one of the things we've seen particularly with XML to RSC recently is that Wheezy print which is what we're currently using to produce PDFs has a number of restrictions in it that mean that it's very difficult to take things that would ostensibly meet all of the policy guidelines but wouldn't in practice turn into something that that was legible on on a PDF output and so Robert one question something you said at the very beginning which were you seeing ignore that 7996 said anything about this and start over um were you seeing that we should have a separate document on SVG were you saying both or no no I'm saying obsolete 7996 declared a bad idea walk away okay yeah I don't think there's anything in 7996 that we can salvage at this point I agree with sorry uh Lars you're up next uh so I I can't recall for the weather 7996 motivates any of this but sort of these restrictions on SVG they conflate a bunch of different things together right one is that we might want to have a archival subset one is we might want to have an accessible subset one is we might want to impose some complexity limits on the document but the the figure right and there's depending on what we want to do right different things lend themselves to to baby being a bit"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:18:01",
    "text": "easier than like again going down the XML path and like restricting the language in certain various ways so for example we could for if we were worried about complexity of figures we could entirely leave it up to the review process to like flag those archivability accessibility are different right but I think it would be worthwhile maybe stepping back and figuring out what's the goal or what are the goals and then what are the mechanisms we have available before jumping in the deep end of you know this sort of discussion that seems perfectly Fair Phil Han Baker so two points here number one you asked for uh being able to do text and SVG uh the tool I'm using is gotify I had to modify it so it produced code that fits the tiny SVG thing but if you look at all the uh specs for the math mesh all the diagrams in the HTML version are being generated from text that's then converted to SVG however if you look at the text versions of the documents I don't have the text versions because I think you're a fool if you're reading the the drafts in plain text sorry um I I think that we should just kill plain text rfcs they're stupid sorry that's just a personal opinion but probably won't mind you sir so on the other issue of scripting that is something that I would like to see a separate draft describing a safe version of SVG and preferably I would like to see w3c producing that because I want something that is a safe version of SVG that isn't going to have a hole drilled in it by a future version of SVG and that's not something that we can say here at the ITF by saying take SVG and"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:20:03",
    "text": "remove this feature because ITF could introduce a new unsafe feature so and sometimes having another set of requirements helps rather than hinders I've come to the conclusion that I want SVG for my social media interactions so I want to be able to have social media interactions on texts that include mathematical equations and that type of thing and the only way that I can render them without knowing you know there are infinite number of mathematical notations so I'm going to be using SVG for presentation which means that I want a script safe meaning no scripting version of SVG for that purpose so that I can move SVG around and that's only practical if it's coming from a draft that says this is a safe version of SVG so I think in the short term if we produce a draft that says SVG minus the script element that's good but we really need to get w3c involved and get them to take ownership of that because we can't maintain the safety of that element all right Echo from the floor yeah um no hats obviously hence the floor um so I I like to Echo largest call for maybe taking a step back and asking what the things we're trying to accomplish are here so I've heard at least at least three to four um uh requirements um one uh I'm attempting to like minimize complexity of the uh of the diagrams themselves um two um our the ability to Archive for the archival format which I'll return to in a minute three safety in terms of"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:22:02",
    "text": "embeddability um to avoid your creating exercise problems when you like load uh you know someone else's diagrams into your into your web page um and uh uh and for um uh accessibility for the data right um so um I do think the fir some of them are straightforward the archival archival I'm actually quite concerned about um for the following reason that like you know and then this is going to go back to like a much like a deeper conversation about cavity but the bottom line is that like the Concepts such as it is behind the XML data structures is that like one could at least theoretically read them and like mentally process what the XML data model was and I'm sure the context was um and like without the software's job is to render that into like into like a raster format um that is like perhaps more aspirational and true but it is like somewhat true that is entirely false Refugee right there's no way to look at the SVG and like if any idea was going to render at um like in any sensible way right you can't hand evaluate it and so I think if our of our view I think if we're gonna have if we're gonna we're at a high probability um that actually requires stepping back and asking what the real question for probability and future future accessibility is for these mini formats and if it in fact is the case that we expect someone to be able to read the canonical format without the AF software um and if that is true then essay does not acceptable like format at all um and if it is not true then like then like actually many of these issues becomes like relevant because like you know you can download operation complicated SVG processor so I think trying to like I think so again like I'd call like flight requirements more and in particular this requirement I think needs to be really fleshed out in light of our overall attitude towards our private ability yeah I I think that this is where we probably need to lean much more heavily on the notion that the text is the normative component and the and the diagrams are there as supplemental material um and and that's probably something we should address in that in in any requirements discussion yeah that is not in fact always true uh and this is something I continue to hop on with drafts that put all sorts of"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:24:02",
    "text": "semi-normative stuff in diagrams in in sort of obscure and non-obvious ways but it's it's something we should probably think about a little bit more more carefully Jane yeah Gene Mahoney uh looking at the bullet point two provides style guide recommendations on drawings uh size is easy uh font is easy complexity uh I don't know what we're going to be talking about there and um is that a you know what when you see it or is there a way to quantify that I think that the complexity one is is really um going to come down a lot to to judgment and um you can you can take examples that I've seen in recent internet draft submissions where there are sequence diagrams that um if rendered in the sort of 80 column format would have to be rendered with characters that are not much bigger than a pixel each because there's just that many words in the sequence diagram that sort of thing is probably unacceptable I I think that the having some sort of guidelines as in terms of what is the legibility of of the content when rendered in a particular size is is one of the ways you can approach the complexity problem the other is is simply how many SVG components in there if it's several megabytes then it's probably trying to like there's there's a few things you can look at but no one of these things is going to tell you definitively that this is bad because I you know Liz has a draft that's got some some math in it and some of those look a little fiddly but every single one of those is perfectly fine it's exactly the sort of thing that we should be doing with SVG in in documents so yes this will be judgment and I think it will come down to um learning over time what what people find is acceptable or not maybe some discussions with various streams in"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:26:01",
    "text": "terms of what they're willing to accept thank you yeah that's John it's nice you can stay set until time to get up it's really yeah it's well civilized I have to remember what I say so I can take notes on myself um but sort of channeling what Ecker said if you want to make these diagrams accessible it's like Esky art is worse than useless and based on my experience doing recording for the blind you need a a narrative text description of what of what the diagram looks like which pops us up a level because now we have to add a new kind of element to Art set which pops us up a level because art set is something that we added to the 3.1 vocabulary so you know while I think it is it is worth thinking about how we're going to specify the the SVG I totally agree that we need to back up and figure out what the problem is and make sure we solve the actual problem rather than just some some easy to address aspect yeah it might be the accessibility requirements are just too much for us and um yeah um I think it would be unwise for us to try to invent accessibility requirements but I think there's a rich literature that we can draw on because people yeah of course basically yeah people have been have been making versions of books for blind people for a century I mean this is this is not an this is sort of it's obscure but it's not poorly understood and it and and people have a lot of experience sure and Elliot hold for one second until John gets sat back down for note-taking purposes ready to go okay go ahead all right uh hey Martin um I just wanted to point out that the normative description is not a it's not a matter I think you're you're saying the same thing here but it's definitely not a matter of whether it's SVG or"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:28:00",
    "text": "ASCII you need the normative description in either way I can definitely show you some ASCII diagrams that are particularly horrible um and in fact the SVG looks better in some cases because you can make things a little bit more readable um in in the SVG format sometimes even especially with sequence flow diagrams that have options so uh I'm not sure what to do about that but I'll just point out Phil just to amplify John's point I think that diagrams should always be there to assist comprehension there should never be a requirement and you know if you've not got the descript if you have to understand the diagram to understand the spec then you're doing it wrong and we've got other problems with the spec and so I think a lot of our accessibility problems that we're putting into the document format if we take that principle on board they just disappear because you know if you are colorblind and you can't understand the colors in the diagram well the text should be giving you that information you should never be in a position where you have to understand a diagram to understand the spec you know as as noted that's that's something we may aspire to but not always achieve nice nice this is a similar to what we do for a pseudocode right where we say the same thing right the pseudocode instead illustrate an algorithm but there still needs to be a textual description um of that algorithm and so so it's the same kind of thing foreign thank you all I think we have Direction though yeah I think this is a good direction okay I think we yeah the the authors the the"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:30:02",
    "text": "proposed authors will Author right who's next um Elliot or Martin who wants to go first well whoever it is the next topic and is uh what are we to do with the various 7991 as his documents um I think there's General consensus um and feel free to disagree with me that we have to have such a document and ought to document the tools as they currently exist and then not be continuously updated and I think the question from earlier at that point too but I think the part of the question was do we need to like run it through some complicated RFC process or do we really say like this is what it is and like it's done and here it is and et cetera so uh Ellie uh Elliot no slides at least he's gonna wing it um so I think when Eric asked me to do this that maybe there was hope for a sort of Point Counterpoint but um it could well be that we're not going to get there um I think there are a couple of parameters we need to look at in terms of how we answer this question the first is how often are we going to update this thing so if we have running code now and we expect that we're not going to update a doc the what we have as a description for several years as we work through the rswg process then my view is we should probably document what we have now as an RFC if on the other hand we're going to allow for continuous update that then an RFC is not efficient for that right it takes too much effort to continuously publish and the RFC editor"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:32:02",
    "text": "the RPC in the background is probably going thinking to themselves yeah don't don't don't don't make us have to constantly redo the same document with small changes um so I think the velocity of change and how often we want to mark that change are really the parameters for me um so I guess it's a matter for where do we what's what scale of changes do we think are in front of us before we Mark those changes and I don't have answers to that question but that's the those would be the parameters that I would use to answer the question okay it's as simple as that for me Martin Thompson awesome slides as I recall yeah someone asked me put a slides together so this is what you get um these are better fast than usual impact yeah yeah let's go let's go to the next one this is all of the slide all the actual content of the slide um so I think probably the Elliot may have conceded the point already this is changing and will continue to change so um it seems like it's uh kind of bring up all these other things but I don't think it's really in our interest to publish a document that doesn't really represent the consensus of the the group that this is the right format to be to be using there will be a period of time during which we will not have a document that definitively defines the format of rscs and that period of time is always going to be finite because it will exist in the past we can't fix that I can't change that um I will point out that the document is already in the record I believe that"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:34:00",
    "text": "anyone who does care about understanding the format can go and read John's draft and it's close uh but not 100 accurate in terms of the the details I don't think I would prefer not to spend the effort here validating that it does in fact match what is implemented um it's pretty close but I keep finding problems with it so and I'm not sure you've got the section thing right the section references thing was challenging for me to understand in the code and I wasn't able to match that with what was documented in the in the in the draft uh so other people pointed out that perhaps it creates a bad precedent regarding the content of the editorial stream I don't particularly mind that it might create friction against doing a better job later I don't know I suspect that the right answer here is is to think about this as um as uh an input to a process that we're about to undertake to look at um the way that that the format is going to be defined more formally that process May inform a number of other things as well so next slide please this is the um the answer to the question and then the next slide has another answer and the next slide has another answer as well and I'm done yes see I should let Martin guitar first one so yeah so I I think actually what you're highlighting Martin is what we should do probably is sort of assess the amount of work that we think is in front of us into a couple different buckets that which is and you know that that which is today um that which we want right and that which"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:36:02",
    "text": "is in the document but isn't right and um if we if we break it out that way we can sort of get at least put a a finger in the air and say holy crap this is a lot of work or no this isn't that much work and if we see that there's a lot of work to get to where we want to go then I would say probably you want to publish that which is so I think it's almost premature to answer the question I think the first exercise is to figure out where do we want to go and how much work is it to get there and where are we if we answer those two questions then this question becomes I think a little bit easier to answer okay so Martin do you want yourself in the queue as just regular commenter all right then Robert you're up there is a large amount of pent-up demand for change that I've been waving off for five years at this point because of the sentiment that we should not be changing things that the deviations from the 799 family were um problematic um but I think that we're going to find if we start down the path that Elliot was suggesting of looking at the inventory that I I think would keep even before we stepped out of this room it's my opinion that we will say wow that's big and it's a lot so um I will just throw up as a a strong hand for that's big and that's a lot the cry that you've been hearing from me more and more frequently recently and that's I want to change the way that we"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:38:00",
    "text": "represent names to get away from this notion of last name and first name so and that's a big change Paul foreign Paul Hoffman so I have an issue with the word publish as I think and I want to check you mean publish as an RFC right okay I think we need to publish individual checkpoints at a stable long-lived URL which the RFC editor has for whatever we do however we do this I think that's just fine I think we can publish rfcs we don't have to I already gave a presentation and somewhere else um I I think on this publish or not publish I think that it's somewhat of a red herring because this is all ignoring the fact that if we do something in this working group and say okay that's a checkpoint you know either we we keep it as a long-lived draft or we instantiate it some way ask the RFC Editor to do it that's a very different process than going out to the ietf community and saying okay ietf last call time wait wait and stuff like that we need to decide how much we want the ietf community's input on the format at which point at which point to me that's going to be the biggest impediment to how we publish okay yeah so Paul raises an excellent point um the reason that we might publish in"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:40:01",
    "text": "terms of an Roc for something like this is because we think this is well we might we might do it for any number of reasons um but my my impression is that what we would want to do as a result of that is this is memorializing the consensus of this group that this is a good thing and we would like to solicit input from all these other groups we can also ask for input from all these other groups if we think that's important here at different places but I don't think that this is what we're intending to do with this particular document because this is just like documenting what's in the code right now to the to the greatest extent possible so um I think from that perspective where it stands is probably fine the um the points that Robert raises about change and how we deal with that um leads me to all sorts of other conclusions that would be controversial in this room also so I'll refrain from I'll refrain from bringing them up at this point but I think we really do need to consider this as a starting point for um for addressing some of those those latent change demands because I too want full names and I I too want to deal with things like the U element that are terrible and have changed recently foreign so um we haven't been announcing ourselves at them at the mic I will start doing so in case we have people remote I don't know although it is appearing on the screen uh I'm trying to make sure that my speaking is still up there might be good enough um in the analysis that you were just skimming Martin do you have an assumption that we will republish the rscs that have been published in the there is nothing that documents what the grammar"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:42:01",
    "text": "those things have been published in in some future yes this is really the approved grammar oh because if we don't republish then we've got a several like many hundreds over a thousand things where there is no documentation other than the code about what is in those things Robert can I ask you a question about that actually um so do those thousand rfcs can they be captured all by one document or do they reflect different generations of such a document right right yeah it's it right now it's one yeah and it's the one that the one you wrote John okay so to repeat for John it yeah so to to the extent possible John has managed to capture what what it is implemented in the in the current implementation I think that's probably um probably correct there's a bunch of things that have been added to the format since seven nine on one there are a bunch of things that have subtly changed all of those should largely be in there I again it's pretty close and uh until Robert you said this I had not captured in my head that what you want out of the publication of a document is documentation of what is in the archive as format so I was I was going to address that point directly I think that any effort that we undertake here is probably going to need to be backwardly compatible in the sense that whatever it is that we describe tomorrow"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:44:02",
    "text": "including the full name change and all of the other things that we're talking about it probably needs to document those thousand or what what have you going back into the past at the point that we do that all the deprecated elements that we have in 7991 well 7991 deprecate some elements we'll probably deprecate some more in that process we should document them in whatever um we ultimately produce how we produce that I think is is a very very interesting question and when we produce that is is another one I think some people are looking for us to do something right now um sort of a best effort attempt to ensure that something goes in the RFC series that describes those thousand plus uh rfcs that have been published in XML format since 7991 that don't actually use 7991 um but I I think that given that we've you know 1500 or so documents in we can probably wait just a little longer and do a good job rather than document whatever okay Elliott you were in the queue it's Elliott so um I'm trying to uh sort a Way Forward here in terms of how we can proceed and I think Robert you gave a good example of something that we could probably work on just as a way forward to sort of act as a forcing function and if you want to work on names as the as the first thing or whatever you want to work on is the first thing right then what's the next step do you write a short draft to say here's what I want to do about names do we write a long draft that says here we want here's what we want to do about everything and one of those things is names and um I think if we if there's the boil the ocean approach which I think uh is is the latter but I I sort of like the idea of sort of knocking these things down one by one so we don't so we can get"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:46:00",
    "text": "things fielded faster a little bit more uh you know agility if you'll pardon these the term question is then how does the whole schema look in the process so maybe what we need to do is break these things into two different problems right there's the schema and the versions of the schema which may or may not be an RFC I I'm beginning to think it's not and then there are the changes to that schema which are documented in rfcs and that allow for small incremental we allow that allows for incremental work to take place and I'm just trying to think about how we move forward and I'm curious as to what other people think because you know I I'm uh from my perspective I'm relatively easy as long as work can proceed area I agree with the slide I think the hard part is getting consensus because not everybody is happy about this document but the whole purpose is just documenting it I'm not saying this as an ibtrib member but like we don't have to publish it in this group if you just want to document it we can also publish it somewhere else so it's updating an IEP document so this is still enough for that stance Paul um so a couple of things Elliot the schemas are in the drafts so there's no reason to take them out um I I think that they're actually useful there because they're extractable and stuff like that so I wouldn't take them out um we're talking about four things right here and there's a few more presentations that are on these four things so I'm not sure what to say but I'm hearing some people say this when what they aren't actually talking about is just the as implemented draft it's this plus everything that comes in the future um some of us have thought about this so"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:48:00",
    "text": "I will wait because I I think I will still have time to do it but um I don't think that this slide is actually a good slide for what we're talking about because I think what we're talking about is what do we do in general yeah okay good hacker yeah Erica squirrel um so I think it's trying to summarize what I think I hear people saying and especially Robert is we need a document which describes the RCs that we've already published and the rfcs we intend to publish in the period between now and we have a consensus document um that reflects a format which never had consensus but hence the Aziz nature of the story um and um so that's like the reflection um my suspicion is that trying to actually get consensus on those pieces will be very difficult because like I know people disagree with a bunch of them um and so we're gonna have to like um sort of like tease that apart which will be like a not trivial process um so whatever we so whatever we do I think we'll take some time to get to a document which has consensus um and I don't understand quite understand how we could publish this current document and then like Deltas with rfcs because like the pieces you're dealting against don't consensus that seems very confusing so um so I think like um again I'm not like um that does not take a position between RFC or not um which I think is a separate question um what I think is more relevant the question that should be an RFC is um it became clear to me in the meeting yesterday on the rsat meeting yesterday that there are some Edge conditions where um there's like disagreements potentially the tool on the document or things where the rsab will have to make short short decisions policy decisions about small pieces that might block publication in between now when this process is finished and so um um now um I guess my personal view is we try to keep that to a minimum but I don't think it's going to be zero and so we will need so whatever whatever we do we'll need some mechanism that allows us to that allows those changes to happen and to update the documents"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:50:01",
    "text": "um so that we don't end up with a situation yet like if we imagine we have an RFC um and uh um and that we published in our safe and then we discover you know that there's like a obvious error in the specification and it has to be repaired um and and that's like not just trivial doing Errata then that has to be published somehow so like again we have a document which describes what we're actually doing and so um we will need unfortunately some my point is a maintenance mechanism for this document even if we like say congratulations to all those is document everything because that was like that quite that simple and so um so I think that but that long change of reasoning I think um leads me to like maybe better to be an idea in RC but um um but I think I guess what I really wanted to say was I think we're going to need a maintenance mechanism or some kind of the document even though maintenance is well hopefully relatively small Lawrence yeah I think I agree with lots of what Echo and others have said so so I think we're focusing way too much on publishing rfcs especially if if so so those rfcs that are the as is are they are as its documents right they're like internal working documents that we write for ourselves to make sure we're all aligned right and and as long as that's the case they never need to see RFC publication frankly right they might for historic reasons maybe but the point is they're working documents here and and working on them gets us to a common ground that will then let us talk about the the next version of the thing which will actually and probably be in RFC and a bunch of us here have been pretty heavily um involved in Quake right which used a very GitHub driven approach with um working documents and and issues on which we called working group consensus before they then got merged into the sort of living document that was the quick specification which we occasionally snapshotted to a submitted ID right and and that process I think worked well for quickly it might work well for this year because it looks like we're going to have a whole bunch of individual"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:52:00",
    "text": "things that are in flux that need separate discussion and or Pawn resolution might then lead to a merge into the common agreed on working document right I think sort of it raises the issue of how comfortable we are with using quick very heavily but I think the the approach that quick used would work quite well for us hi Mike St Johns um I think we're starting to to hit the limits of what we can do with our season this particular piece of it it's sort of The Meta Meta Meta piece of it that we're dealing with here um we need we need a document that that authors can Implement can can Implement rfcs against we need a tracking of what the code base is doing at any given particular point in time and at some point in time those need to merge in some way shape or form and we need a history so that if somebody picks up an RFC 10 years down the line and sees tag foobar and they can't find a document that explains what tag Fubar is all about you know we've failed there so with respect to this I would actually support publication as a as built here's the trans hands-off Handover from the pre-race to the post rsce get that down and then figure out what we're going to do in this group with respect to the the cracking going forward and it may be that we actually do something that's more along the lines of a beta test model where we release the new things to a limited number of people we test them out before we then actually incorporate them into the whole system anyway I don't think that we can just say we"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:54:00",
    "text": "can't do rfcs or we have to wait 42 levels to we don't we have to do 42 different iterations of rfcs before we get to the final one so and just we we should have warned you ahead of time we're getting close to time agenda wise so we went and closed the queue um but we'll let it drain here John you're up but I do think it's important to somehow establish a starting point um which largely agrees with my suggestion I think uh of where of where we are now uh whether that's an RFC or some other sort of document and not certain I care but it's uh it's very important to be statement and and as part of the stability issue uh I would like to understand something which has never been revealed to me today which is the what the places which are storing copies of the RFC series on the basis that it proves their archival of Nature and accessibility think they agreed to are they storing PDF are they storing text are they storing them out if they're starting XML what's their tolerance of change and I think understanding that stuff unless we're going to drop yard today is very important I don't think we know thanks did you want to answer that yeah hi it's John Levine um we have two archiving agreements one is with the Swedish Library which was made so long ago that they are only archiving text but I expect that Alexis will talk to them the archive what what we are actually publishing the other is with the Computer History Museum and they're basically using rsync to Archive whatever it is we publish and they"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:56:00",
    "text": "understand that it's three formats or at least four now so the Computer History Museum is happy to replace the archival stuff that they're CA that they are storing with whatever we think the rfcs are today and then whatever we think they are tomorrow is that what you just said um at the time last time I talked to them that question hadn't come up I mean but I I can talk but you know it's like it's something worth addressing but documents that go through multiple versions even even very minor multiple versions are not unusual in the world and this should not be an insoluble problem it's not an insolutable problem but understanding whether it is possible for somebody to easily obtain a copy of an RFC as that RFC existed on such a particular date is different from being able to obtain a copy of whatever the iatf thinks the RFC is if that's changing and several comments which are made today many of the comments that we go to list say well we just changed them update them or replace them with the current format or whatever the issues are and and that's where the concern lies we need to be clear whatever it is we're doing so this is Pete Resnick um and asking from the floor I could formulate this as a chair question but it seemed easier to do it just as a participant I've noted in the chat room there's this distinction between how we publish what form of documents how many documents and when we publish um so do we need to publish an RFC now and then one later do we publish all at the same time so one of the questions that keeps coming into my head is for the as is document is there a need for that to be fixed at any particular time"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:58:03",
    "text": "documenting history so people can recreate what the current set of documents has as a syntax is important but I don't see that as needing to happen now is there a purpose for the as is document to be fixed now or do we have a deprecated things that happened over the years section in whatever policy document we come up with that expresses what we have consensus to go forward with foreign so Martin made the um strong suggestion that anything that we would do with the grammar would remain Backward Compatible if we accept that as a constraint then publishing the as implemented document immediately is far less important um if we were to decide and if we do going forward decide no we're just going to have a breaking change then at that point publishing what existed before the breaking change would be an important thing to do um with the constraint that we're going to try to maintain backward compatibility in the language definition then I think that a living document approach um as we're working is fine um I will be even happier if that was expected that it would get frequent small updates and that the code could become more fluid than it currently is that that helps me a lot just share"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:00:00",
    "text": "decision wise um and and if others have thoughts that are different which is there is a reason to publish now as a fixed Point even if we were to document this history in what our final view of what should be um I'd like to hear that foreign just like to follow on to the a comment that that Mike made um the idea that we would need something that somebody could refer to 10 years from now to pick up and and do something that would be the final product of whatever we write right and if we're still working on that 10 years from now I'm very very sad um the uh so the the just keep in mind that as we're whatever we do as we're going along that that mythical some large number of years in the future person has to be able to answer that question and if there is a you know an active process around a document that can be pointed to you to answer that question great um otherwise put down something in the fossil record good area you get the last comment for today on this topic yeah I'm actually not sure what it would do with the document anymore then I was beside that like I don't think it's worse to have this discarded any longer it's been a hard time on that but we need a conclusion um but I wanted to comment on some things about process that I heard um so like my expectation is not that we will ever reach the state where we would not be needed to do small changes right and we have a process for that unfortunately if even if you don't like it the process is that the rsap can decide on on things that need to be cited timely and then we have more time here to actually figure out what's the policy behind that right we have that process it's already there it was also a comment that we need to"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:02:00",
    "text": "have some documentation about what the current tools does that's also good it's also not for this group that's for the RPC to do this group could at maximum figure out like that there is a requirement to have this documentation right so we should should make sure we use a new process that we just created in the right way excellent thanks all right we will call that the end of this topic for the time being and Echo and I will try and come up with a conclusion to write for the list um all right let me bring the set of slides back up uh slides am I on now these aren't I yes Paul come step up to the uh the big mic don't jump on that really what's that trap door it's a little oh no no that's right trust me I just earlier I was doing this and I looked at the red one I was like oh God they're gonna get rid of me now um so this is going to be a bit awkward because this covers a lot of what we were talking about but in a different way so this is not going to make it any easier um what I'm talking about yeah so what I'm talking about here is assuming that whatever this draft that John has which describes how the tool works now is published or solidified somewhere we know that there's still work to do this proposal is and I'm sorry let me let me just give the reasons some of the things that are in the current document are known to be or possibly bad ideas things that really should be fixed before we do you know like we we just get up and walk away some of the things that were in 7991 were removed that we may want to put"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:04:01",
    "text": "back in they were removed for whatever reason we may want to put them back in um so we need to do something and I'm calling this temporarily 3.1 version 3.1 where as implemented you can think of as 3.05 or 3 x John I think you called it three plus plus something like that where this is beyond that next slide little picture time okay so um the bad ideas that are in there now some were introduced some some things in 7991 in the fullness of time we realize these were bad ideas they should not be done in the future some of them were things that were added during the implementation of 7991 with no Community review or consensus which we realize now those are bad things we don't want them there now next slide um and then again there's some things that we may want back that we look and we say for whatever reason they didn't make them into the implementation we would like that capability so we would like to add them in next slide but and this is what a lot of the mic line for the last half hour has been um anything we do here need you know the first thing is it needs to you know change in the tooling and that can be done that's really not a hard thing um but I believe from what a few people said and certainly what I have believed is someone who's looking at a chunk of XML should be able to tell how to process that chunk of XML if they're looking at the text or the HTML or the PDF they don't need to know how they got there"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:06:00",
    "text": "but if they're looking at the XML I think it would be useful if we have multiple ways of processing XML for somebody to say Ah that's the one could be the RFC could be the internet draft whatever next slide foreign and then we get to the question of archival I'm not going to try to answer it I want to make it clear though what I said here which I wrote before this is many people have very different views of what it means to be archival and they have strongly held views and we don't have consensus at all on that so I don't believe we should be doing anything that limits what that means now until there is a consensus for how how do we reach archival and as a great example that Martin you said that you expect all of the you know future changes to be Backward Compatible that's not a given and Robert unfortunately jumped on that and said okay that'll be easy if we do this and this but if we don't we have this whole other way of doing things so those kind of decisions need to be made explicitly before we do anything like what I'm suggesting here as a 3.1 right we've got the as is we've got the simple things that are pretty much straight out of what we expected from 7991 and then we have this whole other thing of you know what it would be nice if blah blah those can be done later I think what we should call or or we don't need we can call it whatever we want to think about as is and a 3.1 or something like that that is simply what we meant and what we would have meant if we had known that we you know weren't making mistakes publish that in the same way that we are publishing as is and then move forwards and I think that was it oh okay so that was the pro I'm sorry I just gave the proposed ways forward um and then"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:08:00",
    "text": "one way to do the 3.1 is to have an explicit set of differences and then go through one by one and say yes we want that no we don't want that for the no we don't want thats that are from 7991 we document that we say if you're reading this at the same time a 7991 we explicitly took this out and maybe even give a reason and the reason is not the implementer of as is decided they didn't like it it's a community this community or The Wider Community consensus find rough consensus and then say boomf and not even think about what is archival until we're done I'm sorry not even finalize obviously we're all thinking about archival not finalize so that's what I've got all right me up here I mean because it's not necessarily like I don't have any actual say I think it's almost better to have a mic line that's that's yeah that's fine excellent thanks yes thank you Paul uh Phil Europe yeah uh I don't see any real problem changing the XML format because uh you know how many people are actually editing in the HTML form XML format well well more than you a few hands went up behind you yeah I mean yes there are some but you know I I edit all my stuff in Word right if anybody who wants a Windows XML to RFC I've got one of those and you can use Mountain down as well uh so you know for me it's just tell me what the XML you want and I'll change my tooling and you know every I think everybody's using uh what's his name's uh carsten's uh till for markdown so uh you know you've only got two points and you'll get 70 of us along uh Jay"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:10:05",
    "text": "thanks um so Paul I'm slightly um confused by something two slides back um the thing about the version um we uh need to say in the next an adult and which grammar is used we have the version attribute of the RFC element the problem is that we only have one thing defined as three that we all know is actually 3.1 so it's not that the XML cannot do it it's that what the XML do does we do not have the right thing to point to if does that make sense yeah um and and to be clearer the definition in the RFC says that means 7991 we know that none of them are 7991 so we at least have to update the meaning of that somewhere and we have to figure out what we want to do later again 3.1 is what comes after as is implemented so if we do anything after as is implemented which I think many people want to we're then going to have at least two flags but the first flag has to say not 7991 but this thing over here and I don't know how we will do that and where we will do it in a way that someone looking just at the XML will be able to find it I I don't think it's that complicated because there is nothing implemented using 7991 so every RFC that has been published uses whatever the new stuff is so it's simply a question of redefining three to be what yes is the current position because nothing has ever been published yeah yes under three so so we need to redefine what that one what the current tag means and just to repeat what Paul just said do we need to redefine what the Tad means"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:12:02",
    "text": "uh thank you uh Julian you are up hi there um I have to say that I actually ignored and missed the fact that the answer is document is last call but I'm I wasn't as calm I'm not sure where that's done um but I'm 100 sure that if I actually have a look at it I will find quite a few things that are not correct so um this is a warning sign that uh if we do this uh seriously I'll have to actually review it and check it against all the bug reports that are opened against XML to RFC in the last six years and that will be quite time consuming Martin yeah I think Julian's right in in spirit but maybe not the right approach at this point given the size of the number of bugs that have happened it may be better to just look down the document and match them up to reality um I think the the notion that Paul has here on this slide is is kind of a little dangerous I think if you put a version 4 in the document uh a version 3 process it would refuse to process it and we probably don't want that because we want to retain some amount of backward compatibility as I talked about before so this idea that you have some way of identifying which tool to use is fragile and I don't think that really gives the the people who are producing XML documents as input to our process it doesn't do them any favors but I do think that Paul's overall approach is probably unfortunately despite the fact that it is so much work um the best approach that we have here which is to to look at what we have now to look at what we had then do a do a"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:14:01",
    "text": "diff go through each one of them and make sure that we want what we have now and and then commit to that I don't think we need an iotf last call or any of the other sort of rsab processes until we're certain that we want to engage with those processes but I do think we should periodically check in to see that we're not completely off the rails in that process and that's something that I think the chairs can probably work through for us uh Mike St John's again uh this is actually questions rather than comments um in the tool system when the rfcs are archived their their final process the last document is that do they include a pointer to the schema that's being used with respect to them they do not huh they have a version number in them yeah but no I mean there's actually there's actually meta XML to say this is the schema designed to render this particular thing okay so that let me finish okay the the key point is that the document that explains XML schema for humans isn't necessarily the document that we care about with respect to the archival storage piece of it so that's it so yeah yeah so so Mike the the thing that the documents contain at the moment is there is a comment added by XML to RFC that identifies its own version and transitively you can look up that version and find the exact schema that was used now you don't that that schema is is a machine processable thing it doesn't contain a description of the semantics of the fields and how it was interpreted but if you look at the code for that so it's there currently it's a little imperfect I guess but but it's pretty reliable I think yeah sure"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:16:01",
    "text": "the the comment here is that the old text versions the text version stood by themselves the XML versions have this other piece of knowledge that has to go along with it for the syntax and then the semantics or the third document of the you know here's what we mean by C ref for example right so Ecker yeah from the floor um so I just like about taking a position on sort of the exact thing that Paul suggested um it's important to recognize that there are two different standards for the Aziz document and this 3.1 document the server for the address document is as closely as possible or Flex what the tool actually does and um because the one thing we know with some level of certainty is the dot is it the is that the tool correctly process the XML documents that we've already published published um and so well I mean one version of the tool data which would developes in the first place um and um and the standard of um and the standard for the 3.1 things such as it is is do we actually like the stuff that's in this grammar as opposed to is this correct and so I think we do need some kind of process for we do some kind of process it sounds like from the Xena Martin and Julian for going through the as this document and confirming the belief that everything in there accurately reflects the tool um and I don't know if we it was called for that frankly um I don't think we probably do because like as far as I can tell by four people who actually you're like we're gonna do this work um um and again like I'm sure we'll find later some things where it's accurate we'll have to fix those but like the point is these accurate as possible um um so I'd like to get through that part as fast as we can and um and you know I think you know when I if I heard Martin and Julian say they were pretty happy and I thought it was accurate like I'd feel pretty good about that um um I'm not sure Hulse is like really going to do that I'm not um"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:18:01",
    "text": "um homosexual you said um um and I'm assuming John's already happened with others he wouldn't have you know because he just said so earlier um um and then I think you know and I think we do have to go through this process that some process the kind that Paul indicated of going through each Delta and and forming an opinion with like those dolls over or not um but then but I think the starting point ought to be like convincing ourselves to some level of certainty that this the current document is like is an accurate description in a non-normative sense foreign J I just want to go back to the schema and syntax comment earlier from Mike and things um when a an XML document is published schema no longer matters because you know at that point we make an explicit guarantee that we have validated that document against that schema that's it's the final product it's done it's there and when someone parses that they don't need the the schema to do that with they just parse it as XML that's the purpose of XML what you need is a unambiguous identifier to the human meaning of those XML elements and the attributes and things and that's the important bit that needs to be encoded inside the um inside the XML so that we know that when because in how many years time when people see a t in Brackets you know to tell them that means text because that's a relatively unique thing that we do okay or some of the other things so that's the bit that we need to make sure we do is maintain the a consistent semantics about the use of these elements and if there was one way I think that we would determine when we do a major change"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:20:02",
    "text": "version change from three to four it's when we break the semantic meaning of certain things so that that's a very clear indicator to people that that changes Paul you're up to that so one thing I didn't want to put in here much was to talk about four what I want to emphasize is that what I'm proposing here is just compare again 7991 there are lots of things that people want and for or or in something beyond that and I'm proposing that if when someone comes with a great idea that we all like we still say no not now hold that because if we start putting those in even though they're additive and it wouldn't change things like that we will never finish and we will start doing like what happens in every other freaking working group in the ietf where it's just like but I have this really good idea and people agree that it's really a good idea and then you never finish and by the time you do finish the fourth good idea actually con contradicted the second one and you didn't notice it so I want to emphasize that but to also to talk to what Jay just said even though the schema can be ignored we in however we did 7991 and Friends assumed that the schema and the semantics were intimately tied I don't want to see that break happen I want to see the scheme schema and the semantics in the same document that someone can look at and then see them breaking out the schema is technically possible but it will not help anybody in the future so two things from chair one we're going to close the mic line very soon because we're running out of time two if anybody um obviously hearing General positivity about Paul's proposal to do you know"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:22:01",
    "text": "serve a 3.1 that is kind of like a consensified version of three point of the current thing um if anybody would like to speak to Jumping directly to like a substantial remake of this it is not necessarily not compatible like Now's the Time to be in the microphone so people keep saying um they have concerns that the current as implemented draft is not accurate or even claiming that there's something wrong on the draft can we just create a design team and let those people do the work and actually figure out what we have foreign yeah I was actually thinking very much along the lines of miria but I was going to put a more a a finer point on it which is can we uh in order to get through this process uh is it possible to bring to bear some RPC resources as well as some tool teams resources so that we can we can start to to quickly close on the that 3.1 dock so that we can move things forward relatively quickly excuse me Paul uh uh sorry for the heart palpitations there mark so I apologize I had a conflicting meeting so I missed most of this um but I do think people were saying that I may have had positions and I want to clarify that I I don't have a problem with publishing and as is you know as it's implemented document I think that's probably a useful and necessary thing because right now the state of things is pretty bad what I have a problem with is if that document is is portrayed as something that is not it it is not the process you know the the result of a consensus process it's not supported by multiple tools it's you know the state of the"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:24:01",
    "text": "tools the state of where we are now what we're publishing now and it should be a pinpoint in time and I'd like the title and and the framing the document to reflect that as long as we do that I'm cool what I really don't want to happen is is to use people to use that publication as an excuse to say oh well we can't consider this or or we're done now or we're not interested in this I think we do need to have a separate conversation I I don't think you know we can do more than one thing at a time we can gather issues on and have a discussion in the background of what else we might do in the future it just shouldn't impact this document this should be a relatively mechanical thing make sense yeah I think some of what you said might be Obe from what was discussed earlier um but as I said before I think Ecker and I need to kind of put our heads together and summarize the issues that we heard come out of this after John uh gets the minutes out but yes I I what you said makes sense there's a couple of bits that I think probably everybody agrees to now that didn't maybe I'm more than happy to be agreed with put that on the record Robert you get the last words of the day other than us you know if I don't blow anything up um I have to vehemently disagree with a strong point that Paul made at the mic a moment ago which is the no we're not going to consider any new things until we get all the way to the 3-1 all right that's untenable we just cannot do that we have we have maybe you weren't here at the beginning of the meeting I'll Pony up the the question of the yes thank you of this change to the way we represent names that I'm talking about that does not need to sit for years until we get to 3-1 and it may take years for us to get to 3-1 so we will have things that need to move"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:26:02",
    "text": "forward clarifying question when you say we will have names is that changing the um syntax the semantics or the output generated probably all three oh I didn't realize it would actually change the first two what do so you feel like we need a change to the syntax to deal with names the way you want we probably do yes then yeah okay I would say put it off I hear that you say don't yeah and by the way I like yes lots of us want that so you may have changed my mind about it okay um we are a few minutes till end of time so plan of action here a lot was said here that I think needs to be uh uh analyzed and down to what points people were making so John will put out his notes we'll get those out on the list please make corrections as you see appropriate we'll finalize some minutes but we'll also come up with sort of a an issue summary I think so that if anybody disagrees with our analysis of the issues they can give a Yelp and then we'll try and start making some calls on the list for ways forward this was incredibly enlightening and helpful to me so uh it crystallized a bunch of issues uh anything else any other business since we do have three minutes left oh okay yeah that's a good point okay yeah I think so too okay but you"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:28:00",
    "text": "can go meet her later I I did ask uh so on the list I no I guess I asked to the chairs and I and I'll ask can we consider the tempo in which we're working um I I think we you know you hear Robert's desire to move forward I think my desire to help you know if if we want to do this as is to try and get this closed I I I'd ask as a stream manager I'd ask that we take a certain amount of alacrity towards how we're doing things and if it means interims it means interims but let's not you know let's try and Advance work I think everybody here has a lot of pent up energy and I don't want to lose that energy in terms of of the you know waiting for months and months on analysis so let's figure out uh some some modes of work that that where we can rapidly move forward um I won't get into details as to how I don't even know what they are but I'd ask the chairs to take that off no I I appreciate that and um you know my schedule has been funky prior to this um and after my holiday next week I I've got times so I will commit to getting together the summary of this uh week after next and um then after a little bit of discussion on the list let's figure out if we need an interim we're going to have in just a few weeks uh probably close to a month where assorted people disappear from Earth um for assorted holiday thing so uh but I will try and give it a hard kick myself yeah thanks Pete just to follow up and also to consider what resources you need right what resources we need whether Alexis can help in this regard um Robert what resources you either need or can bring to bear in order to help"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:30:02",
    "text": "move us to conclude that as is as quickly as possible I don't want to stalling on on that for too long so as much as we can identify what we need right and I mean part of this I mean as you describe conclude the as is I will take that as conclude the as is discussion because what I'm not clear on is after this discussion whether people have decided that they need a particular document a particular place to document some stuff that will come out in an RFC eventually what the result is that people actually desire I think once we all come to that conclusion and I think we can do that relatively quickly uh and in parallel exactly and then we can uh figure out what next steps to move forward speed and flexibility because if we don't have that we might end up in situations where things escalate from the RPC side right for example on names right what if we have an author it refuses a document to be published with what they consider an incorrect name for them but that would then require the rsap to take action and punt it and it would make it complicated so speed and flexibility will save us from a lot of these pains so that was another question that I had now we're one minute over which is it do we have some mechanism for this group to deal with something that is less than an emergency that are that rsab just has to deal with um but we can do some sort of short Community Last Call on a decision needs to be made here and I don't know what the answer to that is I think the answer is no we don't set up anything about our step to take responsibility on the on the emergency thing and everything that isn't an emergency by default yours but and then you decide what you prioritize but right yeah I I as I read 9280 and"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:32:03",
    "text": "someone contradiction if I'm wrong the rule is that we'd have to publish like an RFC um and maybe I think I think if the rsat finds us something to make a lot of math decisions that may be ratified that really should be ratified by us then what the Rev 9280 to make that possible okay just to add it's not emergency or non-emergency it's is there something in the current policy the current rfcs that needs interpreting you know so I I don't believe the rsap has the ability to add a new element for example that's not interpreting a policy and so some stuff just falls in the Gap in that it could be urgent and require something new and therefore it has to follow the rswg process even if that's going to take some time okay all right with that off to get a snack I think it's not or at least coffee yeah thank you all thank you yes sir"
  }
]
