[
  {
    "startTime": "00:00:05",
    "text": "I\u0027d like to deny that in fact less didn\u0027t update his passport he was five and a half months or something and just for everyone else\u0027s sake so the only less of her has to suffer this don\u0027t do that have your passport more than six months until he got turned around that\u0027s crazy yeah yeah you wonder what the expiration dates for that right I\u0027ll say one more thing also I\u0027m in the etherpad but it\u0027d be good if some other people joined as well the materials page they know I\u0027m gonna stretch the blue sheets going around the probably beat country subscribers I know Lita usually comes in I don\u0027t I got to it it is it off the agenda it just media material I got it off okay we got everybody would expect me so less is normally there\u0027s no taker for OSPF and AC is normally the note taker for eyes is so we need a new note taker minutes taker who would like to take minutes please help no one one more reason for not running a joint meeting is that we can\u0027t take each other\u0027s in minutes Chris oh okay we\u0027ve got a minute ticket what is that Ian okay neither of us can see all right well so I think we\u0027ve got an agenda up here the the way we were gonna run it is we\u0027re gonna do working group updates for "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:03:05",
    "text": "both working groups one after the other and then we\u0027ll get into the presentations they saw that we just did the two OSPF and two eius eius there were some thoughts oh and if it\u0027s not obvious or running a joint meeting i Esiason ospf this time um everybody should have been receiving mail maybe that you didn\u0027t receive before because the mailing lists the mailing lists were both combined the eye size and all SPF mailing lists the membership lists were and we you know if we had a lot more maybe we\u0027d mix it up the idea here is to try to get maybe some cross-pollination between the two very similar groups it\u0027s also to reduce the replication that we were seeing with some of the segments routing stuff and you know in the past there hasn\u0027t been as much replication although it seemed like there might have been there wasn\u0027t there\u0027s been more lately so a Leo who\u0027s not here has been pushing hard for this I think I don\u0027t know about AC I\u0027m I\u0027m sort of either way kind of I I originally didn\u0027t like the idea now I\u0027m like okay if it has to be I there are I think there are reasons not to do it there I think it can waste people\u0027s time you know there\u0027s people like gmpls I don\u0027t know there\u0027s there\u0027s there\u0027s different groups of people that are not interested in both routing protocols so that\u0027s a big reason I think not to do it all so I don\u0027t know about you AC I haven\u0027t really it hasn\u0027t made me paid more attention to OSPF and I started thinking when AC missed his plane what would happen if I had to run the group myself right like is it too much work to do for two people I don\u0027t know yeah so I don\u0027t know if you have any thoughts on that about a year ago the first time they asked us I was really really against this but now in OSPF for OSPF III we have the extended lsas and we have the prefix link attribute LSA for all SPF v2 and we have the OSPF router information L SAS we kind of opened it up for general purpose use it\u0027s not just protocol usage so we\u0027re basically there\u0027s going to be optimizations like you saw in the data center for for eius eius for different protocols in different ways of doing things but as far as you know satisfying requirements for information there\u0027s gonna be a lot of similarities so I\u0027m I\u0027m not saying I\u0027m all for it but I\u0027m less against it then I was in the past I think it might work work now okay okay yeah so anybody have any thoughts on that before we start the meeting yeah I\u0027m all for it I think it\u0027s a good idea and I think the benefits will will show up long term more I mean it\u0027s difficult to say you "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:06:06",
    "text": "know in six months they\u0027ll be solid benefits but over two years I think it\u0027ll be an obviously good idea you think the cross like the cross-pollination and and just just the lack of you know replication of work unnecessarily and and things will then start to align better like a C\u0027s project for you know allowing alignment will now it\u0027ll be sort of obvious that hey we don\u0027t need two ways of doing this it\u0027s we can align this without any real negative impact and even the development will be happier with with better alignment of the way it\u0027s done okay that was Chris Bowers okay all right well we\u0027ll get started I\u0027ll start with your yeah it is this I glory pacifism the little little thing there we are next slide oh I don\u0027t have it we have an na RFC since the last IETF we do have this one the tunnel end caps is all done but it\u0027s waiting on RFC Q on a reference to IDR tunnel attributes so hopefully the issues without and iidr will be resolved and we\u0027ll get that there\u0027s there\u0027s actually a lot of IDR drafts that reference that too so I\u0027m hoping hoping that gets published soon active working group documents whoa oh I think it is I think it\u0027s given me only a couple seconds they just go to this one okay we have OSPF be two segments around it in extensions we\u0027ve gone through a number of comments from Illya and it\u0027s addressed and we had a discussion on this registry what what we\u0027re going to do with algorithm we decide to have a common IGP algorithm registry and we\u0027re going to also have a higher-level registry category right now we have OSPF parameters and eius eius parameters "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:09:07",
    "text": "we\u0027re gonna have a higher level category for IGP cunt parameters and then as a sub registry of that this new one anyway and I see Elias she\u0027s the one who\u0027s got to give it to go ahead and and say that all her comments are resolved yeah it\u0027s working out extended LSAs we just completed a working group last call Peter senic has agreed to be document shepherd so we\u0027re gonna get the Shepards report and send it to alia for her comments soon as you know we have a couple implementations Nokia and why away at this one link overload that\u0027s my next one I think we\u0027re gonna work in group last call the next version of this one change we made or we\u0027re gonna make is we\u0027re going to put the reference into extended LSA is it one time we weren\u0027t putting the references into expended LSA so we didn\u0027t know when we get that done we\u0027re saying this will be handled in our future document we don\u0027t have to do that anymore since I that\u0027s gonna be a real priority to get extended LSA is published get this one work class called there\u0027s also be a fee to H bit this comes along every like five years I think we had to just finish it this is the this is the one for you do stub router support where you absolutely do not use it as a transit rather than just discouraging transit with a the highest possible link neck metric MSE single aim is is the H but where did the H come from host now there\u0027s a Rob there\u0027s a router bit and a host bit so I mean it\u0027s it\u0027s hard to come up with unique names for bits yeah that was wasn\u0027t that the ice ice it was the hippity bit I don\u0027t know yeah okay well we already have the router bit so I think it I don\u0027t know if it comes from almost bfd3 I could look to see what it was I can\u0027t remember MSD signaling that\u0027s maximum segment death I think this one\u0027s ready but I\u0027m waiting for Jeff and the other Jeff tensor and other offers to request it the yang model I\u0027ve requested a early review of this I\u0027m an offer on this one as well this OSPF yang model it\u0027s quite even with the base capabilities we still got we still we have a lot of we had a design team with people for most of the major vendors and I think we ended up with all a lot of features in the base and so it\u0027s a fairly big model even without SR and some other things so are you did you say you\u0027re an author on that yes but you\u0027re not on the ISS right I am as an ice ice Oh okay so so we did get an why I think ran a thing against the two or no he did one hit one it was an MDA the OSPF is ready and ice ice is not yes do you have any update on the "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:12:09",
    "text": "ice ice yeah I guess Stefan is in there Stefan is is in here he has it we can we can do that I think it\u0027s not that much work I don\u0027t know do we have that one in and get repository is is it should we\u0027ve just been handing around changes yeah so we\u0027ll I mean yeah we could do align the two yeah okay okay I don\u0027t know I think I saw I saw in routing working group and I saw some updates on on the base MRT and so I\u0027m kind of waiting for that Chris do you have any comments on MST whether you\u0027re gonna request work in the MRT ever - yeah not MST we do yeah we do have remote people\u0027s yeah well actually quite a few Chris Powers juniper this will mean to be modified now that the timer sync parameter stuff has been taken out of it and made is just a common reusable attribute in an Archie GW draft yep so it\u0027ll need to be modified okay and this one\u0027s kind of set idle the OSPF cross te this is so simple this is just your te you\u0027re able to specify endpoints or either OSPF protocol you know I I PV for ipv6 endpoints in either of the te l SAS OSPF v3 say it hasn\u0027t been a priority to do this yet I think we should once we get OSPF extended LSAs and hopefully somebody will implement this I think I think I guess I guess I guess Nokia and while we have also implemented those pop3 segments routing so we should push that along te attribute reuse lots of discussion is now working group document OSPF ll s interface ID we have an update today and sr yang model we broke out the for one thing no SPF yang mata was so big and we broke out SR because sr seems to be continued to change even after though SPF you know regular OSPF model since the NDMA change the regular OSPF yang model has been pretty stable expired I\u0027m hoping we get this a entropy label one back because we spent a lot of time talking about how it should be I think this is Stefan\u0027s too isn\u0027t it there\u0027s this is the entropy label OSPF entropy label signaling that\u0027s your that\u0027s your draft right oh you\u0027re not in "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:15:10",
    "text": "here okay okay maybe I\u0027ll send an email to the offers see if I can get asked what the deal is because I think I like to get that one done especially now that we agreed on all the meaning all the semantics and what we\u0027re advertising so Stefan home or maybe we just need to ensure that the last Co diamond in MPLS which succeeded okay here yes yes and flowspec I\u0027m gonna just let actually I\u0027m an offer on this one I asked the other offers said they had a use case for this and they were going to implement this I we its they\u0027ve kind of lost interest in it I\u0027m not going to do flows back and OSPF unless there\u0027s somebody who\u0027s gonna use it so we\u0027ll just let that one die datacenter Bob these are these by other working group I mean documents in other working groups not working group documents that I didn\u0027t cover we have beer I I know I saw not too many people reviewed the beer draft instead of me I\u0027d encourage others I think it\u0027s maybe it\u0027s I think it\u0027s gone to the ad already though isn\u0027t it hasn\u0027t it oh SPF beer in draft I don\u0027t think it\u0027s aa really honest I don\u0027t think it\u0027s in my queue yet but I\u0027m expecting it very very very soon so and certainly to be progressing well before next IETF so feedback soon would be ideal same for the ISS one there\u0027s only one other one I was gonna ask you about this one we\u0027re waiting on you to verify that your comments are addressed actually no we are waiting for Alvaro to finish up on the segment routing documents coming out of spring so that we could send them to the TSG as a bundle unfortunately is last one hasn\u0027t made that timeline so that\u0027s annoying but I am expecting to put the OSPF one on the telly chat either this time our next time oh okay great excellent okay that\u0027s it we can that\u0027s on my side oh yeah that that\u0027s really the only one that I think you needed to see for sure of the rest weren\u0027t that or just business as usual on the documents okay I can do the next row yeah you got your sorry a PDF we didn\u0027t do it no well did we everyone "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:18:11",
    "text": "no one\u0027s left the room yet so I\u0027m only me and AC have talked well Chris did too but uh no well I think I\u0027m supposed to read out the boldface stuff start participating with the ITF you agree that I give processing policies that you are aware that any kind of contribution something do I really have to read this it\u0027s covered by patents or patent application once this goes back and not participate in the discussion you understand that meeting might be recorder broadcast it is being recorded and broadcast photographed and publicly archived all those things are true so any and further information you can see the list there you can find the slides online to look at this later peruse its beauty we already did a gender fashion so okay so so we have to last call documents uh actually we had one until about 4:00 this morning and then I last called the reverse metric so that\u0027s pretty cool that one\u0027s been around for a while I think everyone\u0027s had a really good chance to look at it so I don\u0027t anticipate any problems with that the other the other draft is the eyes eye segment routing which was just mentioned um it was just updated I don\u0027t know is I don\u0027t actually know if that\u0027s all that was is that the last change to the document that we expect so when you say it was just updated you mean in June June yeah yeah yeah okay so when the update was made in June there were a lot of changes made related to e ro s right I pointed out that something was removed which wasn\u0027t that I don\u0027t agree with removing and I didn\u0027t get any technical objections to putting that back in there\u0027s been no update so it would be good to see what what people think the current version of the draft is well right so you did it does the author group have a a working draft that they could publish should we know what the current state of revisions is so I thought that they were gonna put binding CID back in I was pretty sure yeah I thought it was back in so so if you go back to my message from say June 30th this you know what it might be they might have republish this because I when I said latest I didn\u0027t think it was that old okay it was there one published in October maybe so so no no okay yeah I mean I just checked this before okay coming over here and I did notice that it looked like two things were removed er oh and one other thing yeah the latest version is June 19th and so yeah okay it would be good just so I don\u0027t "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:21:12",
    "text": "have to keep this on my to-do list right and you know we don\u0027t have to is there any and you don\u0027t know there\u0027s no objection to actually putting it back it would maybe remove by mistake okay all right well then yeah that\u0027s what we need to do right let\u0027s get a new version published yes sir then we\u0027re all on the same page about what the current document is yeah well I think technically the current document is whatever is published right which sounds like it\u0027s lacking yes yes the there was discussion in the OSPF case so Jeff had a question what about OSPF I think yes so the remote era was caused by ali-a questioning his ability of it\u0027s right there no implementation no one\u0027s using it in this is yes and there was nothing described yeah so I asked the de or I questioned why the ero pieces were in the document because they did not relate to any work that happened in the spring working group and they said oh yeah you could do this stuff but it was like wow you can you could spew these bits flooding right you can\u0027t it had no information when you might do so what the architecture or semantics and handling of that information was and obviously we\u0027re not supposed to be defining specification you know mechanisms in the iGPS that aren\u0027t requested from the spring documents the fact that the authors happen to be the same does cut down on the potential for interworking refraction but it\u0027s still not appropriate so that was my question so we the whole time in like per second so so you\u0027ve got the OSPF version in your queue or something and are we and now Chris tells me that we\u0027re still figuring the ice ice went out so now I\u0027d like are we aligned here that is my question I had gone I had tried to skim very briefly through the OSPF one looking for bindings in and didn\u0027t remember it one of the reasons I haven\u0027t put it on the Taylor chat you had as I wanted to double-check that but I would like to be really sure that they\u0027re both aligned and I\u0027d like to get the bloody things done so the fact that authors are not responsive and updating the document in five months is not an indication of deep activeness even though we all know the stuff is out there being implemented and deployed and the industry is kind of excited about it it would be really nice to get it like done through the IETF unless we enjoy the conversations about how the IETF is to slow and becoming irrelevant I mean if you enjoy those then we can have that but otherwise drew the bloody work please there\u0027s some "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:24:13",
    "text": "semantical difference in the way binding CT used an SPF NSS and so Chris are you unhappy with ear or removal or what is actually run happy about this is the most exciting document status of the so Chris Chris Bauer\u0027s again it was very I was very clear in the in the email just for on June 30th about a particular sub T L V in the eius eius bind s are binding TLP I don\u0027t know if I got the exact lingo right but something along those lines and that\u0027s needed in order to support an implemented application for context using these these labels for context mirroring so we\u0027re okay with removing it from OSPF however well so that\u0027s a separate issue for Jeff to take up as far as I\u0027m I\u0027m concerned for this particular issue about basically invalidating a you know up until draft thirteen a standardized use of this we\u0027re okay with removing it from OSPF and whatever\u0027s going on in OSPF I believe draw that you\u0027ve looked at that and that\u0027s that\u0027s fine it\u0027s the ice is draft which removes something which we don\u0027t agree I mean we unless there was a good reason I think we think they should should be the same I we had this discussion on those bf lists okay yeah and the reason they are not is because with is is the usage for context mirroring is already done but it would be better protocol specification to have a specific TLB for context mirroring rather than just I say the binding said okay so there is a good reason now gonna have them aligned and though just practical to say okay we\u0027ll follow this okay back to SPF I still think it was partially misunderstanding removing complete binding seats rather than just zero but given the document it\u0027s in quite advanced state and I think we discussed with AC bindings it could be published just very small or if see next to it just bring it back there at least two use cases where bindings it could be used the optical use case and the sub body I would say - III think we need to use cases documented - because that was one reason we took it out nobody was using it didn\u0027t allow liquor Cisco so on the OSPF whatever usage of bindings it was there which is basically the ero they are the underlying TL which they are not applicable or not used anymore so there was no need to retain empty container which is what the binding said would have been and that\u0027s the reason we "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:27:14",
    "text": "have removed it and there is really no push or to do that now in the spec so we should take okay no you know I we discussed it and I think we are going to do it in a separate draft yes so I think now I\u0027m going to remove them from ice is because we have legacy use and we are going to remove them for most bf because we\u0027re going to publish in you a new draft which covers that that new application that\u0027s good yeah thanks juniper Networks so the binding said binding TL we from OSPF right now there are no implementations nobody objected to removing of this and of course it will be useful for certain use cases like context mirroring and such but then we decided there\u0027s no need to block progress of OSPF a segment routing document for this and we will write a separate document with its very specific use cases and describing how it\u0027s going to be used cool so so I missed this should I address both the use cases in one and then no III mean I think referring to the uses cases and how it\u0027s used is important because it\u0027s because it\u0027s such it\u0027s such an abstraction right so having some in about these casts so it\u0027d be good and we could a few in sharra allow collaborated well better one documents always better than two okay so backing up I miss this we have a document that\u0027s miss raft on that segment routing of LT bundles draft that that one\u0027s over one IETF cycle now in Miss wrap so yes it would be good to get the segment rotting one out we have an adoption call for the advertising TV protocols the enablement Draft as it were I can sort of give an update on that I have another slot though later so I\u0027ll just talk about it when we get to the discussion because there\u0027s been some there\u0027s been support for and against the adoption so we\u0027ll talk about that later oops wow this is really super height sensitive okay so we have a new working group document that was the other half of that controversial thing the the TE AppData draft has been adopted and we have a new version of that and a that\u0027s being presented that\u0027s the other "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:30:15",
    "text": "president to one of the two presentations we have some updates the ice ice as I mentioned earlier the ice is benoit\u0027s called out that the ice ice yang model does not is not an MDA compliant it should be it\u0027s going to be AC service so that\u0027s great existing we have the other president presented the presentation is on this new individual document a segment rounded flex algorithm we have a bunch of updated individual Docs I haven\u0027t even read all of these I must be honest the Baker Baker one is interesting to call out here though because that one was actually in an adoption call almost a year ago and then it sort of went dormant and David lamp litter I think I pronounced his name wrong but just updated it so that\u0027s how it got into that and I think there\u0027s a new push on to sort of visit this work so those the Flexi I\u0027m not sure the other to our data center related they\u0027re just sitting there but they they actually were talked about in the data center that happened on Wednesday and there\u0027s a docket of the beer ice ice extensions is actually waiting for right up now in the beer working good it gots it okay this this is very new work we got in a conversation Sammy approached me in LM Taco Sammy BJ and anchor about some cases they found where you could converge faster so it\u0027s it\u0027s this is very early on and what we what and I read about these two scenarios where grace will restart wasn\u0027t converging you know was waiting the entire gray center bolt before converging in the conversation with Vijay and anchor we decided went back and forth a little bit one of them is when you have no "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:33:17",
    "text": "neighbors on an interface in other words it\u0027s a stuff interface in an area and you never receive your pre restart LSA to check against so in that case it\u0027ll you know if you just follow the spec it will prevent you from converging I mean it well it\u0027ll won\u0027t converge and you\u0027ll wait the entire grace interval which the default I believe is 180 seconds so what this enhancement would do is if you have an interface you don\u0027t receive any OSPF packets you would us within the dead interval you\u0027d assume okay this is a stuff interface and you haven\u0027t gotten the pre l pre restart LSA any other interfaces you would just say okay this this area is converged now what we\u0027re talking about now and this were kind of early on is making this a more general thing where if you have a number of triggers and you don\u0027t get your pre restart LSA at all within an area then you would assume that area is merged what that means is even though you\u0027re getting OSPF packets on some of these interfaces you didn\u0027t have any full of Jason sees you don\u0027t have any routes or anything so you have converged in that area so we haven\u0027t changed it but I\u0027d like I\u0027d like to make it a little bit more generalized and handle like cases where you had a neighbor but for some reason you didn\u0027t form an adjacency or you were in the process of bringing up an adjacency or you know or a couple of the other situations certain cases 50 other router is really busy with something it may not be sending you I mean how do you decide what\u0027s the timer use the hello a lot of timer that\u0027s why that\u0027s why yeah for that for the other one we need more thinking because it could take longer than the dead interval to do the to get I think we\u0027d have to do something like the dead end or plus yeah there\u0027s no there there\u0027s no there\u0027s no routers it should be used because you might get false positives right yes yes we have we will I have some ideas on this kind of like the thing about when you can get rid of LSAs that are maxed aged you never get rid of them and till you don\u0027t have any neighbors in exchange state so you could use some rule we haven\u0027t we haven\u0027t gone through I haven\u0027t talked to the co-authors enough to generalize this case because anything if you use the time or anything less than that interval then that\u0027s no I wouldn\u0027t use less than general the problem is not waiting that interval it\u0027s waiting the grace interval which is 180 which is yeah I think so good thanks "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:36:17",
    "text": "and the second one is the situation where you have multi you know most people although the the the two RFC\u0027s the OSPF and v2 and oh is 53 grace for restart both say that you should wait that you should terminate graceful restart there\u0027s any topological topological changes most people default and every implementation either you defaults and not doing strict LSA checking well in this case where you\u0027re not doing strict al is a checking this this this and this this would we\u0027ll have some more discussion on this you would still terminate grace for restart if there were more than one router its restarting at the same time because there are situations where you can have an inconsistent data plane and that\u0027s it right now this is just an informational draft I don\u0027t know if anybody thinks of other things that were missed from the other from the original OSPF graceful restart drafts that would be good as well thanks Janna and and we\u0027re not ready to ask for working with option yet we\u0027re kind of still discussing these things no that\u0027s remember that remember the next one good morning so this is an update yeah good morning so this is a quick update on LLS draft LS interface ID draft oops just a quick update it\u0027s actually a very simple simple extension and that\u0027s really using the LLS to send an interface ID this is already there this similar mechanism is already there in OSP of v3 and eyesize and we are you know proposing to do similar thing for OSP of v2 there there were some concerns raised previously so there is no backward compatibility details added before the last IETF that is with RFC "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:39:19",
    "text": "4203 we also have implementations available they have been done using experimental code points currently there are really no changes in the document no other reviews or comments that we have received on it since the last ITF what we are asking for is really early and allocation code points because we have implementations today with experimental and we\u0027d also like to request working group last call okay yeah I\u0027ll say I was just gonna say does anybody have a reason why we shouldn\u0027t request I ana early allocation okay we\u0027ll do that first I mean trying gets a little more discussion maybe we\u0027ve had enough discussion but there\u0027s a number of other ones the reason I wouldn\u0027t work last call I\u0027m really trying to get some of these this older work done first but after after that this would be this would be in the queue of ones we\u0027re gonna try and get through the process yeah thanks so I think the IANA allocation would really help us go forward yes you let a firearm all yes yes okay so fact is is doing the Flexi Bucks are mean the flexible Shradha this is how I got into trouble last night back here good morning I\u0027m going to talk about the flexible algorithm definitions in a couple of AI ATF\u0027s ago we presented separating routing planes and the solution we used was to use the algorithm field in the segment routing seed advertisements and advertise "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:42:20",
    "text": "separate sets for each algorithm and then use it to separate routing planes so this is an extension and this this has the generic application where we are trying to address multiple use cases using a similar mechanism so we will see what problem space we are trying to address so we need ability to create different paths in IGP using different metric types like geometric or extended te metric separating routing planes is one of the use cases and another use case is to create constraint based path in AGP this is this is like you you can use constraint based paths within IGP without having to use any other different other signaling protocol like RSVP so the high-level solution is to advertise prefix it\u0027s based on algorithms so this algorithms the specific algorithms could follow different metric types to construct paths for example it could you could use te metric or you could use extended te metric so algorithm space is divided into two separate parts one is standard based which is which will have Ayana allocated and standard defined algorithms and then the second one is 128 to 255 which is user defined so user can define his own algorithms and then on every node configure the same algorithm and use it for advertising sits as well as computing paths so in user-defined algorithms it is necessary that all routers must consistently define these user-defined algorithms so to make sure that in case there is a configuration mistake there\u0027s a possibility of loops in the network so to prevent that there is a new TLV that is defined which is called flexible algorithm definition TLV so there are two use cases uses of this tlv1 you can every node can advertise this sub TLV and then every other node in the domain can compare the definitions and then decide if there is a conflict there\u0027s another use case where it is advertised as a top-level TLV where where a central controller tells all the nodes in the network to use this definition for this particular algorithm ID so in the second case that can be definitions on the local node or not or they may not be definitions so the definition of the "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:45:21",
    "text": "flexible algorithm definition TLV looks like this as shown so this can appear either as sub TLV of router capability TLV so this is the case where it\u0027s the first use where every node advertises what its definition is how is it for the user to find algorithms how is it identified in the sub Joey\u0027s I read the draft right I can\u0027t remember is it a string or like like let\u0027s say you pick some user-defined tio code point for an algorithm like like whatever in that range yeah yeah yeah how do you know that a hundred means the same things on all the guys advertising is that is that something that\u0027s up to the administrator of the domain yeah when it is used as a so this sub theory as a router capability TLV is for advertising what I have configured on my node and then when it goes on the other node Perce whether the metric pipe is same let\u0027s yell Gordon find one 130 is configured on my node and it says I use P metric as the metric tie for this algorithm and then I can also have sub t alvie\u0027s where we can define constraints and then this is advertised in this sub t alveolar capability as my capability that this is the definition on my router and then when other node receives this he is going to compare whether the metric type is the same and then the we a lot of time so is this is this giving a sort of a two-dimensional aspect to the earlier value you discussed the user defined values so you\u0027re getting one value earlier and then this is sort of saying it\u0027s this metric and this algorithm no it\u0027s just giving you a flexibility of defining not making it standardized like I can say one thirty in certain network can say 130 is metric the T matrix some certain other domain like certain other networks can use 130 which metric type as extended te matrix and constraints could be different so so but it\u0027s not talking about different algorithms also just talking about the metric it is different Alvin so you can have 130 as with T metric 131 as so yeah so - it\u0027s two-dimensional okay I don\u0027t know what you mean by two-dimensional but you can vary the metric type that it uses and you can vary the algorithm it\u0027s not only metric type you can also vary the constraints so there is also sub t lv for constraints so like 130 can say exclude red links whereas 131 can say say metric type and 131 can say exclude blue links so I don\u0027t know if you can call it as two-dimensional but if it\u0027s a flexibility - you know I mean as the point is it is the perceived need that it\u0027s just too hard to standardize this "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:48:22",
    "text": "stuff so we need to be it you know we can move faster we need this because constraints you can\u0027t really standardize right like extrude read can I really standardize it right absolute hurry go yeah so this is the sub TLV of floral capability TL we wear our outer advertisers it\u0027s definition it\u0027s its configuration and here are the details so if there\u0027s an algorithm ID and this metric type right now only these three metric types SPF or externality metric and T metric only three values are supported right now we could extend it as in then there is a lead and then there are also sub T Elvis sub T Elvis we\u0027ll see later in the later slide they are mainly used for defining the constraints hi this is drew from who are we can you go back to the previously yeah so one thing when I was reading quickly going through the document that something I realized that in Pisa we have done like objective functions and we have a way to identify the metric type so I would say that if you could refer like instead of redefining those things because as you are saying constraints how do you optimize those things have been there in piece up for a while so maybe you could refer so what do we do when there is a conflict so let\u0027s say our author advertises it\u0027s a flexible algorithm definition TLV on the other router and it receives and compares this algorithm ID with the with with other routers and there is a conflict then it should not it must not compute an install path for that algorithm and it\u0027s all should also stop advertising support for that algorithm that this is to prevent loops so in case of configuration mistakes like on one router you say 100 is excluded whereas on the other router you say 100 is exclude blue than you you flag this and then you don\u0027t compute paths for this so we only were from quraían isn\u0027t that bit heavy-handed so one misconfigure a truther can mess up your whole area so perhaps you could just explore yeah the part the router which detects the conflict will stop computing for this Algar see the basically the idea is to prevent loops and mishandling right I mean what if one router does some mistake this it\u0027s it\u0027s SPF computation right and everything can go wrong if one router doesn\u0027t this definition mean that every route that will stop advertising this algorithm permanently it this is typical what we do and we can have a loop we revert to "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:51:24",
    "text": "the based behavior I mean if this isn\u0027t new for this trap yes basically right if you don\u0027t have path through this particular algorithm you could still fall back to your normal IGP but then putting traffic on this and looping is his worst case right or you could try to calculate only across those nodes that said the same definition well can you state your name and affiliation I I didn\u0027t catch it either yes so we\u0027ll Holly worry quraían cisco III agree with this proposal I think it\u0027s better to stop the algorithm and fall to the base then try to you know detect and you know avoid nodes and things like that see the issue with just detecting the mistake with one router so you so there\u0027s a router which is advertising you have to compare your your configuration with every other router and you don\u0027t really know which all routers have you have this conflict with right so whenever you you you don\u0027t know whether you are right or you are wrong right so so the moment you receive you find something flicked and you just stop it and then the other router also finds the conflict and he will stop it so it\u0027s the same I mean even if you say when I recognize a conflict I only stop every router is recognizing this conflict right and then because he doesn\u0027t know the router who is recognizing doesn\u0027t know well I\u0027m right or I\u0027m wrong there\u0027s no other way I mean it\u0027s not like we don\u0027t need to hyper optimize for the situation right we\u0027re just detecting a miss configuration if you\u0027re an operator you\u0027re gonna get an alarm somewhere that you\u0027ve got this Miss configuration and you\u0027re gonna fix it they\u0027re not subdial visa not leaked across levels but we are going to say we say that algorithm must be same across all the levels because we don\u0027t really see a use case where algorithm definition needs to be different across different levels so the another possibility is advertising flexible algorithm definition as a top-level tle this is required because you know it\u0027s laborious to go and define this algorithm on every router right if you have constraints to go and configure this on every router is lot of work to avoid that you have this centralized controller or a central node where you can do the configuration once and advertise it and every other router in the network will use this definition to compute the paths for that algorithm so in that case this is advertised as a top-level TLV this flexible algorithm definition TLB nice eyes so there could be local definition in this case or "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:54:24",
    "text": "there may not be local definition in case there is a local definition it is going to compare this top-level TLV and then the conflict detection would happen but if there is no local definition then the receiving node just accepts this configuration and uses it for computation so the conflict with local definition the behavior is same as we described before and then there is this because this is the definition that is being pushed on to the routers we need this to be leaked across levels and then be same across all the level so the leaking behavior is computer is controlled by the SMD bits so how do we do the computation for flex I\u0027ll go so there is there\u0027s going to be a separate SPF computation for each algorithm and in case of conflicts then we should not compute paths for that particular algorithm which has conflicts the way we do it is the nodes so every node advertises what algorithms it supports this is as part of s our algorithm TLV so nodes that do not support the algorithm are pruned from the topology and the metric pipe that is specified by the fa dt TLV or sub TLV is used for computation so any exclude link advertisement in terms of through sub tlvs that that should be honored and then other other restrictions for SPF is followed as as normally and then exit l1 l2 router is based on the best path so some of the advantages of this using this flex algorithm writes it\u0027s the single said you are able to get traffic engineering parts within your network so generally if you use srte you you have to have multiple labels and build up a stack and then use that label stack to forward the traffic this mechanism is giving you a single label which can be used to get traffic engineered paths so so you have to have four node configuration of flexible algorithm and constraints and there\u0027s also a mechanism to avoid extensive configuration by use of top-level TLV so there is inter area in inter level support with IP route local route leaking I mean you can easily get an inter area or inter level path using flexible algorithm with just one TLV sorry one label whereas you using srte you would need multiple labels and if "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:57:24",
    "text": "you want to use RSVP and such the inter inter area or inter level would be a difficult thing to achieve one anaconda orange can you come back to the slide with a LV definition please [Music] yes so in theory to to computer a bus you need a suit apologies for example geometric topology so you\u0027re extrude Shelvey the matrix that you want to use to compute under so the algorithm that you\u0027re going to use them on with SR we as a field of algorithm shortly I believe we have to SPF strict SPF maybe we have some forum Artie yeah I don\u0027t know but maybe what is missing is that that you reintroduce an algorithm field for example if you want to come to compute the strict SPF for Latins peasant latency you cannot do that because you cannot reach specific just the streak SPF algorithm within your chair so we don\u0027t really reuse the ones which are standardized so this there is a there are two categories standard base to 0 to 127 we don\u0027t use those for user-defined algorithm so user-defined will be only from 128 to 255 so algorithm ID space is segregated into two categories one is Ayana standardized and the second one is a user-defined so we\u0027ll use only the user-defined okay so I want to create a user-defined Winer which is strict SPF based on latency emitter ature I know so the the algorithm ID for this will be one 140 maybe you say and then metric type will be because if you say zero metric type is always I geometric and if you want to use te metric you have to say you are going to use an algorithm which is 140 in your network and then say the t metric type for this algorithm 140 is extended T metric or whatever yes but you\u0027re forbidding user to do - to define it to use a new algorithm Astana based algorithm with user-defined metric I\u0027m not sure where you want to introduce do you really want this to be standardized then that is possible computation and other things will remain same but you have to go to Ayane and get it standardized like algorithm 2 means strict SPF with metric type as whatever "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:00:24",
    "text": "you you want my as a metric type right like maybe extended team it if you wanted standardized you really it\u0027s it\u0027s not going to affect this Draft as such only thing is you would need a separate draft to go standardize that that values those values it\u0027s that first analyze its user be final but in addition to defining the metric and Sept apology it could be useful to also advertise or wrote interpret or Georgina\u0027s algorithm you\u0027re saying that it\u0027s not really useful to have user defined because you anyway no no I\u0027m saying that so Keith ontological Cisco so what you say is possible to do which Plex algo and the way I would say is strict SPF means we want to follow the SPF we don\u0027t want to do any author out or IGP shortcut so by definition the algorithm follows the paths so it\u0027s not going to go over something like author out so all we need to do is let\u0027s say I pick one 30 and pick T metric and there is no you know some no IGP shortcut or no author out coming into picture or these flex algorithms it\u0027s it\u0027s it\u0027s for us to define the algorithms Stefan from Orange maybe to answer to Bruno for me this is not really an algorithm what you are putting the English constraints so to ensure to renew an ad could be to have in addition to the algorithm a kind of user-defined constraints that will map to your yeah but globally all that you are defining here are constraints so what we can do is to keep the existing standard algorithm so SPF strict xpf and add something in addition to this which is what are the constraints that I want to apply to this particular algorithm no no you can keep a user-defined constraints like you have but it\u0027s in parallelism user-defined constraints which which can go along with the algorithm to say but you are as abrino mention today you are overriding the algorithm so you cannot combine this SPF or strict SPF or any kind of algorithm plus the constraints pfu you define constraints wait for we need to dick Harper because it\u0027s not an "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:03:26",
    "text": "algorithm that you are defining here it\u0027s just constraints that you are adding also you\u0027re asking decoupling of algorithm with the constraints this could be an idea yeah so I don\u0027t this will probably help for a few people to say suppose that we were defined an MRT algorithm in segment routing in the you know 0 as 4 \u0026 5 or MRT red and blue I think being able to to reuse those in your combination of in in an algorithm in a algorithm constraint combination in the higher range and the user-defined range would be useful I think that\u0027s what Bruno is suggesting that allow more flexibility to have your user-defined algorithm and constraints be a combination of a standardized algorithm which are down in the 0 to 128 range and constraints that\u0027s the general idea one option is just to add an algorithm a standardized algorithm filled in your existing accept children again to come back to what drew said I think it\u0027s really important as we are defining constraint to be aligned with what has been done in the traffic engineering area maybe I don\u0027t know if it\u0027s necessary or not it is just an idea maybe we can make it completely flexible to be able to add existing T objects or something that are reflecting constraints I had one more I was just typing some of the minutes odd I would have told you guys before but I read it on the plane I thought of one more conflict you need to handle what if you have a multi-home prefix and different eius eius routers advertise it with different algorithms and so you can compete it you\u0027re gonna compute it multiple times you\u0027d want the precedents a precedence of these algorithms or some way to handle this case where the multi-home prefix advertise different algorithms buy different routers oh I had one more thing it\u0027s not for Shara I actually reviewed the patent application for this one so I know there\u0027s IPR on this and I\u0027m obligated to say it it just occurred to me as well no well oka see I think "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:06:28",
    "text": "you\u0027re up next so a C\u0027s been thrown to the Lions he gets to talk about the update of this T attributes for application ground okay if anybody\u0027s unfamiliar if this work you\u0027ve been asleep for the last year and a half okay next slide oh yeah yeah I\u0027m gonna go through the summary of changes like Chris said less was going to give this and he\u0027s not here he is on media call so perhaps he could chime in on questions and comments well you know the biggest thing it was adopted as a working group document the algorithm list was a extended of standard algorithms and we got some comments on I think it came with respect to the OSPF version of this on what about some of these other bandwidth things and how do they relate that\u0027s been covered in the draft and the supported out at attributes are revised okay the Flex algorithm which you just saw has been added to the list or standard algorithms so that raises an interesting question I have this is working your document and but we\u0027re talking is it do things get on that list I can\u0027t remember was it I Anna allocated or no yeah so it\u0027s being added into the working group a working group document even though it\u0027s an individual work that\u0027s an end drug yes you should so that doesn\u0027t get lost you should put that to the list yeah so that can\u0027t just happen right right also a flex algorithm could mean different flex algorithms so that\u0027s also an open discussion that\u0027s how it\u0027s applied this must be the most controversial draft that\u0027s ever existed in the ayahs I wouldn\u0027t say OSPF OSPF we had the many drafts so okay for "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:09:29",
    "text": "application enablement there was a lot of discussion on this and this graph takes a stab at solving this for the rsvp-te it\u0027s consistent with the legacy it maintains the same model as today if it\u0027s if the attributes are applicants for de it means it\u0027s enabled for the other applications it\u0027s it has no bearing in the newer applications srte we have the advertisement of attributes for that application doesn\u0027t mean it\u0027s enabled on the link the same with LFA in Flex algorithm you know there was one that was added I think going over the diff I think there was one other one that was added that was I didn\u0027t see it on this list in the slide but I thought there was one other was added that was then having an implicit enablement not just the RSV anyway yeah I mean I\u0027m not have to check that right and this was based on the comment the the handling of these three algorithms I mean these three attributes was also added to the draft backs on the link bandwidth maximum reserve link bandwidth and unreserved bandwidth the maximum link bandwidth is algorithm independence and the maximum reservable there was a lot of discussion and decided it could be applicable to multiple applications whereas the unreserved bandwidth could not this all happened within the last month this discussion or actually the last three weeks and they continue the discussion and hopefully early allocation of code points it so the next the next slot we\u0027re doing is just basically discussing the enablement that\u0027s that\u0027s in here so we\u0027ll I think we can discuss the general aspect of enablement there what I would point out here to take away from the changes related to that is that this new version is proposing to use what we had before with RSVP but in a well-defined manner in other words the presence of the data which is now identified with the application is going to implicitly indicate enablement if that\u0027s required by the protocol that\u0027s the solution being proposed here the other solution on the table that is an adoption call right now is an explicit mechanism that decouples the data from the enablement right so instead of having the data "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:12:30",
    "text": "imply the enablement we would have a TLV that indicates whether something is enabled or not regardless of what data is is available for that application okay so right why don\u0027t we just get into that is there any more questions on that anything else about this draft okay so see if we can stir up any discussion this is true from jabber regarding the previous presentation jeff says chairs should consider flagging that to the list that is regarding the IPR and makes sure that the IPR button gets pushed on the draft in the data tracker okay that under likes likes yeah okay so all right so some interesting things happened right so the last IETF I\u0027d you know not to get too into too much of sausage of the what it looks like what watch sausage get made we had all the authors sit down and there was a real cleared agreement that we weren\u0027t going to do in ableman with with the te app draft everyone in the room I think clearly saw that we could continue with the implicit method but they we agreed to not do that so this is a reversal of the authors on the that draft it\u0027s a it\u0027s a flat-out reversal of what they stated that\u0027s okay it doesn\u0027t have to be pretty in the mechanism right as long as we end up with the right technical answer in the end right and it needs to be pasted on the technical merit of the solution and not the whatever else so that said we have we\u0027ve had the adoption poll and so I can read without bending my neck the main points that I think that I\u0027ve gathered in support of adopting the head of te enablement draft is that it\u0027s better to be explicit than implicit and I think I would add to that maybe two to decouple the two the data and the enable I mean that kind of is the same thing but just to make it clear and the case against that has been mentioned on the list or I\u0027ve gotten some private email was that we just continued to use the thing that\u0027s worked so far worked in quotes but now we\u0027re gonna fix the problem because we\u0027re labeling the data specifically for RSVP so now when we "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:15:31",
    "text": "imply the RSVP is enabled there\u0027s no confusion right like there was before because we\u0027re now identifying the data so it\u0027s better at having that implicit thing yeah so so that\u0027s the reason against it is that we don\u0027t need it because we could just do that do it the old way so I sort of had three questions about this I think we need to ask ourselves is do we do we need do we see a need to advertise local local locally advertised data for link and when and we don\u0027t want to enable on that link right I mean if we have if we can see that case then we need this draft I have one I have one case where you don\u0027t for LFA it\u0027s applicate back the answer to that is application-specific right well so I think they I think the the the other the authors of the T app draft covered the LFA they said it was a local defined right so you do find it in configuration it\u0027s not something it needs to be advertised right and I mean that\u0027s true the LFA is it\u0027s a local decision right so but but the this is we\u0027re thinking about right because this is gets to the crux of it do do we ever need these things to be separate right if we have a case right now the decision to adopt this work is easy we need it right if we don\u0027t have the case then the question is will we can we imagine it is it something we need right now the other question I think we need to ask when making the decision on adopting this is can we imagine deploying only one of these and particularly this one can we imagine a case where we deploy just this one and not and not the te application one I can imagine that because I guess this solves this problem of disambiguating when RSVP is enabled or not but I think that you know the authors of the autograph would say hey but we need to identify this data anyway and we can kill two birds with one stone with our Drive so I don\u0027t know so I think you know but it\u0027s it\u0027s worth thinking about you know if we if you could imagine deploying one only or only needing one and then yeah and then I guess the third thing is this has been very controversial we do do we really have a problem that we\u0027re solving that needs solving right or can we just table this I mean is it needed or do you know or do the networks already work is there a problem out there I\u0027m asking that question yeah like have we run into this problem and you know by tabling it do you mean Chris "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:18:31",
    "text": "Bauer\u0027s juniper by tabling it do you mean tabling both traps no okay because I mean these questions would better be asked with both of the documents not being working group documents right because it seems to imply that since this one\u0027s already a working group document we\u0027re stuck with a way of moving forward so I would say we need at this point in terms of usability we need the let\u0027s say T enablement version of the draft pegged ax T protocols more than the ability to advertise different values of Te attributes for the same link okay and so asking this question of can you imagine deploying only one of the drafts yes I can certainly imagine only deploying the te protocols draft because there is no good demonstrated use cases of needing the same value for the same link for different applications at this point I\u0027ve tried to come up with them you might be able to come up with something related to srl g\u0027s but that part has not has not been laid out here so that\u0027s that\u0027s my take on this so stay there for a second um so in this case we\u0027re talking about sort of clearing up the the ambiguity of whether RSVP is enabled based on the presence of the values they\u0027re there right because the like in your in your K you have the table of how you know different vendors make that determination and how that\u0027s it\u0027s different for different vendors right that\u0027s so you\u0027re saying it\u0027s you see the need to so if we\u0027re solving that problem which is a demonstrated problem that\u0027s why we originally published that draft it is perfect I mean that draft is predicated on just deploying that draft and it solves the problem and the multiple values for the same link for different applications is a theoretical problem at this point yeah okay so my second question isn\u0027t going to help at all the first one oh yeah let\u0027s know I think your second question is as useful as the point that I would like to make is I only did this as an oops which I talked to you about for the other we have a working group which is looking at te and T\u0027s looks beyond just the kind of MPLS you know IP layer that we tend to that frequently we think about in this working group and there\u0027s a lot of optical and gmpls related and so on "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:21:31",
    "text": "technology that\u0027s also impacted by this type of a change no no it is not it because the book that\u0027s in the OSPF and they\u0027re not changing that I got concerned feedback and I\u0027m happy to hear if that\u0027s not the case not in regard to this report it to the list that was PF list I think it was a case of T\u0027s saying we should have been involved a little bit yes and that\u0027s sorry I\u0027m not trying not they were not making a big point of it we had that other piece of discussion I just want to make sure that if we\u0027re talking about this and I know if nobody\u0027s interested in the I saw the same stuff that\u0027s happening on the mailing list for working requests for a working group adoption calls if no one in the room or on the list is excited about it then that\u0027s an obvious answer and it doesn\u0027t matter if we\u0027re looking at the use cases then I just want to make sure that we don\u0027t accidentally focus only on those in the room and the mailing list in this working groups merely us that\u0027s absolutely all I\u0027m happy to have whatever conclusion comes to happen yeah so I you know maybe we can reinterpret the the second question because and I\u0027ll give you the thought behind where my brain was when I thought it and that was I was thinking sort of as a vendor in that case and then as an operator right so like which one of these drafts is actually going to get implemented by a vendor right and because the operators say we need this you know I mean I think it\u0027s worth thinking about it from that context right like let\u0027s do useful work because the honest truth is that both methods work right I mean you can you can basic it solves the both both methods solve the problem there\u0027s nothing technically wrong with or technically they both they both solve the problem of determining whether our sweetie is enabled on the link so now as a working group chair I\u0027m looking and saying okay I\u0027ve got a fight going on right here I got people fighting with each other over which solution to use and I\u0027m supposed to you know get the working group to make a technical decision so you know I I they both technically work so I\u0027m a little this is the first time this has ever really kind of happened to me where I\u0027ve had two people fighting both had technical solutions and the group was evenly split so any help on that to get intel on liquor Cisco I think ability to to flood application specific values and do that is also a problem that we are trying to solve it\u0027s not just an able man but wait well so that but that goes to the my question of you know is it so yes it\u0027s a problem of trying to solve it operators asking for this or is it problem we\u0027ve "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:24:31",
    "text": "identified that\u0027s like this is a better way to do it right like I said if them I wish I could just let the market decide on this one right the prow with doing it that way is that then I would say okay let\u0027s take the people we have in support of this let\u0027s adopt this work and let\u0027s move forward with both with the you know the enablement being solved by this and the application data being solved by the other and then let the market decide which one or both right the problem is is that now we have the first draft also you know supplying the same solution or a solution to the same problem so I just I you know you know it took us a long ways to get to this and there were a lot of people that thought as long as we were doing this we should do application-specific values and there were use cases maybe they weren\u0027t you know pressing that they need the problem solved right now but it\u0027s it seems a little bit strange to read a question that requirements given where we\u0027ve come from oh yeah you\u0027re talking about the te application right but that\u0027s that\u0027s I\u0027m talking about attribute specific attributes right yeah so that that little plant grew out of OSPF right and into is is oh right because you guys had a problem you know SPF that needed solving and you needed to separate these attributes and then less I think was the main driver saying hey if we\u0027re going to do it you know SPF we might as well do it in is is too so that\u0027s how we got here I yeah I seem I don\u0027t want to put words but I seem to remember Stephan saying it would be good to solve the problem of application-specific as well okay yes it may be useful we don\u0027t have the use case I\u0027m it\u0027s a potential use case but as Chris told it\u0027s theoretical now great so it left to our own devices right if we hadn\u0027t have had this the pressure from the OSPF work we would not have tackled this problem I don\u0027t think Kate internal liquor Cisco so we just heard about flex algo right and I think as that idea develops we may see that as a use case for having this kind of power application signaling there was some come and all that so I really think the working group draft just addresses that problem so it\u0027s good to yeah plus this plus the problem that we started with so the question number one though if I could get if I it would make my decision really easy if the answer to that was yes right if there are cases where we you know we needed to enable something but we didn\u0027t need to advertise data for it that makes that makes this a really easy choice right that means we need this new draft it\u0027s new work so I think in IETF we do have "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:27:33",
    "text": "solutions different solutions to the same problem and then people pick and choose and we standardize both of them and then people pick and choose what they want to deploy right I mean if the people are really interested in advertising per application attributes then you have a solution and if you don\u0027t want to do that you have another solution so yeah okay so so then we need suit you\u0027re saying and so do we need to think then about are we gonna have to write a draft on what happens when one is set and one is clear you know I think if they\u0027re both advertised in like you know do you have yeah now you have data over here but you don\u0027t have it in the enablement EoE but you do have the enablement TLV right now mean I mean I love leaving it to the market right I would love to be able to just like say let\u0027s do both and you know let the money decide because because it\u0027s not only about see you need to think about the deployment you need to think about how you\u0027re how you\u0027re going to configure this and how you are going to if you don\u0027t need for application attributes advertisement you don\u0027t have that use case why would somebody really think about even think about all of them right yeah and then so the the draft that was adopted actually the TE app draft does not do enablement for RSVP there was a proposal put out on the list in the form of a an updated draft after adoption but I would say that that\u0027s still subject to working group approval as well yeah so so moving forward with both drafts one solving the ability to advertise different values for the same link for different applications is fine as the working group adopted it where it doesn\u0027t address explicitly RSVP enablement yeah so I\u0027m not just because there was a no.3 version published that that provided a solution for enablement doesn\u0027t that\u0027s not gonna affect what whether we adopt here right because if we - if we think this is a good idea to adopt this draft then we just reverse that right exactly and so the issue of you know you mentioned so we adopt both of them and let the marketplace decide there with that draft the original version that was adopted by the working group there\u0027s not any ambiguity to resolve I believe I mean we would simply state in one of the drafts that the te protocols that you know that simple explicit enablement mechanism defines what\u0027s enabled if you happen to receive some values for a different application ignore it very simple yeah so I I can easily see a world where we implement only the te protocols draft and this other one maybe gets "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:30:34",
    "text": "implemented maybe doesn\u0027t yeah yeah we know the kinda range I like your second question it\u0027s useful so advertising application specific information is the theoretical requirement so the question is are we going to have a really real implementation and widely implementation if not it does not serve as a problem right right um if yes it\u0027s it\u0027s it looks strange to have a wildly implementation of something with the reticle requirement yeah yeah exactly I mean in other words if we choose to use the app Draft as the solution we\u0027re able extra stuff to solve a simple problem absolutely right yes difference between an in terms of implementation complexity I think differ implementing the per application is more complex will take more time may have more bugs just to solve urgently the application enablement we yeah it I mean I I agree with that the complexity level though I think is yeah it\u0027s not to you know I\u0027m saying it one is easier than the other but the other isn\u0027t that hard either so I mean it\u0027s a valid point but implementing is one thing but just deploying and dealing with with bugs from you know Interop is is a whole other issue so i yes implementing it\u0027s it\u0027s quite straightforward either either approach but actually getting it out in the field and and working in production is all other thing Chris Powers juniper okay so if moving forward I I think we\u0027re gonna make a decision on this it\u0027s gonna it\u0027s not going to be now but I wanted to have one last IETF at least where we had a chance where people give to the mic that might not mailing list I don\u0027t know but please do give an opinion on the mailing list if you have one and especially about these two questions if you have an answer to these two questions that would be useful I I have a you know in some ways I think the whole enablement question is over rated you know the complexity of it in which way you do it myself but in terms of OSPF there\u0027s a bigger question so I don\u0027t I think what you you know whatever it goes on with discussion of these two graphs we want to go forward with the consolidation of the non te and nine "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:33:34",
    "text": "GM PS and everything else in fewer LSAs Viet to L essays for us PF v 2 for a single LSA for OS v FB 3 so I don\u0027t want this protracted discussion in is is to have a bearing on OSPF and does it alright some people seem to think some people just start very dogmatic and say oh of course we have to do the same thing in the two protocols I\u0027m not one of them by the way okay I think I think that\u0027s all the comments that I\u0027m gonna get you weren\u0027t here when we talked about the merging we are we we can recover that that\u0027s all that we\u0027re going to talk about other than reemerging for Allah\u0027s sake of merging not reemerging so what uh being a Zeebo said that we and previously we were very of against the idea and now we\u0027re not as much against the idea it\u0027ll be interesting to go and contemplate what happened here during this meeting that we just held there I think there was a couple dynamic moments where it was useful to have everyone in the same room with the chairs both sitting up at the top I also expressed that if I had drawn the OSPF working group this time because AC didn\u0027t make it that they would scare me and what that implies is that there\u0027s a lot more work when you only have two chairs and the two and the two protocols to do so I think that you know that is something lost right of having that now now we both have to be experts in both protocols oh yeah Atlas yes I hear you on the chairing work and that\u0027s something we can discuss a bit offline there\u0027s other ways of handling that piece as well we have a number of working groups that actually do have three chairs for instance and there\u0027s flexibility there there\u0027s going to be a learning curve for the cross the intersection but it\u0027s the question I have for the room is how many people would be here if this for only is is sorry sorry the question is who would be in the room if this were the is is working group meeting okay who would be in the room if this were the OSPF working group meeting who would only be in who would be in the room in only one of the rooms looks like zero right who finds it useful to have pieces that relate to both most many other things when they relate to most protocols yeah having in a single place okay who has "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:36:37",
    "text": "been bothered by having the working groups mailing lists merged for the last four months who noticed oh good if it was less that was less than the number of people that raised their hand for who would be both in the same room right so to that and even I didn\u0027t you know I\u0027m not reading all the OSPF graphs right that I mean I I have been extra busy with other things during this last segment but you know yeah I wonder how many people would how many people out there would only be reading one protocols mailing list so something bothers me seeing since Jeff seen a see without face mask in SS meeting okay so I think and we\u0027re going to talk about it and figure out cuz I do hear you on the chair bandwidth problem but I also don\u0027t see the room being overly full for having a good conversation and having a working group with a good culture is has had a great cultures working group and so as OSPF and I think that most of you are used to participating and being in both of them even if we don\u0027t read all of the drafts I am so so I do expect to continue for it on the path in a plectrum it does anybody have objections to merging the two working groups assuming we sort out the chair bandwidth issues okay does anyone have a good the it\u0027s worth noting that there\u0027s some pretty heavy hitters who aren\u0027t in this room yes but they\u0027re on me Decker so they you know I\u0027m just saying that yeah I understand also needs to happen out in other places this is we\u0027re just getting a feel for the room we\u0027re getting a feel for the room I mean you know that seems pretty unanimous yeah I so I really do want to get everybody\u0027s feedback but it\u0027s not a consensus decision yeah right but I obviously care deeply that it\u0027s effective for the protocols I mean this is the backbone of the internet you know this has been and every not just the internet but everyone\u0027s networks and the protocols matter so much and one of the points of merging the two working groups is to share knowledge and expertise and to grow the number of people who are maybe interested in participating and understanding so if I can move on to a second topic which is of course deeply critical for merging we need a new name link state routing links - so what about links state intradomain routing or are you are you wedded to LS are you worried about like I grew up or something because an LS are is a label switch "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:39:39",
    "text": "router oh yeah I don\u0027t the joke I mean the jokes obviously that\u0027s perfectly fine and I really do want link state and routing in there I mean that\u0027s right it is important intradomain link state routing I yeah sort of like iPhones and iPads and by everything else yes absolutely we could do a little I yeah I don\u0027t know anyway that was the rough one I came up with you know I forgot the bribe I\u0027m sorry but the problem the problem with putting I in there is it you know inter and intra both begin of an eye so it really doesn\u0027t add anything you know and it was originally what was the interior and exterior exterior originally yes yeah I don\u0027t like that I don\u0027t way too close though right so you\u0027ll notice they were very carefully not looking at acronyms that say are is is and OSPF routing or OSPF and is is routing we\u0027re trying to up level it should be noted I don\u0027t know if everyone in the room knows this but we\u0027ve sent a few people to the FBI because they tried to join is is so when we change our name will no longer be finding you know terrorists for the for the government there are always unexpected side effects to decisions right alright so LS our ILS are yeah by the way I tried I GP whoever said that and and it was shot down the IG peep the problem was the it really does cover rip and there\u0027s a lot of so yeah so my GP isn\u0027t good because we\u0027re not doing distance vector I mean there\u0027s Babel and we\u0027re not doing grip and there\u0027s some pieces in men a that we\u0027re not doing and not that many is working on them now but and you know I mean it go solution is how many syllables do you want to have to pronounce why don\u0027t I what why don\u0027t focus as we have a single list why don\u0027t send suggestions to the mailing list and not that it\u0027s going to bias my our decisions in terms of what acronyms use but if you have a preferred bride of chocolate versus is so that we understand the cost associated with the acronym that would be useful to leave it for a Tony to pick up one that you can actually has a little hidden meaning I mean are we trying for something that\u0027s pronounceable as a word are we trying for something that has an in-joke to the ietf are we trying for something "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:42:41",
    "text": "that has meaning I mean there\u0027s a lot of possibilities here yeah although I I will I\u0027m gonna I\u0027m gonna object to any kind of ridiculous acronym just to get pronounced ability like you know Lemon Drop or sometimes where we\u0027re picking random you know letters in the middle of words you know we never thought it would happen why don\u0027t we just call it WTF so unless I hear something else yes please send that suggestions the list will continue to think about what you all want to name the merged group but I expect to have this done before the next IETF transit okay I guess I guess we\u0027re we\u0027re done but there\u0027s a lot of things you know that a lot of these drafts people brought stuff up that we should follow up on on the list no that\u0027s it Oh jabber have comments we got them well yeah link stay right that\u0027s what are you starting to grab letter so in the middle of yeah all right well okay it what\u0027s the next one London yeah thanks a lot everyone shorts and warts area okay "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:47:51",
    "text": "you "
  }
]