[
  {
    "startTime": "00:01:18",
    "text": "I don't count yet 62. 20,"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:02:37",
    "text": "So we can if start. Now trying Okay. So just remember also to to join and to So maybe also ITFC is that in the second session, we have less people that in the first session And we expect to do at least one poll. So log in because if you want to raise your hand of stages of no Okay. Thank you. So this is Luis from Telefonica. I will present It is, this is like on behalf of my co authors. So even though we are referring to the to the draft, basically, the the discussion today will be about the the concept of custom customer topology intent. So the motivation is, for a customer to to express in the polyethylene dense could be twofold. The the one case could be for building a a logical view of the desired slice service. Or how these services should be instantiated should be realized. So it has a clear impact on realization and, basically, it will provide hints to the network slice controller on how to instantiate the service, how to realize that The second case will be to, operate the slice service according to the express topology. We turn IVS"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:04:04",
    "text": "of controlling the slice. This is something that is is mentioned in the framework document. This is not the purpose of of the the draft. So the the draft is not going in the direction of the control the slides, but just simply providing hints on how to realize the slide. There's lights. Next, please. So But we are trying to to to cover our similar requirements as ones from ACTN that, be, virtual network type 2. So, essentially, they they are using customized topologies. So that we can provide more knowledge to the networkless controller on how to prevent that. So STTN return network was considered equivalent to the concept of an headquarters license, but the working group decided to go through the concept of network slides. So essentially, what we are doing is bringing here the same requirements that were considered in in the case of ACTM. ACTN considers type 1 built on network, which is a a connectivity based with the network. So we'll be equivalent to the number of slides with connectivity as detailed in in the framework and in the MBA model. And also CTN considers the type 2 network, which is a topology base with tunnel network. This is the the case that we are we are trying to to to discuss with the staff and essentially what the the difference here or what would be the incremental point with regards to the ACTN type 2 is that the the t topology model used for defined custom customized topologies. That's not include SLA's SLA's So somehow we are providing a a a delta on top of that, you know, in this case. So next place. There were in in previous discussion of this topic in in previous IVF meetings. There were feedback, that received, and, and we are trying what we are targeting to to clarify the points here today. So, there was a a clear comment about the use cases that were not confusing the need of"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:06:04",
    "text": "of this customized or customer topology intent. We will present to the, an additional case that we expect to be much more clear than the ones in the past justifying the this this need And there also, there there were also a number of concerns, that are detailed in different ballads. I will cover later on 1 by 1. So I I will later on. So next, please. Regarding the concerns. So the different concern about is, whether building a customized topology required prior topology information from the provider. So this is not mandatory at all. So there could be different ways of of proceeding. If if there is an offline conversation between customer and provider or is the the the provider on the fly we get the the the customer to port intent and process it according to to some logic. Government negotiation or online negotiation, could be that. We do not enter in those details, but we we give for granted that there will be possibility of, expressing this customer topology. The second concern was about, how the nevertheless controller may map a customized apology to an internal realization to an NRP. So here, we we provide some kind of mapping between the concepts. So the HTML could be equivalent to the P node attached to a sub the HTTP, be equivalent to our own SDP The chances, no, that will be a a p node. Equivalent to a PayPal note that can be translated to resolution constraints. So of how grouping, resources or let's say consider some constraints. A number of of resources so we can somehow play a fact of, you know, or or, with more or less detail, and also the the equivalence between Link and reserve resources. The third concern was about, whether the constraints expressed a customized topology can be instead expressed by a by the connectivity constructs."
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:08:02",
    "text": "So we will see later on in the use case that some scenarios, for that in some in some scenarios is more efficient to the usage of topologies. Because provide some hints for the the realization, in terms of diversity of the of how to realize the, the the different parts of the slides. Resource setting or, SLOS and and some of And the last concern was about whether existing models are sufficient to express a customized topology. So the the base model exist that is represented by the RFC HD 345. But no suitable model exists for, as per in topology plus SLO SLAs. In terms of the, in the symptoms that, never is like seen does. Next, please. yeah, just at the company as, let's say, So, base for the discussion return on the use case. So just a reminder, So by, in in the, you know, the other nevertheless controller, we represent the network slice. As a it could be a a set of of connectivity constructs. So we can have different connectivity constructs with different, ways of connecting and it to any point to point, point to multi point, and and connecting different SDPs and supporting different SLOs, SLAs. Different identifiers and so on so far. So taking this as a as a as a the parting point for the for splitting the case, That's place. So let's consider the the following example. So, a customer could require to implement our labor slides. That considers 2 kind of connectivity constructs. They blue one and the orange one. Okay? If we proceed in this way without the customer topology information being passed the networkless controller, be the case of the networkless controller realize the the slides, as you can see on your on your left. Right? So they're green y. The agreeing with the agreeing case. Sorry. So putting everything together on the same"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:10:02",
    "text": "set of resources, the same NRP. As a toy example, let's consider this is a legacy VPN. So we do not provide any hint on how to realize that. Could be the case that the nevertheless controllers simply map all the connectivity constructs on top of the same BRF. So as you mean that the Los Angeles and so I I I I had a let's say suitable for both the blue and the orange one. So the the point here is that adding or modifying any part of the slides would imply the modification to this green, BRF. So potentially affecting or impacting knows that not necessarily need to be impacted because part of another slice. So considering what you can see on on your right, in the case of passing information about the customer topology, then we are providing hints to an industrialized controller to separate the the different connectivity constructs. And again, with this toy example, basically, this would imply that the blue, connectivity struts are, deploy on top of a BRF, the, BRF Blue, and the orange on top of the orange BRF. In this case, if we need to add new notes, instance, in the blue, slides in the blue connectivity construct, we do not impact on the orange connectivity constructs. So somehow we have this separation of, of resources. Let's say, not not impacting at all in the realization. Next, please. So the next steps for for this work, we for sure need to address spending, funding pending comments from everyone other participants in the working group, and and also we, for we are open to new comments on on questions. What idea would be once we refine the draft, because we need to refund the draft and and overview all the draft and be me making it consistent what we mentioned before about the the via of focusing on the, on the hints for the validation and so on. So we need to"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:12:00",
    "text": "through the draft again, but I did believe to request the the working group adoption and just to remind that the the did have a repulling for those interested in also going through the through the draft. And that's all from my side. Thank you. Any questions for those? I have a question that I've asked before as well. I don't think I got a satisfying answer. So I'm gonna repeat it again. So if you have this model, the topology model with all the SLO's SLEs specified in it. You can Is it possible for somebody to use this model as a service request? To make a service request. I I think that, this Buddha combined other model. Let me add your model. I mean, this is not anastalano model So it will be a compliment on the other one. This this is my I mean, Yeah. I mean, that's the motivation. We want something that works in conjunction with the slice service model. Yep. And the expectation at least my expectation is that we will be able to reuse the existing topology models to do that. But you are just if you are making a justification that you need this model because it includes SLO's assemblies, which are also available in the slice service model. I am trying to understand why I mean, why somebody may not be able to just use this model to request it's because you're if you're going to specify the SLO SLEs at a very granular level, This can pretty much be asking customer's apology request may be treated as a slices request. I see. I because probably I I was Yeah. is more. Voice generous enough to put me on the front. So, basically, I have a we we define this topology and on which you could you know, either viewed network slice connection at the same time or afterwards."
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:14:03",
    "text": "You could do this on demand or you could do this along with building the customized apology. That's so basically, what that's what Louis said is complimentary. You could mute to topology first, make the resource reserved. Then you could mute mute it. The network slash connection on demand according to, the customer's requirement and agree, but that wasn't my question. Right? So my question is, do you need the I mean, would you need the slice service model if you have this. Can somebody I mean, you you said you that start the intent. But it seems like you you put everything in here that can just be used to request a service. Alright. I think the problem is the term service is a little bit blurred. If if you think about marketing termite, topologies as a service, with this model, you can set up a topologies service, but the topology service is basically reserving resources in the network. It's not providing then you need a NetroSlice service model to request connectivity on top of that topology service, So turn about this clarify a bit more. Yeah. Let's discuss that offline. Yeah. My question, my comments is that it seems that, can you go back to us This one? Like, before that, it seemed that the On the right, you set resource isolation and resource reservations. It seems like quite relevant with networks, resource partition. So, I mean, are you saying that like, using an RP as a service or something. Different So, Yeah. Yeah. Not sure if I get the question. So, Could this be simply illustrate, let's say, the the way of, how to realize the service could be"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:16:04",
    "text": "using the same NRP, but different, reservations, I said, or different URLs maybe on top of the NRP same NRP. So not necessarily to different NRPs. Depending on what is the the actual concept of NLP that we use. You know? Because for me, it's like the 2 different resources. Could be, for instance, 2 different DRFs. Yeah. But on on on top of the same So in that way, why don't use an RP other than, something new, here. But we can we we don't have way of expressing this with Sanofi, I guess. But if you think that's requirements may be like, you can use a template to, like, augmenting an IP model. So in that way, I I think also can Okay. Maybe we can look at that, but I'm I'm not sure if we can make it Because you are only specifying the resource. But for slide service as well as E, there's so many different use cases there. Need definitely to look at this. I don't have a and answer right now. Yes. Maybe we'll need to go through NLP more than and check. Introduce. I would like also like people to invite to redirect a C80 453 because We had this discussion many, many years ago in the context of a CTMBN, and we No. And we have all these issues that have been clarified. The big issues that we are now having a different model, which is addressing similar scenarios, and we are we are a gap which is which this graph is going to address in order to to support all the the scenarios that can be addressed with network slicing service model some cases, there is a gap of the apology, and this is exactly what this draft is addressing. But when I'm reading a lot of comments like"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:18:01",
    "text": "realization or what happened or the fact that you first have to to say, I have to polish and then this was the same discussion 5 to 7 years ago. Is exactly the same issue. So maybe we can look at that as city for 53 to find the, the right transfer. Thank you. I have one, a couple of questions. The first one Hi, Luz. is about the intention of the model. You said at the very beginning, that the that what you wanted to express is the intention of the topology. So it was like, hey, say that the the when you request the slides, also, do you wanted Are you also for for is it, is it envisioned also to to use it further to say, which is the the real or or what you get in the same language as you are asking. You you may As for something, you you might get another different thing, is it also intended to use a model for the other. And also, if it's intended, to keep update or to to be updated, you know, say not only for the first time they say, hey, this is what they want. Also to keep you get, okay, this is what you get, and then you get more defined as, okay, now please don't use this or or update and so on. For the for the first question, which is if the provider would use this model for, for exposing to the customer, we are not intending that. So we are focusing on from a customer to the provider. So we are the the other part is out of scope. And the second question about modifications also, yeah, we do foresee that there could be potential modifications as commented before. So maybe we can add another new node in the blue slides, let's say, and, communicating in that way. So saying positioned this in the blue slides are not in the orange slice. Yeah. This is Dhruv. Just to answer to post question. I don't think so. We should"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:20:03",
    "text": "this is not an RPS service. So I think we should be very, very clear And if there is a confusion and if there is a text needed, let's add it very early. Why it is not And this is, as you you have just answered, it's not the it's a view at the top. So it has nothing to do with what's happening, how we are realizing. It top. So just a clarification, I hope. And I completely agree with Delo as well. We have had this. I was part of those debates. So it's ready to move on. Let's go. Thank you. I think it's clear we need more discussion before we consider adoption. Okay. Please continue discussing on lists, take the comments, respond to them, Look forward to it. Thank you. Hatello? Thank you, Hamitasirita Busy presenting on behalf of Coaters and a profile of the tet apology model for non the applications, the slide. Okay. This draft has a some history. We presented a 1st version in IKEF 110. We get some positive feedbacks from the list. And, we represented an update based on the comments we received during that, yeah, 111, again, other, good positive from the list. The idea was to continue discussion on the from the meeting. Sorry. But, the idea was to continue discussion on the Middle East that there were not for Wacker. We recently pulled a working group before interest. We got a few positive figures from Julian, moving forward. But, we, so we decide to present, the document here to get, more feedback soon. Next slide. So what was the motivation at the beginning? And the red one is the new division. That is why we are back here. Okay? We found, from for a long time that there are multiple discussion in different that we have working groups, for where we have a nonteen networker. But"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:22:02",
    "text": "the solution can be addressed by taking a subset of the attributes, which are already defined by the a t topology model. And, recently, I found, similar discussions happening in the group in the contest of digital map. There are some gaps in 85 to 165, which are already addressed by the 85 87th 95. The problem that everybody says when I raised my comment is, oh, but it's elephant. It's a very big document. It's a very big young model. This is true. On the other side, the the the most of these attributes are optional. And the the the it was a conscious decision time, to make everything optional because, depending on the different application, you may pick up a different subset of the attributes. So do it in a modular way. We'll have an to something like a model per module per attribute. Which is not very good. Okay. And, we noticed that some of these features that are covered by the Tet apology are 14 networks, clearly, but some of them are also applicable to scenarios which are t with t or non t. So the father is faulty, topology doesn't mean that, it must be must not be used when the known key network. And most of this feature, as I said, are optional so we can So what is the scope of the draft is informational is to make it clear that you can take a subset of this apology mode and address some of the use cases. Which are known to use cases, in a slide. These are the example. These are they have not been changed, but I got some discussion, maybe we can add the new use cases in the future, on what you can do with a subset. And if you can look at the more the this 5, subsets are very minimal. Very minimal, elements. Next one what is important, is how do you amend Okay? If you want to use it, if you're a for your application, you need a subset of data topology profile, you still have 2 options on how you do"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:24:03",
    "text": "create your technology specific augmentation. This was discussed extensively, for example, seeking working group for the microwave. If you rely if you need the key topology profile to implement your technology, the CD commendation based what you can do, you can augment directly the technology model. And what, for example, the microwave people did that they added in a pan next show we, what is the sub set of the. Model that is needed for the micro case. Another option could be that if you don't really need them, but you may need the in the in the instance and not in the model. Like, the data apology, what you can do, you can augment the network topology. And then when you instantiate the model, you can instantiate both the technology specific, methodology, and the methodology, and use the framework's multinheritance. To be independent. So you can have also use case where you don't use if you don't use the the activists, you don't you don't instantiate it. Next slide. Okay. We got some open issues, and during the discussion. The first big open issue is, that was why the the document didn't progress so faster in the in the past is that Okay. If you have a topology profile, how can the client know what is the topology profile, which is implemented by the server. And the problem is, we, we raise a comment on that mode, but the deviation is not good. The deviation applies to the schema. But here, the problem is that a leaf may be implemented or not implemented on a different instances. So the profile is per instance. Or per network types. So it's a little bit more granular than just the whole schema. So the proposal after what's going on. Maybe the best idea is to keep this draft informational just describe that we Ken. Do the profile and maybe give some example, and maybe we can trigger this in a net model of cellular working group, to see how we can solve this problem maybe in a more generic solution, like how it possible when you have a big young model to implement a profile and manage this independent"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:26:02",
    "text": "machine readable way. Next one. The second open issue is that we got a comment for Scott F11 11 is about how what is the difference between supporting all the support links in our CTC45 and our delay in 7.95. And, based on our session, we think that the overlay and delay is mainly for the multilayer relationship. So when you want to show that the path, in the underlying network, like, at e tunnel, is supporting a link in the overlay network. Then we think this is the this cost to to represent it. If the support in order Portilink of 8345 is mainly for the abstraction. If I want to say this abstract note, in the it's this node is representing, is supported by this, underlying physical notes, that's the use of this, association. But, again, this is a proposal to be discussed and getting some agreement. I think it's good to provide this skyline. Okay. So what is the next step? We think we suggest to this is it as an informational document is good to if you can get working group adoption to show that this is not the opinion the individual who have worked on RS City 795, but is the working group opinion. And then we maybe advertise this to other working group drafts to make it, to make for example, this may be relevant for the digital mapping of serial working group. I keep raising the comment, but if if you have a working group status, give it a little bit, clarification that is not my opinion. And then we can just we can also ask the people in network and ops data to to maybe help us, to profiling, mother. And, of course, as usual, more review and comments are welcome. And, if you think there are other useful examples, so now we can profile, the topology, we are are very welcome to And we are tracking a discussion during the on the GitHub, together with other key topology. Edit up. Thank you."
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:28:02",
    "text": "On it. So I have, just a minor comment. The geolocation, there's now standalone RFC for that. So I'd say drop it from this draft. Okay. It's okay. It's just there's It's been solved elsewhere. Okay. What maybe maybe there as we did in some other documentation track. It's just point or make the leaf ref to the to the draft that has the stand alone and Yeah. So, gene's apology got their first Yes. With geolocation. And then This other draft came along as an independent that that's to be used in for future. So we don't have to use t you don't have to use the older one for the future. We should use the new generic Okay. Okay. So so basically, we we if you want to provide a network topology with geolocation for for the lower links. We need to augment the Recy 45 using that ERC instead a profanity topology. Maybe we that's right. But if you're using T Topology, there's nothing wrong with using the the definition. It's just I see your point. Okay. That's okay. Yeah. So it was just from a profile standpoint, it doesn't make sense. Okay. I see your point. Okay. We're gonna do a couple of polls. A couple of questions. The first question is interested in the topic. And then the second one will be whether this draft is a good starting point or not. Let's see if we get it, typed in."
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:30:17",
    "text": "That's right. You know, I'd say we it looks like we have some reasonable interest that would call it overwhelming interests that we have some reasonable interests So is this a good starting point? You'll note we're not asking if you've read it. So I I guess I assume the the notes means that you have read it and you have objections to the document. So I guess that needs to be that engagements need to be done in the document before being up. Yeah. Actually, that's a good point. Have a few objections. If anyone wants to jump in queue or jump to the mic, to stay wide, that would be great. If not, you know, you'll always have an opportunity of So I I think the about the same number think this is a, as who thought we should be working on it, think this is a good starting point. So we we could talk among the chairs on where to go next you know, we it is Friday afternoon. I wouldn't say we have overwhelming participation but, you know, maybe it's enough to move forward. You mean, what we may do, we can drop the com the the the use case as you mentioned. Yeah. That's easy. That that could Frankly, that could be done as part of That's easy. call. Ah, okay. The other thing is check the number of authors. We're trying to get the number of authors down as part of adoption. Okay."
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:32:03",
    "text": "And also, we can look also for other use cases, maybe that one can be replaced, can be dropped at new ones can come in. Okay. Thank you. Okay. Providing. I You you need to come back, think, Tahalo, you're just here. mean, you can't sit down and stand up again. It's a little bit of exercise. Yeah. I forgot that again. Okay. Thank you. Okay. I'm presenting now the, yeah, model for MPST topology for on behalf of and contributors. That's like, okay. Again, this, like, this document as some history. We presented initial proposal that you have 104. It was mainly for PLSTP topology and tunnel, but we got the feedbacks that ATP is a pro file of the And therefore, we have been let's ask you to to basically move the identify the gaps in the MPLS team. Yarmo, that's that will be needed to manage MPSTP Netroxer. Because of that, we started to work on this together with the other parts in the T tunnel model during the, the weekly course. And the agreement, there was another problem about Western Vargas, his worker, and the discussion at that time was to progress his work here together with the MPS T tunnel motor, but to keep the MPS working group informed. Had this discussion with the the experts on the week, on the weekly call, and we had we agreed that we need to update the MPLSD tunnel model. As well as to create this draft for the topology model. And, that we have shared this outcome on the main list of both MPLS and these were in groups next slide. Then the approach that, we are following is there is difficulty to augment, the the packet, the topology model, which is provide by self, mandated apology. So what we are here is only the MPLS, uh-uh, the NTP. Aspect, specific aspects and Nexta."
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:34:03",
    "text": "And what we changed recently, we got some comments and we just spin the draft. So we have aligned, the draft the model with the, LCC 776 Vicks. To to to be aligned with the latest version. We updated the contribution and out of this complying with the RSC 7322. And we had, after the 5, we had a lot of cushion on the listed on the app sector, and we try to we have we have tried to improve the app based the feedback, sir. I hope, the the answer is much better now. And that we had some comments from Adrian on the editorial comments. We have addressed it, and we have added also the security and Diana consideration based on the input from India. Next Okay. We tracked the work on this document in GitHub. The the same database before for the world where all the team work is ongoing. We have, 3 open issues pending, can be addressed by the working group process. The first one is while while discussing the after I got some offline comment that, well, the way it was written, it was not very clear that MPLSD is a substance of MPLS. Maybe the abstract is now better, but I said, okay. Let's let's double check. Am I suggesting people read let me know if there is something ambiguous or unclear we would we would change. Otherwise, we can close the issue quickly. And, we have some doubt in the past about whether we need to support NPL multi domain and PST. The draft is assuming no. Because we don't have to have, the most data domain, capability reporting, but, again, input are welcome on this The last one is a minor, young, just to track her that we to other the MPLS label in the record. And that's a done in both in the tunnel and topology stores is more a work to do rather than an issue to discuss. Of course, we welcome any comments, sir, and, we think the document is now ready for adoption. Thank you. Comments?"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:36:06",
    "text": "do the same polls. We'll Stay tuned. Okay. So we have, about a quarter of the people, participating who are in the meeting and but all are supportive. So we'll move to the second part. I think people are scared away that you're gonna come to the mic if they say no. Almost Ollie, Ollie, what happened? Yeah. Basically, the same numbers. Everyone who said who said, basically everyone who said, yes. To the first or saying yes to the second. Pretty much the same. K. So, I think we're in the same boat as the last one. Okay. Maybe a little stronger. Okay. Good. Thank you. Okay. And, Scott, you're gonna be up next. 115. This one. You still got it in there. Welcome, Scott Mansfield, Erickson."
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:38:00",
    "text": "Here to talk about something that has been talked about before, but this is the first time that we've presented this in tees. If you notice the name of this draft, says CCamp. So the the short story, the good of the next slide, please. The next the the, short story here is that we had a draft in CCamp that was for microwave topology. And in that draft, we had 3 separate modules. And 2 of the modules were not directly related to microwave. They were more generic in, in their scope. So order to move the topology draft faster. We took that generic work out and have created these two other modules. This was bandwidth availability is the one I'm presenting here in tees. And there was interface reference that I presented in ops area. I don't know. 6 months ago as far as I could tell. But anyway, the, it's been a long week. So the, the idea here is that there is a need in microwave topology to be able to, when you read the microwave apology that you can understand the bandwidth availability information about the microwave equipment. And but that bandwidth availability can be a more generic concept, and it could be supported for other technologies too. So the idea here is to, advance the discussion around what bandwidth availability means, how it's applicable to the different types technologies, how it can be tied to the topologies, in a, not holding up our microwave draft. So that's the that's the idea here. So we we're thinking that t's, since this is bandwidth and t's is kind of a, traffic engineering kind of thing. We were, wanting to know"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:40:04",
    "text": "the chairs. We're interested in discussing moving this over to tees. They have a better idea of where it should go. The GitHub there with the, issues list and the draft that we have which was pulled out of the microwave draft. I created a separate, draft that has just this yang module in it. So I think that's it. I don't know. Is there another slide that might be It's the, oh, what do we do? Thanks. And no more I No more slides. I don't think so. Okay. So, yeah, I have some, some way to to help against the the ground and understand the motivation and why should this, fix this. So The very first one is to the same stuff providing information from the network. So you are not you are not the using it to let's say enforce anything is more being information of of what happened. Right? Well, it's the, that's part of apology, you go out and say, what is my apology? Comes in and this is the information. This is the information you get told. It's associate's information about the node that is from from the network. So in, in, in a micro, if you are subject to conditions of weather conditions, something that happens. So they bandwidth can control. Yeah. There's. Okay. So it's interesting for traffic engineering because you can take the decisions based on that knowledge that things are are flopping. Yeah. Okay. So here, I don't know yet any or the or maybe if there are other other technologies that are also suffering the same are subject to suffer the same issue. Maybe also some maybe some of some some radio technologies, maybe not microwave, but also have an any technologies that that that can suffer from from the young Thank you. So Luis, you have some questions."
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:42:00",
    "text": "I think that this is interesting, but that certainly is very logically, it's very focused now in in macro as you were saying, with particularities, that you are talking about tables depending on the availability of the link and so at all. Clearly probably would be required to go through way to get the idea and and so how restart working on what could be the the the aspects that could be generalized. My growth is clearly corner case, let's say. It's valid for sure, but it's probably not not the main topic. And also probably to to understand other things, like, at which level, I mean, all the we are, reporting the the bandwidth availability because microwave is, like, a one, let's say, so we are between 2 or 3. Oh, and and things like, how often we will the the the information, how we will get the information, so so far. So I I think it's interesting, but probably we need to to look at the problem from scratch, let's say. To make it more generic. There is work that needs to be done. Yes. I agree. Thank you. Yeah. So I put this in chat. I've heard, in IV this week about, bandwidth availability. Well, we put the other one in Ivy. So let's just take everything to Ivy. Yeah. Yeah. Right. Right. So I heard about that in Ivy. Certainly the M and A working group cares about transmission related parameters. True. But they haven't gotten Monty Hang yet. You can introduce them to some fun. Yeah. That's right. You can introduce that it certainly seems like it would be appropriate. It they were doing yang to bring it there, but they're not. I think TVR might be interested, but they're not there yet. They have their own link parameters right now. Right. We just we discussed that. And then the last one is raw as part of debt net, should be worried about you know, radio related parameters. It's that's what that that topic is all about. So I think there's a lot of choices there"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:44:04",
    "text": "It might take a little discussion among chairs, among contributors, and think about where this belongs. But there's no shortage of places. There's no shortage of places, and you've given me the direction that I need to, to satisfy the people that were working on this. And to provide them with the information that there are several places that that we could take And so I will be suggesting and encouraging people that want this work to move forward to flood mailing lists with their ideas. Yeah. And and thinking about it I don't know if we with which chair hat on or no chair hat It would be nice if there was a single place where radio related parameters were being modeled in Yang. Yeah. Scott for GPP. What's that? It's called 3gpp. Yeah. Well, there are radios beyond 3 GPP. Wow. It depends. Okay. You mean any generic rate That's what I yes. Because, you know, we operate a layer above the radio. So we should be have that generic solution. Okay. And, you know, I think we we for that is yet. should have an answer Yeah. That's fine. But definitely, I think I think I personally think that, Achilles has contributor or, indeed, well, that bandwidth availability. Now we are, as you said, we are seen a different layer. You see the interface interface Sometimes that's not changed. You you see they're always the same. 100 megabit interface, but the reality that you're not having 100 megabits. You try if you squeeze the if you squeeze the radio channel, that not happen. We have use cases in, in our operation that we have also links, getting getting for someone in Brazil, going through the Amazon river, on top with our with our radio regarding the and you you might think that in a in the backbone, you sometimes have more or less problem. And now when absorbing these those problems, for example, with MPLSD. So that is solving them with Trucking Living Technologies. So so"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:46:00",
    "text": "having the real or this bandwidth information or this real bandwidth availability there down. I think for traffic engineering purposes, It's it's interesting, and I think it it makes you this is why this part of the work that the information itself can become from other working groups. I mean, it's true that that that can that can belong, but but that for us, for traffic Engineering, a you are you can take decisions based on on this I'm bandwidth availability. Manual or availability or unavailability sometimes. Yeah. Abs absolutely. I think it's a very interesting parameter. It's a question of where do we do the work? Yes. Not that is if we should do the work. At least for Mike, That's me's distributor. This provides me with the information I need to take it back to the people that interested in this as well, and we will be progressing this on various mailing lists to see if we can reach some consensus. Yeah. We we we'll bring in some area directors while we're at it too. IDSG participation in the moment. So we could say anything we want. But more importantly, Rob was covering and Rob from the ops area is actually a good person passed because they they this bridges multiple areas So we definitely should have a discussion with, our well, with multiple ADs on this. Correct. Well, I appreciate the I appreciate the time. Thank you very much. Last stop. Last But not least, So, interface again. Mhmm. Yes. So you have something like, 42 I can say maybe 30 minutes for people. Okay. So this is Jeddong again. I'm going to give presentation on this BGP as a policy extensions for the NRP this document has been discussed and the adoption call in the idea working group. Is just to give you this information and collect some feedback on the scalability"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:48:04",
    "text": "Okay. Some background about this work. We know NRP the concept of therapy. And, for as a policy, it is a set of candidate paths, each consisting of, 1 or more. Segment list and the associated information. So that package still can be steered to a lesser policy and be augmented in the packet header with a second list. And as our policy may be associated with, particular NRP in the network this association between the as a policy and NRP need to be specified in the protocol. So that package due to this as a policy can be augmented with both the same list. And NRP ID in the packet header. So this document defines the extension to a BGP as a policy to associated an IP with, to indicate an IP with, which we we reached the policy associated with Okay. Here is a update, extension to the PGPSA policy addressed family. Basically, we define a new sub tier v called NRP sub tier v in the BGP tunnel encapsulation attribute. Can be carried in the digital encapsulation attribute when the title type is set as our policy. The format is shown here, and we have assigned request is I not to assign the type code The NRP ID is for octact lines, which is, consistent with other protocols Okay. Next slide. Here is the updated BGP SR policy encoding. As shown here, this NRP sub TLV is carried at the Canadian Pass level. Which means that all the same lists, of this candidate pass will be associated with the same NRP. Okay. That's fine. Here, on procedures, uh-uh, update when the another another as a policy associated with the"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:50:00",
    "text": "an RP. Originating node of that policy should include this not be in the PGP tunnel encapsulation attributes. When it is used to advertise as a policy to the, had a note And the setting of other fields are kept unchanged. And when the asset policy ingress note received the as a policy, can it pass? Which is acceptable and reusable. It will encapsulate an IP ID in the high in that case. Just deal to that as a policy. Okay. Then and encapsulation for HIV 6 policies defined carry this as an RP ID is defined in this, 6 month draft. Okay. That's fine. Here are some operational considerations, basically with the proposed mechanism it allows to have different, candidate parts in 1 as a policy to be associated with, different NRPs. Well, in normal scenarios, it is considered that the association between ISA policy and NRP should be consistent so that, in normal case, all this uncanny parts of one as a policy should be associated with the same NRP. Okay? Next slide. Oh, in the recent update, we add, scalability considerations section to give some analysis about the scalability about on this, as a part BGP based as a policy. Basically, there's a mechanism defining this draft as some additional information and RP information to the as a policy candidate pass. And as a number of NRP increases, this number of the policy can you pass may also increase. And when BGP is used as a signaling protocol, the asset policy can it pass? The amount of information to be this change between the controller and the head on"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:52:00",
    "text": "note, it will also increase. However, since as a policy, can it pass will only be, installed by the header node of that policy. So this kind of impact is considered acceptable comparing to the IGP based it. My threesomes, Okay. Mister Ortiz Okay. The next steps, as I just mentioned, this document has been work the IDR and finish the working group adoption call there. We're waiting for the announcement of the result And the teacher has indicated is that this may be related to the scalability discussion in his working group. So the idea chairs suggesting us to present it here also. So we'd like to collect some feedbacks on this document whether you have any comments, you can just let us know Okay. Thank you very much. So comments on the floor we have. No time restrictions, ma'am. I guess nobody has an opinion on this here. I mean, like I stated earlier, we did send email earlier today, stating the chairs are expecting from, documents and other working groups that are, relevant to NRP. And, think this particular draft, they've gone ahead and done that. They have added a scalable deconstruction section. And they have brought the work. I mean, they are let let this work group know what this protocol extension is supposed to do If there are any objections, please do, maintenance a thread on this already. So If there are any objections to this proposal, please do take it to the list. With my PC working group chair,"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:54:00",
    "text": "hat on do that for the PC document as well. So the the thread that was started was generic. I mean, we did point to the PC draft as well in that right? So, yeah, the same comments will apply for that document as well. Correct. And Jay's got her for both. So Yeah. Yeah. Dwitt. Thank you. Well, that's perfect. Rare thing in this working group. Open mic. Anyone have any other topics they'd like to bring up? Sure. Besides not meeting on Friday in Brisbane. We've met on Friday, the last two meetings. So We'll see if we continue to be punished for whatever ill, we did. I think it's like asking for two slots together That is one of the reasons I think We didn't stay together. Oh, they didn't. We did something wrong. That's all I know. Maybe say in RFC X 66. What we do We didn't touch for 3 and a half hours either. So they just gave us extra time. Okay. This brings us to the end of the tea session in this IITF, Hope to see you all in Brisbane. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Those that are remote as well. Below chat and"
  }
]
