[
  {
    "startTime": "00:00:02",
    "text": "know-taker section as well, just above the agenda So thank you guys guys guys guys Of course you can. Are you in the mid-eco already? I am not yet Okay This is very sparsely populated room. People seems to be afraid of us, except for the note takers Everybody is like very far away No, we already have a, we already have no takers. Come closer come closer to us. Well, anyway, oh, if you want to check email, that's fine Okay fine to check and see if they're like android or artificial people to talk about You'll fit right in Okay. Yeah Good afternoon. Happy Thursday It's almost over You are now, excuse me, you are now T ops. And let's get started Our esteemed area director would like some work words everybody We have gone home site that is starting up again So interested in coming for again please yeah, someone put it off. Yeah, someone put it off"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:02:01",
    "text": "who the... Apologies, the mic was all be off. Yeah, someone put it off. I don't know who the... Apologies, the mic was off. Thank you. Let's do this again So, hi, everyone. The IETF knowledge cycle is starting up again So if anybody might be interested in running for any of the 80% positions, I'm more than happy to chat explain what it's like. You know, it's a lot of fun. It is a fair bit of work, but it's fun. You get to read all sorts of documents And I'm more than happy to chat with anyone you know, tell you about the good parts, etc So please come and chat with me or just put your name in when the nominations open. That's it Should I run through the slides? Yes, please All of the slides. You do Yeah so welcome to our IETF 100 IOT operations meetings My esteemed co-chair, Alexei, and me, myself, Hank will be guiding you as coachers to the this session. Please mind, this session is recorded under the note well. So a note of well, whatever you say here falls under certain IPR things. Basically, I have to be aware of the BCP on the bottom of this. There's BCB 25 which is note very well on the next slide You can fight a lot on the mic about the content about the feasibility of solutions but please not with each other Sometimes the chairs can't see that there fighting happening beside the scenes. It's not technical but somehow personal. Be friendly to each other, try to try to each other as you want to be treated And if it's not possible to resolve a solution"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:04:02",
    "text": "situation, please approach the chairs or the Ombuds team We can help you. Next slide So when you're in the room, there's a QR code. Please scan that if you are not already locked in the Meetecho that helps you to be an on-site participants it's taking track of the numbers of people in the room so we can plan IETF meetings better and better and that's useful to us Also, there is a raise hand option in any tool, the small tool or the higher tool, the bigger tool when to end one you want to enter the mic or I have a question between in a session, just raise your hand the chairs will give opportunity to then speak at the mic or the presenter. We detect him that is depending on the situation. It's important to use the hand tool when you are in the room because the office the remote participants, otherwise don't have a chance to queue with you for physically. Next slide, please. If you have any issues, I think that's the best thing to report. I found one this week with the media echo there's a link here in the chair slides. The chair slides are on the Datatracker So click that issue link and file that issue That's super helpful. We can improve tools. Next slide please yeah that's us And you haven't seen the minutes yet. The minutes takers are aware of that minutes are. When you go to the agenda, there are slide, please. Yeah, that's us. And you haven't seen the minutes yet. The minutes takers are where the minutes are. When you go to the agenda, there's a lot of links. Notes are minutes. Same, same synonym. If you are joining via chat you already know how to do that, and again, if you are Meetecho you already did that so next slide We have currently three adopted items in the working group, working group items Two of them will be the topic of today's session We assume that even with the open mic and any other business that we might close early, but this assumption has been proven wrong pretty often already so let's see how that works out And yeah, then we can go to actually agenda which is starting with us here"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:06:02",
    "text": "or me in this case, telling you all this And then we have a presenter on site that I've seen just 10 minutes ago Brent, are you in the room? Oh, there you are. You lost your jacket, so I can't really recognize you. Okay Brenton is now green. And Carson is in the queue so this is one example of me just interjecting and allowing Carson to speak. Yeah, just one small piece of gender bashing. I was asking you're mumbling our audio is really bad on our side You need to step into the room to hear other people you're really faint We kind of hear you, but very faintly Okay. So, I Yeah, you're just Okay, so yeah, first presented in the room, Karsten, second, presenter remote, and we should have up update on the third document remotely as well well sorry I think Okay Brenton, as Carson recovers from his audio, Oh, I think he wants, oh, Carson's comment, again, I can see this now, is an agenda bashing, he wants to go down to 30 minutes Oh, that's fine. Yeah, sorry, Carson, yeah, absolutely You can have more time. We have time this time time at this time. All right. Next slide, please please There we go All right, so I want to talk a little bit about the motivation. I'm just going to this draft has been in IOT ops for a little while now, and so I thought maybe it would be a good idea"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:08:02",
    "text": "to go back through the motivation for the draft and what's in it and where we stand today So for the motivation, suppose for a moment that you are building an IOT device and you want to conform to some kind of security requirements standard or a baseline security requirements document but you as an implementer have no idea what libraries you need, or what standards would help you Well, this is sort of the idea of this draft. You know, if you need to figure out what available solutions there are and what library well, we can't really tell you what libraries, but we'll come back to that. It would be really nice to know which standards you could use to solve the problems that you have that are presented by a security requirements document So let's see if we can do that Next slide, please So suppose you're following Anisa's baseline security requirements for iOT in the context of critical information infrastructures Well, how would you implement one of the requirements? Let's take an example. Sign code cryptic cryptographically there's a bunch more there we'll ignore it um Well, you might want to have some idea of a way that you can do this without just going off and doing your own thing, signing your code cryptography is notoriously prone to error So we probably want some kind of guidance on how to do it right. Next slide, please Okay, so here we're going to provide a little bit of guidance for the implementer and we'll say that you can do it using the suit manifest Yes, I am plugging my own draft. I'm going to take that prerogative And here what you have is some suggestions on a couple of the different IETF standard that address some of the requirements in"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:10:02",
    "text": "that particular ANISA security requirement So you can use suit to deploy your secure updates and have secure invocation on those updates. And if you're protected your system with TEAP or with a TEE, then you probably want a way to provide trusted applications into that TEE and TEAP is a good protocol for handling that Next slide, please So currently we're covering three separate security requirements documents First, we've got Anisa's baseline security recommendation for IoT. Next, we've got Etsy's cybersecurity for consumer Internet of Things, baseline requirements, and finally, NIST's IOT device site security capability core baseline We haven't had any additional baseline documents requested in the working group and so somewhat selfishly, I'm going to say it's done Next slide, please So what we do in the draft is we map each of these requirements to standards that address them It doesn't provide a mapping to libraries. And the hope is that once you know which RFCs cover the standard that you care about, you should be able to find a library which implements that RFC One of the things we don't do is reference procedural standards So what I mean by a procedural standard in this case is some kind of relevant ISO standards for example, that tells you how you should go about handling your keys or something like that We don't have that because well, the procedural standards are sort of outside the scope of typical IETF operating procedures We and you know, all unused net scope of typical IETF operating procedures. We, and you know, all unused network and logical interfaces shall be disabled. We don't have"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:12:02",
    "text": "that either because, again, that's not usually the kind of requirement that we address with RFCs Next slide, please So the status of the draft currently is that we haven't done anything since IETF19 It would be good to have some reviewers and indeed, as I'm saying that, I can tell you that a little over a day ago there was a review that came in so now I need to address those review comments But other than that, we could use a few additional reviews there is a little bit of discussion that's probably necessary around the class classification of requirements. Because in this draft it says procedural and architectural in places and sort of says that it's not going to address those because those aren't standards that are or those aren't requirements that are easy to address in a normal IETF way. However, it does this almost universally without justification and explaining why these uh or those aren't requirements that are easy to address in a normal IETF way. However, it does this almost universally without justification and explaining why these are not considered either document or protocol requirements things that we could do easily in the IETF it just says that we aren't going to do them. So it may need a little bit more justification around these requirements. And that's the end of my slides. So are there any questions? Will you recognize AJ, come on? Cool, I recognize me too Uh, Brendan, uh, I guess you saw the review. I don't know if you need more help than that. I'm willing to do more than just write like the emails. Just let me know I can find you. I've been trying to email you for a while. Would you like that? guess you saw the review. I don't know if you need more help than that. I'm willing to do more than just write, like the emails. Just let me know I can find you. I've been trying to email you for a while. Would you like to be an author? Uh, I, I, hinted in my email if you want more help than me just"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:14:02",
    "text": "writing like the emails like that kind of level of help I'm willing. I could not find the source material for the draft or I would have been a little more helpful right, at the most, like, other than the most irritating time possible to give a lengthy review back I've been trying to not do this, so I apologize. No problem I'm happy to send you the source material i think i should probably link it into the next version of the draft because I don't think it currently has a pointer back to the relevant Git repo Okay, that's good I'll park this for now because I'm probably like it's not relevant this draft. I don't really know where the I Git repo. Okay, that's good. I'll park this for now because I'm probably, like it's not relevant to this draft. I don't really know where the IOT ops repos, plural, reside, but I can ask that later. So this is like a worker, Jeff But I can help. Anyway, I'm done. Thank you Thank you Question I for working group last call or do you think after this round we might be I think maybe we should address AJ's reviews first, unless you want to consider them comments in the context of it working group last call. Okay how about we'll try to, well, by we, I mean you but will help do a draft revision and then we can see how much has changed with it. Yeah, can do just kind of get a quantitative measurement of you know how stable it is I suppose well we'll we'll have to see how it goes after I go through AJ's review Okay, fine. And then after that we'll decide whether it's. All right, sounds good so this is saying adding to this so this um"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:16:02",
    "text": "uh four months period we have until the 21 and Dublin so um i say there's a kind of a summer pause So August is a good time to think about this and then AJ's comments and then I think after August we can do the working group last call decision and I think we'll go from there. All right, sounds good good Which, according to agenda agenda, Carlson is next, but Carsten is next, but Carson, please stay patient for your slides to come up in a few seconds. Yeah, let me just first say one, two, three, four, five We can see yeah would you like to drive your own slides or how do you want to do yeah just pass the control okay um some some Meetecho uh personnel might come, sorry, Encore personal might come in here to fix the speakers. So you are if you crank your volume up on your mic, that probably does not hurt um on our side but it might hurt other remote participants So, you know know you're less faint than before so i think i think we're probably okay so just go ahead Okay. Thank you. So I would like to talk about RFC 72228 bis, which had a pretty rough time in the last few months because somehow it was stuck in a wig and couldn't be rescued from there and Datatracker got confused but that is all behind us so we can now start working on this. So this is essentially just a new version of RFC 7228 which came out in May 2014 so it's 10 years old by now"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:18:02",
    "text": "It's one of the more well-cited drafts in the AOT space. It has 42 references from RFCs And why is that so? Well, the problem is that terminology for constrained node networks and low-power lossy networks and so on is not very, or has not been very well defined. And this document does that but yeah it this state of 10 years ago so the question is has the world moved since 10 years ago and I think we can resoundingly say yes And also there is a lot of terminology missing that we probably should be including and for instance one aspect is power constraint We made some pretty late additions to us 17-128. We probably should look at how well these classes have served us here what is about the classes for power and energy? So there is some looking needed at the existence terms, but there also probably needs to be new terminology MTU constraint as one area where we have much more variability We now have millibit networks, networks that have a system throughput in the millibits per second range which we call APWAN here in the IETF We have asymmetry. We have other forms of mobility, so that's probably a useful thing to talk about. And there are has been a much wider spread in platforms that we are using. We are seeing a lot of IoT on"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:20:02",
    "text": "general purpose platforms, which we want be calling J-Class in the next version of the document But we also have microcontroller class platforms that occasionally are more powerful than the ones we had before. So in 10 years you would think that Moore's law should have elevated us by at least the factor 32 or something. That of course hasn't happened among others, because Moore's law doesn't work anymore, but also because in this space, Moore's law just usually goes into power savings and cost savings and so on So there are a few other things. We now have much more elaborate crypticabye capabilities. We have protection capabilities We have memory protection units. Memory protection units We have devices that can sustain a distinction between the common user mode We have devices with secure elements, with trust zone other temper-proof technologies. So it's probably a good idea to see whether your terminology for that could be useful So let's just look at these more well-known classes that at 17 to the 8 provides. So we have been talking about class 0, class 1, and class 2 At the time, these were typical sizes for IOT devices and well, class 0 zero is not powerful enough to be a citizen of the internet but class one in class two actually are with some help and the amount of help of course, goes down as you go up the class structure and we have seen something like a class three emerge We should check whether those numbers are still right And a luxury microcontroller class, which which"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:22:02",
    "text": "we call class four here Probably doesn't make sense to be more specific here and on the general purpose side we have those cheap open WRT routers the $5 ones dollar ones that have a certain limit in particular on their data size, but also on their flash size. And then we have things like Raspberry Pi a smartphone a laptop, or a server, and it probably makes sense to just include them in the terminology so we can talk more about things where we essentially say processing capabilities are pretty much abundant, Brendan Just as an FYI, this is a rapidly changing landscape I would point out that the RP 2040, which costs 7 cents, lands at 250 of RAM, and typically around four to eight megabytes of flash So it doesn't even fit in the class four device and it's one of the cheapest microcontrollers you can buy Right No, I would be Class 4 device, and it's one of the cheapest microcontrollers you can buy. Right. Now, IoT has a lot of systems on a chip, which maybe don't have all that wonderful stuff in them. So maybe so of those classes are still useful. We could find out they aren't I'm totally open to such a result. But 10 years ago, we were surprised how useful they were. And I think we should have it look and certainly help from providers of technology in this space including arm would be really useful So this is what I just wanted to bring up because I have someone is what I just wanted to bring up because I have some more detailed slides for this, but we probably have just wanted to bring up because I have some more detailed slides for this, but we probably don't have to go through this"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:24:01",
    "text": "So this is the most well known cloud terminology, but it's maybe not the one where we need to focus on. We should just work on this while we are working on the other items So one question with the M group classes, of course, is execute in base architectures which dominated 10 years ago are not necessarily what you find these days So the terminology process has to adapt to that flash sizes are really large as Brennan just said So that's the N-group and in the J-group Well, yeah, these numbers of course change over time and maybe it's better to paint a track here than to give specific number But it's still most smartphones are less powerful than laptops and most laptops are less powerful than servers. So it probably still makes sense to it distinguish these classes So as I said, this is just one set of terminology, and the idea about this class terminology is that it should be descriptive of actual products and it should be useful Yeah, Brandon, the word like descriptive of actual products and it should be useful, yeah, Brandon, the word luxury is not something that would stay in the document And where we have interesting boundaries should be used to also delimit those classes And the point here is to support speech. So we want to be able to use these classes to actually help in our discussions about functionality we want to put into protocols and what kind of support it is"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:26:02",
    "text": "actually needs from the heart want to put into protocols and what kind of support it actually needs from the hardware. So this is really important there's no point in putting terminology here that we won't use OK, so let me just give a couple of examples for terminology that we could use firmware software upgradeability comes in different classes, and here is the proposed set of classes that's probably not fine enough, but I think it's really important to be able to talk about systems that need to be discarded because you cannot upgrade them, you upgrade by discarding and by any new one There are various impacts that firmware upgrades might have, like rebooting um There may be devices that actually can do a completely hitless reboot, so nobody notices that the thing just installed new software So that's the spectrum that we might want to open open Another example is what is the isolation functionality? We have, I already mentioned, memory protection units, MMUs, virtualization stuff isolation Why did that happen? And some secure enclave isolation so again we can talk about that but I think it's really important to have terms that distinguish these different kinds of systems And finally, yeah, this is, of course not yet ready but there probably should be something about security shielding and the ability to take part in protocols that require"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:28:01",
    "text": "secrets brendan moran the previous slide, you're missing trusted execution environments Yes. Which are different from secure enclaves, to be clear. Yeah so they are between seven and eight. Yeah, that's right Thank you injected myself in the queue with no head on and too lazy to move to the mic I put into chat, a two-year-old diet injected myself in the queue with no head on and too lazy to move to the mic. I put into chat a two-year-old diagram concocted by the confidential computing consortium that's kind of about isolation and confidential same, same, and there's a bundling a bundling uh, mechanism, uh, bounded boundaries there. I'm not saying that's super helpful and I'm also aware that's being reworked right now by the governance team of the CCC but it might be yet another reference for isolation and confidentiality classes here Very good Thank you. So this is exactly the kind of review feedback that Live in action That's probably not the right thing. It is not It is not. No Okay so let's try to get these things defined in such a way that we can say this is for doing this particular kind of protocol, this is for doing another kind of protocol. And finally, I would like to mention timing So if you have devices that have power events, like they switch off and turn on later on, how much of a concept of"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:30:02",
    "text": "time is retained over these power events And clearly we have very, very different devices in this range and if you want to do time-based work it's probably useful to distinguish these systems. Okay, so I just listed a few things to jog your mind a little bit and send in the ideas and areas where we need improvement What I would like to do in the next half year so is initiate focused discussions on the list So we might have something like a topic of the week So next week we could talk about the isolation capability and then about time handling and whatever Then when we are through to most important subject we could solicit some review Of course, reviews are always welcome but they might be more useful if they describe the state of the, if they discuss the state of the document After we have done this upgrade and then maybe update once more and go to a working block so i would expect that we have a working plus call ready document by the end of the year or the start of the next year. That would be my plan And that's all I have Any questions on the proposed new class? Oh, I see AJ in the queue. AJ, you go first Yeah, I'm sorry, I just switched devices I hope the noise in the audio is not terrible The plan seems good I actually had no idea that you were doing this. This is interesting to me. I work with people who have former"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:32:01",
    "text": "experience in working in fabrication labs or fabrication plants. Do hardware work at the design and early implementation stage Have any of people that subject matter experience? reviewed this? And are they also a target audience? of describing systems as they're designed and implemented not? on the tail end when they've already been integrated to complete? built? So the first question was, has anybody reviewed? this? And yes, for 7-228 there was a lot of feedback from chipmast makers as well. And we have to reproduce this for this phase Okay, that's very cool. I might send it to some colleagues of mine who work in the hardware security project side of NIST who have some of that experience It would be interesting to see how this could be used large scale. Maybe I can be more involved I had no idea that I mean even though the BIS document it maybe I'll follow up on the list Yeah, there is a certain danger that we get too details here. We have to keep this document useful so people can just look up things and use these terms but getting the real subject meta experts like random about isolation systems say something about this is exactly what we need now My one last parting question, I'm sorry to length, which would be a very short meeting How do you, I mean, usually there's a certain cycle to end timeline to managing documents as to become RFCs and updating them, obviously It seems like you want something very adaptive. How would you make it more? flexible for industry use the review? publication? You were breaking up a little bit, but I think you"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:34:01",
    "text": "were asking about the timeline for further developing this I think it would be good to have a a... I'm sorry, there's a lag. I'm going to meet you. You can answer. I apologize So, it would be good to have a new RFC that that kind of in this decade, not in the previous decade and we might want to set up something to update it more often. Maybe we don't have to wait 10 years for the next time And there were things like, people retiring and um um parents leave and other things getting in the way, that's why this took so long But I don't think we want to overdo this. So I think such a document is you useful, as can be seen from the number of references but we also shouldn't try to make the definitive work about the state of the universe here, but just make sure that we have useful terminology we can use All right, thank you Thank you Okay, so I think I'm done Any other questions on the categorizations? Otherwise, we, Carson um i think a summary of new categories that would be like yeah, on the list for IoT ops would be nice So float that email better to solicit at least expert review or maybe other entities interested in this categorization scheme Thank you. Yeah and I assume you are constant. Yeah you're happy to"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:36:01",
    "text": "post the questions you want to do or do you want chairs to drive this, so, I mean, we can take it offline, but Yeah, I think the authors can drive this Once this parental, leave is over Thank you like to drive? the slides yourself or it's it's only this it's too slides so we can go to the next. We don't need to change you more feedback from the room you are audio as change you more. And John, as feedback from the room, your audio is excellent. It's actually maybe a little bit too loud Okay, yeah, I can speak So these are the changes between 04 and 06 Zero 4 was, or zero 04 was quite big updates addressing all the comments in the IOT early IOTG review by russ housley then 05 and 06 was just editorial changes very small. Then we had a working group last call on 06 And unless I missed some reviews, there's been reviews by Marco and Thomas both say that this is in a good condition"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:38:01",
    "text": "thomas haynes it looks good and Marco says it's larger readily and thomas haynes some knits and Marco has done a very thorough review but I think everything is quite minor mostly editorial, maybe everything is like editorial refraising things So next steps for author side is to update this document based on the comments. I wrote here to update some references, but these references are actually already updated. I missed that There might be some other The only thing new I'm aware of that could variant reference is this new super jumbo record limit draft that changed the TLS record header so it's not compatible with 1.2 anymore and then you also get some um TLS record header so it's not compatible with 102 anymore and then you also get some you can at least get some less overhead if you want I mean there will be a work group adoption call quite soon for this but the aspect of also lowering overhead as not really been discussed in TEAS Tehras. The suggested thing at this point, would only be to add a reference and say, hey, this exists just that we have done with a lot of other draft When discussed before, it was so yes, better to reference things, even draws that we know will go nowhere. And that's basically it had IDF 109, it was suggested at the draft should wait"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:40:01",
    "text": "published at the same time as CTF which is the main normative reference we are waiting for Okay, so the plan is you're going to revise and possibly add this extra considerations for the TLS extension and then we'll just put document on hold until CTLS is done, right? Or we decide that we want to do something else Yeah. Okay, right. That's good Sorry, this is Hank. Is there something speaking against doing a working group? scout even without CTLS in its current form? That would it be a problem? Do you really need that to be a off for a working group of call? Oh, got it. Sorry Yeah, I retract my question question Yeah, I don't have anything more does it seem to be any questions from the public Any comments? All right? From the room. All right. Thank you Thank you Yeah So we are as expected early in time if anyone likes to bring up any other business here in the room right now, there is the chance. And I see at least Michael rushing Thank you very much"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:42:04",
    "text": "Hi, michael richardson So I'm Hank I was reading our charter this morning or yesterday, and I thought it was in a interesting piece of fiction and anyway so but I mean I continue to be a little bit frustrated because I think that we could have done I would I had wanted to do more actual protocol stuff in this working group and um, um, on board was one of those things, but, um, one of the things that I think is in the middle of our list of things, of our life cycle is configuration backup and restore It's something that you can actually you could load with suit can load configurations but the question of how do I you know go and collect all the configuration of all the devices on the network in a device agnostic kind of way such that when i uh replace and or upgrade them and or wipe their disks to remove crowd strikes that I can then restore the configuration that was there before. So it's something that I think is really interesting and useful. I think we get into I'm not proposing we jump into something to doing this because I actually think we need participation of people implementing But of course, we always get it chicken and egg situations. I'll implement it when it's an RFC and you know blah blah blah back and forth so I don't know what to suggest, but I want to suggest that we think about what to suggest. And um that i think it's a an important step and I know that there's bits and pieces of it missing from quite a number of other IOT verticals and that the IETF is often in a place of XKC 927"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:44:01",
    "text": "and we do well we do well doing that let's say that way yeah thank you Yeah, well, before and before I, do well. We do well doing that, let's say that way. Yeah, thank you. Yeah, well, before I deliver to that, it's your turn Yeah, I mean, I kind of wonder to agree with some of what michael rosa the chart was fairly difficult to get actually pushed through the process but i think the working group has now been around for a while so it might be reasonable if we want to be like, look, everything been fine, you know, there hasn't been any drama, nothing's exploded we might be able to look at sometime expanding the charter to allow for, you know, doing more work and less just talking about being able to do work Yeah, and this is Hank as its chair Coincidentally, you did not raise your hand by the way, scold I think so And so this is not the first time this came up, this meeting And so, yeah, I think this will be taken under serious consideration also to michael rosa comment on restore and management of updates i'm taking on brandon weeks hat right now and saying the suit manifest deliberately was not designed as a protocol Yes. So quoting him correctly. He is suggesting here in the room. And so some protocols requirement around that for the management of replay and restructuring and such would be interesting And now, Josh is in the crew and then Bren So this is a different topic My name is josh cohen So I'm one of the original authors of Web Proxy Auto Discovery for Web Proxies servers, and one of the things we're doing now is taking a look at that since that was defined in 1997 and what was a short-term solution became a"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:46:02",
    "text": "long-term solution with you know that was back before dhcp was widely deployed so it's good a sense of the choices we had And so one of the things I wanted to do is get a sense from different areas than just sort of the way you know, what happens in the HTTPWG and whatnot. And from an IOT standpoint, like I've done some work up with like Arduino's and ESP302s but I was curious, like if people have some sense of when and if proxy servers are, used in those devices and how they're either discovered or provisioned and what any potential requirements are going forward so if anyone has any thoughts on forward. Just move up to the mic if you're replying this is Brendan from my point of view proxies have largely been displaced by CDNs CDNs Well, I mean, what does a proxy even mean in the context of HTTPS? Anyway, to Hank's earlier question on suit distribution, it's kind of a challenge situation because yes we absolutely avoided building a prototype and we explicitly tried to build a document format that was transportable over most of the available protocols that we had. Notwithstanding that, there is some back and forth now, now that we have super report going through in the suit process And that means that we could consider start looking at a protocol that lived on top of suit or around it So, you know, we have this, you receive, a document and then you process it, and that means that you get some more documents and some payloads and then"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:48:02",
    "text": "in the process of doing that, you generate a report, which you send back. So we have all of these pieces but we haven't described them working together yet and so I suspect there's some scope for doing that now whether that's a suit working group action or an IOT ops one I'm not sure. I'm not sure how much appetite there is to take on new work in suit. So I think there definitely discussion to be had around that michael richardson in the mic in reverse order to respond I have been a fan of suit taking on creating a suit, an IETF standard status tracker with suit report collection and blah, blah blah, and I keep waiting for suit to get far enough so I can propose a charter rechartering to do that So that's what I think we should do but having said that the thing I said earlier about a standard way to backup configurations and restore them is effectively almost exactly the same piece of stuff okay um in an in a document which is still stuck in the IESG I removed paragraphs where I refer to the fact that if there was a um IETF standard status tracker, it would improve privacy and then I had a back and forth with Roman about what exactly does that mean? And I said, well, it doesn't exist yet that's the problem so i'm you know I'm saying it would be better. Privacy would be better when you download firmware if you could download it locally right? And anyway, I wound up deleting that it was immaterial to the document. So I deleted the paragraph. It was easier than trying to explain But yeah, no, I'm very enthusiastic about we need to have one of those that we were wrong, it was correct to not start with what of those because we want to socialize it to all the other people that already have their own"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:50:02",
    "text": "but ultimately we can't have, just like we can have an app per appliance, we also can't have a thing that figures out whether we're compliant to the latest software per appliance right? That has to be, that information has to be collectible and central To the question of do IOT devices, currently use web, proxy discovery, right? proxies in general, the answer is to the dismay of many, many, many people know They just, they just, they just don't know how to go through a proxy. They can't be configured to, to find a proxy They don't do DHC to find a proxy. They don't do discovery, find the proxy. They do Nat44 and nothing else works Okay The proxy would just be an obstacle. It's it the proxy would just be an obstacle that it's it would just be a piece that no that no one would know is broken and therefore someone would have to turn it off and debug it. And I'm not saying I wouldn't like to have them but I'm saying consumer, today's consumer IOT devices or industrial ones do not in general have that setting Good clarification, so proxies in the network that they can't traverse and that because they don't have a setting or support for it. Right. Not that they don't exist in the network. They're currently an obstacle if there are proxies in the network they are ignorant of them They expect to reach the internet by default route and nat 4-4 okay they don't expect to reach a 10-10, blah, blah, blah, prox that's on the local land that will they'll do HTTP that will get them out. And I know I can tell you there are several Canadian government agencies that that's how their networks still work"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:52:02",
    "text": "same as 1994 when they started but IOT devices would not work on their network Right So, well, I, if there's a volunteer here, who i could make contact with to have a further discussion, on how that would work, because if we're going to do a new draft of the proxy discovery, it'd be good to have a solution that works for IoT So I'm good, this is Hank at the mic I moved to the mic okay you can continue this on the mic as soon as i'm gone um so uh mic. I moved to the mic. Okay, you can continue this on the mic as soon as I'm gone. So I'm going on Olympia and say, yeah, well, proxies have been kind of, so it's the connection between the, I want to say, HTTP connection for example, you kind of disconnect that. But we have things in the IOT called OSCOR where you have object security end to end and arbitrary disconnected transport beneath it just due to that reason is that a proxy system? It is not. Exactly But does it kind of achieve the same thing? if you do it right? So I don't know So Oskar solves a problem of this disconnecting transports already And this is again like 30 years later, so approximately So I'm not entirely sure what problem you would solve today That is not solved with the evolution of the past 20 years Okay, so yeah, I'm having trouble getting clarity on is, I thought, what was the, what's your name? the that you spoke before michael yeah so currently the are situations where IOT device cannot get to the internet because there's an obstacle. Is that correct? Whoa So, okay"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:54:07",
    "text": "What I'm trying to say, Josh, is there are networks where they work and they can get to the internet and there are networks where they don't work and they're simply returned to home Depot. Okay, so if you had a network that required that you had a proxy to reach anything, the device would simply not work It would be returned to the vendor and no one would ever know anything else because who knows what how that network is broken because it's not stock Nat44 That's what it's tested against consumer devices in industrial setting they all often are air-gapped but there's no proxy that would get them to the network either. They would have to have everything locally, right? There might be gateways that can go get firmware and offer it locally but that's a, you know, that's a vertical of that industry of what they're doing, right? So the gas industry is different than the the food preparation industry. They have totally different IOT verticals That's all a disaster, of course. But but the point is that neither are neither of them are deploying proxy either. Okay, they just are deploying air gaps. Okay So what I'm trying to say is that you have a new revised proxy discovery mechanism I don't think it'll be very interesting to any of those vendors Okay, I don't think you'll get any traction to it If they were going to implement something, they would have implemented the DHCP thing, right? And that was it. And maybe some of them do, and they don't even know it. But because they bought a stack right? But I'm trying to say is that I don't think that proxies in the sense of HTTP proxies or even SOX proxies, I don't it's just not out there it's just beyond most manufacturers"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:56:02",
    "text": "you know, ability to understand Okay. So if you're looking for our support to help, you know, what would be good in a revised protocol, I just think you're going to get an empty answer if we don't know. Okay. Yeah And this is Hank adding maybe my last old Carson's then there I will not talk about questions in the queue Yeah, I just wanted to add to when we talk about proxies, we think about HTTP proxies, but in another interesting kind of proxy is an MQTT broker and maybe one of the reasons many people like MQTT is that they can work around properties of their IP forward experience that they don't like So they can essentially work around obstacles that other people that have put in the way by strategically putting MQTT brokers somewhere and that maybe useful to study when we think about gaps in the way we are able to configure and set up and use proxies So, so, comments with the proxy, I want to say use case That's the exact thing. If that's a problem statement that we can digest, we could go from there. So if you would be able to formalize a problem statement for it today's requirement on the existence or somehow the proxy usage that is not somehow solved by OSCO or by the, I want to say men in the middle broker system that is, that is sometimes used in pups up then we i want to say men in the middle broker system that is that is sometimes used in pubs up then then we could go from there so if there's real world interest in that we are always open to to have some work on that, but we need it"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:58:02",
    "text": "problem statement that illustrates that to, to find the right people to bug on it it And with that is there any other business for someone who wants to go to the mic? And I can go once I can go twice, and then I can all set you free on this Thursday, almost evening thank you for attending Yeah, thank you Thank you for coming. Thank you for taking notes Yes see you next time Yes. Yes, sir My start experiencing Yeah, exactly There's a simple point of sleep, but because they can't do something, but I'll"
  }
]
