[
  {
    "startTime": "00:00:04",
    "text": "uh okay uh he uh just like Swedish Swedish which is a retro science fiction kind of thing I haven't seen the TV series but he made some his in particular his first book of this kind of 1980s Sweden combined with robots and you know huge infrastructure was pretty cool so um foreign yeah right good this is the uh you know this is supposed to be the um uh I can't share that picture oh well I said if you had a actual train wreck picture on your wall you know either the the authentic mole paranas one or the one from the island of Sodor yeah yeah Thomas the Tank Engine yep yeah it's funny how uh kind of ubiquitous that that train wreck picture is somewhere popularized yeah yeah well I think that I think that photography I think it's like 1906 or something like that and I think that photography was just um was just coming"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:02:02",
    "text": "yeah um 1895 it says yeah 1895. so yeah so yeah so I think photography it just you know there were a lot of pictures on this one probably went around the world right because it was uh it was interesting and it was a the first for you know one of the early photographs that it was reproduced yeah yeah and it looks um kind of interesting on the other hand I guess I mean back in those days in early days of Railways and railroads I think the the number of accidents and the number of sort of horrendous accidents with lots of dead people kind of you know Humanity was a slow learning building safety stuff yeah yeah and and you know it's certainly also the case that um so much of the um digital infrastructure um you know even the word semaphore right yeah yeah yeah right from from train safety right so much of that was was created there do you know that you want to study um you don't want to study computer science in Russia the Premier Place in in Moscow right is essentially the university devoted towards train scheduling oh okay right and I think to assert so I think to a certain first order the word for computer at one point in Russian was train scheduling equipment yeah right I mean I'm I mean it is a tough I think it's a it must be one of the sort of first real you know I mean obviously there were there were ships and stuff before that but they don't they never"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:04:00",
    "text": "run on sort of that type of schedule and you obviously need to fix the schedule because otherwise it won't be safe because you can't top two trains on the same track at the same time and everything but it's also yeah and you have the 19-inch rack is also um what came out of railroad equipment right uh right so you can you can reuse like 100 100 year old railroad safety racks because they're built to the same standards as today so yeah there was one there was one show that was done on um you know Railways Through Time one of the episodes hour-long episodes was Railways in war and um one of the claim one of the claims from Holocaust deniers is that they couldn't possibly have moved that many people around and this show make our users as well it actually only took one percent of Germany's railroad infrastructure to move that many people and that they had 400 trains a day on the Eastern Front to supply the troops that were fighting against Russia 400 trains they were based and they were basically running um they had no signals uh and the engineers were basically just running they were told uh go as fast as you can until you see the lights of the train in front of you and then slow down yeah yeah right yeah I mean that's what it takes right it's a uh it's a logistic thing you need you need to work it out but um and I think I've read also sometimes around the uh you know World War II in in um in the US I mean the railroads got their together and started shipping stuff with I mean it it gives you scale to have said you cannot get the scale from drugs or you can get a skill from both but you won't have that many boats right so um"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:06:00",
    "text": "so uh it's the four of us it's 1005 we're gonna what about uh Mr kostiak Michael I think he was uh wasn't Michael Foster on no yeah I think Michael Michael was at least planning to join um I'm not sure where is he though last seen seven hours ago yeah who else is that yeah it's early but yeah yeah maybe we should get going with um can somebody tell them of course I have it somewhere here we try to Ping him uh I did say anything on telegram but um yeah okay cool but maybe we should get going and see where we um I mean the smallest in to remember perhaps but but small at least I think we need to have something and get going and and move along um at least we don't have more chairs than participants no who wants so meet Echo is not working yeah it works what do you mean by oh I wonder he's trying to log in uh oh where did I have that"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:08:07",
    "text": "okay so he's joining um I guess we should get going then he likes High control Nicholas or you can do it I don't yeah I'll give it to you I'll take notes okay yeah that's better because I uh you know my multitasking skills are crap so cool um let's see here can I move with um nope right welcome I'm Michael Custer welcome as well uh to this first interim of 2023. um we haven't had one for quite some time which is uh well for various reasons but hopefully we can get this going again and finish it off this is an IDF meeting you will be recorded and I think we are recorded automatically right we don't have to do anything yeah good um so this is the short note well you will be recorded be nice professional and follow the app to our guidelines and here's the repo and the notes we had some mess getting the notes right but that link should be right uh uh the longer Note file I don't think we have to look into that because you've seen it many times yeah and the code of conduct we know each other we don't have to read this but be nice again the short I like the short form don't be nice um the agenda for today um first of all note well the logistics you see the logistics there uh there used to be a limited link I"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:10:00",
    "text": "think that might get lost blue sheets covered by miteko um and then we have a quick uh status update from the chairs hi Michael and um then we get to the sort of the meat of the meeting where we try to look into this getting the SDF RFC or the draft ready for moving on in the process you know this stuff nothing interesting status update [Music] um the only I mean there are two things here uh when obviously we know there's history and everything and um we lost on Steam in 2022 I would like to get that back and finish this unfortunately the draft expired but we encourse them and just resubmitted so we're in our own version 13. that's good thank you very much for that we need to really get this to the Finish Line I think we've spent quite some time sort of hiring out bugs and so on so let's try to finish it we have a number of additional documents created us on the next page but before we go there I think we should say a few words about our meeting plans um we should obviously have more virtual interims but the big question is of course should we have a actual face-to-face in Yokohama and we still have like two or three weeks to dismay well actually I don't remember the deadline but but it we have a couple of weeks to decide that but um I don't know if we should have an ASDF face to face or if we just try to meet in the hallway or or what makes sense uh but um my rough planning is going to Yokohama this time so it's a I don't know what other people feel I don't think we may be we maybe don't need an ASDF to actually in a meeting"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:12:02",
    "text": "that we could make some you know show it off perhaps and be visible Before we or we will become the first virtual work group in ipf that never meets Kirsten please well we already have a virtual Group which Michael is sharing the seller group that was to have a physical meeting of the seller group uh yes uh in uh um October and not an ietf meeting uh we're at um in The Hague uh the no time to wait uh meeting we had uh um we had a a a intro meeting uh right yeah um there but um yeah I was gonna say that that given the size of our group I'm literally getting up getting together um for coffee if we're all physically there it's probably easier to coordinate than actually getting the Secretariat to do something for uh to schedule us and given the number of conflicts that we get with other iot stuff I'd rather just remove one of the conflicts and um yeah have a virtual meeting in late February and have another virtual meeting in early April if that's what makes sense to me um and then you know we could have a two slide update that goes into I don't know iot Ops or um core or whatever uh just to tell people a wider audience where we're at um yeah I think these are good points um there are also some some other points um being at a physical meeting gives an opportunity for people um to to join of course conflicts are a problem there are always um whether that makes a lot of sense depends on what phase we are in and if we"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:14:01",
    "text": "actually are getting close to to uh our UTF uh submission drivers G submission then actually having a physical meeting is useful so this is really uh the question of how are we going to use the next two and a half months and if we actually arrive at that isg submission then I would very much argue for having a physical meeting yeah I would also think like having a physical meeting would be great I mean for first fact we haven't had one um but but then also perhaps actually getting a bit of a bit of a wider group together and one thing that would maybe would be for having it on the agenda is exactly to avoid those conflicts so we would have a place uh that where we wouldn't be ourselves conflicted um that's it of course we are likely to be a small group so also side meeting is a very sensible option but it might make it easier for us to find a place to actually meet if you were on the agenda foreign I [Music] am I I kind of I underst I I do see both sides of this you know I it's maybe something that that we need to discuss a bit more um I haven't looked into how the how they you know uh yes there will be of course conflicts and stuff so maybe um I think it would be coming given the amount of time when and so we actually spent on this it may what maybe make sense to have it spread to a larger audience and having it visually sort of in the agenda for IDF would probably make it more yeah you know even if it's"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:16:01",
    "text": "a small meeting there's some more people you know walking into the room and so on um so um I I think I would say Okay so we're going to schedule it is there is there something that um is there anything uh um this sounds silly in ITF but given where we are in the document is there some kind of uh uh tangible demo that um um that might be helpful for people who wander into the room to understand what we're doing or to motivate it I mean we have the old demos so I guess we could always update them um and I mean we do have running code and stuff uh maybe not the latest version of the specs and I don't know Ari if there is something from from your side that we could I'm just thinking about uh providing a kind of um um no I am talking yeah okay I thought my microphone's muted um I'm just thinking about you know if if we're trying to attract more interest then uh something that explains what we're doing um or see people can see what we're doing maybe maybe motivate them to actually go read the document and give us the kind of reviews that we need to advance the document yeah yeah I would also think that if if we make if we make it face to face if it would not be like uh you know like three minutes past we start with the first uh issue of the draft it's more than you spend like 10 or 15 minutes or maybe even more working through the the kind of where we are and showing some demo and you know do it a bit of Roadshow uh kind of thing and then get to the more kind of Concrete technical things I think that would be the best thing"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:18:00",
    "text": "sorry or you're still in the queue here sorry we haven't made that using the Qs students issue but all right uh yeah and no no worries um yeah well we do have the one page website demos that you know allows you to transfer translate between five different our representations um that's certainly something easy to set up and show as a way like okay what does this technology actually do so that might be useful yeah that that actually opens a question do we want to prepare something for the iPhone that precedes uh 160. electrical you always use the hackathon to polish the demo right it's amazing that would be pretty much my objective uh here but we also have I mean in one year we have the the Bluetooth issue so if we could generate some progress on Bluetooth that would certainly be a good thing and that also would make a good contribution to the demo because that nobody will have seen that um sure but it I get the feeling and we shouldn't spin up because we have our actual other work to do as well but Michael Richardson are you okay with actually trying to push for a schedule a one-hour meeting to to sales pitch ASDF and SDF in general and yeah I I don't object to it I I just didn't want us to meet for the sake of meeting um and um uh yeah I I at this point I don't think I'm going physically um that could be but but that decision is not final until maybe the end of next"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:20:00",
    "text": "week or something um basically I don't really feel like I have uh funding to go to all three ietfs this year um and that one will be the most expensive one so um there you go um but uh I don't have a problem with with uh uh what you're proposing I think it's a really good idea um as you say the hackathon is good for for uh you know updating things and also that happy hack our thingy is which I've never really been to might be interesting um the other side is that anything that we do polish I really think that probably needs to go into something uh needs a bit of a a a a a a road show um to some other other um iot venues um and um so I think that's uh even if they are we don't expect them to contribute anything I think it's valuable for them to understand that this work exists and then they'll talk to it about to they'll talk about it to other people elsewhere um so you know and well we'll also have a video we'll have a recording of the meeting which also could be shared yeah so I I let let's do it like this let's um I mean I I um let's say that we have an intent to meet to have something in in Yokohama and maybe we need to Hash it out a bit more the details of what we could show and so on so we maybe might not want to schedule the request the slot this week right but but take like in the next week in a decision to go and I'll go for that and then figure out what should it look like and what you can we demo and you know are people going and so on um because I think we already sorry for spending already 20 minutes on this is"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:22:00",
    "text": "this one here but uh uh yeah good um it's okay we're establishing schedules and deadlines so that's actually a useful thing to do yeah yeah cool but let's move on um and maybe this was just to show the number of documents we have and we have um uh you know obviously the SDF the main SDF graph and we have the young one um Kirsten do you think it will have any further work on the young SDF mapping document or well maybe so um Jana has moved on but there may be other people picking this up so I don't know I would be interested in keeping it alive and right now it still works because we haven't changed SDF a lot so the mapping is still correct and it's it's work that that really maybe belongs into the research group I don't know um but that should be kept alive okay same with the SDF mapping this um which one was the no okay I missed the compact notation one I was looking for that one yeah the the compact is just just a tool um thing so um when I whenever I get time to actually work on that tool I have way too many tools to shoot up that I should be working on uh right now and I think the the concept is sound people have looked at it and and found it useful and I just need to make sure I have all the components together to turn this into a really useful tool and then I will update the route"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:24:00",
    "text": "okay sounds good yeah and I we have been talking about the the um the relation and the link type documents in in one dm and we are moving along with them then so they're definitely alive as well yeah so I think mapping relations and and SDF type link are the three documents that should be on our plate as a working group next yeah two Compact and young these are useful individual contributions that can stay individual contributions for a while um but I think the lower three are the ones that that we should make sure uh we we are chartered when we reach outer after delivering the first um document and we should make sure that that we work on these okay fine thanks uh with that I think we can move on to um uh next uh step in the um meeting today which was supposed to take 50 minutes sorry for that but we have um getting the SDF ready for working group last call and um so Kirsten I think you can do the talking here yeah thank you um so we had about half a year since Dash 12. and um I wouldn't immediately subscribe to saying we ran out of steam where I think it's more like the steam went somewhere else and I think we we did use uh the time to actually make sure that the 1dm requirements are indeed covered requirements always a weird thing because in engineering there aren't requirements that there is design and uh the"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:26:02",
    "text": "requirements work with the move with the result anyway um so I think we have completed that 1dm computers check phase and we just now now need to zip things up and draft there's 13 is um just a version that includes the one PR that we actually had which which fixes essentially a bug the text already had the change but the the cdda didn't so that that is now fixed and uh yeah we have 17 issues we need to finish them we we need to make sure that we beyond what we have uh captured as issues we we all do Readiness checks for our applications run the working group plus call and of course also identify a document Shepard so do you want to give me the controls uh if I figure out how yes yeah you go to my name on the participant list and there is a little thing coming out on the right and let's see First Flight control yeah cool yes there we go now if I saw the control is appearing that would be even better yeah no no it's the the things ah yes now thank you I just I just passed it again I guess chairs can always pass it or interesting yeah yeah okay um so this means we do not have open PRS at this point in time and that is of course the deficit because you need to get better in converting um issues into PRS and we have 17 open issues that sounds like a lot but"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:28:00",
    "text": "actually they they are of varying urgency and and quality um so let me just talk about these 17 issues in in seven groups um so the the first group of issues that that we have discussed but we just haven't completed uh probably because there are so many ways to skin this cat and then we just have to come up with a basic one that that solves our problems um we had discussions about the version field um one way of handling this is cramming as much information as possible into the version field which makes this a possible item which is not really the right thing to do things when you already have a language like cddr that you can use for structuring things so maybe we should simply revisit the infobloc issue one final time make sure that the various usages in in one dm and and contributing organizations um are covered and write up what we need to standardize about that usage so that would be my plan for number 29 but it's not something that one of us can just run ahead because we really have to look at the uh where we are using the version field and related fields so if you have any comments this would be a good time to put them in hurry yeah I guess what part of this work we would look at this um adding the information about the creation date uh that's a special specific field uh in case where you want to have the perfect field content other information and data information"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:30:02",
    "text": "that was already identified with the web of things ecosystem that's good and we good and we had discussed that it would be good to have rules for combining information from infoblox into composite uh models um I don't think we are in a position to Define these rules so this is maybe more more of a model guidelines thing so this this um Proto document that is currently starting to exist in the wiki that Arya has pointed to that could capture um information how you handle the compositing um models out of individual ones and and that of course would also address how to handle the inform block information um are you can can we kind of give you the token on number 29. sure I can take a first step thank you so next group SDF type um I promise to write the text for having an Ina registry for the SDF type values I didn't get to this but I think it's pretty clear what needs to be done there we may need to discuss the the INR policy for this um but um yeah I think that that's uh maybe not that consequential because if people want to to squat on an SDF Drive the bridge would anyway so"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:32:01",
    "text": "um yeah so this is just a matter of writing and I don't think we have open questions about that so the next group is names we have several issues that discuss names usually around evolvability and putting things into namespaces so we have number 83 that uh just the the title just says cddl but we need to Define it and whether we do that in Syria or not it's not the important part um so how how do we handle qualities that have a namespace name um in them and uh one proposal is right there in number 85 which would provide an INR registry for those namespaces so that that sounds very weird um initially but uh I think it makes a lot of sense uh so the the various contributing organizations could simply register the namespaces there and we could make sure that uh they don't uh conflict and number 67 is about uh further defining the syntax not just of quality names but also of given names so the names that are internal to the model uh those also uh May uh want to use namespaces and we we have to discuss this and I originally volunteered to write some texts about that and I probably still want to do that so I think that that's the biggest construction site that we still have open any comments then we have is this critical path for"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:34:02",
    "text": "the document that previous group seems like it is yes so the point is that we are not defining everything in in this document we are providing essentially extension points so people can go ahead and Define things afterwards right but we got so it's critical path to get those extension points to find is what I'm I'm excluding whereas the previous two things we talked about if we didn't do it in this document that would be okay well okay I don't know but uh that would not be a disaster okay but it's mechanically doable is what I'm trying to say yes so finally there have been some uh other technical issues one was about the the semantic conflict between SDF choice and enum and there was a discussion in the GitHub issue uh today um so we just have to Define what that means and um we have the question whether we can express SDF features in SDF files so this is strictly speaking an infoblock issue but it is something that is closer to home than other info block information so that that is something that that is probably more on the nice to have um side but once we we start evolving the the model language having a way of indicating this features is going to become very important and we shouldn't surprise people to buy a new feature to indicate features because that's kind of self recurring all right maybe yeah process question easy the"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:36:01",
    "text": "number 87 I was wondering if you could even close it right now so it's now an appropriate time to go into details or we want to go through all the issues in high level and then go to the details well if we can get one or two issues really nailed down here I would be very happy okay well then on on the 87 I mean as I mentioned in in the GitHub issue right before this meeting I would go for this allowing having both because the the conflict issue that young Roman pointed out uh I wonder if there are considerations think about what if there are issues doing that way uh but then the one thing that we would need to write a bit of text is about SDF refining so if you stf ref uh from a definition that is using one to another definition that is using the other how do you do the merge and here I would I think the obviously would be to do only stf choice so during the other enum into uh stf choice because SDF Choice can represent more things would that be an appropriate solution well the the problem let me quickly answer that because I have a comment in the GitHub issue with it that I just want to relay here um the problem really is that when you SDF ref something you just don't know whether the author this week uses SDF choice or enum um so um that that is a problem the the what what you are saying magically starts to depend on on uh which of the two the the referenced author was using at the time um the other thing of course is that the resolution process is is well defined and I I would be very much against uh putting semantic processing into the resolution process so and I think what we really"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:38:03",
    "text": "need to do is Define uh what we do after a resolution process that presents us with such a conflict and I would say well if we have if we are going to have these conflicts in any case uh then we simply can can Define what it means to have both qualities there and and obvious solution would be to just merge them foreign I think that's what I suggested maybe I wrote something random in the in the issue or or then I'm missing something important because I think the solution I propose would not depend on whatever is used on the other one I mean you always end up with stf choice um well okay you would end up in SDF choice if one of them is using SDF choice if both use enum I guess then you could theoristic with an enum um that means we have to change the resolution uh process to actually look at the uh qualities that that are kind of conflicting from the both parts and apply some semantic processing to that to generate the result of the resolution and um yeah that can be very powerful but that also can become very complicated so my Hope was that we could leave the resolution process alone um and as I wrote um we had the same problem in cinema and uh in the end in that specific example we decided not to have two attributes uh and uh because it's it's really complicated to do that that merging but"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:40:01",
    "text": "we could come up with a different solution here I just think it should be compatible with the fact that that merging might uh lead to one of these conflicts and um the the person referencing a particular um model uh should not uh have his model broken if that reference model switches from enum to to SD of choice how big not having their model broken seems like a big ask yeah I guess this is what one of those it turned out to be slightly more complicated than I initially thought so I'll I'll think about it but thanks for the clarifications Carson I yeah now I understand you they so there's two different merging processes one is stf merging and then this the merging of enum and stf choice and I guess it's the SDF ref merging which you want to keep as much as as it is right now right yes and then the whether you do on the Second Step something that's what we need to then talk about yeah I I I agree on on that approach so but basically I would say that even in a single model without any SDF reffing um you would be allowed to have both and but but they we should write I mean they should not be in conflict I mean you you I guess it the wording would be something like you should not have I mean you may have but it's bad idea to have both because it's conflicts but you still it's possible to have it but they must not be in conflict is that kind of the level of language we would end up yeah there definitely would be a big"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:42:02",
    "text": "should saying that this is not something you should intentionally create but the question is how how do we handle this in a way that uh we get the best properties out of the SEF ref process at the same time and I'm not sure about that um Michael okay that took a while to unmute I think I I think I put this recent discussion and sort of clarified it for me but I wanted to point out that I did experiment with uh some semantic exception processing in some of the stuff I worked on with SDF choice because I felt like the merge for SDF Choice really wasn't very useful so I thought SDF Choice refining of SDF Choice should be sort of narrowing the field of choices instead of expanding which is what uh the the merge would do RFC whatever Json merge style merge would do merge merge hash style I guess they call it so um I think there's still some questions there but I fully agree that we should not add some semantic exceptions I didn't like them I liked I mean the result worked but I didn't really like that it was just kind of too ugly I think kind of what I concluded so I'm still looking for how how you would managed to refine this we have choice to reduce the number of choices instead of merge but I don't think semantic exceptions I think are the solutions so so Michael do I understand your case of uh expanding or reducing the scope I guess how it would work now forgetting enum for a while just having two stf choices if you SDF ref another definition which has more choices than"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:44:01",
    "text": "you're actually expanding because you're adding more choices on the enum right yeah yes the idea is that we're managing and what I found in my work with actual data models that smart things and path of logic and all is that um you kind of want to have a master enum which is really more like a registry that you hold from so I think maybe the solution might be and you know in other words you want to have all the choices somewhere that you point to and I think this might be more appropriate to use SDF relation than point to a registry thing and then enumerate the things in your choice rather than try to use the merged patches of way to refine Choice um but yeah I think that you're you've you've described what the use case is exactly that is to to basically have a a thing that you can validate against but um in other words that you've chosen one of the choices that's one of the valid choices and and has encodings and has enums and has you know internationalization and all of that so you've picked one from the field but you really want to pick like you know the fan State fan mode enums and then oven modes and all of that yeah I'm going to build an oven that has five modes but all of ovens in the world have probably like a hundred different enumerated modes at least that's kind of what we ended up with the smart things and that's that's kind of the use case yeah and I guess we don't have as of today a way to remove from an enum things or do we well the merch patch can remove entries of a map so if that is what you want to do you just give the name and set it to another and that will remove things that were in the referenced um you know I'm um enum doesn't work but"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:46:01",
    "text": "stf choice but then you if you wanted to use that to do it make select a subset from a very large enum you'd have to know would you have to know each one I guess yeah that doesn't make a little sense yeah okay I think would be actually useful to have an example of that unless we already have it somewhere uh this merging with the null yeah because that's um let's see a non-obvious feature well obvious to the people who were in the military process but yes yeah I guess that's one way I use it all the time yeah I mean it's like it's it's the only way you can do editing but it didn't seem to be a solution for to this particular problem now the problem really is that once these these choices are enormous get large um you really want to write a program to do the processing um and and say delete all other things that that have oven in the name or something like that um and uh that's not something we we can reasonably do um so maybe we will have an extension for adding programs to our models at some point but uh not today so I don't think we can really solve this in a way that was satisfy um or will be really great for all areas of application but we can make make it work in in the majority of cases and now I actually found a note in the in the draft saying that there's a to-do of making sure that null is supported so"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:48:00",
    "text": "yeah maybe it's just a matter of putting a sentence in SCS ref but yes you can actually do that by the standard merge patch um and an example example would be great the the tudu points out that uh really the cddl is about merged documents it doesn't describe the documents that go into the merge and that is of course your typical problem when you are validating or modeling data structures that undergo some uh processing then you really would need a model for each step uh in the processing and these models are all almost the same um so I'm not sure we want to solve that problem and and I think that's what the the node was about uh but yeah let's have an example uh so people know what what this note is about perfect thanks can can you add that to the issue or add a new issue actually I can do that thank you great so time check we have 25 minutes left if I'm correct okay so um there are three more groups uh one is a group of issues that really are about making sure that we correctly interface with these other documents that we talked about uh in the beginning so number 84 is about an interface to to the a link oriented drafts and number 76 is about interfacing to mapping files and this is this is an issue where there isn't a clear definition of done but um yeah we want we want to make sure that we have captured um everything in the base document that"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:50:01",
    "text": "is needed to make these uh additional documents viable yeah which doesn't mean that I know how to process these but probably uh having the people who wrote these three documents uh think about the issue is a good start um then we have a few uh issues that really are blocked on Cycles uh one is that the Json schema cddr definition is uh pretty weird uh the Json schema org definition is generated from the cddl and uh in Json schema argues sometimes have to repeat things which is okay if you just use it for validating but if you want to edit the adjacent schema org definition if you you will spend a lot of time but maybe that's not something that that would be a surprise to Jason schema our people so I'm I'm prepared to Simply leave this open because the the Json schema org schema does work the way it is it's just not beautiful like yeah waiting for the unmute again quick comment that um there's there's still kind of an open issue on how mapping and bindings work and whether we whether there are schema extensions involved and and sort of I experimented with a thing that's actually kind of being talked about in the Json schema.org world right now which is using multiple schemas to validate an instance and how you overlay them and extending a definition by adding a"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:52:00",
    "text": "schema for just the part you're adding and that all seemed to be pretty relevant to some of our issues with mapping and binding so but you know that then we'd have to expose Json schema as an extension point and it you know what I found was that you couldn't with with the way that things are repeated yeah you have to repeat yourself but in this particular conversion the repeated things are huge blocks so it isn't really editable in a way that you know that you could do confidently or even machine editable because you'd probably have to change several blocks for some of the edits and and to add a feature so it seems like we'd want to do those extensions in cddl but um anyway that's as far as I thought about it but um that was supposed to I don't think we need to discuss it but that was a comment that maybe I should add to the issue there yeah do you have a do you have a pointer to something that that shows what you're trying to do oh yeah I mean I have some experimental uh schemas but also there was somebody wrote a paper recently and I'll try to find the pointer to that I can find it right now I know it's that would be great yeah Michael just just leave your leave your microphone selected and then mute yourself on the bottom right which is much faster because then it doesn't rip down the the audio Channel oh yeah the reason the reason why it rips down the audio channel is because there were people that were concerned that they couldn't tell uh they couldn't tell from the network whether or not they were really muted and so we that's why we have these two microphones right well that explains the latency things yeah I'll just leave my mic open Ari just just just talk you don't need to put your hand up with five people in the room"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:54:00",
    "text": "okay trying to be polite here like Nicholas um yeah the uh on this topic I mean related question um when we Define new extensions should we provide cddl of those extensions with the specifications and is there a process how you can fold them to the master CDL and have all all automated that you could say do a check which includes also these extensions that's it I guess it's the you Carson well obviously we don't have that now and it sounds to me like we probably should have that okay so but it should be then so let's say if that's coming to well is that is there a city language feature or sort of feature supporting that kind of thing I don't know what it would actually look like but the internet spec is actually multiple files the in serial 1.0 you can have multiple files but these are just all thrown in a big bucket and and then interpret it together there is work on CDA 2.0 in the sibo working group and there is a draft out there that um explains the initial set of of capabilities we want to achieve there and maybe this is uh your requirements for this would be very useful input for the city layer 2.2 2.0 process in in the sibo uh working group so right now I'm implementing what I have written in the draft and and I have a very interesting implementation and if that actually did what what the draft says I would be happier but I'm working on it and so I expect that we will be able to play with a tool within a couple of weeks and um so this process should"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:56:02",
    "text": "not take too long because there are lots of people out there that want to compose cddl out of multiple uh pieces and we need to help them yeah I just use merge patch in my experiments and that was kind of unsatisfying so I'm happy to hear that there's a way to do that coming up hmm excellent um and I do remember there was this feature version in cddl that I guess you could somehow indicate if some feature is supported or not and I but I guess all together I'm wondering like if we should let's say for example do the uh SDF relations draft and nstf Link draft if we should write some fragments of cdbl um that could somehow automatically by tools could be you know imported do the master CDL and you could do by this and somehow nicely automatically that's kind of where I would love to go if that's in a high level requirement I have had in mind so whatever way is a good way to do that that would be nice yeah I think the important thing is to communicate based on examples and what you're saying is really to manage to rather than try to make the extensions cause a new cddl schema for all of sdfs we want to manage extensions as sub schemas that get applied through a defined process that is very cool yeah and I think it was of course as a relation with the info block features feature that we discussed in in the beginning it would be nice if I can somehow indicate uh there's some way to automatically map"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:58:02",
    "text": "that when I say in the in the info book feature name that hey it is actually this piece of cddl and that would then be validated based on the set of features indicated in the info Block in whatever way is a good way to automate that uh and it's that would be very useful you make it sound so easy my requirements are easy but let's see how we work them out okay thanks all right good and the the other two things on the slide are really things that we can do uh during doing our work in the regular glass call so add some automated checks and test cases in particular negative uh test cases um yeah so uh I don't think we we want to finish these issues before starting regular bus call because we will actually do the work checking the the specification based on what what we do in completing these issues good now we have 18 issues um the next group is an editorial group um so one question was what what is the meaning of top layer of top level uh information in the model information that is not tied to an SDF object so we need to explain that this is just stuff lying around that can be referenced um we have to do the line breaking to get into uh 69 colors we have to we know we don't have to we"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:00:01",
    "text": "it would be nice to have examples for SDF where we don't have SDF pointers to input output parameters anymore [Music] um not quite sure yeah let's find out what that was but uh fortunately we have somebody who has assigned themselves to this item which is uh Michael yeah I guess I need to figure out what that is yes please and um then we have the The Meta editing question uh when we called something SDF uh when we just call it Foo so I don't think we will write this up but I think we need to come up with an explanation at least in the next version of of the document so 63 and 54 we have to do the other are nice to halves and uh 60 f with Michael if you find something let's do that 11 I would propose not uh doing and then we have an age we solve it thanks we have an age group of issues number 88 are we just submitted yeah so this is the the set of issues as I said we really want to do our Readiness check and those test cases and and consistency checks belong in there but we also want to check our Readiness in the relationship to the other three uh drafts to the Future drafts mapping uh namespaces uh well that's not a draft that comes up in the two link drafts and the link functionality itself um so this this is something that is not captured as in as a separate issue but"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:02:01",
    "text": "needs to be done and of course we need to do our own design reviews as we always do in a working class called so this this is kind of the next step when the the 18 issues are the 16 issues that we want to cover of the 18 issues are done so the the strategy for the first RFC hasn't really changed we would still want to minimize further additions and I want to finish what we have uh we want to to check the need for things and and the Readiness of things and we want to make sure the extension points we will need in the future are at least available even if we haven't fully specified them we should work in such a way that these extension points can be added without every implementation out there breaking catastrophically because they didn't know that this extension point was going to come in I'm done cool this is so pretty much these slides are going on the uh GitHub this looks like a great reference to sort of keep looking back at as you know we we try to do things offline right so I noticed there hadn't been much uploaded to the slides in the GitHub for a while maybe that's but it would be nice to have these right where where do I find where do I find these maybe I'm just looking in the wrong place so right now they are on the data tracker for ASDF but right okay so I can go back yeah yeah I was trying to yeah I'm trying to sort out these all these files and links and stuff going different directions putting things in the right place so I will I will also put them in the GitHub"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:04:04",
    "text": "it's a bit of a chore to keep all these things in sync but uh we'll put them on on the ASDF uh GitHub as well on the meeting notes yeah or maybe just to link the data tracker is persistent right it doesn't get deleted so it could just be a link probably somehow yeah I mean so that we they are right now on the data tracker so yeah I just I just forgot about looking look in there yep but but uh but thanks uh but but thank you Carson and and this um I mean the obvious question is how long time do we think this takes and I mean there's a bunch of small smallish things but still we have what do you think a couple of weeks or well that depends on a lot on how much input uh we get so it's hard to to plan but I think we should have a dash 14 in about four weeks from now yeah maybe it should we have to try to Define some set some set some Target milestone in in four weeks time or or when Ari is back from his location perhaps it's a better idea who yeah indeed that's important yeah yeah it gives a bit of a challenge so I'm gonna be on vacation after next week for three weeks and next week is completely gone because that's the week before vacations um so I hear you had you said you have three weeks of vacation to work on this think about it I'm not sure how much keyboard I'm allowed to touch during the vacation but I may give it a Twitter shot yeah but what is the date when you're back so that must be mid-February something I"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:06:02",
    "text": "think it was 15 a week to get back and then do all the work yeah yeah I mean it's not like on Monday after you're back it's more time thank you yeah on 15th I'm planning to be back in business because I probably should mention that that week seven is a week of intense teaching for me so I'm not going to be able to finish anything in week seven uh but I could finish things in Brigade so week eight is the the February week of February 20th that sounds like a good week to have another virtual interim so guess what week is sort of spring vacation week in Sweden oh is it yes uh um damn it I mean unless we aim today is perhaps better yeah we can take it on Monday then is fine too quick nine then week nine yes so this is the date of the interim meeting and we want to have the the document a little bit earlier than that yeah yeah yeah yeah yeah of course that um is this time good to an interim for people in particular so this could be the second of March yeah there is an isg meeting on March 2nd so if we don't want to have uh ads in the meeting that that is a great"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:08:02",
    "text": "uh Mondays are usually more free than the other days of the week but at least for me foreign but the one day I thought is or it's five central yes but it's it's not on that week is it it's in February 27th oh crap I don't have it in my calendar yeah maybe I'm confused I think we have 1 pm on even weeks right and because I have another meeting in the same spot on even weeks okay in in week nine yeah in week nine uh another interim and then hopefully have the document or or things um a bit closer to being done by then um yeah Ash Wednesday is a great deadline sorry which day Ash Wednesday the end of Carnival you're planning for a fun carnival yep draft Carnival um yep okay cool um yeah good um so we have a couple more minutes we don't need to use them if we don't want"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:10:01",
    "text": "to is there anything else that we so Nicholas you're gonna post a meeting request for 116. for one hour I was thinking so yes yeah I mean we said earlier that we should maybe think about it if we can put together like what we would think would be a good program um but I don't know if we can or if we discuss that noise you can always withdraw the meeting request in the next week or two so yeah okay I can do meeting requests or for I can try to try to work with the data tracker tools uh one hour how many people who should be I guess for 20 or and by the way you can also you might as well just put um all our names in as you know critical people um as well as you know you probably know the list of conflicts but um probably you that have more conflict is maybe I mean I don't want to sort of skip the work but maybe it's easier if you uh you are more conflicted than I um well either either you tell the data tracker that I have to be there and I can't be conflicted with something else or you don't right so yeah but I mean there's also this list of um conflicting groups right yeah input conflict in groups but as chairs uh we're listed as as someone who must be there which which fundamentally prevents us the them from con from uh"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:12:00",
    "text": "scheduling two groups that we happen to be chairs for uh into the same slot uh but then there's a technology but I'm saying if you also list Michael carsten and Ari then that also uh instantly deals with any other chair conflicts they might have that's all yep and and you can list working groups right I'm just saying that that it's not a shorthand it's just and it's it's it's it's a it's a additive process anyway yeah yeah I'm just thinking that I'm I I I I I must be sort of honest and say I don't keep full track of all the iot groups anymore so I'm a bit difficult to yeah okay well I can come back and put some in if if you like or whatever you'll probably have yeah I I I'll set something up and then we can and maybe we should through the come in the coming week discuss on pay wrapped on telegram or another meeting where how we set up this let's do it on them let's ideally let's do it on the mailing list talking about that because that will create some activity and some oh yeah visibility for other people that are uh maybe on the list um yes yeah good cool okay I'm gonna go yes same here thank you guys uh thank you for taking the time thank you Kirsten for doing slides and everything and pushing the editorial stuff forward uh looking forward for the next version on yeah we'll talk again soonish I guess great thank you bye-bye"
  }
]
