[
  {
    "startTime": "00:00:04",
    "text": "doing a third person walking in the room and and it's starting time so we will wait two minutes and then we will get started hopefully just a little bit too fun of an evening as opposed to uh more people down uh uh yeah let's be optimistic and we'll go with that kathleen what's that i see somebody in the room what so there are now three people i was kind of joking sorry about that signing for her okay physically there are five people in the room seven if you count those chairs how's that i just was not counting the chairs oh i i'm not worried so kathleen the the the reason for the leakness is we're just coming off the lunch break okay that makes sense you can close a few things you know put out issues that you don't need anybody to argue with that's right that's yeah and assign new actions yeah i have no problems assigning actions it's chasing the people to make sure they get addressed"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:02:06",
    "text": "with the weather being so nice today oh do you think people are out walking is the weather yeah or maybe they're just shocked by the nice weather so they're taking advantage of the good letter okay it's two past the hour people are straggling into the room hopefully those that are remote you can hear myself and therefore ned um let me just do a volume check hopefully you guys can hear me okay nancy yes nancy you and ned are loud and clear this is roman speaking awesome yeah we we got a big room today um so with that let's just go ahead and get started because people will just start struggling in okay so in case you weren't aware this is uh session number two for rats and we're going to uh just go through some of the slides so there's the notewell information everybody should be familiar with that there's some meeting tips in the chair slides mostly just a reminder to those who are attending in person to please wear your mask consideration of the others in the room masks are supposedly well not supposedly they are mandatory for us that are on site okay and then uh there's uh you know pointers to the various um information and materials for the meeting that are also in the chair slides"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:04:00",
    "text": "and we should be familiar with the code of conduct so we're going to move along it to the agenda which is here so so our our first topic is going to be uh uccs and ujcs for eat and uh jerry is going to be presenting that so well we let's make sure so this is the agenda bash so hopefully uh let's just do a quick check everybody by now should have looked at the agenda you're okay going once going twice so with that we can move forward and and head to the first topic so so giddy in the interest of time did you want to run this slide since you haven't i can run the slides yeah um giddy do you have a preference ned is ready to run the slides yeah he can run the slides uh i can't take notes today because i'm presenting so i hope you yeah so thomas has graciously um volunteered would prefer to have a a second one um or or multiple so if those ned are hanging out you you're everyone but hank have you noticed okay we'll move on you were on this yesterday um if you can help with the notes that would be awesome mr burkholtz mr burkholtz can you help with the note all right thanks sorry giddy with that we can uh go ahead and get started all right yeah ned whenever you're ready thanks so there is so justin by the way even though i'm presenting this is on behalf of the eats editors"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:06:00",
    "text": "myself uh jeremy lawrence so as most people know there are two standards track working group documents for attestation tokens and rats one is geet and the other is the uccs specification which hank went over from the status yesterday that stands for unsigned seaboard claim set and our goal particularly as we're trying to drive beats towards completion is to establish a relationship between these documents and as hank went over yesterday there's an assumption even though the document is titled uccs that unsigned json claimsets are also uh also should be supported um so just for the purposes of this presentation when i use uccs it covers both unsigned c-more and unselling json we could go to the next slide please so a couple of premises here first is uccs is scope data station it's not a generic method to send unsigned cwt claims arbitrarily um the use the current uccs draft makes it very clear about this limitation um and uh i'm not going to read that read that text i think everybody can see that but um i think moreover this is a working group document and therefore is actually scoped according to the current rats charter so uh that's one premise the second premise uh if we go to the next slide uccs does not always require a mutually authenticated secure transport um now the front matter of uccs document does state uh the benefits of a mutually secure channel but uh"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:08:00",
    "text": "but uh but this is actually more of a security consideration but uh but in the opinion of the editors it should not be a normative requirement um the reason this ties into eat is because eat makes no normative uh require cases no no requirements on the uh transport layer so um i give an example there where uh uccs may be acceptable in a one-way authenticated tls session as an example and obviously in the web today to one way authenticated tls is is uh is quite common okay we go to the next slide so eat is the rat standards track for conveying a standard track method for conveying attestation methods evidence and as per this occur as for the uh as per the current and what has been documented and has been there for yes probably a year um maybe even more each can take three forms one as a as a cwt jwt or as the uccs therefore each has a normative dependency it's a dependency on the ucs uccs definition and therefore we have a dependency on a stable cdl description which is consistent with the rest of it let's go to the next slide please eat is silent on normative requirements for underlying transport as i mentioned but there are there is a security consideration section this is you know heat is general purpose not a uh not all heat transports can it can be guaranteed to be through a mutually authenticated secure tunnel um i've worked you know i'm working personally on bluetooth implementations for instance and that would be a prime example where mutual mutual"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:10:01",
    "text": "authentication um is not uh it is not always feasible at least not in the way that you expect with the ttos or dtls connection um the other thing too that the editors will concede is that the e document itself can't pro will probably not do justice to all the security sector considerations around transport uh of unsigned claim sets and not even just transport but when it actually makes sense to use on to use on clients unsigned claim sets and when it doesn't and it's our opinion as the editors that that actually would be better covered in a different in a different dedicated draft so let's go to the next slide yes go ahead you you've got dave taylor on thecube so dave did you yeah guys hey dave did you have a comment about the slide uh actually it's on the previous slide i was trying to wait for a pause uh my uh yeah sorry i uh uh i waited to put my hand up because i was checking the document and my question is just a question on the top bullet there where it says eat is the method for conveying attestation evidence right the working group has had a bunch of discussions about use of eat for attestation results so the question i was going to ask is is there any use cases where you might where uccs might actually apply to attestation results there is actually a sentence in the uccs uh document right now that only mentions evidence and that's why i bring it up because if there exists any use cases um for eat in uh for attestation results where uccs might make sense then we might want a word smith to that one sentence and that's in the uccs document right now but i don't know if there's any use cases for uccs with attestation results yeah so yeah so lawrence actually discussed a little bit about b2b uh"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:12:00",
    "text": "b2b um relationships between a verifier and a relying party once again it's kind of dependent on what the uh i want the uh security considerations are in that in that kind of setup it could be that what we're considering mutual mutual authentication could be handled if something different from the transport layer for instance one-way tls i mentioned uh plus um maybe an over-the-top authentication uh accompanied by an over top authentication like a username password or one-time password um so that would still be mutually authenticated and that's the case and you you then then uccs could be used in the trade in the conveyance of that station results in that uh in that particular scenario okay so yeah if we think there could be some case there's just one sentence in the introduction uh which says that it discusses conditions for its you know ucs proper use in the scope of rats and the conveyance of evidence from a tester to a verifier and we might want to amend that as to make it either have two examples or just make that be for example to not overly constrain it because i think all the rest of uc's test would apply if there's actually a use case so yeah yeah that's fine i appreciate the comment dave yeah i i didn't want to get to since i knew that the attestation results uh uh discussion uh was a whole separate topic i didn't want to actually mention that in this slide but yeah that's why my comment is more on the introduction of the actual document itself which was triggered by the uh point in the slide so all right thank you okay um so let's go to the uh let's go let's go to the uh next slide here you mean the one after oh yeah you know pretty pretty sorry i think you're less could you go back for one slide let me see if i covered this um yeah no we we covered this here okay let's go to the next one let's get to"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:14:01",
    "text": "delete okay so here's the editor's recommendation the e document can provide the cdl description for unsigned claim sets covering uh for both cwt and jwt um the document will incorporate the request diana for the seaboard json tag to identify unsigned claim sets and the current uccs document would refocus on only security uh considerations for unsigned claims and it could be informational track and and it could even you know could also cover uh some of the scenarios that dave was just now mentioning which is with your respect to uh not just attestation evidence but at station results so if we go to the next slide so why this change um we the eat document requires uh it only requires a stable cdl description of uccs and we're confident that it exists today thank you hank and uh and the other utc uccs editors for working through that um the security considerations for uccs though are i think we're uh in my opinion we're only just beginning and you know the editors also feel that too it may not close very quickly and the other thing too is we don't want to uh see any implementers who actually require the uccs option today to get held up um we do believe eat can go to rfc with the reference to the uccsid and its security considerations and and that's that would be assuming that the working group acts on the recommendations of the previous slide and uccs document can then start to actually uh look more comprehensively at all the uh and all the transfer security"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:16:00",
    "text": "considerations you know i mentioned where one way off the sufficient that's at the transport layer uh i mentioned an example where uh where uh the auth and the other direction could be happening at the application layer uh just now my response today rule role of the root of trust in security transport which is really one of the major considerations in actually uh in actually coming up with the ucts concept in the first place i believe that's it for this slide for this slide deck do we want to pause for our questions i i think we're at time yeah we are at time but um let's take two minutes for questions it looks like there are two on the queue they're two on the queue too so okay roman you're on the queue uh hi gary i just had a quick question about the the security considerations of uccs in each is that normative or informative what's the nature of that my concern is yeah sorry if it's it would yeah good document in this round sure it would be informative he mainly because like mainly because i think it's a it's an involving uh it's an evolving use case we really don't know uh we really don't have a full grasp of the uh of all the different geese usage scenarios of utcs um you know dave just mentioned out of station results where i do think uccs that it can play a role um but uh yeah it would be security considerations i always view in the context of heat i would view as informative um part of the thing part of the reason is that eat itself since it's based on cdbt is what is what i sometimes refer to as a self-defending payload so a deployer could actually it could"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:18:02",
    "text": "actually have no dependencies on the transport layer at all they could they could encrypt it they could uh they could sign it and it could be it could go over multiple transport layers of varying security is varying security levels and security insurances i should say and uh still be still be uh as secure as the application calls for okay perfect thank you for clarifying okay so in in the queue oh somebody dropped off i've got kathleen then hank then karsten so i can be the end that's not a problem you can be what i can be at the end that is not a problem so for those on site just so that i can keep a better order if you can get yourself on the queue on the meet echo oh so yeah no no no that's okay i know for you you're after kathleen so kathleen you're next all right thank you so just a couple of clarifying questions um just and i was taking notes at the same time so it might be just that i missed something so i apologize if that's the case so you mentioned the e authors wanting to fold this into the eat draft i would be against that um just in the cons the the amount of time taken um and then i guess we'd also need to understand since it references this what's going to be the hold up um for this document to complete for eat and personally i'd just like to see eat make some quick progress and and get through final publication soon so i'm just looking to see how do we scope things and and how do we i guess understand the timelines so that's as a as a chair right so i'm just trying to understand timeline yeah well well i'm not saying uh i didn't say fold the entire uccs document into eat i"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:20:01",
    "text": "just said i i just said the cddl description i think uh utcs continues as a separate uh working group document um that is the hold up right there you we don't uh we think we have we think we can actually complete the cdl description for this i don't know really uh i don't know really you know how that would how that would take shape on the uccs document and there is a normative dependency in the document so um i didn't put that in there as an alternative because i i mean because the editors feel that the the editors have agreed that this is actually uh this is actually the least painful path but uh you know the other alternative is to eliminate all the normative dependencies on uccs but um i think that's uh that's going to be not fun either for uh for implementers because uh because um because any implementer comes to each document they may do and they may they may first ask okay well what if i don't want to sign this then assign this token then you get into uglier situations where an implementer might actually uh implement uh things that have killed us in the past on tls uh security such as uh null ciphers which i think we really want to invite i'm i'm gonna have to call time in and i'm to give it one more minute to give the i can't speak for the draft since i'm an author but since i'm running the queue i would like carsten and hank as the other authors to speak for the uucs draft and then i'm cutting the queue yeah i have a uh practical problem and a more more fundamental problem the practical problem is that there is some some weird stuff in section 8 of of the current heat draft i don't know if there is anything new"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:22:01",
    "text": "out there but i think we will need a little bit of time to to clean this stuff up um if if we want to go forward with that but the more fundamental problem is uh that that cwt actually was meant to be a general purpose specification and i see a certain tendency of this working group to pull this stuff in and essentially claim cwt and and uh kind of merge eat and cwt and there are some good reasons to do that but there are also some good reasons not to do that in the extent that that pulling over the cdl into the the document uh what would provide so if we can get a clean separation between cwt as a basic mechanism and the cwt extensions that the e-document provides then i would be much happier i'll comment that this is a working group document therefore it is narrowly scoped to the working group charter it is not a gene it can not be a replacement to cwt in any and all use cases similar is my interpretation applies to uccs as well but okay yeah i understand going yeah hank can be really quick because we do need to close in sure um just to reinforce what carson said is that the uccs is for cwt and we have an application scenario that is why we're doing the first uccs core id in rats and that's the usage and threat model and the security consideration of rats because a uccs may and must never come without the prescription how to use it because it is dangerous to use it without one and i think therefore it has to have context and just by chance it is here in the rats working group and just by chance it is related to eat and"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:24:00",
    "text": "that is how we have said this over and over again and this is i think the fifth time i'm speaking up like this on the mic so i can just repeat that um and it has nothing to do with it intrinsically yeah you see once again it is scoped at a station you should the uh the editors that they wanted the general purpose uh method for uh for conveying unsigned seaboard claims probably should have taken this to taking this to other to another working group maybe the ace working group or i just want to reiterate we've had these discussions we had the discussion with with jim shot let's just move on okay and then we can have the discussion kathleen as chair posed a question of how we can help eat accelerate moving forward which means tightening its scope so with that let me just park it because we are well over time and we can come back to it if we have time at the open mic otherwise we will raise it again in the mail list so next gidi uh you are on for at the station for cloud i think yes so um i thought i'd get ahead of this issue here uh you know particularly since we're trying to wrap up heat um a white paper came out from the friday alliance on on essentially what is cloud synchronization of private keys these are private keys related to authentication credentials this is actually uh this is actually discussed last summer during the apple worldwide developer conference um there there are valid reasons for this uh private key synchronization can allow for um for ease of uh user adoption and ease of end user management credentials particularly when credentials have to move from one device to another which could be you know not just device"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:26:01",
    "text": "migration or upgrade it could also be lost devices as well what we call device recovery sometimes in the photo context let's move on to the next slide um so the uh yeah okay just i knew this drawing wouldn't come out very well but i'll just kind of talk to it fido defines the authenticator restricted operating environment which ideally would have a some sort of uh some sort of trusted environment to increase encompass all the critical security sensitive authenticator operations those would be for instance by not just uh sign a protection of private keys and signing operations but uh associated signing operations but also uh biometric match and um the attester the attester could very well uh be incorporated to the aroe let's move on to the next slide so as for the current rats architecture which as was discussed yesterday we really don't want to really don't want to change uh significantly this point um there are some underlying assumptions that one of them is that the testing environment is conventionally isolated from the target environment in which you can in which it can collect uh evidence about um the second uh the second part of that same section goes on to say it goes on to discuss that that a device that includes the role of the tester must not be able to modify or extract keys from the testing environments and then unfortunately uh unfortunately goes on to mention a fido authenticator now we have a situation where uh implementers are actively extracting keys although not necessarily out of station keys let's move on"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:28:03",
    "text": "so as i mentioned the phytoauthenticator may not have the separation between a tester and a target in fact photo authenticators could even be downloadable applications um and we have seen uh some implementers actually pursue that route so the question i have to working with should attestation evidence specifically address whether whether private key material is extractable and a sub question would be should this evidence be accompanied by evidence that attestation keys are not extractable and the lack of such evidence could also be used by an rt um lack of a lack of explicit evidence that is is still a valid data point to any appraisal policy um so that's the explicit evidence you can also take the route of what i call implicit evidence which would be if the rp determines whether the authenticator allows extrapolates radical keys by some other means such as uh such as an endorsement you know it also carries digital letters about letters of assurance dloas that might actually be sufficient for an rp to make a termination or a verifier if you want if you want to keep keep the two separate and by the way in fido parlance we don't we are we we always assume that the verifier is integrated in the rp okay let's move on next slide so a couple of ways forward we could define the relevant evidence entry claims into each document but that would be assuming that extractable keys are more general interest than just authenticators we could leave the issue to any profile for phytocompliant authenticators and then we can define relevant evidentiary claims and profile or we could do nothing and uh let the rp figure out the appraisal"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:30:01",
    "text": "process via some sort of implicit evidence or some other means um and that's it i don't believe i have any slide on this so um i just decided to raise this topic if i don't see any interest we won't perceive the first bullet um and we we will probably we probably leave any any potential solution to the lat latter two okay i'm done hank is coming to the queue sorry i'm learning this [Laughter] three days and then still not good at this hi this is hank um so my first instinct is og snow that was first instinct like changing the private key material fantastic but then you said but this comes with an endorsement so if my um i want to say root of trust okay if my testing environment has this capability of the key material being changed and that's very clear alongside with every endorsement that the verifier can do that that is fine but how do i guarantee that there is an endorsement how do i not guarantee the safe assertion of my testing environment is hey my keys are not exchangeable and they in fact are so without a good understanding of the security considerations how to make endorsements here really really trustworthy and working should be is the core of the problem i think it's not actually the problem to change the key it makes it the problem is that you must always be aware that this can happen when you talk to something that has that capability right so that's my comment here so not entirely adverse but it looks like very dangerous terran to me"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:32:00",
    "text": "okay thanks i i i don't know how to read i don't know if you're expecting a response on that i'll take that as a general comment thanks hank okay dave is in the queue i agree with your last summary gary i think right now and i don't claim to fully understand it but right now one of these three ways forward i'd pick the second one okay uh oh i think okay i think lawrence is getting in the key are you in the key oh there there you are okay i just think there's a really big difference between uh fido authentication keys and attestation keys so export of attestation keys is a really big deal and it is relevant to this group phyto authentication keys if that's all that's being happened with fido then that's that's a fido thing and fido should take care of that so that would probably be a a two or a three on your list there thanks son okay so giddy if you wanted to solicit interest i think it would be good if you can post it on the mail list and okay you know explain the use case and usage and relevance and see what what you get from the mealist response okay all right thank you all right thanks oh sorry it's okay uh tony natalin so gary i would rather see us do nothing in this particular space and let fido or whoever wants to create the profile since they're the you know they're they're the experts in this particular case i don't think it makes sense for this group to do anything with that with that profile okay thanks tony all right thanks anthony sorry i i missed that on the queue"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:34:01",
    "text": "okay at that now we will close and uh we have thomas hello can you hear me yes we hear you fine good good cool okay let's start with the goal of this document so the scenario is we have one or more authorized supply chain actors in the form of oems odms independent software vendors silicon providers etc that need to come together and describe an attester to a verifier so that when evidence from the attester is passed on to the verifier the verifier can use what it learned about the tester from the supply chain to evaluate the evidence according to its appraisal policy of course the idea being that if we have a standard information and data model then there's an induced network effect which is likely to reduce the fragmentation that is observed today and this should uh you know lower the barrier to entry in the supply chain actors space which is currently highly fragmented and eventually bring us to a better place um obviously we think this is a very important work that has not been tackled in comprehensive way and quorum is an attempt to deal with this um and the new proposed charter tax includes scope for this work to be taken in by the group but for the time being since we still live under yield charter the draft meekly weights at the periphery of of the working group so next please okay so to clarify what is the scope of concise rims here we are looking at the endorsement and reference values arrows that go into the verifier so we are not concerned um at all with conveyance of appraisal policies here and besides quorum defines the payloads uh not the the the the underlying transport so um"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:36:02",
    "text": "surely we want this to be compatible with rest apis which is obviously a very natural target for for transporting uh according payloads and therefore we're making sure that the right media types are in place from the onset but apart from providing this kind of uh glue uh we're not interested in promoting one transport or or another uh effectively quorum is transport agnostic um yeah i think i'm done with this next please okay so um a quick refresher on the design principles for those who don't know or have forgotten so we described in a tester in terms of triples which are simple stereotype sentences with subject verb and object which allow us to say things like you know target environment t as reference value x or a testing environment a as verification k y or targeted testing slash a testing environment t prime a prime has endorsed value z and since the set of triple z is extensible we can potentially say many more things for example if you wanted to express relationships between sabates or in a composite devices we could do that by just by minting a new triple which provides the the needed semantics um this whole thing gets then serialized in sibor and i think that's where the concise in quorum comes from and then we can sign them with cosi uh and therefore the triples can become in fact quadruples by adding the cosy signer as the subject of the statement that is encoded in the triple okay next please so status recap where we are so the information model has been done in tcg specifically in the dice working group uh and it's in a document called dice endorsement architecture it's quite stable i would say in fact it's been"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:38:01",
    "text": "successfully balloted last week which means there is consensus in the working group there in tcg to proceed with publication um but you know i'm not i'm not a tcg actor in fact i'm a new a newbie there so i'll let hank and ned correct me if i'm talking rubbish but this should be you know roughly correct i think the data model is maintained in github in a github repository that is linked in the slide and and it's what you'd expect basically there's a bunch of cdl uh describing the serialization details and a number of examples uh in sybor diagnostic mutation and and and with that all the automatic assembly and test infrastructure hooked into a bunch of uh you know github actions so that we we make sure that any change we introduce uh is correct and uh we have also built a fairly complete software implementation which tries very hard to um stay as close to track as close as possible uh the bleeding edge in the cdl above which includes corim comeds which are sort of the core building block that's where the triples are stored and cost width 2 and this is all library code in golang and handy cli build built on top of it that is really usable next please so the questions clearly we cannot call for adoption now because the charter text that contains the scope extension that allows core m to be a ras work item is not yet in so i think the question we can ask the group is whether once the new charter is in place um would core be considered for adoption yeah i think that's that's the fair question that you can ask now"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:40:00",
    "text": "okay so for now you've got dave taylor on thecube hi dave hey taylor hey thomas um so um i think that this is a good document and if the charter effort uh goes through then i think this would be absolutely appropriate to be done in rats so um i think this is good work um i think my only other comment or question i think the value of this is for the um if you don't mind can you go back to the little diagram that showed the which lines and stuff uh you know what i'm talking about uh yeah this one i think the primary value for this one is in specifying the reference values because there's a format for that that doesn't cleanly fit into any other document that we have right because you need your verbs right you may need to have sets of values you know your reference values may have the the following claim it needs to have any of the following values and so it's not a singleton it's a set right so that that's what i think value of coderem is um there's uh with relation to the left line though i don't think there's a strong case for that although reference values could be bundled with endorsements and have both lines coming from the same body when the two top roles are the same entity right when your endorser is also a reference all your provider you can do both um but i'm not sure that korean has a strong case for endorsements as opposed to one place in the document that says reference values for evidence and endorsements and i completely agree with that right because your endorsements have claims your evidence have claims and they're compared to an appraisal policy uh to say to the endorsements and the evidence to those claims together match you know the following reference values i get that there's a different place in the document that says the coloring format itself can be used for reference values and endorsements and i like the first phrase that says these are reference values for comparing or appraising endorsements and evidence rather than saying you'd put evidence themselves in the in the co-room format i think if you did that i would consider that to be uh reference values in the in the current format with some additional endorsement stuff showed in there too and so i might uh try to"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:42:02",
    "text": "scope the work to say um keep uh endorsements out of it um and just concentrate on the reference value provider line which of course could be combined with an entity or whatever i think there's a stronger case for that so but anyway that i think that the document is great so okay cool um on on your question uh on your point um where would you put say for example i need to interface with the certification body right so it's not uh you know it's not a supply chain um supply chain this is my personal view if there are information needed in the appraisal policy um that cannot be expressed in the same sorts of things that eat uses and i phrase it that way because it may not be the only format if you have a proprietary one right but if it's not isomorphic to eat then i would put that in the reference values line and say okay you just have different verbs there sure but i would still call that the reference values lying to answer your question okay it's just how you how how you define the lines and so i i'm defining the line that way maybe differently than how you define the lines yeah i think there's a semantic mismatch here so okay now the the the uh the architecture document is is um it is generically phrased enough to uh punt this question down the road and i think that's perfectly fine right it says once we uh recharter then the discussions like this start to become in scope but my main feedback is yes i think it would be appropriate for the working group to work on this and continue this discussion so okay thanks very much thanks dave hank yeah so um to let's start with dave's point first because that's fresh in my mind i think endorsements can live without reference value provider statements so yes this could be uh there could be a courier that's just about endorsers i think reference values always refer to someone who was authoritative to tell them and that's that's kind of similar to how you would describe an endorser because the reference where you have to"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:44:00",
    "text": "come from the authority that creates reference about a component of your layered device and dice and then yeah you have to point to at that at least so the identity part of the endorser has to go somewhere into reference value uh reference integrity measurements because otherwise you don't know which testing environment is supposed to tell you and evidence about which target environment this relationship is very important and sometimes it gets a bit lost along the lines so i think yes endorsements but could stand by themselves reference values knee pointers to endorsers so that's a very minimum where this overlap happens and i think the co-room can be designed maybe there's some tweaks here that we can do that we can accommodate for the rvp and the indoors are being very separate and both of them then i can be combined by verifier so so i think that that might be a a checklist to have to do with the cddl so i think uh it's that is accomplishable so but thank you for the comment i think we have to take into account that the red box there green boxes at endorser and rvp's are very separate but still the rvp's are about things than the adores i will talk about so there is some relationship there and another thing i want to say because thomas is so modest about this there's already a corresponding uh profile of corum which is the psa endorsement token so that is going hand in hand so we're not just doing this like the big bulk but we're doing the application of it of course as a not only proof of concept but an actual line of work in parallel thank you true thank you hank go ahead lauren uh this is lawrence uh first i just want you to know that uh roman has more books than you these are not books they're comic books okay all right all right so um"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:46:01",
    "text": "so the reference values have to correlate to measurements in evidence otherwise you don't know what to do with them right yep so there's got to be something going on in evidence that some format you know however the measurements are tran transmitted that you can correlate them to the right reference values now my understanding uh uh so there's an implication there for eat basically what i'm thinking uh is and i but i think this is being handled and i wanna i just wanted to surface the topic um i think it's being handled because eat allows uh plug-in formats for measurements so one of the formats for measurement is a squid but i don't know what you're doing here i think i'm a little what's that yeah you just can so can you use a squid with uh with this yes yes okay okay well that is probably but there's also co mid all right i got i'm sorry i get my comed and my co-worker commit co-rem contains comed schema and koswitz schema okay all right got it thank you cheers okay i think the queue is closed um to your question thomas you are correct and roman also as our a.d mentioned as a process reminder we cannot um adopt the document of course yes you did have dave baylor speaking in favor given the scope that he described the question i'll ask is the chair is um shoot i guess i'll do the poll is how many people have actually reviewed the draft if you can show a hand show"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:48:02",
    "text": "answer yes to the poll i keep forgetting we're hybrid um have you read the korean draft so what i'd like to see thomas is get some feedback to make sure that there is interest and some have read the draft and agree it i mean i'll pick on dave it looks like he has read the draft um from a processes after we charter we we want to get some level of feedback on whether the draft is ready to be adopted so if i don't have volunteers um well actually i should say if we don't have enough people that have read the draft then um i'll ask for volunteers to provide feedback just to the level and then do the call for adoption but this is all after we recharter right fantastic that works for us okay i'm going to give it 10 seconds what's that okay shoot what i should have done is asked who's read the draft who is not an author that's why i should have clarified that okay so so um [Music] for those who have read the draft um to the authors did you do a new revision i don't recall in because we can't be adopted this is not very transparent because it's just a related document but there's significant work on this"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:50:00",
    "text": "for over one and a half years so yes we update in regular intervals that are not even the cut off so yeah distinction hank the authors could be doing significant work what i'm trying to assess is besides the authors in the participants of this working group are there enough besides the authors interested in this work yeah interested in having read it might might be different things and also um yeah i'm sorry uh this is not this is a fact right so and we had uh 15 or 17 votes to being interested on the email list during christmas already so i would like to have them into account if we talk about uh people interested in having this work um yeah they may not be in this room here even virtually right now i'm just just highlighting there was 17 15 votes about i'm just saying we're gonna do all that again now that we know it's since once we know it's in scope okay yeah but that you could yeah i could also refer to that remember i have to refresh the people that we have to go through this again okay okay so with that thank you thomas cheers thank you great so we we are new not too far out of our agenda we're only 11 minutes late but we did leave enough time for open mic um if there are no others the chairs actually have a question any anything anyone wants to raise gidi you're on the cube yes i want to get back to my presentation i want a uh i want to clear uh a clear guidance from the group on resolving the circular dependency between uccs and eat um now remember you i appreciate hank and carson's comments but you eat does share an editor with uccs so i"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:52:02",
    "text": "in consensus uh uh uh uh on on the disposition of that document so i i i'm asking the chairs directly how do you want to handle this well to be honest with you and i as an author of uucs i can't discuss that because i'm an author but as a chair in general for the eat draft one of the questions that we had as a chair as chairs sorry is we are concerned about the progress and maturity and the question that we wanted to put forward to the eat authors is your expected timeline if you notice the milestones that we updated we noted i think it was in 112 we noted using guidance by you as the authors that the draft should be ready for working group last call in april my concern is that you provided two presentations that can grow that and stretch that timeline no i think the second one actually the first one no i don't believe so we think we can actually uh we can actually resolve that the second one i think the the feedback was that we can actually uh that uh at least the one that i provided was that it would be it looks like the consensus is that would be better handled in a profile um i think the attestation results is is the annotation results discussion doesn't belong in there it doesn't uh it would not derail the eat document um and if certain people feel that they are i think we should take it to working group consensus rather than having uh having individuals with their own opinions uh in the real progress and stuff i i do think though this uccs dependency needs to be resolved i'm asking the chairs once again a recommendation as to"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:54:01",
    "text": "how they would like to see it resolved so we had at one point a set of gating items for working group last call this was this was discussed maybe a year ago and there was on that list at the time there's two or three gating items if we go through the list of topics that are being discussed there are there are several more topics that are being discussed than those gating item topics so the question for from the chairs is what are the gating items exactly and how can we you know speak yes let's focus on one the circular dependency between eat and uccs so we the editors gave a recommendation it sounds like there isn't consensus on adopting the recommendation that the editors provided so i'm asking it's on asking for an alter for a uh alternate proposal go ahead hank you're in the queue okay um two items first of all we can uh give a written statement of consensus of the editors after we've synced after this itf meeting and i'm pretty sure that's easy uh i don't know where is this coming from the second item is you do not have a circus dependency dependence of uccs you can just you eat just to eat and the uccs part can be applied to any cwt and we give you even guidance how to do it with each so i think you don't have any dependence at all just don't mention it i think this is a decoupled problem that's how it is designed that's why we are not holding anything up because we made the smart decoupling of the problem you can just create each specification and then say and uccs applies to it in your ccs there's there's no recursive thing that's a imaginary problem"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:56:03",
    "text": "all right so just to clarify are we saying that we rip out all mentioned in utcs in the eat document and that can actually uh resolve this that's if there's working group consensus and that is certainly one way forward oh yeah go ahead okay uh dave is on the queue um and i'm gonna repeat a comment that i made in chat a while back when the during the presentation but i think it's consistent with um what uh kathleen and nancy had commented at the time and similar to but not the same as what hank just did okay my opinion is that uh the best way forward would be to remove all the normative content about uccs out of eat and change it to be an informative one and yes i know that's work right because that would entail moving some stuff that's in the eat spec into the uccs doc i see lawrence nodding so i'm hoping that means yeah you understand what i'm saying is i think that that is actually uh doable okay and that that is actually the fastest path to getting eat rfc okay so that's what i would argue as the alternative is to say take the normative content move it into the uccs document leave informative content that says you know there might be future work on doing such and such or you know whatever it is that's an informative reference i think that's perfectly fine that's the only difference between what hank said and i said is i would leave it as an informative reference because you can informatively reference work in progress right and so uccs would become work in progress as far as the uh as an rfc pops out is concerned right because it won't affect the rfc editor by then right so it'll be listed as a net informative reference i think that's the way that i would go i think that's the fastest past rfc so okay so let's do this quick lawrence so uh the problem is the cddl um that seems that has to be a normative reference so you can i i mean i know how to make a soft preference or or an informative reference"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:58:00",
    "text": "but i need the cddl from for scwt in eat to make the cddl and eat complete that seems like a hard reference to me and that was why we proposed bringing that cddl into eat if if the cdl stays in in uccs then we do have a normative coupling and they have to go together to last call or something like that or they have to progress together well we we have packaged drafts together like we did with river tara so i don't know yeah i don't know what cd that you're talking about to be honest are you talking about the jc genetics because i have no idea what you mean so again it's defined by cwt okay that makes more sense now maybe you should have elaborated on what you mean um okay the cdda for cwt doesn't have to be in it you just define more claims that every other cwtx enhancing document has done that exact same way i think there's no blocker there okay guys we ned has the chair and i'll just echo dave's comment um that he says you can keep the ccdl and eat and not make the main ccdl depend on uccs what hank said well so before we close ned wants to do a poll um just so that we can give the eat authors guidance okay so raise your hand if you if you agree to the uh motion of moving normative information that's currently in the each spec and and changing it to be"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:00:00",
    "text": "informative so we'll we'll do 10 more seconds be quick guys since we're out of time what 14 to 15 to 4 okay so you have to call it okay so uh we're just looking at the information coming in it looks like there's uh consensus around uh moving or you know migrating the normative uh too informative that that relates to uccs in the eat spec getty asked for guidance so we asked the group for guidance okay sorry we're out of time so lawrence if you have issues thank you that's that that that's good we'll uh i'll document my understanding and post it to the mailing list okay okay great thanks eddie everyone and again we'll keep going on on the mail list the only one um did from yesterday"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:02:12",
    "text": "you"
  }
]
