[
  {
    "startTime": "00:00:07",
    "text": "hello just making sure audio Etc work well I can certainly hear and see you excellent can he that's a feature but it's often hard to tell we're opening the door so it'll get warmer in here we won't get to do that soon when we fly home works better in Florida than uh Massachusetts in the winter one of the few things that does swimming swimming works much better in Florida than Massachusetts in the winter okay I guess there are two things I can go on anything that's not weather related the fact that that's taking a while going to the Disney parks better in Massachusetts than in in Florida than Massachusetts all year along not that we've done that okay going to SeaWorld going to any I think there's a good aquarium somewhere in in Massachusetts isn't"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:02:01",
    "text": "there I thought there's a already good one around Boston somewhere there there is the New England Aquarium those are that and SeaWorld are on different levels are they okay there's um using up my uh time share points works better here okay yeah we did the whole like we did the whole getting a time share thing and then never used it and then waited for a while like five or six or 10 years and then sold it of course for way less than we bought it for well I've I've bought two and I've used them a lot so they've been pretty good for us yeah I I have a bunch of kids and we get three bedroom units and it just it wouldn't have worked to put us in three hotel rooms when the kids were little I think Robert is hoping to get to actual it TF business no sorry I also just wanted to um remind everybody El we're Gathering it should take a couple of more minutes for people to gather but remind everybody that these sessions are recorded and are published to you so be careful about what you say regarding time shares no harm was done just wanted to make sure that we the login to manage my time share begin of a meeting like this we can get me aoda trim so yep the idea was to come away for a little bit at a time of the year that isn't usually stressful of course the ietf has fixed that for this year but"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:04:02",
    "text": "stressful in a good way I mean we're excited about the project but normally this is a quiet time of the year for us because I don't know uh most people don't launch new projects this time of year Jennifer is the Audio Level better I think you're still a little quieter than other people for me but agreed we'll solve this the oldfashioned way that should work better y all right we still have a few people that are joining Liz double check if you're looking at the meico roster for who's here if it's only listing zulet participant they're probably not really here okay joining is slowed down um we'll go ahead and start welcome everybody um again a last reminder this"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:06:00",
    "text": "session is being recorded will be posted to YouTube we do like that um as many people that are willing share uh video as we can get so that this is as close to meeting around a table in real space as we can get um the notes have been available for several days I haven't seen any last minute proposals for addition are there any bashes before we jump in all right not hearing anything we'll go ahead and start so from my perspective the biggest top topic for discussion is our infrastructure trans transition I put that first um just because of the magnitude of it I may be blinded to other things so if we do get to the end of the call and there was something that somebody wishes we had talked about um please bring up the bash when we get to the open discussion we have a great deal of work underway working with the um Team that we brought on through the RFP process in October Sirus and painless security to Define and build out the infrastructure that we will be moving our services onto there's a update that I sent to the tools discuss list that I will be um periodically sending more information um as it becomes available a lot lot of the things that"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:08:00",
    "text": "we have to move only require a small amount of work in terms of packaging and figuring out um the details so that we have a deployment that looks like an infrastructure is code deployment instead of people pulling knobs um as we currently have but some of the things that we're going to be working on are going to require um significant structural refactoring in the process of their moving we're still figuring out The Winds of all of this happening although there's a a brief overview on a slide deck that Margaret prepared and is linked in the notes um shared into the meeting materials like any other ietf um interim our deployment is primarily going to be into AWS um there's in that slide deck a little bit of an overview of structure I don't think that we're going to spend spend a lot of time talking to it on this call but people can skim it if they've got questions we are planning to continue to use digital ocean the way we've been using digital ocean and in particular for some key points like our persistent Secret store um using an instance of ashy Corp Vault we're planning to leave at digital ocean we are very close to um being the transition of the initial set of services we had hoped to get them done before started before this call but we're still in the discussing what the actual infrastructure tooling will look like to get to a deployment um that's I think going to iron out by the time we get towards the end of the week um we're going to be deploying analytics um because it"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:10:01",
    "text": "requires almost zero changes to move just a matter of um packaging it so that we'll go into the new infrastructure um author tools shortly after that um has very similar characteristics and yang catalog um which is going to be a um non-trivial transition um from how it's currently deployed with Pantheon um we're push ing on getting that done because of the arrangement with Pantheon running out at the end of the year so the uh rest of the schedule is being worked out one bit of insight that I wanted to point to that we already have is that we're planning to transition mailman 3 in place on itfa before the entire mail chain is moved onto the new infrastructure um um that has uh connotations for how mailman is attached to applications like the data tracker and the male archive that we're currently working through with Sirius but the timeline for this is looking like late December early January and I will send a note to the community telling them what to expect um ahead of time before they actually takes place so as I mentioned we do have a short slide deck showing um a little bit of information about what our infrastructure is going to look like that you can pull up and skim through um I'm not planning to share it unless somebody has questions I see people squinting I assume that they're skimming through stuff"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:12:01",
    "text": "if you look at it and do have questions um feel free to interrupt as we're going through the rest of the items in the call and we can come back to it all right not hearing questions we'll move on yes I will leave this topic with the oh my gosh it is a lot we we we have a a frightening amount of things to do in a very short period of time all right I've announced several times that we are going to deploy feed RFC which we've been working to for several months um shortly after the end of this particular call that will involve a planned short downtime we're expecting to be in in the order of 15 minutes um I don't know if I need to go into this call we've talked in the past about what feed RFC is bringing in I think I'll just leave it to if anyone has any questions about what's happening with this and we'll note that there will be another major um model changing deployment that will come in soon after hopefully as early as next week that we'll um get rid of the few places that we have model references directly into the D Jango user table where we really should be having model references into the data tracker person table um it's another one that will have implications for people who have developed um on top of the V1 API but very these models are obscure enough that I don't expect that um nearly as"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:14:01",
    "text": "many people will be um as disrupted working on top of the API as will be have been disrupted with the change to where to find rsc's so things for this are on track the change is Big it's actually bigger than the time zone aware set of changes that we ran through earlier this year speaking of earlier this year I will take this opportunity to point out that velocity for the data tracker is up massively um do at some point in the future take the time to scroll back through the releases on the data tracker release page to a year ago and appreciate just how much has happened in the last 12 months unless someone has questions I'll move on next item we are continuing to improve the existing post confirm um there is a PR that uh has changes provided by John LaVine that addresses some issues uh some community members from large organizations we having with uh Demar rejections um makes additional tweaks to the envelope from as me messages are leaving our system we will probably bring those in later this week or early next week um as we've done before trial by fire basically testing with the live infrastructure because that's what we have available to us right now and and we are really looking forward to a"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:16:00",
    "text": "future where we have a test environment that we can exercise these things in ahead of time and that is going to be you know in our near future next couple of months postc confirm itself is also being reimplemented in this new email infrastructure um splitting apart its rewriting and challenging Parts um to help inform that we've instrumented the current post confirm and um have learned some um fairly interesting things um among which are that the volume of spam that it's basically keeping it Bay is on the order of 4,000 messages a day so anyone have any uh no there's a point in here that I did mean need to mention did I write on it yes yes the uh we did have a problem with the change that we made in early October that led to messages that went through post confirm more than once and this would happen when a message went to a list that was subscribed to another list or went to a list that had an alias that was subscribed to the list or several other variants like this as I wrote um stopping on its second iteration through postc confirm and then being lost um that's been corrected was corrected shortly after iatf 118 and I've been working with the various lists that were affected it's a fairly small number um to remediate what happened so pausing again for questions or comments"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:18:02",
    "text": "Cindy can give me a brief break and talk a bit about the website transition so for the for the IAB website um the IAB signed off on the new waga website while we were in Prague there is still an open issue with sidebar menus showing the wrong level of page but the IAB agreed that we can there's a temporary workaround for that that where we just put the child pages in manually until the developers can get that sorted out um I'm working on putting together the list of all the P page direct redirects that we're going to need once we do this transition um so that's in progress uh one thing that we that came up when we were in Prague was uh learning that the public IAB Wiki is in the same www.i.org namespace as the um WordPress site and once we move to wagtail that can't um be how things are the IAB had been planning to move their wikis from media Wiki tojs anyway they had originally planned to do that after the website transition but other than make that change twice um Liz has taken that on and actually moved all the content from the public IAB media Wiki into a Wiki JS that was finished at the end of last week um so that should be um signed off on pretty soon um Maria has a couple of additional content updates um but I don't think those actually um really affect the transition timeline because those can also be me after the fact but just with the holidays and everything else going on and the IT transition timeline it's looking like we can call this done and finish the transition in January awesome and thank you Liz for taking on that extra lift um Cindy for me there was a little bit of packet loss I was able to listen through it if every if anyone else had more difficulty and had questions please jump in I just had a question you said you're gonna uh that you've basically compl completed moving uh a a um Wiki into"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:20:03",
    "text": "Wiki JS but I didn't hear what what Wiki that is the the iab's public Wiki which is a media Wiki okay right thanks all right so our next topic should be a lively one we have had for quite some time several ways that we present documents in particular internet drafts on the data tracker there is the Dot Page there are the text pages that aren't actually at the data tracker but are off on ww. f.org there the doc HTML Pages um I've provided a list with links to the different views I think most people are familiar with them um L started working down a path to um reduce the number of libraries that we were dependent on and was removing some libraries in favor of using functionalities that were available in others that we knew we were going to continue to use and manag to basically walk this into a place where we need to ask if we're doing the right thing and what we how we should time our plan change around what the Doc Page itself should show for an internet draft in particular so for um the example for the stir document that I"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:22:00",
    "text": "provided the link to we have a page that presents a bunch of metadata what the different states are who the plac is to send mail when things change are and at the very bottom of that page there was historically a text view of the document where somebody had the option to see just the preview or the full text of the draft this existed long before we had the HTML views in places um it continues to get used but it's hard to tell when the doc page is being used if it's being used for the metadata or for reading that actual content and in either case the number of views of the doc page is a couple of orders of magnitude lower than the views of the doc HTML pages so Lars has a few PRS in place one of which replaces the plain text view with something that uses the ID to HTML so it gets something package so it get something that looks very much like the HTML views but with slightly different styling and of of course different framing um but it gets us into a place where now we've got yet another way of looking at an internet draft and I wanted to have a conversation here about whether or not that's what we really wanted um he's also asked well can we just remove the view of the document and only have the metadata page and make people click away to get to the content this is a sounds very much like a conversation we've been having about"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:24:01",
    "text": "how people View rfc's at RFC editor. org where there's been a pretty strong no you should look at the document and the metadata should be available but the content of the document is what matters so um with this introduction I had a set of questions you know what should we do should we accept the change to show the htmlz version of the file instead of just the plain text version of file at the bottom of the Doc Page do we remove the presentation of the text on that metadata page um do we do something else do we refactor the HTML page so that the metadata appears there um do we do this now do we wait until we can engage a ux expert to help us build something better and there is some some argument for incremental Improvement and then big Improvement later so please somebody else jump in does anybody care besides me and Lars so this is Russ I I think that the uh you know whichever renders faster is what I'm interested in yeah it's effectively equivalent the htmlz version gives you links um so I I se no problem with doing this I and when the expectation that we get a ux person to relook at it again later um the the current one is um as you said suboptimal by a long way compared to the htmlz one I mean I personally prefer the HTML one but there's all sorts of different things so just this is an improvement and that's enough for saying yes I think yeah the only downside that I"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:26:01",
    "text": "really see is slightly different style and now having a new place that might be attractive to point to over the doc HTML place and we may end up seeing some traffic migrate when later we do the redesign we'll make it maybe a little more difficult to merge them back into the same place but maybe not maybe it all turns into SL do if we have the metadata and the htmlz view all in one place I mean I'm wondering if this is something that we're supposed to ask the community because we don't really know who's using this for what right like are is anybody actually doing this in a more automated fashion and which case taking it away you might make them mad you you know sadly making someone upset is a higher yield technique for getting real feedback so however Warren I think if someone was going there they should go straight to whichever the HTML or the text link that whichever one they're after they're readily available can you guys hear me now yeah okay good before it didn't work so yeah just for the record I don't really care what we do uh with the pr right so I'm not I'm not attached to it um I I basically started as you said right trying to find some craft in the data tracker that's really only use in one place and there is a piece of craft that is like 20% of what um RFC HTML or ID HTML whatever it's called it's doing but it's doing it slightly differently and that caused me to like use the other one um yeah I don't I don't have a strong"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:28:00",
    "text": "opinion here um I probably would lean towards removing that preview completely um but I understand people some there's probably going to be a few people that love it for some reason but that I don't understand so it's not a a preview preview I guess some people can select preview but um I've selected no show me the entire dock um I like seeing the meta data up top I like having the the document there also links would be awesome uh rather than the text format and I guess a comment also on um who clicks what link may also be determined by what the search engine gives them if they search on a draft string uh have we optimized for one sort of URL over another I get the the status page when I search through duck tucko for instance yeah there's not yet been a great deal of work on SEO for the data tracker itself so I can report that it always takes me two clicks from the search page to the document I want to look at and it would be great if there was a way to turn this into one click I mean I'll say I just generally look at it like all of my links go to this page and I generally just scroll down and read it on the metadata page I don't click on any of the other formats"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:30:00",
    "text": "because it's right here so my use case the current one works well for and I you know realize I might be a dinosaur but I like this text view so if that text view suddenly developed links would it be problematic it depends if it looks like this or if it looks like the HTML view because will look like there's a there's a copy in the pr if you click on the link to the pr I did a screenshot that you could look at oh okay I didn't actually click on the pr because I didn't want to I do think anything beyond a very basic change here is just going to get stuck in the weeds and we're not the best people to do anything other than a very basic change because there's so much to consider and to be honest so much of stuff has built up over the years we need a ux expert to do do it so if we're just talking about just that one change of the the text down below to the HTML so that people can actually just navigate the document below a bit better I think that's a perfectly reasonable compromise and then any broader changes any other changes should come part of the proper design process later on cool Warren were you able to find that screen CH y I mean if it looks if it looks like it isn't the pr that's fine with me I mean I realize that view isn't the important one here but to me the that view where like I've got the Header information largely in the way that it currently looks is nice I dislike the view where I'm trying to figure out how this to explain it where like the header is all differently moved around and you know I have the table of contents on the right Etc right we should have better better terms for the different views but yeah I dislike the view that I"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:32:02",
    "text": "just put the link to but you know that's me I'm potentially off and the rough forgive me for the lag I'm taking a moment to see the chat better okay I understand Warren you like the the terms you're looking for is you like the HTML IED view better than you like the RFC XML derived HTML View okay I'll move on unless somebody else has something they want to add on this topic um the next one may just be an FYI given the people that are here um there was a long discussion inside the isg and with the Stream managers for applying a banner um to the views of Internet drafts um making it more clear what the standing in the ietf was of unadopted Internet drafts and nonf stream rfc's uh that appears to have settled I've been waiting Lars for Roman"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:34:00",
    "text": "to give me an artifact since he was the person that was sheeting this whole thing to say go before moving ahead with that PR so I can follow up with ran and double check cool [Applause] and last thing I have on General discussion before we jump up to a metal level um is that the March tools call is at a time where a lot of people are likely to be on airplanes and I'm proposing that we shift it forward a week if no one objects here I'll send a note to the list as well and will'll make that change let me pull the open discussion topic that Lars added um forward to this point I like to talk again about using gravitar instead of being in the business of gathering and using photos ourselves yeah so concretely my proposal would be that we add a preference setting that defaults to on uh that basically checks if a user has a gravitar and if so we use it um and if somebody who's concerned about WordPress uh seeing that traffic they can disable it and they won't have a profile photo because I I don't think we should"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:36:00",
    "text": "build functionality to manage those photos ourselves we just rip that stuff out that would be my my extreme proposal so I I don't I don't have any um uh comment on that proposal I just want to note that currently me EO looks for profile picks in data tracker and if it doesn't find it in data tracker it looks at gravitar um so work through I think zul does as well doesn't it zul just goes straight for gravitar yeah so we de facto right people already uh using gravitar even if they don't know that they are so uh I'm I'm wondering if I guess maybe the thing to say is maybe with regards to Meo is if this option is implemented in data tracker I suppose it wouldn't stop Meo still looking for for gravitar Meo would end up looking wherever oidc told them to look okay in other words I think that if we were make this change we could make it in a way that Meo didn't have to change their code at all but it's also a thing that they would be willing to adjust to should we want them to make changes it's not a high impact um decision the re the real I guess impactful thing in lars's extreme proposal is that you know if somebody cares about the we're using this other service and they don't"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:38:03",
    "text": "want references to whatever they put in that service they don't want to put anything in that service then they just don't get to have a picture is the The Fairly extreme thing but that's an extension of we're moving a lot of things into um Cloud infrastructure anyhow so I mean I I also wonder what happens if people want to be able to have two sort of different identities or things like my the image that I use here is different to what my gravitar image is because my gravitar image largely gets used on things like I can and other bits and so there might be some initial confusion when people realize that a photo they weren't expecting or a less or more professional photo suddenly start showing up I don't know if anybody cares but yeah details the we when we do this we can provide an option and if we were do this we could provide an option in the profile that says hey what is the identity that you know this thing our services should be talking to gravitar 4 which tends to look like an email address all right so you can have multiple things out at grav just keyed off of email address but it a good observation thank you all right no one else seems to be running to the mic with a strong opinion I think Michael Michael had a comment in the or in the chat that it would"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:40:00",
    "text": "be uh good to review about happens so yeah the working group chairs page I guess is has a list of photos and I think those that I I don't know if I can have different photos right now I think not or at least I have the same one um the other thing is that and I guess I'll check zulip and whatever I I I guess my me Echo photo is my data tracker one I should check zulip so but I use but I use but I use a different I use an MCR plus ITF for all the ITF stuff and I guess I could set a different gravitar for that and I think that answers to Warren's point which is and I think you can have different gravitar for different contexts and uh I guess with enough enough warning people will that'll be okay for people but I will uplevel this again because it's a kind of a strategic question is it worth getting out of the business of managing the bits of somebody's photos and I you know from a a uh data manager perspective you know if I could step away from having to manage that bit of pii I it would be a much happier thing so and currently it's also manual right if I say wanted to update my data tracker uh photo I would have to send email to supported iatf with a here's my newer picture"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:42:00",
    "text": "yes so I presume we're all aware that there is a Federated open- Source alternative to gravitar using um something called avvatar with multiple people all providing this service all across um so I'm very happy with using gravitar but I'm just suggesting that there may be a um at some point someone's wanting us to add others on or start to use other types of services as well um but I think I entirely agree with Robert that the principle is that we should not store these things um we should use an external site for that all right well unless there are other comments we're now basically to the FYI part of the meeting where hopefully we can take um what's been reported as read and and just leaving things open um if people had read them and had any questions that we could follow up on so please take a moment to skim through the individual FYI sections and then reports on the development projects anyone have any other business that they'd like to bring well thanks everyone again for taking time out of their day so that we can have these these feedback sections they're very"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:44:01",
    "text": "valuable and we will for those of you that we won't see before the end of year break I hope you're um any your activities are Pleasant and we'll see everyone online as we move along thank you you too Robert thanks"
  }
]
