[
  {
    "startTime": "00:00:04",
    "text": "which is really not meeting girls well this this one would be good the slides do this to go something else first into the white wine our let\u0027s go back to the this will only go back to the agenda right okay so you think what I should do that such that so I need you over to me my ashes to the tryout machine it\u0027s much easier sure no the first one is the first one here in the right order they\u0027re all PDFs actually that\u0027s another advantage of doing it for my machine is if I do powerpoints I can edit them [Music] usually I get started earlier and I have actually done this before what this is Monday plus is the Tuesday "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:03:09",
    "text": "13:30 go ahead sorry okay okay so we don\u0027t actually have too much to do and I got early so I guess I\u0027ll go ahead really rapidly here it\u0027s not Donald Eastlake with future way Russ White was unable to make this meeting Martin art area director is sitting in front here so this okay people are presumably aware of the note well and the fact that you want quality documents you should review other documents and if you do that people probably review your documents so here\u0027s the proposed agenda so just do some update on status just briefly touched on the yang model document so that block meant that graft the yang model Lachman is in last call ending at this meeting so we\u0027ll see what there haven\u0027t been any negative comments there have been some positive comments on the list here in Mabel presentation by Sandy Jiang and I just have a presentation on possible DVF maybe they will futures which I can go over well what seems like things we might want to work on in the future mostly for discussion on the mailing list and showing anybody has discussion here or ideas here we can do that does anybody want any changes in this agenda additions deletions whatever okay so we have two documents that have been food with the iesg inner all green in the Ballad so they\u0027re two documents which have discusses though need to be resolved the H max security document and the new base protocol document there\u0027s two documents with publication requested source specific information model as I said that will yang models in working group last call there is also a working group draft on the round-trip time extension which was presented at the last etf meeting and there\u0027s a couple of related drafts which is the home that draft which is waiting on the protocol draft and Sandy\u0027s draft on beer papal extensions so we\u0027ve really done pretty well on the milestones that are in the Charter really the only one left is to submit the yang document to the iesg which perhaps we can do later today which at that point there would be all the milestones in the current milestone listen the Charter would be completed "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:06:10",
    "text": "which seems good so that\u0027s it for these agenda and status slides so I guess on the yang model draft the only question I really had was it currently there\u0027s an orangey yang symbol which means that the automated yang checker isn\u0027t completely happy with it is that a problem or can they I mean because there\u0027s certainly most people think it\u0027s an excellent condition and we could just go ahead or you can come up front if you want to over there whichever way you\u0027re closer to that microphone so I guess what you\u0027re referring to is on data tracker yeah saying that yeah well there are some issues with the tools themselves that sometimes lead to that error and it\u0027s good is as as simple as saying that one of the included files that I might have referred to is something it can\u0027t find I can suddenly take a look at it and send a note to the mailing list if need be to let have even know maybe I see Martinez pull up oh okay so I believe that that is a bug in the tool the a feature requirement for it to be mechanical order although the a B and F grammar for the language says that that is the right order for some reason it\u0027s complaining but anyway as I said I\u0027ll take a look at it and send a note to the mailing list okay confirming and now if you\u0027re gonna send a note you\u0027ll be like later today okay yeah more than happy to actually do it and so is there any objection after that notice posted to declaring the draft to a past working group last fall it\u0027s been I have noticed out for a while like I say this with no objections and some support so hearing nothing as soon as you post that note or unless you say you don\u0027t want to I need to head in that note then I\u0027ll post a message saying it\u0027s fast working group last call and I can start working on the publication request - okay sounds okay information model has been publication requested there is a template out there and it\u0027s currently requested as well in that state in the state of publication requested okay here for a bedroll you I "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:09:11",
    "text": "know that see how do I get to so I guess I want to go here okay okay good afternoon I\u0027m Sam is on from that he this print is for PR in Babel we have caused or Tony P and it\u0027s I\u0027m glad to present this job Hokkien Babel working group so at first let us see the motivation of this draft we our intent is to use paper protocol Esbjerg underlay protocol to build a beer forwarding there let\u0027s let me introduce peer technology here and briefly you know that beer is a new multicast a technology and it can you can build multicast forwarding there without it is explicitly multicast distributing trees building and it doesn\u0027t require any inter mediate in those to maintain any per flow stage so it\u0027s a new multi has the technology and the other can bring many advantage of what it has the forwarding hmm and the beer is split the networking into three parts and the first one is a core layer it me is called peer forwarding layer and needing this forwarding there the vector can be forward by multicast duplicate and it can reach around her without the SG or much much e in the intermediary network and the packet can be encapsulated with her header now mr. processor I\u0027m curious function Ethernet function and a v6 function is ongoing but in order to build as a beautiful loading there we must rely on some under a protocol to build forwarding so we depends on the ITP protocol and the beach P protocol and the variable to to build a the routing under day so we use the exchanging of this routing protocol like a Bible like her ITP to forward querida we are information and spread it into the networks and all the computer knows in the network can calculated unicast routing and the can also calculate as a beer forwarding table so "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:12:11",
    "text": "as a beautiful wedding layer can be built from the IDP extension and after the forwarding layer is built and the overlay is used to corrected the podcast information about the numerous router and the egress wrote our search for some specific multicast the flow so the be the universe rotor like this BF IR can run wanna be PFI all receive some specific multicast flow it can encapsulate the packet with according to a pair header and the forwarded into the network then the the intermediator notes came forward this package and the duplicated this factor according to the previous calculation result and push this packet to the edge routers so the parameter can be forwarded in this network and using be peer multicast the technology so in some network we know that we may only use bebo is routing protocol so every day like a fool mmm the bro I appear in these networks we can\u0027t depends on SPF extension ice I say extension or PD extension we can only rely on Bebo extension so we\u0027d like to make some extensions in Babel protocol to build as a beer forwarding layer so it\u0027s our motivation so so briefly summary of protocol we know that bebo is distance vector routing protocol it can be used the young world and the world√≠s mass networks so it\u0027s a very good routing protocol can be used in well various network it\u0027s our intent because it can extend the beer deployment in the wireless network and we know that people has made some heavy extension to carry the indigenous additional information so we think that people can also use a new sub T of V took away the beer information - so we with racket will use peer extension to carry the beer parameter in the network so it\u0027s an example of implementation we know that suppose that the node a is a universe brought her officer network and there\u0027s other routers cow also wrong the "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:15:13",
    "text": "Babel protocol and when people protocol is used to advertise the prefix of every node The Associated appear information such as sub domain and the bf ID and some other information can also be carried with the prefix advertisement so one Babel protocol is running the network and as long as the prefix information has spread in the network peer information can also be spreading this network so one pebble protocol calculated the unique hostile route it can also calculate as a peer forwarding haber so peer forwarding layer can be built from this MRB is an example of peer or a protocol so in this net we suppose that the MRD is used to convey the AG rotors information for some specific her multicast flow so the for example know the a hanging capsulate the associated Heather into the in the the motive has to flow packet and then forward adding the network and all the net the noting this networker come forward the packet correctly according to the pier forwarding table and we know that because the pier capability in this network may be an optional so we you define some an entire Beach of the extended sub jovi to zero if a router cannot recognize the sake of e it can it must even know the unknown sub shell V and it cannot processing the other key fields in this extension it\u0027s for matter of a post-secondary and that we the second only profits is aligned with the definition in SPF and ice is so we also defined at the same fields in the extension but we may not use it in be able to because the such as PA are bar and the IP ie views may not have special meaning in paper protocol so we just define and the to align with advertisement with IP protocol but it may be may not be used for now but maybe in some footer we can find some use of this field and also as we defined a sub sub activity of MPs encapsulation it\u0027s also keep our line with "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:18:15",
    "text": "advertisement thinking OSPF and the eyes eyes and in the future we will add the literal netting encapsulation sub sub at your V is has only different from the type fields with employers encapsulation sub sub govt so it\u0027s some information about the under de ABR underlay extension and the science support for beer has been published this fc8 for the other one and also the OSPF extension has been published and the PTP extension is ongoing and the but we know that and beer does not rely on all wrote her sing our domain to firm performing the beer forwarding so how to support tunnels that will allows to tunnel beer across such rotors which cannot support a beer forwarding in Babel is for further study because we know that there is a distance vector protocol and the not our SPF protocol so when it calculates the roads and routes maybe we know that because it\u0027s only one hop away so it may define some tunnels or we use special method to build a tunnel to across the router which cannot support a beer for body and there is an implementation of the control plane of beer in Babel you can maybe you can find a some something where you being this link ok that\u0027s all for today thank you ok thank you do we have comments or questions on this I guess after we go on Donald it\u0027s a question for you sure if the working hope was to work on that would that be part of a chartering effort or do you think it fits in the it does fit in the Charter because there it\u0027s it\u0027s an optional thing in the Charter the Carter just certain things have to be done and gives to optional things which I actually go over that in my I mentioned that in my presentation there\u0027s multicast and source-specific routing okay so we\u0027ve already done sort of specific routing but pretty much with them okay thank you sure any other questions or comments okay thank you thank you yeah anybody "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:21:22",
    "text": "else hasn\u0027t signed the blue sheets stick your hand up or something we can get them to you so I have a little presentation on possible futures so you know starts by going over what the work items are in our Charter and their status so Green is basically a good color indicates we\u0027ve there so the stability segment is explicitly called out in the Charter and that\u0027s that\u0027s the iesg there\u0027s the proposed standard Nevada based protocol standard there\u0027s a security needs need to be addressed and we have two drafts that do that one of which is it\u0027s fully approved and one of which has a one discuss left needs to be resolved manageability is listed there and we have the information model which is in publication requested and we have the angle which if we later today will be in the past working group last call and this when I get the paperwork and stuff done will convene publication requested the Charter says we should document implementation experience but it explicitly says it doesn\u0027t need to be an RFC or a document or something like that so we\u0027ve basically been doing that by doing reports at meetings there is not such a report at this meeting but at last meeting there was a report on the implementation so we\u0027ve sort of been doing that by my reports to the meetings pretty much meets that item there are two optional things in the existing Charter One with sort specific routing and there\u0027s a graph on that which is in publication requested state and the other is multicast so we haven\u0027t made nearly that progress on multicast I think it\u0027s more complicated topic but we do have this beer available extensions draft and it\u0027s something which we can our charted to work on with our current Charter is an optional item so I came up with a couple of other things the list as possible work items one would be type of service specific routing so you have different routing for different types of service there is an expired graft on that topic for our working group which hasn\u0027t been worked on in a while but that that could be revived and I think it\u0027s mara way so straight forward another possibility I thought of is doing an 802 11 mesh it\u0027s a Wi-Fi mesh pass selection protocol so Wi-Fi mesh assumes of course all the nodes and your Wi-Fi mesh have the same path selection protocol routing protocol II it\u0027s coming to call it a past election protocol and their provisions are having different ones but I say any particular mesh it has to be consistent there\u0027s even a provision for vendors specific path selection protocols so we could you know it\u0027s designed so that "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:24:23",
    "text": "other organizations could make up a selection protocols and use their UI we use the Eno aur to come up with our own designation I\u0027ve found ATAR to 11 to be somewhat receptive to this sort of thing there was a draft done in the IETF which down at the bottom of this slide called secure hybrid wireless mesh protocol and this draft was liaison to 802 11 I think and a neutral Evan said oh sure and so they allocated a code point in the 802 11 space for that so you can identify the past election protocol either by a single byte or by oh oh you and a sub selector for a particular vendor so the 802 11 has its own assigned number Authority and I just went and looked yesterday in there and there\u0027s two values in for past selected protocols one is the basic one in the 802 11 standard and the other is this secure hybrid wireless mesh protocol so they allocated point to a while ago and it\u0027s of course it\u0027s still allocated and I suspect that if we proposed a path selection protocol using babel for it or 211 mesh that they\u0027d be happy to allocate a value 3 in their space well we could use our own and you know if there were some extension somehow required it\u0027s it\u0027s possible they would do that so I don\u0027t think there\u0027s much of an inter standards development organization problem there and it seems like the kind of thing that that will should be good for because you have obviously highly variable link metrics in an 802 11 mesh so I have another slide I was wondering could anybody in the room or remotely or whatever has any ideas for other possible work items they\u0027d like to to finish possible future or new work items they would like to have added to this list of stuff here and if they don\u0027t want to speak up now they can act we can boast to the list or whatever later is going ahead - though I think the last slide is what what should be what we\u0027ll be doing I think the highest priority obviously you\u0027re in the short run is to get the core set of all four graphs including the base protocol graphed through the process and in the RFC editors queue but for the long run longer run we should discuss recharge ring and possible new work items and we can do it right now or and or our nonetheless I mean we should we should do it on the list regardless I believe not to see if there\u0027s people out there who are a favor additional work items that to be added to our do charter so if anybody would like to comment on any of these charter items or possible new work items or whatever or proposed "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:27:28",
    "text": "any additional ones now yep Barbara Stark I don\u0027t see Julia stepping up to the mic um and I know David is because I just heard him at the microphone over two doors down um I think we may be just a little bit distracted in this session right now and it might be better just to discuss this on the list sounds reasonable to me I think we should if nobody had regardless of whether people had things to say here there\u0027s a lot of people jumped up and they all said there should be absolutely no new work oh that doesn\u0027t seem to be happening I\u0027m pretty sure we should discuss it on the list and perhaps work on a draft new charter language there was a D I\u0027m very happy Babel finds new work to do just make sure that today\u0027s day energy to effectively effectively bring it to completion that sounds very reasonable yeah no it has to be yep no there\u0027s available community working and implementing and so forth some okay well is there any other business for the working group here looks like we may manage to have we originally applied for a one hour for this lot we had an hour and a half but it looks like that may be a half hour will do us which is okay because I think people have things they\u0027d like to do so last call for any additional comments discussions or topics here okay since there seems to be plenty of time on the available in the agenda rod Van Meter I\u0027m new to Babel I had never seen it before so I just walked in to find out so sort of a little bit about what Babel is doing and what\u0027s going on I\u0027m the chair of the proposed quantum internet research group and one of the issues that we ultimately are dealing with is routing and in fact the the the links are potentially not very stable and potentially relatively data dynamic so the idea of a routing protocol that works well with dynamic link costs as a particular interest to to us fiber probably varies on the granularity on the order of an hour butBut free space links or satellite links could be minutes or below so I\u0027m curious you know just completely off the top of my head whether or not Babel is something we should look at as a routing protocol for those kinds of networks III would think you should so that\u0027s the only "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:30:29",
    "text": "interesting and I think if you were to ask that question on the list that Julius would probably respond to you and he\u0027s like the person who knows the most and it\u0027s just 6:30 in the morning for him and my experience is he\u0027s not the best person at 6:30 in the morning okay thanks for a comment that said interesting covering yeah I was quickly going over your slides again and it you missed the rtt druffs no no I see in the in this presentation okay so sorry yeah it should be down here I guess it\u0027s it\u0027s not something explicitly called out in the current Charter and it\u0027s something that is already it\u0027s already a working group draft it seems like it\u0027s sort of ascetic it\u0027s a kind of part of the protocol draft I think I guess I considered it to kind of fall under under the existing work it should have been listed there it is a let\u0027s see here go back to the status of documents here so so yeah so that\u0027s down there is it is a working group graphed we could for example do a working group last call on it if he will believe that draft isn\u0027t good enough shape for that that would be a reasonable thing to do it\u0027s in could a current work do you think that it is do you have an opinion on whether we should do a working group last call for that document I think we really need to ask you\u0027re talking about specific no no the RTT extension I thought nobody asked about oh the RTG round trip time extension I mean I think that\u0027s another thing we probably need to take to the list okay so we can ask on the list whether what comments people have on that draft and if there\u0027s no you know whether they believe it we should do a glass call yep yeah rollin tilta I should go review it and I will I should go and review it okay excellent cool if you could review it and post your comments that would be right okay anything else from anybody okay we measure sent the emails and Nick glance and we send out a declaration that the yang model has passed working request call a little bit later today and I think with that that concludes "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:33:29",
    "text": "about the working group meeting for this time so thanks for barbara for taking minutes and see you on the list and the next IDF meeting [Music] is there anybody who hasn\u0027t signed the blue sheets okay you\u0027re excused you can go have fun okay if I get them pulled off I\u0027ll email you so you don\u0027t have to [Music] "
  }
]