[
  {
    "startTime": "00:00:06",
    "text": "so what while we are warming up for jamup we just lost one chair to ysg Thank You Barry I\u0027m still looking for a co-chair to help out Braun I had few suggestions but I would like to have more candidates tor pointing out that from my point of view not the responsible ad for this one but from my point of view it\u0027s more than helping out it\u0027s inappropriate I think for Braun to be the only chair given his company affiliation and you know I trust Braun completely but from Optics we need somebody else yeah to cover so please send me emails if you like to go chair all right mideco is up people are in thank you remote participants thank you people who are here here is the note well again for those of you who have come in recently please note it well starting with a thank you to Barry for for your time and your mentoring here I very much appreciate it I look forward to to my new co-chair when we find one let\u0027s start with the progress of core and mail Neil is remotely present if you want to talk about that Neil this an update since I wrote these slides that we gem up core the last discuss has been cleared and it\u0027s been submitted now I don\u0027t really have a lot to say other than I believe yeah we\u0027ve resolved all the issues they\u0027re both quad mail in the editor q thanks very much to everyone that provided feedback and all the tremendous amount of work the way into it and I think we\u0027ve ended up with two fantastic documents and looking forward to those finishing the final stages being published and seeing people I think this is a big improvement on we had before so I just want to say thank you that speed invoke about yeah round of applause good work awesome thanks Neal alright moving on we have WebSockets and Ken you have to know everyone next slide please fine so there\u0027s been a few changes in the last month since Bangkok first of which we now identify each object that the compass server says that a client this is related to the third item which is we now allow push over the WebSocket and we additionally allow out of order processing of the "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:03:06",
    "text": "requests next slide please so in terms of identifying each object the state tames object already had a type so we\u0027ve leveraged that and added that to the response object and to the problem details object next slide please so for automotive processing now the client can optionally include a ID property in each of its requests and then the server will echo that back in either the response object or a top-level problem details object so that the client can reconcile where the responses belong next slide please okay push this takes the form of the existing state change object that\u0027s already in core the only open issue with this is how the server should advertise support and how the client enables push and selects which push notifications that they would like the current draft I leverage what is already documented for event source there\u0027s a type query parameter on the URL that\u0027s used to bootstrap request Neil had suggested that he might want I have a separate object for this so I\u0027ll let Neil discuss that as soon as I\u0027m done here the other issue which this comes up in the events or stuff with a eventsource when the client enables notifications they can give the server its last known state and the server can quickly resync with a bunch of notifications so my question is do we want to do something similar over WebSockets the only I guess it\u0027s not only a downside but the only new behavior the server would have to have would be basically server wide token for that particular account so that when it comes back and knows what width of the sink this would most likely be sent on each push notification so the client has its last known state so that\u0027s one of the open open questions Neil do you want to say anything about using a new object so the I\u0027m not sure what the best solution is here the issue is how you to tell the WebSocket which type to want push events for so the way eventsource works because it\u0027s just a lump on URL it gets encoded into the URL and then if you want to change that you just disconnect and reconnect with the new URL that didn\u0027t seem very WebSocket "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:06:06",
    "text": "II to me like the fact you have to disconnect and reconnect again if you want to change that seemed odd so another option is to make define a new method that you can use when you\u0027re connected by of one of these WebSockets and which is more like push subscription kind of /set way you call a method and say from now on this WebSocket sends me push notifications state changes for these object types that might make sense it\u0027s a bit weird in some ways it\u0027s a method called acting on your connection rather than on any actual data back in server but then again push-up scription is also slightly weird and that\u0027s acting on your kind of session ish I I don\u0027t I\u0027m not hugely sold on either approach I haven\u0027t done if there\u0027s other options out there don\u0027t know what people think of the to what might be better because we haven\u0027t tried this I haven\u0027t got any implementation experience either to guide what might be a better choice I can\u0027t thanks back yeah thanks Neil so I don\u0027t have any strong opinions either way I took the path of least resistance with what I currently documented but I am totally open to whatever consensus is in terms of which way we want to go I guess that one plus of doing as a new object as as Neil said you can change this in flight without having to close down the socket and reconnect if we do this as no object presumably we would advertise support for push in the capabilities response which is no big deal we already have the WebSocket URL listed there so this would just be a probably a boolean that says what we not be either supported or not or we can list the type of notifications that the the service kick the world return is that what else in akyuu they\u0027re generally good all right so I\u0027ve just thought of one other option a kind of third option rather than a method call we already have different object types that are being returned over this WebSocket now it could go back a response to requests or state change push object we could also define a new type of objects that you can send over the web socket that is modify this WebSocket thing in some way rather than it being tied in with a method call not saying that\u0027s any better just thought of a third option that we could consider this that\u0027s exactly what I was looking at right now reading through the drafts and seeing it so it was an obvious place "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:09:06",
    "text": "for one of them that make sense it would certainly work yeah I don\u0027t know whether it\u0027s any better from a design wise but if you I thought about in enough detail I guess so I guess I there any thoughts from the room in terms of which way you want to go or a viable third or fourth option no one no one\u0027s jumping up it sounds to me like it makes sense for it to be another top level thing within the websocket stream rather than adding it to jameth when it it is purely about this current WebSocket stream so I\u0027m not quite sure I understood where Nia was going sir you\u0027re saying that this would be some type of setting within the WebSocket packaging itself in that part of it would be a separate WebSocket package too rather than being a request package it would be a modify this stream package okay I\u0027ll have to go back and look at the WebSocket stuff to see if we can use an existing frame or if though well tomorrow it\u0027ll be at type response we don\u0027t have AK type request so if we put an ad type request in the in the request and then we could have a different ad type modify stream or something that altered the events of English okay you Neal and myself can discuss it offline most likely yeah any any strong feelings on whether or not we want to have a basically a last-known State that the client can return to the server and basically do a quick resync alexey says sounds like a good idea not a good enough idea to get up to the microphone and talk about it but he\u0027s right next to it to you well I yeah I come there at the latest version and I haven\u0027t really understood the notifications within WebSocket that\u0027s why I\u0027m I\u0027m trying not to say anything stupid more than anything else but my guess is that this might be something that would be an optional support type item for the server because there might be some implementations that are capable of keeping track of basically multiple accounts for a given set of authentication credentials sounds reasonable okay I\u0027ll work up some texts for that it it feels to me like the next step for this draft is to get some implementation experience of everything that we\u0027ve decided to do and check that it actually works in the real world before pushing for publication I\u0027m seeing some nodding yes service currently supports basically all the API stuff the only thing I have not implemented yet is the push because it\u0027s still one state of flux cool okay that\u0027s "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:12:10",
    "text": "it that\u0027s it for this slide there is one more slide does anybody care about even looking at different compression algorithms for WebSockets or just stick with deflate [Music] Aleksey here so I was talking about use of broadly NZ standards and dictionary with Facebook people in other context so that\u0027s actually interesting point and it might be more generic than just just this use case do have a specific proposal you would like no it was just a thought that I had and I am NOT expert enough you can compression to even probably attempt to document it for WebSockets out most like we need a a co-author to do that if you choose to go that route because the world of various extensions and I beg literally remember there was something about compression for WebSockets but I don\u0027t remember where they ever got to the artsy stage yes there is an existing extension for compression and the only currently documented algorithm is deflate which is supported out there and it does work does it have an extension point for us to be able to plug in other other things it does but yeah I believe there\u0027s a you have to specify how you\u0027re gonna do padding and that kind of thing and that\u0027s beyond my realm of expertise cake can you send me a reminder directly and I\u0027ll connect you to Murray couch are we sure from Facebook uh who was helping with the standard so maybe we can think of something yeah I know she was just here that\u0027s why I was like you\u0027re looking around the room yeah all right Neal sweating in the queue so I might pop in for words just wanna say I don\u0027t think impression stuff is part of our spec like that\u0027s a WebSocket protocol thing as Ken said there\u0027s already the deflate defined I\u0027m having others define could be interesting but it should be nothing to do with an hour specification that should just be up to the server the clients in the go shape which WebSocket extensionism capabilities they support and then pick the best compression method that they both support like that\u0027s this would be like saying which compression method we want for HTTP responses in the core spec that doesn\u0027t seem appropriate oh yeah I agree that\u0027s that\u0027s partially why I said you know this is margin generic question but for cases of fancy standard they are not even defining for WebSockets so a more "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:15:11",
    "text": "general question is do people want to get involved with trying to figure out how to define this but again I think we\u0027ll need if people want to experiment and see how much benefit there is actually from compression of different things using deflate first as nothing is going to be your biggest win broadly or Zed standard a growth better but probably not so much that it\u0027s as important as that regardless Mike this is an entirely separate issue as far as I can see here with the came up alright thank you I\u0027ll bring him back in yeah I totally agree with what Neil said this my question was more of if we think one of these is better for compressing jayima traffic do we want to push some other working group to standardize those compressions for WebSockets that\u0027s it\u0027s not you where I was going with you yeah let\u0027s talk okay thanks or what thank you that\u0027s everything that\u0027s everything great thanks again let\u0027s go back to the chair slides and MDN I don\u0027t have any slides for this the the draft was updated based on feedback from last meeting I suggest that we asked for some implementation experience I checked with the leg or are they are running something that\u0027s very similar to it but not entirely updated to the the latest message submission standard so they\u0027re not doing the message submission part of it I think we should try and implement it get a second implementation up and running before publishing it certainly looks better than if we got yes we do have Rafael that do you want to speak to it yes hello everybody yes I did the spec I tried to be more complete about this adding some some methods about passing Indian which can easily don\u0027t be done set aside and there so some samples to explain more in details how to which works I also change original assent in creating Vienna to send Indian matada which is a really more or near of what we are using currently so we are not very far from the current spec just a sum but we don\u0027t implement as you say no such a mission so it\u0027s a it\u0027s an issue to implement it exactly but as soon as we are dead we will add a to this destructor cell that\u0027s it so as you as you said it would be interesting to have over our implementation of ease and and "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:18:13",
    "text": "that\u0027s it I think the right address one open question that we can can just a continue to discuss miss unreleased cool I will ask Ken and Robert to implement it in Syrus so we can test it there and it will have a second implementation of it and we can give feedback on implementing from the draft I think that\u0027ll be a good point to then go to publication if a second implementation works well you\u0027ll have that okay cool thank you anything else you want to say about it here or no cool all right thank you next next we have the rich outer I\u0027ll pop you off we\u0027ve finished Corrin male talking to Alexia about what to do with the Charter we\u0027ve agreed not to throw everything in all at once maybe we just start with calendars maybe we reach other for calendars and contacts knowing that the contact form at still needs to find a home any particular opinion on what to do there should we just just do calendars now is extensions already in scope extensions to let\u0027s just have a look at the things I mean we\u0027re sort of working on - all right here right so I don\u0027t know whether we need to reach at them I don\u0027t remember all right according to our charter certainly it specifically says that we will do mail it doesn\u0027t actually specify that the extensions are within the scope so I would say we should charter for calendar and extensions to mail yes I think that\u0027s both you know it\u0027s not just a single item and it\u0027s not you know million of them yes extensions to core extensions to mail adding calendar yeah yeah because of WebSockets how would count as an extension to core cool I will work on some wording for that and propose it all right and then calendars we have the existing spec there I would say along with this call for adoption of a calendar spec based on that work knowing that there will be additional work to do "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:21:14",
    "text": "specifically around scheduling and there\u0027s some other outstanding questions as well who\u0027s cut who\u0027s your current and holder editor the current editor is Neil I don\u0027t know right who wants to take this one all the way through Neil yeah I\u0027d probably be happy to at it the calendar one do advantage of experience with those gmf and calendars yeah perhaps we can find a co-author there no but yeah I think I think I\u0027d be happy to stick with this in this particular aspect it\u0027s anyone in the room who would like to be a co-author on calendar everyone\u0027s studiously ignoring me knowledge of imep scheduling would be preferred maybe we\u0027ll throw the question out to the Cal connect list as well might get some more people involved with ITF from there - my name is on I\u0027m a but that doesn\u0027t make me a better next man who ate it at the moment just imagine my it\u0027s alright I will throw a request out to the collect list as well in me and then lieu of any other volunteers I can certainly help Neil if he\u0027s looking to share the load a little bit cool it\u0027s partly trying to get in a co-editor from outside fast mail as well it might be might be a go that\u0027s what I assumed then throw it out the Alice all right believe we are going to skip over contacts for now we since the J s contact format still hasn\u0027t found a home it\u0027s it\u0027s not quite time to try and cook this one in this group I would say or pump that down the road this question came up virtual mailboxes whether we wanted to do a extension specifically around virtual mailboxes save searches the kind of mailbox that you can\u0027t directly add or remove messages to but they appear in there due to other actions like an important mailbox that has every single flag message anywhere in your entire mail store or an unread "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:24:14",
    "text": "mail box which contains all your unread email and some kind of property on a mailbox for that Neal so the main thing to think about here is that email objects contain the list of mailboxes that they belong to so are you if you had a virtual mailbox that would that be in that list too if yes that\u0027s probably considerably more difficult to implement or might be it would be more difficult implement because you have to notify that the email has changed with the you know the update mechanism whenever it goes in or out of a virtual mailbox that can be very hard to know how complex the virtual mailboxes if you define that it\u0027s not going to be inside that mailbox IDs bit of the email then this is something the same as save search something we actually have a fast mail and basically it becomes fairly straightforward it\u0027s just kind of saving the filter object that you use with email query already and associating that with a name and saying display this as a mailbox because emails open opening email box and being the content is nothing special compared to research in J map it\u0027s just a simple simple email search query so a virtual mailbox is just a name for specifically a particular filter at that point which is quite a record right Alexi here we spent numerous hours in I\u0027m a plant trying to make virtual mailboxes work so I think I think there is use case for this and I tend to agree that actually associating it with a different object like filter might be easier way and to implement for everybody so that sounds like a sensible direction yeah I think the cool thing is that they don\u0027t show up in the mailbox ID is property of an email and therefore you don\u0027t have to say that the email has changed when something goes in and out of one of the virtual mailboxes that will make implantation way easier we certainly spend lots of time in ATF trying to discuss your mailboxes depending on flags and you know it\u0027s like all time-based and yeah this I agree avoiding this would make it much more tractable yeah because then it really is just a particular filter for email search query saved for the name the main thing is I get all the other question is whether you\u0027ll get unread and total counts on the mailbox object or not because again keeping those up to date can be expensive the server so that\u0027s a question that needs to be considered all right um I don\u0027t think "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:27:17",
    "text": "anyone has specifically come forward and said they want to write a draft on this but this would clearly fall within the scope of an extension to mail if someone does want to bring it I\u0027m added to list of possible and if people came can come forward somebody other than new he can supervise and you know he already sketched out the whole thing so I somebody said you write it now it sounds straightforward yeah just pull out the copy in our I\u0027m actually thinking even you know if captain\u0027s write it it\u0027s still better that just everything all all the knowledge concentrated in your head you know all right s/mime Alexei has promised to write something in his copious free time well yeah I I had a I never actually posted it as a draft I think I just send it to the mailing list but I can post it there was a very simple extension for showing just status of I spy and signature verification but this can be built on top if you want to deal with sending side of things and assume that you trust the server with the keys and but these are probably sort of the signature verification one is straightforward and probably is it well it\u0027s definitely easy to implement and it\u0027s more likely to be implementable where the sending side is probably at least separate capability yeah all right so well happy to resurrect that and post it yeah I\u0027m happy to do a call for adoption right now okay for um we will take the work on cool review of milestones I believe we\u0027ve just got update Charter and the informational guidance documents guidance to implementation of own app servers and proxies still needs to be done and that\u0027s currently got a milestone of June 2019 I don\u0027t know that that will be done by then realistically recharter is for April 2019 okay a very soon start after this do we have anything else we want to add a milestone for when we expect to get the contacts work done by say December this year seem "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:30:21",
    "text": "reasonable sorry the calendar calendar work if I said contacts I mean tell us without looking at the document I have no clue yeah so if you I assume you you read it so you think it\u0027s doable by December I would imagine so okay Neal less author on that do you have any any opinion on whether we can get it done by December this year look I guess it\u0027s possible I think the yeah the main thing is just working out how we do the scheduling and how much we want to define in that document I think one of the tools were the existing specifications for this is they are completely intangible and so people give up trying to base the implementation on those and just try and copy what they seem to see going around that\u0027s one of the things that we\u0027ve tried to fix with jeaious calendar for example the recurrence will definitely in there is understandable and explicit as opposed to obscure and yeah rubbish which is what\u0027s in 5.45 so it might be nice if we could do a similar thing with the Gemma calendar spec in terms of actually making it understandable which I\u0027m it messages should be sent when and we plan to make them all explicit to but because we don\u0027t that I\u0027m not quite sure how much work that is right now and I don\u0027t know exactly when we\u0027ll get to it so you know December\u0027s a fairway offer it could be done but I don\u0027t know necessarily was definitely other than my life I\u0027ll say June 2020 then that might be great yeah we can expect that one to be a bit later s/mime on the other hand should be able to deliver hopefully faster than that so good s mine for December and WebSockets and mdn I\u0027ve put md info just in brush as well yeah okay I\u0027ll put mdn in September just for fun just for a ruff-ruff place and WebSockets same we should have the first two I feel their way along already cool alright I will update the milestones based on that plans for what we want to do in Montreal I mentioned we will have enough to talk about to meet again in Montreal there\u0027s there\u0027s documents in progress any other proposal of new work for the group no awesome friends of "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:33:25",
    "text": "email dinner is tomorrow night rough show of hands of how many people expect to come along to do now two four six eight nine cool all right yeah I\u0027ll reserve for the 12 that I did last time that expect a similar size to that I will organize that via email I guess we\u0027ve got another meeting a extra meeting tomorrow morning most people will be at that cool yeah makes sense to meet in the lobby here at 6:45 or something it\u0027s not cool I will yeah awesome alright we still have 20 minutes left but I think we\u0027ve finished everything that\u0027s on our list blue sheds did flood around there up here wrongness them um yes if anyone wants to co-chair please let Alexi no no not from fast mail yeah I will be yep I\u0027ll be missing the first day of the next ITF I have to be in Melbourne on the Monday for the final day of course I\u0027ve been on for six months so we\u0027re flying in Tuesday morning thank you yep all right thanks everybody all done see many of you tomorrow morning 9:00 a.m. so "
  }
]