[
  {
    "startTime": "00:00:24",
    "text": "hello everyone i hope you can hear me um it is 9 30 where i am which means that it is time for the session to start i'm gonna give people a couple minutes especially because i'm missing my co-chairs no there we go can someone confirm that you can hear me you can hear you yes we can there we go i can hear you guys too thanks so any insight on the location that's been"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:02:00",
    "text": "chosen for ietf113 um yes so there has been um the llcj specifically has been looking at different sites um i believe it has been made public that we are not considering asia um and we're not considering north america either so all i can say right now is that it will be most likely in europe that's probably not a lot of insight but no they said that last week at the plenary we were hoping for the location in europe right so i think the um more inside info yeah it's hard to say more inside info on the public forum being recorded and transmitted through youtube but uh yeah so i believe that we're in the final phase of getting the contract signed and um you know figuring that out uh things are changing of course in europe all the time and um that's all that's all i can say i guess right now yeah so antoine just said in the chat that the code cases are going up again in europe so yes um i i don't know how that's affecting the negotiations because i'm not part of that but um yes those are things that we're all keeping an eye on so we got martin we seem to have lost john or he couldn't find the way here"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:04:00",
    "text": "i mean this is the routing area i don't know i had that side meeting uh on multicast uh sr maybe that's where he is i don't know he was in that room and they are overrun so uh martin what do you think should we start do you hear me yep yeah i think we should but john john should uh should join us in a few minutes yeah i'm assuming there's probably other people um other routing people not just other people otherwise people in that uh site meeting as well that will probably join us um so when we start with the audience trivia this is the roadinger open meeting uh you can probably see me on the video martin can maybe show himself too in case you don't know what would look like or have forgotten over the last couple of years john is the other id and he should be here in a couple of minutes you have all been aware of the note well and hopefully you have all noticed that we all the chairs of the different working groups have been highlighting not just the ipr nature of the note well but the parts that talk about the behavior and the conduct uh during the meetings there are links here to the anti-harassment procedures to the code of conduct uh please make yourself familiar with that um make sure that whatever behavior that you display in the meetings including"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:06:01",
    "text": "um all the virtual meetings the the jabber or the meat echo and some messaging that they all adhere to that some of the points in the pro conduct which is rc 7154 are the ones here the reason we're here all of us is to of course contribute to the ongoing work of the atf which is meant to make the internet grow work better we're here to do engineering please focus on that focus on on technical arguments focus on treating uh your colleagues with respect um english is the uh i guess the fact the language of the atf and you know that's fine many of us don't speak english as a first language so please be mindful of that as well speak slowly try to avoid slang etc we're always looking for feedback um on how we're doing sadies uh not only what's going well which is always nice to hear but more importantly what may not be going well what may be broken with the area or what uh you know things we could do better many of you hopefully saw a survey a few weeks ago it actually concluded i think earlier this week on a 360 evaluation experiment that we did for the aesg so where you could have uh you know send feedback about us specifically uh the three of us cds uh that was a good opportunity if you want to talk to us individually uh either directly or indirectly if you want to tell john or martin about me and you don't want to tell me directly that's fine you know tell them they can anonymize things this is also a good time to talk to the namco about not just the candidates to become a d next time and starting in march but also"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:08:03",
    "text": "about um you know the ongoing work that we're doing um they also take care of of anonymizing of necessary uh information and giving us some feedback there's not a lot of feedback coming but again yeah please uh bring it up uh tell people tell us how we're doing and what can we do better one of the things i think we can all do better is review documents please please review documents while the working group review all the documents are not yours especially so that we can uh increase the the quality of the documents um that not only are produced by the working group that get out to the isg and the rest of the atf this improves the quality and improves the process of course it makes it hopefully faster for everyone so this is the agenda for today it's the you know typical agenda some of this will be at the top i'm gonna have a writing director report and then we're gonna have some working group updates those six working groups are listed there and uh we should have time at the end to um for any you know for other discussion um just one thing drew just posted in the chat that november 23rd is the deadline for community feedback to the dom com so please make sure you you provide feedback uh there does anyone have anything to say about the agenda any comments any things you want to change add okay i guess that's"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:10:01",
    "text": "i know we only have uh one hour so um [Music] should should as that we still have time uh at the end uh not a lot change or not much change nothing change uh to be uh specific in the area in terms of working groups within open close or which are any of the working groups um some uh because it was i guess summer and vacation time for many people were a little bit slow hopefully we can pick that up uh now towards the end of the year when the holidays come up um we don't have any new chairs uh the last match came in the last itf uh quick reminder of who has who is responsible for which working groups uh in case you you don't know everything all this information is working there um as well okay so we're going to go now to the right of the record report um hamian or look andre i don't know who which one of you is going to there you go honey go ahead we can't hear you can you hear me yeah we can hear that yes oh okay thank you so this is a report for the routing average rate and the next page please yeah so this is again to introduction page of our our team and it is composed by 43 now top top experts and all appointed by 80s and we are welcoming more people to contribute and"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:12:00",
    "text": "the purpose of the team is to provide the last call review to the drafts in the routing areas and other areas which are related with routing errors well also open to the early review of any working group document before a working group last call so a weak pager is available as a hyperlink next page please so we have provide this kind of statistic information in the last two years and for this explicit meeting itf112 we are having totally a total of 15 drafts reviewed including four early review and 11 last call review and the right hand figure is a status of the request from each working group in last year and this year and i think we have a few the top working group is coming from the best idr and of course we have also done a lot of work to review the other working groups works and next please so here is some review result of the the real result and basically we have one third of them with ready one third with net so one third with some issues and we feedback this to corresponding working groups to further discussion and before we proceed into the iesd review and on the right hand side there is some non-rtg error drafts review result and"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:14:03",
    "text": "i think a half of them are having issues and maybe one-fourth of them has needs and some of them there are also 19 with ready status so that is just a basic capture for the uh for the for the review of work in last three and a half months and we are looking forward to see the uh ads requesting more reviews and and we also uh expect our experts help as much as possible thank you for all the experts and that's my part thank you does anyone have any questions so thank you for watching director this uh helps a lot i know it helps me as an ad to get reviews from you guys uh don go ahead so how does a draft in these pictures fit like just one into one category like it i notice it adds up to 100 so i would assume that you know not ready and nits are not mutually exclusive etc uh hellman do you want to answer that or um i guess but it's not um honestly uh the worst status you i mean the the worst status is the one that it gets logged in as the status of the draft"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:16:00",
    "text": "like if it's not ready that's the worst you know and that's the one that gets logged and in decreasing uh severity that that would be how the statistics are taken thanks a.c jeff okay um so a question to the directorate since i haven't participated in it for a number of years what would be the single biggest change you'd recommend for cleaning up the draft before it gets to you that you think the working group should do better about um that's that's a a good question you know personally i've noticed that um when i get some of the drafts and you know this answer may be different from john martin there are some basic things that could be checked you know references um security considerations um you know i still see many drafts that say there are no security considerations and while in some cases that may actually be true it would be at least nice to explain why um there are none of them um you know there are basic things with uh ayana allocations um you know maybe the the iana section is not complete or the name of the registries are not um are not well well specified or you know things not along those lines that i think are are easy or should be very long hanging fruit for not just the directorate but the working group to to pick up um i would of course also expect that um it wouldn't be us to the ones who find technical issues with the documents um that doesn't happen all the time but it happens once in a while and uh if they have gone through the review of the experts in the working"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:18:00",
    "text": "groups well that yeah you guys know a lot more than we do so that that shouldn't be the case um i don't know john martin if you want to add anything i thought that was a pretty good a pretty good summary i don't really have anything to add thank you jeff you want to oh same here thanks yeah so jeff suggested on the chat that this sounds like a sort of a checklist uh yeah maybe there's we can make a checklist i am under the impression that maybe there's something in the uh wiki somewhere i know that adrian had done a presentation when he was a d about some of the things uh maybe we can dig that up and put it somewhere too right i mean with checklist i mean i guess there's two things one is now there's a bunch of things one is having a good checklist one is keeping it up to date and one is actually getting people to use it um at the appropriate time and the getting people to use it seems like the hardest part um like ideally authors would actually go through and read the um checklists for authors that already exist and act on them and if they did uh probably you know most of the things that we catch in review wouldn't even happen because they're already in the checklist that the authors supposedly are reading through um so yeah i mean i'm like are we not publicizing the checklist well enough are we not letting our authors know about them well enough uh are the are the checklists you know too heavy and and not usable by the"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:20:01",
    "text": "authors like all of this would be useful feedback um i was uh thinking for just a minute i got confused and i was like oh we already have the checklist it's that long uh write-up list you know when you do a write-up as a shepherd um it doesn't have everything you just mentioned but you know i immediately thought of it right because it goes you know it doesn't have an iana section is that you know blah blah blah uh maybe uh maybe the write-up should be done before the routing area or review i just went through the through this process with the ip second it was very weird um i felt it was very weird that the chair asked me as the author of the document to write the write-up um but it wasn't an entirely horrible idea because it actually you know and that's what he said was you know it sort of makes sure that all the stuff is there anyway that's why i thought of that i think sorry it's a good point about uh so so chris just to follow up on that it sounds like you know um as an author you found that to be uh actually a better experience than you thought it would be and like if will you ask your authors to do that also like is it that good of an experience you know i don't know um but i think that it could possibly um stuart can you mute for a second hear myself um yeah so thanks uh i don't know if i'd do the write-up but it just it didn't bring to mind like having you know the checklist right and"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:22:01",
    "text": "um you know maybe just taking that that was useful as in that in that sense of course i write write-ups a lot so it was very easy for me so i don't know if i would ask all the authors to do it but i mean it just occurred to me that that seems like a good way to get the authors to to look at the checklist yeah no i mean that's exactly what i found right but you know and hopefully to also um you know reduce the load on the shepard who presumably has to go through everything that the author put into the into the write-up anyway and verify it it wasn't a bad idea um i we just have a lot of graybeards i wonder if they'll they'll scoff what are you going to do the write-up now anyway thanks yeah um so uh stuart you had gone off the queue i thought you were next um so um first off it seems to me that before directorate get it really ought to be uh reviewed by the um uh by the shepherd uh and that means to me a word by word review of everything in a complete list that every eye is dotted and every t is crossed i don't see why it would be otherwise and if there's more questions that could be usefully added to the shepherds report to make sure that some of these things are done i think that would be a very useful um a very useful uh reminder that uh this needs to be done if the shepherd wants to pass some of it back to the working group fine but it shouldn't get to directorate without the shepherd having checked everything in in detail unless it's an early review right"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:24:01",
    "text": "sorry second oh there's there's there's also the early review i've assumed that that sort of goes before write-up well there's the chairs review that should also go through all this as well yeah yeah no but i mean i think early review is to sort of catch like dumb ideas i i don't know i don't know what they're we don't if you look at lsr we don't have any so it shouldn't really be going to any directorate until the chair has read every word and confirmed it's all okay that's just basic chair duty 101 isn't it don europe i mean i guess we could talk about you know what exactly is early direct review for and what do people you know want to use it for it like my own experience of it is that it's sort of like when the chair says yeah this thing is pretty close to being ready but we want somebody outside of the group to review it and give it a sanity check um and that kind of review is pretty different from you know sending it for last call review so so i agree stuart with what you're saying about you know if if we're doing a direct review for last call i'm not so sure about um doing it for an early review yeah i i think a checklist would be great i as a as an author i you know guilty of waiting till like the end type of thing and then you know you do the nits check you do the submissions checks and you put it in and what i've i've done a number of yang drafts recently and i've i've been tripped up by the system and and even just like um mechanical checks that"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:26:01",
    "text": "uh i missed because they're not part of this this mission process but um i i think it would be you know a good mindset to just get people to do that earlier in the process so i placed it in the chat a couple of links one the most recent to the id guidelines which is an id checklist um in the asg we revised that a couple months ago so we republished a refreshed version of that you might want to go take a look um and then i also posted another link to something called the authors that itf.org which is still in in development but the intent of that is to put a bunch of resources in there not just checklists which but also the authoring tools how to do the xml and you know stuff like that um you might want to take a look at that um ac go ahead uh one thing one thing that i mean this isn't true of all the drafts but when you get one that doesn't it's it's kind of uh annoying especially when it's one from that isn't a routing one for or for a working group you don't follow is if you get a draft and it starts right in with out saying what problem it solves and having kind of an overview with appropriate references to other documents real early on in the beginning and i think uh i think it would be good if every draft had that i know that's hard to do because uh i don't know how many i've seen is you know you have like the abstract the abstract repeated and then they start right into encodings and then how it works you know and you kind of have to reverse engineer uh the"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:28:00",
    "text": "you know more uh a more detailed overview than what's in the abstract that's just that's just one thing that i find happens sometimes yeah we do get a lot of comments ac um yeah around those lines from reviewers who are non only non-routing reviewers but none as you said people who don't follow a specific working group um because yes i mean sometimes we as authors assume that everyone knows what we know and we just write the solution uh put this bit there and send it right um and so yes i think that providing some background uh would be would be useful reference is right up front because we don't i don't expect somebody who's doing you know most of our uh most of our documents now are not something brand new their enhancements to existing protocols or solutions so but just to have the uh the references right up front so they could you could look at them before you could have it in another window so you could consult it as as need be while you're reviewing it great good discussion uh anything else any anyone want to bring anything else up before we go into the working group updates and uh we're gonna start with babel uh donald hi there uh i'm donald eastlake uh one of the chairs of the novel working group next slide so it's one of the smaller working groups perhaps in terms of uh number of drafts and"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:30:01",
    "text": "things like that people who aren't familiar with it you know it's it's distance vector running protocol but augmented with mechanisms to avoid the uh void loops or count to infinity or anything like that and also to avoid uh starvation so it's been proven to be quite effective in a number of instances you know it has various motherhood and apple pie it's some simple robust that's been implemented multiple times and opens multiple open source implementations seems to be pretty robust uh against uh embedded to behave networks and uh some level of routing uh some level implementation and errors uh extensible it particularly seems to be effective in networks where you have at least some links with unstable metrics these are typically radio links uh or um overlays consisting of uh like intercontinental overlays with like zillions of tunnels involved so that you get the combined instability of all of these things has been deployed in a number of cases and it was uh seems to be effective in small unmanaged networks also next slide not supposed to spend much time on documents but people should be aware initially there were three experimental rfcs documenting it i was selected as the homenet uh working group mandatory to implement routing protocol so it's decided to standards track it and the the core standards track documents have all gone through 89.66 is the the primary one on the routing protocol there's a couple security ones on one authentic for authentication one using dtls for encryption and authentication a basic information model is through and uh source specific extension so you can have routing that depends on the source as well as the destination next slide"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:32:02",
    "text": "so what's going on currently what's happening there yang data model is almost through it's in the rfc editor's queue and uh work that's really happening it's been extended so that you can route ipv6 even with routers that have no ipv6 address so you can have the next hop for your ipv4 routes inside your your router network be ipv6 addresses and uh it seems to be pretty nifty it's draft is currently an ad evaluation the most complex question that came up with that i think was what to do about uh the need to possibly issue icmps from a router out of version 4 ipv version 4 icmps from a router that has no ipv4 address and if there's really no ipv4 address around that there is uh at least experimentally one could use the dummy ipv4 address that actually has been allocated and is in the iana ipv4 special uses uh ipv4 address registry which is 192.0.0.8. if you're wondering and the work which is kind of getting restarted is a delay-based metric for the routing protocol so i used based on actually are you noticing the file name there to rtt around trip time and uh there is another topic in the charter which we haven't done any work on uh which is multicast and it's partly because uh the this working group has a uh informal but very strong policy of of not even really adopting drafts unless it's been implemented and deployed at least limited deployment and shown to work so there seems to be a little demand currently for multicast routing and uh and it hasn't been implemented or deployed so"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:34:00",
    "text": "really no work has started on that even though it is an option in the charter next slide is the last one uh this just gives a little bit more i already kind of said what was going on with the ipv4 via ipv6 and uh it's a little more on the round-trip time you would imagine that that would be uh unstable and lead to routing oscillations and all kinds of things but as documented in the draft which is currently expired but expected to be reactivated there are various techniques and hysteresis and so forth which have found to be very effective at damping that and in actual deployment it's improved uh to work extremely well so nobody completely understands why it works so well and if there's anybody on this call who's uh has some expertise in uh dynamic system of stability and uh things like that and uh i would like to uh look into this and perhaps work on a little section or appendix or whatever in the protocol that explores why these specific methods in the draft have been demonstrated to uh to work so well the working group would would welcome that and that's the end of my report uh chris you have a question yeah um so having uh had to write a a comparison draft a while back between babel and isis for home net use i'm curious how that's gone um uh have you seen deployment of uh babel in um the home net scenarios like in um you know like uh gateways at the at the home i i'm not aware of a particularly widespread deployment there but i actually haven't been too focused on that uh most of the uses involve uh you know radio meshes uh uh overlays so"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:36:00",
    "text": "uh and uh uh other uses of that sort there are people who are i have uh valve running in their home um how many of them are are non-implementers available i'm not sure yeah i haven't seen anything either um in terms of deployments okay thanks thank you uh so we're gonna move to mini um ronald ronald i thought i saw you get on but i don't see you anymore um i don't know if ronald is still there i saw him earlier ronald yes you're there we could always move to the next one and come back uh it's just gonna mute myself so yeah we're gonna go forward i actually i'm gonna skip to ivr i got a request from one of the chairs that they have to go where is idr um and then we're gonna come back so okay jeff yeah hello uh so at the request of the ads this is more about the kinds of things we're"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:38:00",
    "text": "doing in idr rather than endlessly of way too many documents that we all have to stare at so for idr and for bfd we try to keep our status current in the wiki this is as much for the fact that we have enough work going on and we are older and can't keep things straight that lets us keep track of it ourselves so in terms of interesting work that's been happening across the idea in the recent uh couple months so we've been having a lot of work in bgb ls extensions bhp link state is where we advertise uh you know link state type things across bgp in a somewhat abstracted way very helpful for traffic engineering and it's become very popular for spring so uh we've been seeing a lot of sr type things that have been going in there uh the other thing that's been sort of at the top of uh idea our mind has been things related to bgp flowspec flowspec is the feature that allows us to send effectively firewall components inside of bgp it's a original use case for us for protecting no routers uh across your network with a common set of firewall rules distributed the protocol we had to bust the base rfc which was originally 5575 to clear up a number of lingering nits but part of what the work that we did there effectively gave us consensus on is that the protocol we can't safely extend the match conditions that are passed around in the protocol the fields are in many cases type value rather than type length value this is perhaps a general lesson for ietf that if you have a binary serialization of stuff uh stick the tlv you know that's gonna be the best answer no matter what uh this is sort of unfortunate because there's been a lot of interest over the last several years about extending flow spec for various things and that we have things like flow spec for uh layer two we have uh full spec for other you know types of overlay"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:40:01",
    "text": "underlay and tunnel type situations happening and we're also seeing that people are finding our encodings useful for other things like psep for example has i decided to leverage the flowspec uh nlr encodings for encode for putting together firewall rules uh we're also seeing like that net is having interest in uh making use of it for their purposes we're expecting to see that flowspec v2 is going to be there to try to solve some of these problems uh that initial work is being kickstarted by you know sue harris and donald eastlake so uh we'll be having some interims on that hopefully before end of year and the idea is to try to actually get that done at a fairly you know quick pace because the core of the technology is understood but the needs for future encodings is uh necessary next slide please so another thing that's of interest is that we're starting to see a lot of cross-working group and area bleed over for various technologies you know what are the ones that's impacting rdr specifically is a lot of multicast related things uh the working group chairs for best and idr are talking about how we can best coordinate this sort of things uh with some help from the ads the answer is we don't know what this really looks like we don't have strong process and ietf to you know govern this sort of thing so i'll be figuring out partially as we go along uh minimally what we expect to see is we'll be building up a manifest of the various documents that are interacting and then trying to get them tracked in a single place where everybody can see what's going on and very likely trying to find some interesting interested parties that want to help with the coordinated effort another piece of work that we have going on is that uh we have auto configuration for bgp there's been sort of no stumbling around for the last couple years we're making some steady progress on it the design team uh requirements document"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:42:00",
    "text": "is complete we've been discussing and re-reviewing the existing proposals for the protocol you know based on how they fit into the requirements there's a good chance we'll have another interim before end of year and we're probably very close to starting to move into the protocol selection phase next slide please so we're also making progress against the b2b yang unfortunately part of the headache we're running into is that over the very strange lifetime of this document you know we've effectively steadily merged in all of the idr chairs along with bahesh and we're all very busy on our various other things so we haven't made as good as forward progress as we would have liked now we we do have this being tracked largely in mahesh's github you know if this were the current day stuff we'd probably move it over to the ietf one but you know this is where it currently lives you're welcome to go there and look at the issue tracker and you know participate with us if you'd like the work began with the open config model and has been steadily getting altered uh basically to suit more ietf purposes open config is much more targeted use cases for the operators whereas the ietf agenda is that we have to have much more broad coverage in terms of what components we're willing to service and what our extensibility models look like and the phases of this work you know will be familiar anybody has done a very large gang module and especially one that's interacting with a lot of stuff uh you know the first phase of just simply making sure all the contents in there we think that's done uh there are certain features that we're not intending to put in there you know bgp being a protocol with many extensions we can't put everything in the the core document but you know what's core not core is a point of debate depending on the vendors uh the restructuring and cleanup of the structure for the contents and the features is largely done as well this has been important for things"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:44:02",
    "text": "you know what we're generally calling interwork now we have things like policy our interactions with the routing config module the use of components like bfd and you know this ties into the sort of flip side of things not only we need to be able to use all these external components the bgp work is going to be heavily reused by other things so you know our various uh rib modeling a lot of our data structure type things like extended communities all have to be put into structures so that they can be imported into other modules without a huge amount copy and paste and we have to be very clear about what our ion maintenance looks like for things and as a particular example maintaining the extended community stuff is going to be a very interesting challenge we're hoping to get this stuff done by end of the year you know in terms of the full content and then uh hopefully move forward to itf uh sorry working with last call by spring next slide please uh that's it that's your last slide for idr um any questions if there are no questions do you want to go and take care of bfd as long as you're here yep as well any questions for uh jeff for idr okay so let's do bfd okay bfd is both a little bit easier and more interesting problem at the end here uh the work group is quiet you know uh you know greg was uh greg mercier was encouraged to take uh the bfd protocol and uh taking a plumbing that might be interesting for non-core use cases for bfd and take it off the routing working group and we saw the presentation of that i think last iatf and this means a lot of the turn of no new things going to bfd has slowed down a little bit"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:46:00",
    "text": "so we're mostly focusing on driving existing work to completion we have a document that is uh basically for uh one-sided bfd no example b2b or static next hops that's hopefully going to be moving off to isg publication very shortly we have a feature that allows us to uh leverage bfd echo type procedures without actually having bfd present this originally came to us by a broadband forum and we have some interested people that are wanting to do a cleaner ietf document for this and that will hopefully also hit working with last call soon there's a feature for bfd to send large packets to basically do mtu probing uh the core protocol was mostly done for async mode we've had a request to integrate uh some echo mode as well so that work still needs to happen and the last cluster of things that we had in the open work was we had three features intended to make authentication both more usable lighter weight faster and some extent more secure at the moment it's dated on a specific feature document uh that needs some help from ellen decock who's volunteered to help us with uh finding some lightweight hashes how we can integrate the bfd and once that's actually been cleared through and probably skip that cluster very quickly um bfd being a plumbing protocol a good chunk of what we actually see is work that's happening in other working groups you know bfd being used for x purpose you know and uh the working group exists for vfd partially to help with review for those other proposals so we're expecting to see reviews come in sometime you know over the next couple months since a lot of these uh individual proposals seem to also be close to their own working group last calls next slide please uh before we go there uh greg is in the queue greg do you want to say something about this slide"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:48:03",
    "text": "i think that there is confusion about dbf being interested in this echo so it was discussed as as i understand it yes it's being mentioned in one of the published documents of bbf but now it's not the case so basically there is no interest from bbf in this work yeah the impression i have is that bpf does not want to be in the business of standardizing bfd but tr 146 which was the very loosely worded proposal they had is pretty well implemented as i guess in uh you know bbf users so having this cleaned up an ietf seems like it is a good idea and minimally doesn't hurt okay greg is no longer the queue so the thing that's been keeping unfortunately way too many of our lives busy uh bfd has a yang module that just finished rfc well that's yay we actually got that done being a plumbing protocol you know bfd was sort of an interesting position much like the routing config module policy module a few other modules you know we want to make sure that people can use the features easily and the discussion that we've had uh you know very back in the early design days is we're going to have a bfd sorry yang grouping that allows us to have a common configuration experience for bfd that was under the client config perms and this our challenge that we have now with being ietf we're intended to be largely vendor neutral when we can model things in a neutral way we should and bfd has two standard ways of being configured first one's a centralized mode where you"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:50:01",
    "text": "have sort of a protocols bfd session where you configured all of your sessions your parameters your endpoints and at that point you just tell your clients you know bfd is enabled for know this particular purpose so it's a simple binary value the other common way for doing configurations is that the session parameters are part of the client configuration so in that circumstance your bfg configurations maybe for bgp and ospf would have them in line in your configuration stanza the problem that we had was sort of realized as a very last second thing this work was done quite some time ago the rfc happened and we started doing our audit on uh you know bgp's use of things see prior slide and one of the things that was noted in the tree expansion was that uh we have the per client uh things and being a long time since we actually worked on it i couldn't remember what we actually did so i pushed the panic call button off to know the other documents uh that were impacted by the bfd rfc which are currently in queue which are ospf tim and isis and after going through the panic we did eventually dig up the old details of the conversation normally if you have this sort of thing the original proposal was that we just simply allow the vendors to do deviations to shut off the necessary nodes for client configurations trouble is no sense that the conversations happened the desire of ietf to do this sort of thing by deviations has gone away so we're the process of trying to see if we can actually cleanly patch in you know the use of the yang feature modality and that allows us to sort of cleanly support it without requiring an individual vendor to ship out a deviation set now this is part of the netcount protocol you know in terms of"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:52:00",
    "text": "what features you support and it's a cleaner way to do things uh what this is required is some discussion uh among the bfd authors the yang doctors and such primarily because we would be making a change to the published 9127 but it's just gone out the door a few you know weeks ago uh we're not expecting anybody's actually implemented 100 of things and the proposal that we're having is that uh you know just simply add if feature to the impact decline configs update 9127 and no changes are required by the impacted modules so this has been an interesting lesson in uh getting this stuff right for cross module use is challenging and what the maintenance challenges are going to be didn't intend to push this uh as a test case so early in this process but now we have there we have it and uh that said we apologize to all impacted modules you know for you know the you know basically shaking the tree so early uh thanks jeff we're gonna move back to see if ronald can make it now ronald i can hear me now yep we can uh we are sort of running out of time so um okay working groups thanks in that case next slide so i just heard that this is old news you already knew that don freddie was my co-chair so next slide um the money working group at the moment is mostly working on dlab extensions dynamic link exchange protocol extensions"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:54:02",
    "text": "there's a group of internet drafts centered around flow control uh the the modem or radio flow controlling the router not the other way around this was the original idea but the assumption now is that the radio links will have lower capacity than the piece of ethernet between routers others and modems so it's one way there is already a sort of excellent ex-off solution documented in rfc 8651 this one is supposed to be more sophisticated and is supposed to not completely stop the router from sending uh uh packets to the bottom if if it's done in a more clever way so you can keep a minimum flow going if you signal in time these drafts are currently under transport area review [Music] and they should be coming out of that by early december there has been some discussion on uh what how this is going to be implemented on the writer's side for instance if you have a linux based router if you can use any of the existing queueing disciplines or you would have to write a new one and if anyone is familiar with that and has has ideas that would be most welcome there's one one of the spec that's trailing behind and that's sort of an alternative to the the div surf aware approach"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:56:01",
    "text": "which is in the uh in the drafts currently under uh art review and that's uh where you use the 802 1q header to distinguish flows from one another next slide please we have some individual drafts at the moment from heading around three of them these are centered on physical layer parameters there is some discussion on going what the router is supposed to be doing with that whether it actually makes sense to provide this information that's a discussion that should take place on the main list however i think the radio band thing is useful in my personal view um i expect working group adoption at least of that one maybe also the general utilization the radio quality is more iffy but that's largely based on the views of very few people and we need to have more reviews and that's a general problem getting people to uh to review other other people's drafts next slide please then there are some things that uh are on our charter our current charter that we should be working on but that network is not actually happening at the moment one of the uh uh items is uh multicast managed as a continuation of the uh simplified multicast forwarding work that has been done in the past there's also a charter item on management of uh manage and how this is different"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:58:00",
    "text": "from your standard management in the in the face of frequent split submerges of your network and actually we are eyeing the asynchronous management architecture or it will have a new name but this is being presented right in the next time slot to the money weapon group by edurane who has sort of invented this then we still have a responsibility for the maintenance of olazar v2 maybe not everybody knows it but in addition to isis and ospf there is a third standards track link state protocol in the itf it's called osr optimized link states writing and uh it's for manage of course and um we ran into a a practical issue original some uh large interoperability event where there was a problem with routers rebooting and then being unable to join the network again there are some ideas on how to solve that not by a protocol change but by some practical guidance on configuration and it would be good to write it up and furthermore there is a back to the app again there is a need or perceived need to write some implements guidance or clarification document however the people best place to do this at the moment don't have the time right now so we're looking if somebody else can pick this up there might be some developer related work coming our way from the raw working group or or maybe not we will see and then there is a pet"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:00:01",
    "text": "subject of mine that's not covered by the current charter and that is a federation of heterogeneous minds next slide please thank you ronald we're gonna we're pretty much out of time we're gonna skip the questions because as ronald said his working group is meeting in the next slot so please join um we're gonna stay here for another uh maybe 10 minutes to cover the last two working groups so if you guys can please stay that will be great uh dominique go ahead hello um so my name is dominic bartel and i'm one of the co-chairs of a role with michael richardson acting as a secretary next slide please um so the royal working group focuses on ipv6 routing for constrained devices and networks we're talking about devices that have 50k of memory and up so not megabytes of ram and networks such as low power radios with data rates in the 100k bits per second and up that could be radios can be also power line communication wrong oh yeah great thank you um so that's the kind of networks we're interested in and the use cases are smart metering smart cities smart buildings factory floor automation etc um so basically our day-to-day work is to specify maintain improve the various flavors of the our routing protocol which is called ripple rpl and the working groups we interact with mostly i would say although it's not binary uh are six six low l wig in the inter area uh about uh"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:02:02",
    "text": "ipv6 adaptation for uh low low-power nurse networks uh lightweight implementation guidance you know profiling protocol stacks for implementation on constrained devices six dish is a synchronous mesh network of ieee 15.4 radios raw animal etc next slide please so what we've done over the years into 2012 was the specification the rfc is specifying the original version of ripple as a distributed proactive distant factor routing protocol the the protocol is oriented towards the dominant traffic flows which is from sensors up to a collection point or so that's the up direction or down from the control room to actuators that's a down direction and so we built a topology that's oriented along this major traffic and we're trying so upward routing is default routing and going down we have two flavors when it's sauce rotted from the root or in the other flavor is hot by hop routing using routing tables we strive to have minimum control traffic and we achieve that by several means for example if we only do collection uh going up so we don't nodes that don't need to be destinations don't even advertise themselves in the in the topology and also we slow down the control traffic it's the topology stable using a tricular algorithm so the the network goes quiet if if everything is stable so that was a base flavor of ripple then we added multicast we added optimize optimized point-to-point routing across the the dark structure"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:04:01",
    "text": "you can always reach a destination going up the diagon down but that might be sub-optimal so we have specified one flavor that optimal point-to-point routing and we're still working on another flavor uh we've also looked at compression we're still looking at compression of the routing headers because uh six slow six lupine provides compression of the headers of the data packets but the routing control packets still convey prefixes and addresses and we want to compress ipv6 addresses that we want to compress next slide please so that was the background and now what we're doing is uh um okay i'll to be safe on time i'll just pick the reactive point-to-point uh flavor of ripple using an aodv uh algorithm um which allows to do reactive routing as opposed to the proactive of the original version we are also working on projecting routes into the network in when we have routing tables from a central uh controller and that entails adding control messages adding options to be able to detect the radio links that are available to build a topology that is not aligned to the dag structure next slide please we have some other work ongoing uh selecting parents up the dag such that they have good properties like they have common grandparents that allows to set the the path for doing packet replication elimination along parallel paths to the root to add redundancy and reliability and okay at the bottom we have two more"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:06:01",
    "text": "individual submission i'll just keyboard in the interest of time i'm done thank you uh thank you dominic so um we are way over um ac is up to you and chris if you want to go over or if you want to leave this for the next atf as it's being discussed in the chat um the slides are going to be posted anyway since the data tracker if people want to go take a look at that ac i would like to just tell everybody about the new flooding thing that we're looking at what do you think i'll just go through them quickly okay next slide no no go go go to it i made these slides this is you know lsr is the merger of the former ospf and isis groups we realized we were doing a lot of common uh things together and brought them together uh it's it's ospf v2 and um which is main which is only for i limited to ipv4 and then we got isis which is a dual stack protocol we got ospf v3 which also is a dual spec stack protocol and with the uh uh extended lsa extensions it's now"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:08:00",
    "text": "completely extendable you could really do whatever you want and advertise lsas at whatever granularity but with great flexibility there's a lot of design uh considerations next slide one of the main things we've been working on for the last few years is segment routing we have it for both the mpls data stream and the srv6 data stream it has all the signaling for all the different types of sids as well as how routes are uh computed with those sets we're pretty much done with mpls the srv6 we have uh drafts for those the isis is almost done there's some work uh on implementations for ospf v3 and it's there's disagreement it's being held off it but hopefully by the next ietf we'll have ospfv3 done as well next slide flex algorithm this is pretty exciting work and uh it it really allows you to dynamically define constraints based on a lot of initially it'll be different types of metrics different admin groups in other words those are like srlg groups for different routes so you could effectively have depending on prefix uh multiple planes now what's really nice about this is you can do different algorithms for different prefixes yet you only have to have one for forwarding play whereas in the past you know some of the other things where you're doing different things in different uh for different uh topologies like mtr which i'm not saying the two are the same but you had you know most people implemented with different fibs and so it's uh it's a pretty uh pretty pretty powerful thing and now that we have this we're having proposals to add constraints based on"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:10:02",
    "text": "bandwidth and other constraints so you could for different as long as you have a different endpoint associated with a different application you could do a lot of the stuff they're talking about in the apn uh discussions for different applications it supports both segment routing paths and now we have proposals for native ipafs next slide flooding optimizations one thing we found is the igps have been very redundant in their flooding you flood on all interfaces except the one you received on basically and we decided people have had uh there's been proprietary extensions to block flooding on certain interfaces for years and years uh and it's just kind of and there's also an isis has had a mesh group where you only flood to uh you know you don't flood to everybody in the mesh group and now everybody realized that you could you could have a sparse topology where you don't need to flood everybody in the entire spt and shortest path tree and and in the link state protocols so we have uh uh both centralized and distributed calculation of this of us of a sparser flooding tree and uh that's that's one set you know of disseminating which uh you know either the topology or which algorithm is being used to calculate the topology and distributed faction also we have some proposals for area abstraction so that you could take a piece of your topology and completely abstract it and there's we're we have ospf ttc ttz trent topology transparent zone and we're working on we have isis topology transfer parent zone and now we have we also have a"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:12:01",
    "text": "i hate to say it but it seems like a more straightforward to do it way to do it with area proxy that's a little bit simpler uh we also have uh you know in bgp many you are familiar with the route reflector we have a proposal to limit the number of uh adjacencies over which you have to you know establish within an area with the sort of like a equivalent to a route reflector i mean there's a lot of different things when you're doing it with a link state protocol then with uh bgp but that's also some inter very interesting work and finally we have flooding speeds optimization the old iso specs for isis limited severely limited the number of lsps link state protocol pdus you could flood over an interface in a certain and say a second and we have uh ways of getting feedback both explicit feedback in the form of protocol encoding and feedback from the network in in in other words how fast the receiver of the lsps is acting them to improve this speed and be able to do higher speed bursts and everything and and really speed up the protocol for some of the bigger domains next slide protocol maintenance i'm not going to say much more here we're just you know there's a lot of people want to put things into the igp's apple at the node link and prefix layer and we have to decide basically does this really belong in the igp igp as an underlay for all the uh overlay protocols be it bgp you know ib gp be it list be it uh proprietary protocols that use you know use use the igp as underlay it's pretty critical that it work well so we we we look at these we look at the"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:14:01",
    "text": "volume and the frequency that it changes and we have other ways unfortunately we have really we have other ways to do flooding of non-routing information in separating instances but people aren't we really haven't gotten those deployed we have the standards but not uh deployment and finally uh we have uh i we have sometimes uh a lot of enhancements to the basic protocol like there's a there's like for instance this isi support for additional layer additional levels of hierarchy right now both ospf and isis support two levels you know like effectively a backbone in non-backbone areas but this is for multiple layers of hierarchy with the lower level completely subsumed by the layer above it last slide yeah i want to throw in something use this opportunity to try to attract some attention from other groups back two slides ago when ac mentioned the flooding speed optimization that's congestion control right so people interested in congestion control you know from over in the transport area basically tcp right we're trying to get max well i'd like to see maximal and i think other people are trying to get maximal flooding speed right to maximally use these these links to flood so if that's interesting to you um pop over it's not just igp this is kind of some cool you know crossover stuff that's it last slide of course we got the la yang models and as jeff covered in excruciate jeff haas covered in excruciating detail we're just waiting for this one bfd issue to be resolved where we didn't want to ship a model that would require the predominant"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:16:01",
    "text": "implementations to have dv to have a deviation for every instance of bfd uh uh configuration and then we got uh we got drafts for all the other things we talked about on the previous slides for augmentations to the base ospf and isi seeing models and that's it i said we didn't lose too many people even though it went a little late no i am surprised and grateful about that grateful for you too as well for doing this i i i mean i knew jeff didn't want to follow us and he had to ask to leave early so well so we don't delay anyone anymore um thank you and we'll see you hopefully in person next time somewhere in europe you"
  }
]
