[
  {
    "startTime": "00:00:04",
    "text": "we basically have two three drafts that are not yet completed one is STP examples which we think we\u0027re pretty much ready to go s after this but we don\u0027t really need to talk about we have IP handling where we have this one issue about hem DNS names for most candidates and security our architecture document we have a couple of pyaara pyaara later than that and so sorry so most of the PRS got merged which was good so there\u0027s that there are two that are outstanding which is delicious because that means we could almost be done but I guess so we\u0027d like to start off with the IP handling stuff but before we get there the whole plan here right is to get it done at this point we need to pick this thing up and get it across the finish line and we need your help so I think we\u0027re in the process of doing that and we\u0027re cautiously optimistic that we can actually do that all right I think with that I think we have what Justin is gonna be up one thing more about getting finished I I want to note that one outstanding document before get started is topic in the working group which is the document and that\u0027s hyacinth reviewed comments is that right it would really be good if people comments or cetera or reads and comments and gets this help getting this done because that\u0027s otherwise it\u0027s gonna be the last document out so noted Thanks all right just and I\u0027m Justin Uberti from Google UN from Apple\u0027s gonna join me up here to talk about this all right so I\u0027d be handling let\u0027s start by sort of recapping like what a point of this draft is and the goal here was to you know take four obscure web pages previously we gave out all ice candidates and this created some problems the two most specific problems were that by giving out every single sort I address that the I station and find this and a lot of people who are blind behind VPNs to have their public eyes be address identified this was not good in addition not giving out all the set of addresses allowed more fingerprinting you know and we\u0027ll get to more about this later but these are the two main things we\u0027re trying to address with this draft and in addition to solving these problems we also learn to maintain the ability to actually establish direct peer-to-peer connections and why do we care about our trailer pages being able to able to establish peer connections well it turns out that this is actually a very frequently use functionality there there\u0027s actually five times as many page loads in Chrome you did a "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:03:04",
    "text": "channels as use actually RTC web for audio and video and this traffic has been growing exponentially over 400% you every year is actually starting to make a blip on me compared to over HTTP traffic data channels I started actually the traffic theory is that starting to become actually comparable all on its way to becoming humble so like this actually big deal we don\u0027t want to unlike cut this thing off it\u0027s a very promising emergent technology we want to find some way of having your cake and eating you - all right so we solved the first problem with the first version of this draft and this was basically saying that we what page doesn\u0027t have consent it should only be able to access the public IP is that the website would normally see and so this was done by basically determining what interface will be used to talk to the website and only giving out the IPS associated with the adapter that would be used you know the same way that we used to touch from the website over HTTP using that for actual web RTC traffic and so what we ended up doing was we gave out just that one public IP but we all gave out its associated private IP and so we considered this an acceptable trade-off you know because we wanted to make sure we could allow these direct connections we thought that the actual IP before information given out was fairly minimal I wasn\u0027t really identifying and overall the you know the cutting off the ability to have direct connections you know seemed like a pretty big downside however like that we knew there are some cases that you know the IP for adjusters might actually contain valuable information there are some efforts going on to try to reduce the number of fingerprinting surfaces you know on the web and in doing some enumeration of what people are actually doing with WebRTC and analysis of Chrome stats show that there is a non-trivial number of pages that basically create a peer connection get addresses and then do nothing else and even after we implanted this solution for problem 1 so what to do turn it over to un ok so in Safari we went to our team and basically they said there\u0027s one rule you can send anything but it\u0027s already public but if it\u0027s private please do not send it so we decided to use what free by default what do you when get you the media is on and shit this it\u0027s better to ship something than nothing so and some people were happy so it was already good still we we broke some existing applications that are running you know the browsers we got something back we had some pretty good feedback actually from things like web torrent where they do not really care maybe no kind of okay but still there are some applications like games where latency is important so turn is not very good and there are also some apps where that are like sending a massive amount "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:06:05",
    "text": "of data between devices and we\u0027re turn might be too expensive or very small apps where turn is also is already too expensive so [Music] okay so we looked at muted it and said hey why not choose mdns so when you gather Eiskant days you have host candidates with ipv4 addresses so why not generate a new ID register it for n DNS and then replace in the field V IP address with this new ID that\u0027s what we did we implemented it into Safari behind the flag so it\u0027s available you can activate it and play with it it\u0027s not 100% well implemented so it could be optimized but still it\u0027s available you can play with it and then the good thing is that we\u0027re able to get some early experiments the good thing is that it\u0027s working very well as expected on unmannered networks meaning like small offices networks home like if you play a game maybe it\u0027s at home and not at work so maybe maybe there it will almost get everything working it\u0027s really it\u0027s adding some potential latency you to immunise resolution to connection setup it\u0027s not I don\u0027t think it\u0027s a big deal but still it\u0027s something that you should be noted it does not always work on enterprise networks that\u0027s for sure so it\u0027s not like full solution some networks will disable multicast if you\u0027re not on the same network segment then mdns will probably not work as as well I should note that only add that expects direct host to host connection working in an enterprise network might face some issues anyway because you have no guarantee so you need to have anyway some of a solution like turn servers like something like that that will allow you to actually ensure that you will connect the people you actually want but still behind the flag if you if you enabled it to test it right now when you\u0027re doing the ice candidate presentation are you presenting the mdns and a public IP or just mdns so what we\u0027re doing is that in case getusermedia news media access is granted we do not use Indian as we submit via private IP addresses right before when we get you access is not granted no consent we\u0027re just sending in DMS candidates okay that\u0027s useful for following this analysis because okay it means that in this case there was no public IP and therefore no possibility "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:09:05",
    "text": "of using a turn server for the current set of tests you\u0027re giving their results from yes so what\u0027s it to get back to just a me okay so to try to you know come up with the best possible solution that gets the mineral sort privacy impact and the maximal my code of connectivity you know the thing we sort of came up with was to use mdns to hide private addresses I any a v4 v6 addresses that are public and how I determine that\u0027s public is like something we can talk about on a later slide give this out because that\u0027s on the website to see anyway and then the nice sort of thing about this solution would be that as i p v6 deployment proceeds the need to rely on MDM DNS goes away and so you can see from the diagram here kind of what would happen that you have this client and it\u0027s multihomed it\u0027s got you know cell interface WN it\u0027s got Wi-Fi interface which has both v4 and v6 the v4 address is your typical mattad before that gets hidden and is covered by the this thing work yes the M DNS name the v6 address is public that\u0027s here and then the actual public you know server reflexive address doesn\u0027t launch from the stun server is also given out you can see that the local address here is emitted from the are ever so this is what we propose you know is the sort of sweet spot in terms of what we can make work today yep sometimes just to clarify the v6 address you determine that it is actually public by observing it as a reflexive candidate so we\u0027ll get to exactly how that works later but that\u0027s the I think the way you can actually do that is by actually having stun over ipv6 now that has his own set of complications compared to later but like the seem safe so it just made history clarify first so so you\u0027re exposing you had four dresses you\u0027re exposing three candidates is the idea that that UID D references to both IP addresses in some way um I think she won\u0027t speak to us specifically usually what happens is that if you resolve and if you have grown from ipv4 and ipv6 family in that case you instead had one new ID / / / Canada you would not even expose now instead of having it\u0027s like like what is "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:12:05",
    "text": "that saying for three kiddos why don\u0027t y\u0027all for which to run course behind a one who\u0027s wrong one course by one I do huh no their show you have plenty situations with it where you\u0027d have addresses right um I guess I just don\u0027t understand why like I also read in your draft you said that you only advertise one MBS for both IP through firm V sex so like Isis I\u0027d have one candidate per address right yes Thompson I think the I think this is a good observation it\u0027s very simple to say that I\u0027m gonna buy into this address and then do whatever is necessary for this I think this is just an optimization on their front I don\u0027t I don\u0027t think it actually changes the the the nature of this at all to use the the same label all same mdns address to refer to multiple host candidates I mean that\u0027s it\u0027s it\u0027s just an optimization if you can solve em DMS then you\u0027re good I mean the whole reason we give out the I could be six at all is just in case where I mean us does not work no III remove that but I guess what I\u0027m saying is that you know these are some priorities faces and so and so and so so gluing oh the glue all these sort of private objects together into one thing here just going to glue the e46 with the Wi-Fi address but yes I that is true that they would have different priorities somebody I\u0027d also like to point out that there are will be cases where the ipv6 address has a different scope especially on wired interfaces so you may be able to use em DNS and have a different scope then you would have the public ipv6 address so you may be getting a different ipv6 address than this ipv6 address because it reflects a different ipv6 scope so I think having a separate UUID if you want to use a UID to front that separate scope is a good idea so just because it would be a separate new idea for v4 and v6 f per UID this per address so I was gonna say that\u0027s that\u0027s probably necessary in this case because of the way that we do that the pairing up and the prioritization and all those things I\u0027d missed that point and that\u0027s that\u0027s a really good point John thanks yeah the ice spec does say that if you have a name and a candidate you only take one address from it preferring v6 if there\u0027s both but you never take more than one address for a candidate by name so yeah we need to have a different different UI deeper address you want to right and so you need to make some changes in the meal too which is Dean "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:15:05",
    "text": "asked not mes video actually it\u0027s a superset so I think this is okay I looked into this and I was a little concerned about the use of these labels but we kind of get away with that mdns supports more labels than names can express so we\u0027ll have to be a little bit careful about the soyoung\u0027s all the characters in terms of privacy the lifetime of their names could be tied to a page for instance beef right nice time I should damn well I\u0027m sorry but our origin would be what would be what I would recommend but I wouldn\u0027t I wouldn\u0027t do anything special to retain stability over multiple uses that\u0027s double gate origin yeah yep actually we had we had this discussion and yeah it\u0027s tricky yeah we decide on this later so my hope is kind of get three of the stuff that is mostly not confident and controversial first and that we can get to the tricky stuff okay so I\u0027d like to try to sense of given you know the detergency to get across the finish line as our cherish reminded us earlier you know is this a path that we can agree to move forward with so your choice would like you to amend this consensus goal and that is to change IP handling documents to documents because we believe that what\u0027s in one of the documents is in fact quite well understood where some of this is still being worked out on the floor and that they don\u0027t necessarily need to appear at the same time and having some IP handling document would allow you to move forward with the security architecture and get the the baseline covered and then bring the mdns stuff along will keep the working group open to handle it but not gate on it yes I\u0027m not in Thompson I think that\u0027s my preferred approach for this if we can find a way to just adjust the IP handling document so that it doesn\u0027t add this this new stuff then and describe some modes and maybe recommends the safer option of the set and then we can later on update it with the new things with I think that the base thing would be requiring a type II handling is to note that other modes may be published right and make this the first of the new modes right and then once the new mode is published we can decide as we\u0027re processing it whether it becomes the preferred mode or not in the meantime we\u0027ll have ones with which we have a fair amount of experimentation and experience available for the community and we can cross the finish line while the new modes are being experimented with and this hybrid mode in particular see some real deployment to get right because this is this is a in this is now on the critical path and there\u0027s a lot "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:18:05",
    "text": "of other things that are very very very close to finished if we put another thing on that critical path right now I think some people might get stabbed right cluster 238 can go if we if we release IP handling and note in IP handling that more modes will be published and keep working on this as a new mode that makes sense but I think we also will probably need to amend the problem statement say we are been trying to solve this sounds good okay yeah and we can put in the problem statement that new modes are being developed to solve that problem sounds good yeah I guess I would um III was the perfect lovely informative reference to this exact raft that\u0027s um say you know losing wealthy including this drive here I guess I can imagine and I do this home but on you know like in terms of practical matter on like blocking these documents were a lot making this will not make a change in the policy change any faster here is Jabbar scribe do I understand correctly that the current default mode would remain as of draft version oh nine for now it sounds like what is being recommended by the chairs is that the current IP handling draft would not change adding additional modes or change its default but that a new mode could change the default on publication sure essentially just adding some text in the problem statement section to say there are other modes that could come along we can point you this document informatively which me you ain\u0027t get along faster someone said this already but the intention would be to publish the new mode as something outside of this working group would be for one work but IP handling could go and we could start cluster 2:38 processing without this since the reference to this would be informative normative but the new draft would still be on the standards track when published and therefore could update the default mode okay and we would be open for that last time that\u0027s a different question I think it probably would be but the the critical thing is getting the documents out if they\u0027re working group has to stay open to publish this then your your chairs will be willing to do that okay you can have more crows then yes I am we\u0027re hoping to make them ever smaller cuter as time gets on this is dJG so the idea that we\u0027re going to try to get this out the door with the default mode being the one that leads to private addresses just by adding text that says we are going to add a new mode later or new roads may be added later does make me "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:21:05",
    "text": "nervous as someone who would like to see this thing published so I am concerned that that what we\u0027re doing is we\u0027re basically saying here\u0027s the way you do it not even mentioning what the privacy implications are and something will come along later and then the we lose steam we do know what the privacy implications are in a document just just declared and and say this is a problem with the current specification I mean I think we would say that this is not yet solving the specification and who knows maybe define I mean guess is practically speaking like each browser now has made its decision of what it\u0027s going to do so I don\u0027t think this will actually change you know any actual implementations everyone who is involved here is kind of at the mic or in line or standing up here and so my way he will be implanting the new draft and think as soon as you know we actually have experimental details Bernard I\u0027m open Microsoft I just want to point out one little thing which is we have had a it\u0027s an issue that probably will be a PR soon for a change in the web IDL to address to make it capable of carrying those in DNS names and we were willing to take it because people hadn\u0027t implemented that thing yet and I\u0027m kind of a little scared that they\u0027ll implement the old one and then we\u0027ll have an argument about changing it it could be a little nasty so it\u0027s okay if you do the new thing but please do it quickly because if this stays as it is it\u0027ll probably be a web IDL argument about it well not for me yeah and I think I mean well I would say is you know you know we\u0027re interested in this mode like understand how that works I think you put you right to accurately which is some serious it works in some cells many more interestin scene measurements about like how eleven there\u0027s two things occur which i suspect you are as well and that you know but that like having these documents tough negotiator queue for a year and a half while you buy eight those questions or whatever it is is not gonna like that\u0027s not gonna make it\u0027s not gonna make us like more aggressive babbling about uh you know i think there\u0027s a lot it\u0027s hard to make this call because there\u0027s a lot of unknowns we don\u0027t know about this like we have questions about like does just enabling this allow you to do DDoS attacks on the multicast traffic inside the enterprise just by creating a lot of these and what are sort of the rates and stuff of that how well does it actually work in enterprise i mean the case where this tends the the way you described where it works and doesn\u0027t work i agree in fact i think it may be even slightly better than as you described it doesn\u0027t work in some large enterprises but not in lots right it\u0027s uh those are of course exactly some of the places this "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:24:06",
    "text": "is most valuable in the home residential in that situation it didn\u0027t matter that you hair pin through the GNAT anyway it wasn\u0027t like you went across the land because the address filtering was such that you could hair pin on the map versus having to go to a tremor so i think we start looking at some of those statistics now the thing I\u0027m interested in about at this is this is not just strictly a security improvement it makes a bunch of security much worse and what it makes much worse is it now forces a whole bunch of traffic that didn\u0027t use to have to go through middle boxes to go up through middle boxes that are typically run by somebody who\u0027s not really fully trusted by the end users in these cases and anytime that we start taking traffic that could have remained on a local network and not have to push it through a place that\u0027s an awesome place for law enforcement to intercept it yeah it makes me a little queasy I mean I it\u0027s this is not a win-win a situation there\u0027s a lot of things to to think about the the trade-offs on on which way that you end up with best security you may be very sick so to return to the Consensus call which has been up here for for a number of moments I\u0027m gonna take three hums the first is do you think you understand the problem okay I\u0027ll move up to hybrid solution so we\u0027re gonna ask do you think you understand the problem we\u0027re then gonna ask if you can live with this being in a separate document and if you cannot live with this being in a separate document because I think that if it\u0027s in a separate document we can progress it after we\u0027ve gotten some of this experimentation in front of the working group if it has to be in this document we\u0027ll move forward a different way but what we really want to know is whether or not you can live with this being in a separate document or not so anybody have questions on the hums before we take the hummus I think if you think we shouldn\u0027t do this at all that is it shouldn\u0027t even be in a separate document you should be at the mic you want to tell us that okay sure I mean I think that we will need to see a lot more of the details on this before the working group comes to consensus about this is awesome or what it is not to us tonight so I think the worst-case scenario here is we put it into a separate document that goes out with a very limited applicability statement or never goes out but of course I thought that I think that putting it into another document is no guarantee that we\u0027re actually what happens right the working group will come to whatever consensus it comes on on whether it goes in the same document or a different document there\u0027s a lot of work that needs to be done before we\u0027re done with this and it will need working group consensus yes it ate I think just before we clean for document exceptions now or more something for separation the three are I heard with the homes work "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:27:06",
    "text": "okay the home - yes we can live with it being in a separate document comes through then we will talk about accepting the draft as a working group draft okay Ronnie yeah you have to go to the things we have remote participants even but you said that the reference for both in the main document which makes it like so we can put a reference in the main document if in that reference doesn\u0027t even have to be an accepted working group draft to say people are working on it for example over here in case people read me is the other way I will be humming in favor of accepting as a working group document right like I think that was almost inevitable that it\u0027ll get that looks across this nightmare if we come to it so any more hum questions before we take the Hummels hum now if you think you understand the problem I\u0027m relieved if it was dead quite at that point though I would be like you\u0027re gonna have to bring me a live crow at this point that picture is not cutting it okay hum now if you can live with us separating this document out from IP handling how now if you cannot live with that solution okay I think that what we\u0027re gonna do then is okay I heard the hums as enough people understood the question to go forward with a working group call for consensus on separating or not separating and then the strong consensus for separating the document out of IP handling so I\u0027d like to propose we adopt this as a working group item as soon as we can sort out milestones with our 80s and now could you take a hum on this point all in favor of adopting the draft is a working group draft how now is there anyone opposed to adopting this is a working group breath um now okay so it is adopted as a working group draft we work with the ADA to add a work item and the schedule of CRO consumption thank you very much what is 2.4 the minutes that I guess Justin\u0027s gonna update the IP handling document to update the problem statement I have a forward reference an informative for reference okay I think you had something beyond consensus to try it about how much time you have I think I will sir note there are many issues as things that we can you know think about you won\u0027t have them at each our discussion I\u0027m guess I have two three minutes at most okay okay so one of the things I "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:30:11",
    "text": "mentioned earlier was what to do about ipv6 addresses that are not public so first of all to even determine if a v6 addresses public and you need to hit a stun server to see if you get that reflected back to you this is problem and this can occur for nat64 addresses where you have basically an ad which is a v4 and then you get a v6 address that\u0027s only usable behind that net in order to figure this out you need a stun server that can basically receive v6 traffic I am not aware oh they\u0027re very few of these today so we would basically be asking digital applications to be deploying v6 down servers and then even once we have this then if you are behind that six four you won\u0027t be able to use that v6 to actually give a direct connection so we\u0027ll do some experiments here will understand if this is a big issue you know one of the options could be we just always give our v6 a--\u0027s and well one of the most coolers give our v6 is regardless of whether they\u0027re considered to be public or not just has some you know some questions for privacy but since we\u0027re not coming out before is it still a move in the right direction I want to see what the experiment show how low this gem I\u0027ll notice this problem is not unique to be for physics it also occurs with before who can\u0027t tell from an address whether it\u0027s private enough or you can tell from some others is that they are private that if if you address this not in those ranges no absolutely I mean yeah fortress none before is for all deployed very I agreed to be safety you need to use stun it also means that no application that doesn\u0027t have turn service will work whatsoever translates as sensitive stone service button right even if the Euro correspondent has a public IP right Thompson I think we\u0027re if we if we\u0027re judging is based on on the principles that we\u0027ve established then yeah too bad if it\u0027s not if this is not the address that the site is seeing as well probably the site is seeing is a matter of communication with it then why are we giving this hell you know we could take a very sort of hardline position on this or if we see that you know it has like a 75 percent impact on my kitchen all traffic then we might we might take a more compromising position like a English you mission now let\u0027s get painted in by concerns okay I\u0027m wondering why the principal decision is not the one to take you I mean do you think we\u0027d say that we would lean toward the principal decision but like we would probably want to see what the impact of making said principal decision would be so I don\u0027t think what Paul just said is "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:33:11",
    "text": "entirely correct mainly if your counterparty knows they have a public IP address ipv6 address they can advertise it just want to talk to them even with v6 wait it won\u0027t work so like if there are server first as well will work is two clients right no clients right that you don\u0027t deploy Stein silver in your address or public key still can connect you see no the small this year and I guess change you know the Nandina sadistic surround the one second when are you ever going to do it registration does not take that much time it\u0027s so nicely the resolution that might take some time registration requires that you have the dye just on the network and and then wait for a while to see if anyone they\u0027ll sponsor we\u0027re testing we there\u0027s no 1 second delay for a connection setup that\u0027s interesting the second thing is that you know so for the first connection you might have a small delay in solutions we we had like 200 millisecond delay it\u0027s highly depends if you want Wi-Fi or not if you are like packet loss so we might be about to measure to make measurements here to precise you know yeah I don\u0027t think you need to worry about this one these are extremely high entropy values the chance of a collision is basically a catalyst if she\u0027s a packet wasn\u0027t the resolution is is is a concern yes I agree but the concern that Harold has with result with respect to advertising your name do you have to check that someone else has it I wouldn\u0027t bother checking in this case so what they\u0027re saying is that you can get away with breaking the protocol for NDMS that will be interesting to see we gain by the other working group so so if people are uncomfortable with that we can go talk today and SSD and and talk about having an exception an exception carved out for that I think that that\u0027s a perfectly reasonable thing to do so again that\u0027s not a big concern contest I it gets a little bit more complicated when the address went out through multiple interfaces and then the SD proxies forwarded them back to the other things this just it gets more located that\u0027s all I\u0027m saying I\u0027m soon like like regularly on MDS when the bugs is your printers show up on multiple networks when you have a complex mystical technology some different addresses moving the same DNS name will "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:36:11",
    "text": "resolve two different addresses depending on which interface you take it on but no I mean like you\u0027re gonna what\u0027s gonna happen is you\u0027re gonna pick you\u0027re going to advertise the you take the host candidate and you\u0027re stuffing them the MS record that\u0027s what you broadcast what happens is that inappropriate address appears on multiple networks but it\u0027s the same address all those networks because you\u0027re gonna generate a new horse candidate for your new MV s entry for each choice candidate and so what will happen is like it\u0027d be just like ordinary ice which is say if you make a pile of addresses none of which you can use on on but on that that shouldn\u0027t um it\u0027s just goofy right um but it\u0027s like I still I see Heron like you feeding this way um I think that will happen is like maybe you\u0027re gonna get a bunch of like weird packets like networks praise you like a bunch of packets like you don\u0027t want the same address yeah news old man um one clarifying question so this is you need to stun server only for nat64 or are there other cases where you would want to require a stun server because I I\u0027m not quite I don\u0027t have like all the details for nat64 in my mind but I think there are like other ways to detect that you are on the net 64 out there metaphor is the only case I know but I cannot grant even I\u0027m correct you want to go into the next slide yes you want talk to this one yeah so when you have a single WebRTC connection between two peers you can identify whether they\u0027re running on the same device by checking the latency of the connection some might say it\u0027s fine some might say that if you have two pages with two iframes that our trackers and you are trying to isolate these two trackers that so that they do not state which is actually what is implement in severy then allowing these two Tigra tracker iframes to know that they\u0027re running in the same device and start to use WebSocket to share stage cookies and everything might be an issue so we are actually investigating that the the point where is should we document this issue somewhere is it an issue and if so what\u0027s the path forward I mean this is an issue there\u0027s a lot I "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:39:16",
    "text": "mean I guess I mean I\u0027m you know I got I feel like or worst nightmares about like co-located code have now come true so like the the it\u0027s a quaint tour in the face of Specter it\u0027s can equate to worry about like determining you\u0027re missing the host team at this point in the game perhaps if you\u0027re chrome you feel differently but here people don\u0027t so you come so I I\u0027m we\u0027re also working on it I\u0027m more seriously they\u0027re just a lot of ways to determine I think if you\u0027re like on the same post um you service Lee if not not poker solution or v6 but as far as I can tell there\u0027s no clear solution at all um unless um I mean maybe or perhaps you can disable seeing in like some context but imagine like the common thing would be the two parts like these two double key right you\u0027re still gonna have the same mdns problem on it\u0027s up to the browser to decide which you I need to share with on which contexts no no but no I I miss I\u0027m assuming user different you IDs but then basically what I do is I take the you know I take the - I I did I you know I had to dive to two domains that I want to see they\u0027re co-located in the double keyed and I have both of exfiltrate the addresses and then yeah I\u0027m trying to grab pretty call and like it works then like I\u0027m on basically the same machine or I\u0027m that same or in the same local network so um so I I don\u0027t know I I tend to think that like this is a Emmy it\u0027s fine to put this stuff doesn\u0027t that be handling document is innocent paragraph but I don\u0027t think much else is gonna be is it is use for what it\u0027s really open research question so um before we\u0027re gonna cut the line because we do have one other presentation and I guess we should float the idea maybe even having a virtual in or something that\u0027s talked about something\u0027s issues specifically because I think we can go down a rabbit hole on this one for a while since we were trying to progress the document should we just can we agree that we should add the paragraphs of document this issue and then we can resolve this in the to be announced sequel absolutely in a similar way that we identify and w3c documents say a fingerprinting issue I mean I think it\u0027s calling out this issue is perfectly fine I mean but there are so many ways you can track this like as you the which way is up force sensor on iPhones seem to be a high high risk candidate let\u0027s convert over yeah no one wants to kill the really high runner ones so what about this one the question here is I don\u0027t understand what the solution would be for people like I don\u0027t and how we solve this at all for new v6 or before yeah you can have you can ice my friends so one potential solution is that\u0027s for party I friends do not have in DNS if we\u0027re gonna allow WebRTC connections like like where I\u0027m "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:42:17",
    "text": "going here is the only Slough - this is to add huge latency to our real-time communication system that\u0027s not really sure and then you can use probability to actually measure whether it\u0027s fake latency and so on III don\u0027t have a good solution there right now so so what\u0027s your take on should we try to solve this it\u0027s not a priority because it\u0027s true that there are other issues but I think it should be in the one map and maybe we\u0027ll find some solutions maybe on our side when we just disabled like when we are spaced in Safari where we are very restrictive and what we\u0027re hoping to do is to open the door a little bit so we can open video like just a little bit or a little bit more not on iframes maybe a my friends we have some granularity there that we can play with since we I think that the current proposal is that we will document this issue in the IP handling draft and then consider solutions in the follow-on draft please indicate when you\u0027re standing up at the mic line whether you have any problem with us documenting the issue because I think we can postpone discussion of the solutions till the discussion of the follow-on draft if we have agreement that we\u0027re documenting the issue my only point was that sorry Neil told me is that I think the RTT is actually not the biggest problem I mean if you have like two iframes being able to establish data channel they can exchange whatever they want I\u0027m in Europe far worse with so if you would like to document something else a PR is welcome this is DJ G I\u0027m for documenting the issue I just wanted to point out because it seemed like there was some confusion and discussion that this is a web RTC issue and not an MD NS issue okay he\u0027s making sure that we\u0027re all on the same page on that I think we are on that page twenty one final note one more in common choice I\u0027d mentioned that Mike if you can\u0027t stablish a track connection will typically fall back hair pinning through that and in doing some tests here I was surprised by how infrequently hair printing actually occurred even in today\u0027s internet on some from popular nap products and you need did you see the same thing yeah working in local conditions personally so but I my testing is irritating I hope that as soon as we get there so you can confer from that popular Google and Apple Wi-Fi products may not support her pending super well but anyway there are the tests that will do will probably bring some more concrete numbers on this anyway tax time so thanks both of you for the presentation today and for agreeing to move forward I think it\u0027s it\u0027s a good "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:45:18",
    "text": "thing to move forward with this in in the way that we\u0027ve described I think the cherish will caucus offline with their Area Director about having an intra meeting as I think dkg pointed out just making this afford reference as a promise and losing steam is probably problematic so trying to keep some of the discussion going on the list and in an interim meeting seems to us like a valuable way to avoid that and we\u0027ll do what we can to do so I think the next speaker is crystal okay so I did as to be the Directorate review or obvious TP attribute which is defined in this RT civil security architecture document just to clarify this is not my document I\u0027m not the author is the reason our period is is because well I have indicated I\u0027m willing to help with STP issues and so on but but before really starting to write text there were some some issues that I think we need to turn me on or to make sure we have a common understanding - not how to really write lower things as also to make clear least this is not generated general overview of the whole document only the STP I attribute part of it so if you have other issues you know with the IDP and an identity assertion in general they this is not a time and place place for that so this and also I\u0027m not going the review that I did for example Martinez already created a request in that I think the link is on the mailing list is also I\u0027m going to show it in other presentations so there are basically a couple of main issues which I\u0027m going to bring up here which i think is is is what we need to agree on and to make sure okay okay so basically yeah but background I also said about but the the Assumption here is because this draft is foreign foreign as it\u0027s written in this in this working group is very web RTC specific but assumption here is the best EP identity attribute is a generic attribute which can be used to carry identity Association also in other environments not really the bar can see specific and even if one pair is of a party CN point the other pair may not not be a but it could still use the same identity assertion mechanism to do so that\u0027s the assumption to have a generic attribute which can be used by anyone supporting in an iid p assertion mechanism so this is one of the issues with which I raced in this is that currently in WebRTC the fingerprint is is used to create this identity assertion one of the "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:48:20",
    "text": "question I raised is that do you have to use the fingerprint always or could you use also something else and the answer I got and now when I say answer here is this discussion I had and I both people have indicated on the list is it\u0027s not something we have agreed on but but what those who have provided input instead from a protocol expect that you could use something else than a fingerprint it\u0027s outside the scope of our TC web draft we\u0027re not going to document that or make an instance but but but basically the way for would be would be to have some takes saying yeah you could use something else but if you use something else you need to write a draft or some Scott specification describing how you\u0027re gonna do it how hard a JSON structure that you\u0027re gonna put into this attribute it looks like and so on because the the digestion structure defining the document now contains the fingerprint and the identity so if you use something else you may need to define adjacent structure which carries this other thing it\u0027s already just a clarifying question you have here in the answer from a protocol perspective but here what you mean in particular is this usage of SDP is allowed to use other information not J cept the protocol will use other information but this SDP identity may use other information that\u0027s what you mean by protocol yes I mean I\u0027m not suggesting any changes to chase or RDC baby that\u0027s a good con about I should have made it clear I\u0027m not suggesting any changes to what we have in J said or any RTC VapoRub a bar can see specification this is pure pure STP so to say this is about making sure that the definition of the STP attribute is consistent with other attributes and all those things largely editorial what Krista has actually done is highlight a few places where there\u0027s a little hole or two and that\u0027s been quite helpful but other than that yeah don\u0027t change anything we did change something by the way but that issue was which is interesting is if you have a subsequent offer a server actually the pair or even yourself updates the identity and and I have one example where this cause case we often talk about this third party call can cross and call transfers done just by updating the STP so you have your browser for example is communicating with another pair and then you have a call controller which is going to to make a call transfer the only way it\u0027s gonna do is to send you then this DP of this new peer and obviously this new pair is going to have another identity so so you\u0027re gonna get an updated STP and updated offer within you within your identity again the the feedback here is that you gain from our pure purko spur sexy we we shouldn\u0027t we shouldn\u0027t disallow this it\u0027s allowed however it may not be supported by the receiver and "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:51:20",
    "text": "for example web RTC that\u0027s not allowed to update the identity of appear so they suggested way forward here is that you say yeah you can do this for example when you send us you can do it but also to indicate that this is not something that that anyone must report if the receiver doesn\u0027t support it it doesn\u0027t accept it it could for example not accept the offer also or do something else I mean we don\u0027t need to go exactly into those details but I think there the important thing here is that we\u0027re not going to mandate endpoint to support it but but the game it is allowed from our from our protocol perspective well that\u0027s yeah that\u0027s more or less the same thing I mean you you\u0027re basing your providing you you change your modifying the existing identity by moving their existing identity but it\u0027s the same thing I hope Jason already says that if you ever had yet it\u0027d be all subsequent offers your answers have to contain the same identity so the web RTC Martin Thompson sorry the WebRTC specs are very clear on this point once you have an identity for a Pierre you can\u0027t go backwards from that point it has to remain the same thereafter so any any session description you receive from that point onwards has to have the same identity because we don\u0027t know how to do anything else nothing else really makes any sense if you want to have a different identity make a new peer connection and then first and actually what I\u0027m going to put in it you know it takes about this is there\u0027s going to be a section about modifying a session and there is going to be a must you must include identity and of course if even if it\u0027s the same as previously not not including it means that you\u0027re actually removing it so so so of course if that\u0027s what you want to do that\u0027s what you want to do but if you want to keep the same identity as previously then then you must include it in this subsequent offer right yeah I think a general policy I\u0027m in favor that\u0027s the general policy here is what you do with identity is effectively a policy decision about what the security and it means in whatever you\u0027re using application in WebRTC we have very clear things of what that policy is and other things they might have different policies and different rules and you know even the the call that way of doing transfer is not generally how it\u0027s done because of all kinds of problems like this so it\u0027s not like we\u0027re losing transfer in WebRTC or anything but like the way most SPC\u0027s do transfer will work fine with Park UCS yeah I just wanted to bring it up because unfortunately why I wanted a whenever we talk about it it\u0027s very often when people when we talk about something and someone asked how does it work it\u0027s third button so those were the two actually the main I consider technical issues or clarifications so the way forward is and asaba indicated a "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:54:21",
    "text": "I\u0027m willing to help with this for example one of the things I didn\u0027t bring up here what would I had in my review was that we should also use this template for for defining your SDP attributes this if you read I mean sending a mission offer or sending the answer or modifying a session and so on and so on and I\u0027m now willing to help to put a pull request regarding that together but but I want to be spirit things clarified because those things affect what it takes there would it would be ya know an everlasting was that they\u0027d be here\u0027s a link to this request which which Martin already put together I wish I understood has been known most things there were some for example related to day to day today to the a B and F and so minor things yeah I\u0027m good for loads um so thank you for doing this review and thank you for if you just reload I think those are all great all gone yeah there you go it\u0027s linking interview and thank you for catching these um um I guess I\u0027m reluctant to screw the structure at this point in the game um I understand your willingness to do it but it seems like it seems like that\u0027s really kind of like gonna make our lives harder um maybe there\u0027s pacific points do you think maybe you called out I\u0027m really happy to add into the document but I think having a baby talks that we don\u0027t have to review like seems like kind of mother away but IIIi think I had a look at a document currently there did attribute is defined somewhere in a subsection level 3 or level 4 so my yeah something like that but my idea would be just to move that into a separate main section and then of course we have to add this sending an issue of her answer and blah blah blah but it\u0027s going to be very it\u0027s not going to impact other parts or the documents so it\u0027s gonna it\u0027s gonna be a big pull request in a sense that there\u0027s a lot of takes that\u0027s going elsewhere but most reduction that most of the existing text which is not or all of existing text which is not related to this attribute is going to remain the same things like going review so I think like unless there\u0027s like some like actual other instructor this way I look for not yet but the terms do not believe that there\u0027s a natural law so we would recommend that you generate the pull request and have it reviewed but it will be up to the editors discretion to or not except the pull request depending on the the amount of confusion and work he believed it will take so the the key thing is that the material be right and the structure is not normative and certain and solely if you have any points if you need pacific points you think we\u0027re missing please do call about specific weeks I\u0027m happy to put them in well I think that means we\u0027re a mission now is they\u0027re sending this initial offer and modifies a session I mean it could be written in other ways to and of course those things that we previously discussed you\u0027re clarifying that that for example if you use something else and fingerprint is in name just could prescribe and also about this updating identity there there\u0027s nothing about that but I mean I\u0027m okay but again again I think I big there\u0027s "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:57:21",
    "text": "like a huge PR and a half detective with the same that\u0027s gonna be like unfortunate and my suggestion since all these peers here-now emerged my suggestion to make life a little easier would be that we submit a new version now where we merged or include SP this PR and then this other PR would be based on that new version because then it that way we avoid you know requests conflicts yeah that\u0027s all I had okay from a timing perspective if you were to produce such a PR obviously you\u0027re not gonna get done this week do you have a timeframe when you might think you be today be able well I\u0027m this is not gonna be I\u0027m gonna be in a way after this week for two weeks so vacation but but let\u0027s food it I mean let\u0027s say in a month so the only other thing of note is that we are gonna work a new blast call the STP examples drafts probably and and we have fun in several outside reviews for it I really want to thank Paul and Fleming and the other reviewers who have already done that but it is a big piece of work to look at please do take some time grab a few of the examples go through them I think anybody who does the whole document is is going to be very tired indeed by the end of it because the productions are very very complicated but please do sample a few of giving your expertise and give us comments as fast as you can I believe that closes the meeting uh thanks if you haven\u0027t signed the blue sheet please do so before leaving where are the blue sheets by the way okay in the back Thanks "
  }
]