[
  {
    "startTime": "00:00:02",
    "text": "When we get to the agenda, I'll tell you That was my plan Okay. All right, next slide So note well this is a reminder, and please make sure that before you participate and contribute, that you know what your responsibility under the note well are Next slide Remember, it's okay to attack a bad idea but it's not an idea okay to attack a person who has a bad idea. Please treat each other professionally and with respect Next slide Tips for joint participation We are going to use the on-site tool for getting in the mic line This makes sure that people who are not here in the room have a equal chance at getting to the mic And please, so make sure that you have logged in. It also does the blue sheets for us automatically Remote participants, please don't send video or audio unless you've been recognized at the mic line. And it really does help if you use a headset Next slide. So the agenda has eight sessions to it or chunks to it This is the first three The, um, to it or chunks to it. This is the first three. The next slide for the next section There's a whole bunch that are with the RFC editor. We have to talk about one of them. Then there's a bunch with the IESG, and we need to talk about one of them And then there's a bunch of P-KICs P-KICS-related documents, and then there's a bunch of S-MOM related documents"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:02:02",
    "text": "and then there's one we're going to think about considering in this last batch the CMC documents, we're going to move up because of the Friday issue And in the earlier one block, the one about the freshness we're going to move up and talk about earlier. So we will just the proposal is we talk about them after the IESG documents and before the P-CICS documents Any concerns with that solution to the scheduling problem? All right, let's get it going We've got a lot of documents So in the first block there are four that are now RFCs, just a record So in the first block, there are four that are now RFCs, just a recognition that that's the case. Good job for the authors. And in the case of two of them it's their first RFC, so awesome. Congratulations Tomafumi and Joe moving on to the ones that are with the RFC editor. The first one John, do you want to say anything about Kamari? No. All right, nothing happened there. The next one is policy graph and I am unaware of anything that needs brought up about that Okay. The next one is end-to-end email guidance. I don't think that needs to email guidance I don't think that needs any any feedback for us it's the header protection that we'll talk about in a little bit. That's what I thought. Good And then the next one is 599-bis and there's slides for that I made them"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:04:02",
    "text": "Okay, next slide that. I made him. Okay, next. So, um part of the preparation for IETF meetings, Diana goes through and looks at what's on on various agendas and does a quick review, and they notice that five points to this one algorithm identifier in the S-MIME object arc and 5999 uses it but doesn't apply the registry to point to it so that anyone who would look up that code point would know what document they go read And a developer noticed that the document did not explicitly point out that the KDF must produce the output that's the same size, sorry, not side size of the key encryption key, so that one line was added, expected an update to resolve this, the RFC editor is aware that this is coming and moved it to off state so they wouldn't start adding it any questions about either of those very minor changes? Okay, so we'll go back to the list of the Shah 3 hash back to the list of the shah three hash document. There's no update It's just waiting for the RFC that it has cycles And the OCSP nonce update is in the same situation. So that's the updates for the ones with the RFC editor Now to the ones that are with the IESG CERT binding for multi-off. I'm unaware of any opening issues that need to be raised This is Allie. Just real quick, there was a discussion of any open issues that need to be raised. This is Alley. Just real quick, there was a discuss and we sent a response on 620 um and once that's lifted i think we're ready to go so just waiting on"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:06:02",
    "text": "on that okay thank you you and 519 BIS I'm unaware of anything on that one Hi, sean turner real quick. We're just waiting to get the approval from a previous author of the previous version so that we can avoid the 5378 text Apparently that is in the works. We got approval from one, so we're just waiting on the other one We only need one of them to get Apparently that is in the works. We got approval from one, so we're just waiting on the other one. So we're just getting on the other one. So we only need one of them to get out from under this and one of them's here Excellent. May not be in the room, but I saw them at the meeting So yeah, I was surprised too I hadn't been here for years. Okay, and the next one is header protection and that we have slides for Hey folks this is daniel huang Gilmore. I'm presenting on behalf of my co-editors, Bernie and Alexei Next slide, please. This is about the header protection draft. There is been quite a bit of work since the last IETF Last IETF was draft 20, and we now have draft 23 in the Datatracker. There's been a major document reorganization. It is much more readable now We have actually changed the mechanism for identifying the headers that the senator put on the outside of the cryptographic envelope, and I'll get to that in the second and we have cleaned up the indicator that the sender is doing this Probably the most, and we also have guidance now for safe handling of replies and forwards And we have broken out some of the algorithms that we the document describes into pretty clear pseudocon Next slide, please There are some pretty significant changes here. We've renamed the HCPs that are present. Thanks to feedback for"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:08:02",
    "text": "other authors, from other reviewers The HCP that provides no confidentiality is now called HCP No Confidentiality which is pretty reasonable the baseline HCP is now called HCP based In addition to hiding the subject, it also removes keywords and comments, which are noted as informational fields in RC5322 And we've replaced HCP Strong with HCP Shy which removes some of the threading issues that we were seeing with HCP Strong. And in instead helps to mask some of the things that are sort of human readable information that the mail transport agents wouldn't need to know Most significantly, we removed the VAPMessage scheme. So there is now a single scheme, which is now called header protection not called injected headers And the test vectors also show the unwrap pieces. The removal of the wrap scheme actually makes the document significantly easier for implementers because they really only have to worry concretely about one scheme to comply with the draft We do also provide a little bit of guidance for dealing with legacy messages that were generated in the form of RC 8551, which had a fairly poorly specified header protection, which had a lot of things that we deal with here And then perhaps the most, the thing that I'm going to ask for your most attention on, which I will get to in the slide deck here is that we had a contributor raise the concern that the I'm going to ask for your most attention on, which I will get to in the slide deck here, is that we had a contributor raise the concern that if the mail user agent prefers the protection, from headers, there is a risk of from header spoofing I'll get to that in a minute, but I'll just wanted to highlight that it seems like there might be a risk here and we have some guidance about how to deal with it, and that's what I'm going to ask for working group feedback on most specifically. Next slide, please I'm not seeing this slide change. Yeah, I'm one second. Okay so like I said, the simplification"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:10:02",
    "text": "where there's just one scheme is great. The draft is simple and shorter, easier to deal with and wrap message wasn't necessary we were basically creating a new scheme that nobody had already used, and it was just it didn't end up being particularly useful. Next slide Okay, so how we currently represent the sender's initial intent of what goes on the outside of the cryptographic envelope is we had in, at the previous IETF, an HP removed and HP obscured and we had some great reviews that observed that with HP removed and HP obscured as in the previous draft we could not clearly represent distinct changes to more multiple headers of the same name now that's not a very common scenario, and you certainly don't have two subjects but we don't, we want these mechanisms to work clearly for things even if you happen to decide to have multiple headers of the same name and you decide to do different things with them. The replacement is this HP outer replacement and basically it simply makes a copy of everything that was put on the outside of the cryptographic envelope and puts it on the inside of the cryptographic envelope It's simpler, it's a little bit less confusing And it happens to handle distinct changes to multiple headers of the same name in a straightforward way The pseudocode that we provide, addresses how to use the outer explicitly and it's actually a nice cleanup Next slide I mentioned about the header confidentiality policy refresh. HCP shy, you might be interested to know, remove display names, and time zone information you might be interested to know, remove display names, and time zone info, as we think that those are things that are not relevant to message to deliverability or quarantining And it seems like a plausible next step for a male user agent that we would want to be a little bit more ambitious about what things are protected and confident for encrypted messages Next slide Okay, here is the risk that I really want you all to pay attention to So it was observed by a reviewer. Thank you, Alex"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:12:02",
    "text": "that if a mail user agent always prefers the protected from header, and they also may be implicitly, depend on their mail transport agent to ensure that the from address is authentic, for example, by quarantining messages that don't appear to have the correct from address Then this draft would have opened a way for someone to smuggle a bad from address into the message. So the example that we like to give, is, you know, I send the message, it's from on the outside it says from dkG at 5thforcement.net, and that's all the Dikim signed and everything is delivered just fine. And then if you're a message, user agent does this and you unpack this protected message, and instead in the from address I've got on the inside the protected from says, from, I don't know, Trump at whitehouse.gov i can land a message in your mailbox that I don't have the right to send mail from. And if you were to dependent on your MTA to do the kind of quarantining that we know is fairly common with the Kim and Demark This opens up a hole in that particular protection. So that's a risk. We don't want that to happen. The draft now out outlines that as a risk and proposes some guidance The guidance is a little bit controversial even within the editor team And so we hope that in the process of your review of this, you'll take a look closely and tell us whether you think this outcome is a reasonable outcome or if you think something else should be done Next slide, please All right this is the old version of my slides I asked for an update at the beginning of the session but I guess they didn't make it in, so I apologize, the other one the newer one has highlights which makes it a little bit easier to read So the current guidance says, if you have, a valid end-to-end cryptographic authenticity of the signed message and it is signed with a certificate that you know belongs to the protected from address"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:14:02",
    "text": "It is still okay for the mail user agent to render the protected from address even if it doesn't match the outer from address. That is, what the draft is saying is strong end-to-end verification of sender identity is sufficient to bypass whatever MTA quarantine the MTA might have done Most users don't have any idea whether their MTA is doing quarantining or verification. But the argument in this draft is if you can confirm that this is a valid signal from the valid certificate for the predicted from, it's okay to show that to the user. On the other hand if the certificate is not valid, or the certificate has an address that does not match the protected from, or the signature is not valid, then we expect the male user agent to show the from address that the mail transport agent would have used for filter that is, to show the unprotected from Now this last point is a controversial point among the authors One of the editors believes that should not be done, and we're in the process of discussing that If you're following the issue tracker, you can see it on I think it's issue 85. Another little wrinkle here is that in terms of matching, the from addresses either with the search or with the mail or the protected from with the outer front you have to have a routine to match to outer specs and this document attempts to describe how to match two adder specs Those of you who are RFC 5322, no nerds might want to come in and tell us how to do that better So this is something that I think we really need people to look at But I, you know, we believe that the risk is there, it is real for folks who depend on their mail transport agent to depend to do the, from address quarantine and verification. And we think that the guidance that we've offered here is reasonable guidance"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:16:02",
    "text": "Next slide. I think we can skip this slide that's just about the end-to-end mail guidance which I already said we don't need and so yeah, in my updated slides, I asked for two things. One of them specifically is a review of the from address spoofing guidance And then also we hope that this document is finally ready for another working group last call to get it across the finish line so that's a lot to dump on the working group here all at once, but the document is actually in much better shape than it was before. We've had many more commenters, much more feedback, which is great but we still need the working group to give us some perspective. I see Bernie in the queue So quick question from a chair perspective Is this the last substantive update? You know, it's always the last substantive update, right? is this the last substantive update you know it's always the last substantive update so let me be clear the if the working group tells us what's going on in the from address mitigation is not acceptable then we will do another substantive update Okay. We, among the editors and Thoroghebel, I want to call out specifically as someone who's stepped up as a, as a not as an editor, but stepped up to a significant contributor Dora is offering suggestions for how to improve the guidance on replies in addition to guidance on what is rendered So that, you know, that discussion is happening right now and we would welcome feedback from the working group on this so as the slide says you're ready for the working group last call at this point We want the working group to give us the, yeah, the last call business here. Okay All right, Bernie well I'm the one that is not agreeing with this rendering the"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:18:02",
    "text": "unprotected from. I explained to is not agreeing with this rendering the unprotected from. I explained that in email today on the lamps mailing list Basically, my proposal is in this case we have invalid certificate and that is shown to the user and the user should deal with the situation, no matter what's going on on the outside or not. He sees that something is wrong, he has to deal and just rendering something that is dependent on the de-kim or whatever, which is not really giving any real improvement, as D-QM is much weaker metal and can also be forged. I don't think this is a good idea. It makes things actually worse And please read the email and answer to it and that's it Thanks, Bernie. I want to just mention that there's a question about whether it makes things worse than the status quo for male user agents that don't implement header protection and whether it makes things worse for male user agents that do offer header protection. I don't actually think it makes things worse for male user agents that don't implement header protection. I think it's basically what would be currently have today. And I also want to flag that the end-to-end mail guidance document, which has been sitting in misrep state waiting to go through the idea, the off-48 explicitly says that when a signature is invalid, it is recommended to not show that in any means scary way than a signature that is missing. And if it invalid, it is recommended to not show that in any more scary way than a signature that is missing. And if the signature fails, then that does not guarantee that there will be a warning, as it describes specifically in the M10 Malachydides draft so just want to want to flag that and it's just so hopefully that the working group generally can see where some of the fine nuance Okay, anything else? Thank you. And thanks for all the work that's happening"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:20:02",
    "text": "following IETF last call Thanks. I hope we get more feedback from the working group. We would really value any contributions The stuff we've gotten in the last four months has been really really used and has made the document significantly better So back to the agenda with 8708 BIS. There's a it hasn't reached IETF, LAT hasn't reached IETF last call yet so we don't have any feedback yet And we had just done the publication request with the Falco attack mitigation document and that we've not even gotten the security area director review on yet So that is the end of the ones that we were going to cover before we pulled up the two slides, the decks that have to be today So, Sean, you're up we were going to cover before we pulled up the two slides, the decks that have to be today. So, Sean, you're out. CMC Biss Biss Awesome. All right. Hello, I'm sean turner. This talk document is currently out for a working group call for adoption until the 30 right. Hello, I'm sean turner. This document is currently out for a working group call for adoption until the 30th. Please say yes Next So it's out for working group adoption. Awesome, really appreciate it We're still plugging away on it making PRs but we're kind of pausing merging them because we think it would be pretty bad to merge them on a document that we're agreed to, so we're going to wait. And the nice thing about GitHub is we can just"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:22:02",
    "text": "transfer it over, and it works. You can track them all So a really big one was to look at Cassile CMC is currently in a working group last call and you know I volunteered to look at the stuff that was in CMP to see if we could use it in CMC. And I looked at it and I talked with Mike and I talked with the stuff that was in CMP to see if we could use it in CMC. And I looked at it and I talked with Mike and I talked with John, I talked with Russ, and I talked with Joe and it doesn't look like we need any of it. So they're free to do it whatever they want and we're just going to do our own thing too Now the really cool thing is it's all there already which is I was actually quite surprised by, but very happy Quick synopsis of CMC, right? it's a certificate management um over cms I was actually quite surprised by but very happy. Quick synopsis of CMC, right? It's a certificate management over CMS, and so it has to find some messages that you basically wrap in CMS. And we've got this cool new CMSRI thing that we can use So we're just going to use it. But the fun part is in CMS it doesn't support indirect like CMP does. And I don't see any need to add it because the direct mechanism is really kind of a better approach It sucks that you've got to do multiple round trips, but you know, that's kind of life when you can't do a signature thing. So the basic plan is to use the existing no signature algorithm and the existing encrypted decrypted pop controls. So when you start looking at the messages and the flow back and forth, you go, oh, wow, that looks a whole lot like that RSA example in Appendix B. So I stuck in a new appendix or a new section in the appendix lays out how you would do this stuff and it basically looks exactly the same as the R&A one. I just put a little more information in there to use the new new MRI recipient info choice and it all kind of works So the plan is the client sends a chem only certificate request with this dummy signature over top of it sends it to the CA and the CA goes, no dude, you need some pop. So he encrypts a pop back to the client and the client that has, you know, he can, he can encrypt it because he's the client has sent the public key in the request"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:24:00",
    "text": "and the server's got his own, his own certificate or his own key as well and i sent it back now dear jr you're looking over the corner there. I definitely want you to look at this. And so the idea is you encrypt the pop. And then the, when the client, gets it, he's got enough information to decrypt it now So you basically shoot the thing back. And then the server says, yeah, hey, cool, here's your shirt. Bob's your uncle right? Very simple, very straightforward. It's the same way you could do with an RSA-only thing. But while we were doing this for review, we did note that Mike quickly review the draft. He's like, hey, it says the return pop is in plaintiff text. How is that secure? Let's not right? So, oops, there was a problem. But the examples had it right So in the PR, if you click on that link, it'll take you to the PR We fixed the text to make sure that was right And the other thing I noticed, I was like, hey, look, you make this sign around info, and you usually got a certificate, and there's two choices One is, you know, issue or name and identify or an issuer and name or a key identifier Well, if you don't have a cert yet, you can't use that option So I kind of cleared it up and basically said, hey, if you're going to do it use the signer identifier But we basically said, just put some dummy value in there, because it's the one that's in the thing and we pick four bytes of zeros. If you'd like one or lamps is great or whatever in there we can do that, we don't care, I'm not gonna fall on that sort All right, next so some of the other ones john's big great yes Yeah, I'll put a cap. I'll put a cat pick in there. Everybody would be happy about that. So we we had some 60 text. Now that's how you do how you can do signature with like Diffy-Helman and elliptic curb Diffy-Helman stuff the problem was it's a minor but it said hey there's two whitman mechanisms in that draft. It's actually three We added the pre-5378 boilerplate because Jim is deceased and I can't find Mike despite trying So we gave up and we're just going to go ahead and stick it in there We had had some requirements for PCP when which basically says if you're going to use TLS, use"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:26:02",
    "text": "these algorithms, right? Because the old one just said do TLG TLS1.0, and we thought that was a bad choice And again, it's only if you're going to do TLS because CMS like CMP, does not require you to use TLS because all the things are signed. So off we go The examples, I'm one of the motivating factors for doing this thing was to try to get rid of shot one everywhere. So instead of there was one where there was an HMAX Shaw one I put let's do two 56 We incorporated another errata The next thing that I'm really not looking forward to and talking with Joe is we gotta update all the crypto requirements So, CNP has this nice little profile, the things that you would use these various algorithms. You look in CMC and you're like, whoa, why do you? well, I know why we did it because it was great back then, but now it's really horrible because it's like Shaw One and, you know, RSA and some other weird things in there that you must do Oh, and DSA as well because everyone followed that direction So we're going to try to help those to do something that's more interesting, and I'm hoping that you'll all help me because I'm going to be just picking some like a shot in the dark. Like, do we really new? RSAOAP like I don't know is that one of the ones that we want to do? So some of you are making good faces so that means I know you're going to want to read this. And then Carl Wallace just submitted an Aratum which basically as they were going back through CMP, was about whether you put a null in or a null DN. And so he's like, it's just a typo, fix it So cool. And I think that's it Hendrick. Question I knew he was going to be in the line line Hi, Sean. Thanks for taking a look at the CMP stuff and I had a quick look into your pull request and I fully understand the approach on the direct pop But what I was not in the the time I had able to to see do you not need any cam-based message protection to kind of authenticate like key updates? request or revocation request with a certificate"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:28:02",
    "text": "or with the old key material or with the old key material so we don't have this the what what I looked at the only thing I looked at it including was doing a, um, you're starting from scratch, you're starting from new. I didn't have one where you had an example one where you're going to do an update mechanisms I didn't even look at that okay That's a good question, so does renew require it? That's a good question, hadn't even thought about it. Okay. So it's something, that's something we can look into. Joe, you're taking notes, right? Yeah. So the two things we did about CAM support in CMP was the one was on the pop, so the indirect pop is a message that is preferred in in CMP not the direct pop as in CMC. That's clear With the message protection, with the is only needed if you want to authenticate a key update request or evoke revocation request. So I'm curious to see So it's for Rekey not renew? Yeah. Ah, thank you Fair enough, we'll look into it. Because to be honest, I didn't think about it so thanks I appreciate that okay and again it would be something that we would do in the working group at the direction of the working group You're direct. Cool. Well, I'll make a PR. I just won't merge it until later. If it's adopted All right, cool. Again, get out there say yes be positive positive thinking. All right, cool. Vote for sure just won't merge it till later. If it's adopted. All right, cool. Again, get out there, say yes. Be positive, positive thinking. All right, cool, next. Vote for Sean sure. For what, I don't know, but all right. That's your left side. I know, cool, let's go to the next presentation was your last presentation well the next one's honest right no the next one's Honest. Yes Actually,"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:30:02",
    "text": "I want the other deck, the CSR attestation for the other deck, the CSR attestation first. Yes, you're right I was just assuming there was only one freshness draft There is only one freshness freshness freshness Yeah isn't this the one that I threw up? But I wanted to see a science station drive. That's the only freshness drive. The CSR on the station draft is not the freshness drive. Okay separate documents, but still good documents That's where I was good the station draft, not the expressions draft. Okay. Two separate documents, but still good documents. That's where I was doing. That was a little too low-hanging fruit, I guess And I, mike kiser on uh it's remote He was initially planning to give this talk, but he's not here. So if the microphone works, his microphone works, he can jump in So I'm obviously giving you a summary on behalf of the authors and also on behalf of the design team So there's a regular design team that meets twice uh every second week twice a week different thing um yeah next slide This is sort of the high labor summary, so I you should have seen that before uh the idea was remote at the attestation evidence in a CSR to provide some information about the security problem of the endpoint and the key that resides in that device, the private key when it's sent to the RACA so that there's some information to the CA to make an assessment of when to or whether to publish"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:32:02",
    "text": "a certificate but release a certificate And for that reason, a couple of extensions have been defined to carry this at a stage evidence, but also certificates related to that evidence to facilitate the certificate validation. Okay, next slide So, um, since we meet quite often we obviously have a lot of opportunity to discuss open issues Russ kindly started the working group last call and there was a lot of feedback and so we tried to or we worked through that feedback Next slide um um very briefly a summary of what uh changed I'm ignoring the editorial aspects here We had different ways. So from early on, we want to have different representations of the of certificates which we then, based on, we suggestion, we reused RFC 6268 6080 so I think that was a good change we also made some modifications to the way how the relationship between the different evidence bundles can be expressed So in some cases, some simplistic cases, you only have one evidence being sent out from the attester to the RACA and then sub- subsequently to the verifier. But in some other cases, in more complicated devices, you may have multiple sources of evidence because this is a composite attesta, for example so this may be uh for example the case when you have multiple processes on a single device or you have some server-based infrastructure with a confidential computing, you have trusted I.O. Where to trust the DCP is actually extended"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:34:02",
    "text": "out to the peripherals network card, graphics cards and so on. So they all then provide at the same evidence from these different peripheres so that's where you end up having more than one evidence being sent out to the arrays Okay, next slide yeah we got Iyna early allocation for helping us to do the implementation work so we have some running code Next slide That was a little bit of a controversial issue and I'm already at the open issues here so we included let me start it differently. So when the attesta sense evidence to the RACA as the relation party, it in the way how the RATS architecture works it has to pass on that information to the verifier because the verifier is the one is the entity in the Rats architecture to process that information And in order to process it, it needs to understand obviously, the evidence format of which there are a couple of go to the rats meeting to see sort of like the scale of it. But it also needs to do it needs to have a trust anchors needs to do the signature verification and equally important it needs to match and very the values that are in the evidence for example reference values related to software that is on the device or information about the hardware like endorsements It needs to verify all of this So that needs to be available. And so therefore, the RACA as a relying party needs to pass on that information to the right entity and in some larger deployment there may be multiple of those potentially operated by different parties We don't talk about, like we don't mandate a specific deployment"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:36:02",
    "text": "architecture. You can munch everything into a CA if you like to do so. And it turns out in discussion with Mike St. Jones, I don't know if he's here in the room that's the deployment model he wanted and he didn't like other deployment models that why we had the discussion on the list um Mike St. Jones, I don't know if he's here in the room, he, that's the deployment model he wanted, and he didn't like other deployment models. That's why we had the discussion on the list. But others want to choose a different deployment model. So we wanted to facilitate these different deployments models with this as the error indicated here, a hint which is a hint to indicate on where to send this where to which verify to pass on that information Of course, with security considerations and so on which we have in the document. So that's the, that's one of the open issue. Could I jump in? I guess my audio is working. So I think the high level issue here is this is this looks like a uh a type statement, like a type value type structure, right? You have an oid and then some data And normally the oid is complete unambiguous. Normally in these types of structures, you part the oid and then you know exactly what to expect in the data The problem with attestation is that there's a billion different formats, and in addition, there's at least a handful of different wrapper formats, like web authentic is a wrapper for and CMW is a wrapper format So we're already starting to see that the OID for the type says CMW but then you actually have to parse inside CMW to find out what proprietary, like, what's the actual data at the bottom. And so the idea the debate here that Hanos was referring to about architecture is should the RACA be responsible for parsing that? first layer of wrapper formats should it be responsible for knowing how to parse CMWs? and whatever's, or should we somehow"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:38:02",
    "text": "drag that up a layer through this UTF8? hint so that the attester can give a hint to the CA about what the actual sort of bottom turtle of that statement is? Does that make sense? And it's a bit of a controversial issue because some people say, well, no, this the is. Does that make sense? And it's a bit of a controversial issue because some people say, well, no, the RA should just have a full stack parser. And other people say, no, the RA shouldn't have a full stack parser. It should delegate Yeah. So, thank you Mike. Yeah, so it relates a little bit to the deployment models So if you munch everything together, all functionality into a C stack parser. It should delegate. Yeah, so thanks, Mike. Yeah, so it relates a little bit to the deployment model. So if you munch everything together, all functionality into a CA, obviously the question about do you process that locally is kind of moot? because you are doing it anyway. But if you are outsource that functionality, a different entity, Microsoft or a different server all together or who knows then the question becomes on like mike just mentioned how deep do you really have to dig into the details to make a decision about where to root the request? And that's where we had this discussion and unfortunately no real conclusion on this so obviously feedback would be appreciated. I understand that this is a sort of very deep into at this point in time into technical deployment issues that you not everyone here may have a strong opinion about this, but I want to bring it up nevertheless anyway so if you plan to deploy remote at the stage with CSRs, this is something you will stumble over at some point in time And then maybe you want to have a chat with us about this Okay, next one Yeah, we have a bunch of open issues as well. Mike, do you, could you? summarize something here on that slide? I don't, yeah, I don't think we need to go into these in detail They're here for people who want to review the notes for the"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:40:02",
    "text": "sake of transparency. So I just earlier we made mentioned that there were 14 issues i think raised during the working group last call. These are the ones that are still open. I just want to be transparent but it's still open. I don't I don't think any of these need debate. I think these are all relatively straightforward. We just need to do them In the appendix we have a couple of uh examples sort of like life examples and Monty has put together or has written code for the DPM base key attestation, and so that's something you could look into its reference in the document so there's a link to a repository where the code can be found. I think that's quite helpful if you plan to play around with this put a prototype together or like showcase something to your to your colleagues Yeah, somebody besides people on the remote people yeah just mentioned somebody else That's mine Raise your hands. Thank you no mine? Raise your hand. No, I know. So this is Hank. This is not Monday Monty um yeah the art architecture does not actually define a dissertation very much on purpose because it's a stupid word nobody should use Thank you And actually, really. So always qualify like key attestation that's fine And we talked about the key attestation claims to be a separate document another book we forgot what it was. So there will be improvement on that. It's evidence or it is attestation results, or it's the activity of remote registration and of course of course, reply to the issue, but I wanted to speak it out loud here so that it will be can hear it again, attestation by itself could mean that you're filling out the secure attestation software form from"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:42:02",
    "text": "the government, which is a piece of paper with checkbox that your boss signs and then is sent via mail paper mail. That is an attestation. So if you want to look for a good definition, you could also use the RIV document in RADS. It's an RIV-48 forever because it was blocked by Chara, both unblocked. They are now moving There is a term definition of registration is like a kid kitchen sink definition. I would also refrain from you using it here because it definitely mean evidence in review registration and then just refer to the reds architecture, but it is a name so you can actually use that and that's good enough. Yeah, that was like we keep track of all the feedback that we get on the maining list, so that was one of them Probably this issue will surface in in other places i'm going to jump here For the sake of the LAMP's agenda, let's try not to debate these live unless we need to. Please comment on the GitHub issues Yeah, just a short comment on the because you mentioned that you have this definition there is a NIST definition of attestation, which you might consider, which has some other problems. Yeah, there are two of them, but I am talking about the first one, which is most closely relevant to what we have here in the draft actually. But my question is a bit different. So you, you, in the first slide, you claim that basically you are covering all kind of evidences that was the claim right but i do not see any discussion in the draft on the trusted execution environments how how does this map to let's say SGX or TDX or CCA or things like that so can you do you want to provide an appendix we would love to include it Sorry, say again. I mean, so the draft just says, here's an octet string put whatever you want in it we don't need to exhaustively list all possible things that can be octet strings But if you want to provide an example that shows how to put SGX, SGX, SGX, attestation, we'd love to include that"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:44:02",
    "text": "So that would basically support any custom form to provide an example that shows how to put SGX attestation, we'd love to include that. So that would support, that would basically support any custom format, right? Yep. Okay, thanks basically support any, any custom format, right? Yep. Yeah. Okay. Thanks. And we have a few people want in here to provide some form so i put a psa example to get a the Monti a TPM example net dice example but if someone else comes along in time then we also include a conference computing with TDX example Yeah, I just put late now, but as it says, please provide more examples as proof of concept that we did this right. I did the TVM example I'd be great if somebody else besides me looked at it as far as I can tell nobody else has looked at the actual source code. Make sure I get it right. But we did it during the hackathon yeah yeah we did during that hackathon, but after the hackathon, after a hackathon, it'd be good. Have some review. Okay uh next had so those are those are the open issues i think Did I exhaust my all over time already? Next slide. That's your last line Oh, okay. That's the last one. You're all done? You're done, I think. No, I'm the other document. But it's very quick it's very... The other freshness document? The real freshness document. So why do you bring it up? I'm just, so there's a, as a document that talks about uh so fresh it's called freshness uh so this document is just a CSR and information included in there for attestation evidence But in many cases what you also want to have is as a relying party, some assurance that this information has recently been generated so that the attest that applied the history private key to sign the evidence just recently And this is what"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:46:02",
    "text": "this document does. It basically includes it in it includes an exchange to pass to provide a non- from the reliance party over to the attester in a test that and typically that's what the different attestation technologies do They then pass this into the as an API call to their testers so that it can then generate the evidence which includes the non-stand consequently and then the relying party when it gets the assigned evidence, it can then verify whether the non-source included in the above whether the produced evidence was fresh It doesn't of course mean that the values inside have recently been generated. That's a completely separate topic because some of it may never change. For example, the information about the hardware Obviously, like even if you sign it again, the hardware won't change right? It's always the hardware, the values, the claims describing the hardware will remain the same. Some other claims may change, for example, if you do a software update, obviously the phone work may change if that's what the software update is about, then that value will be new and it will be a new value in a claim in the remote attestation evidence. Okay So this, since the CSR doesn't is a one-shot message this information needs to be conveyed outside in a certificate management protocol like CMP, ESD, and CMC And so next slide And so there's a lot of words for the title slide slide Thank you, Russ. For the feedback. So the document was adopted in May. We produced a new version. When you look at the diff of the version you get the impression that we rewrote it entirely um which is due to the editorial changes we made to the text. But there are a couple of to be done"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:48:02",
    "text": "in the document, so it's not super complicated in some sense because like it's a it's a round-trip after all. There's some text that will come from Sean on CMC. Currently, this document covers CMP and ESD it also is impact by the hint discussion we just talked about And there are few minor open issues related to what are the capabilities and alignment with the rats sort of concepts so this is something that you would need on typically need on top of the previous presentation, attested TSI in a complete system And what did I put on the next slide? That's it. Okay, cool. Yeah, so that by part is But I disclosed everything already under the title slide Yes, that was a questions, of course, why I put the second slide in there, but that's a presentation style issue probably do you want to say something? Yeah, just one quick question. Is this idea is marked down on? LAMS WG organization GitHub? No I asked him to move it over there and And he asked him. Oh, then I asked the wrong person so I will work with Sean today or tomorrow to move it over there Expect PRs. Yeah We delegated Very good. All right, Sean, you're back It's the lithium certs and khyber search This is a two-for-one presentation, and sorry if I may have dropped the ball about moving that repo over, but it's like clicking a button, so that'd be easy. All right so we've got two certs, one for ML, not MLS"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:50:02",
    "text": "DSA. I cannot believe I did that. Clearly, I've got something on my brain. Sorry it's MLS, co-chair, it's one of my other gigs These are for the, the, the, the, what you're going to do? called Khyber and, you know, the it's MLS co-chair. It's one of my other gigs. These are for the, what used to be called Khyber and, you know, let's go next. So the DSA certs, we did some alignment. I kind of read the two drafts I'm like, Jake's leading one and I'm leading the other and I guess we had some stylistic differences so I tried to merge the two and put them together. Like, for example, I had like a blurb about the ASN1 module. He didn't have it, so I just copied it over there we had uh he'd use the 88 version of the a ASN1 identifier, our algorithm identifier you know, convenience example there, and I used the 21 version, so I changed it the new one to use the 21 version. John Madison and said some comments and we fully incorporated all of them except for one. He wanted to have references to like how they could be used, MLDSCA could be used for a bunch of other things like OCSP and a bunch of other things. I basically said it doesn't really belong in this particular draft there could be an another draft. And now I'm talking with Russ and somebody else about doing the MLDSA for with CMS draft And that's where we can define the constructs that can be used to sign things I didn't want to put it in this draft because the other drafts are going to take a lot longer and I think this one's probably a little used to get out faster. And to do so the other thing that's running around is this private key text that we had in there with some some misalignment amongst three drafts and so again it is just the raw key that gets stuck in there based on the constructs for the those is this private key text that we had in there with some some misalignment amongst three drafts and so again it is just the raw key that gets stuck in there based on the constructs for the public key certificate format but um there are some other words in there that made it a little more confusing so we're going to try to take the text that was in the SLH DSA draft and copied over, which seems to be kind of like it's raw But if you did need to ship it around, just stick in this octet string which is basically what it is. Now, the only reason why we really care about this is because if you do export it and ship it around, you're going to"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:52:00",
    "text": "strickx into PKK8. So that's all that's all that's all is basically what it is. Now, the only reason why we really care about this is because if you do export it and ship it around, you're going tom strickx in the PKK-8. So that's all that's all that we're talking about. We're not trying to put any strings or anything in the front of it none of that. And obviously, add some voids when we get them Next this looks very similar to the previous set of slides Again, try to align the two so we added some, uh, tried to make it a little more stylistic the same. We had two sections that I seemed like an arbitrary split, so I just kind of merged them together Um, and for some reason, we had the FIPS reference in an informative section, and that is incorrect it should be a normative so we moved it up again what's left to do is align some private key text and add some oids Privacy text. Private key text. Oh, okay Use this to get privacy privacy That's it. Any questions? Again, we're mostly just kind of waiting And again, if you would read for any of the stuff that I didn't get between the two where there's, you know, edit just kind of waiting. And again, if you could, if you would read for any of the stuff that I didn't get between the two where there's, you know, editorial fixes and stuff, we're definitely trying to not be controversial here All right. Cool. Thank you. Thank you All right, back to the regularly scheduled agenda agenda Henrik, we're going to talk about 4210 Biss Yeah I'm happy to do so So yeah, this is the status on 6712 and 42-10 bis. Next slide, please So the 6712 bis is the HTTP transfer for CMP messages It is mainly complete for a while and waiting for 4210 BIS to complete. I had an Ina early review comment last week I included it into the version"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:54:02",
    "text": "on GitHub and will submit the update with the next version to the Datatracker But finally, this is it Next slide, please The 4210 bits since last IETF so during last IETF I presented some issues We discussed on the GitHub issue tracker with some people and ask for for guidance and after the last IETF we continued and the discussion and changed some things as proposals and there was no disagreement with We removed some normative language from the section of 422 We did some change on the route CA key update content resolved in Erratum We did discuss on the recipient identifier used in indirect and direct pops methods, so that refers to the same topic, Sean raised with the CMC, that if you use a key to deliver a certificate or an encrypted value where you do not yet have the certificate, but only the private key, then you cannot use values from a certificate to point at the key to use So we decided in CMP the client anyhow needs to keep a state of the transaction if you have several round trips and therefore this as an indication is not this recipient identifier is not needed anyhow and therefore"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:56:02",
    "text": "we we added respective guidance Good, so we did ask for working so we had a working group last call it was extended until July 12th We got some review from St. Vegas and from david hook and yesterday or today i 12th. We got some review from St.Vegas and from david hook. And yesterday or today, I don't know what was your time, also from Sean Sean I will explain on the feedback from Tom on the next slide, but mainly the question would be to the chair on how to proceed now whether we close the working grouplers call, whether there will be first review to be expected So I'm always happy to get feedback on this camp support. It is not not easy and therefore I'm really happy to receive comments and feedback and guidance from the working group So Hendrik, what my thought was at this point was we were waiting for the last review, which Sean did earlier today So I think we're done unless the authors are going to ask for it to be held to do them nonce request, nonce response Thank you I understood it, I didn't have that much time to dig deeper into it As I responded earlier, to Sean, I felt like it is made on the pop and not on the message protection side I think Sean's saying you guys can"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:58:02",
    "text": "proceed and the only thing he's got to look at is whether CMC needs to be Sean's saying you guys can proceed and the only thing he's got to look at is whether CMC needs to deal with the Reiki thing That had nothing to do with CMC That is right and that is also, I don't know I wouldn't call it a review on what we, how we do things. He thought he was going to be a review turned out he had nothing to say. Okay, so if the Sean is review. Turned out he had nothing to say. Okay. So if the feedback, so the review feedback from Sean is like, it is fine how you do it in CMP then I'm happy if it is I just checked whether I need anything for CMC but didn't care about how you do things in CMP then yeah may may also be okay Either way, you're unblocked okay thanks. So now it's up to you to tell us knowledge request, now it's response Are we waiting for that or not? So there are other of the authors in the call, so does any in the call. So does anyone, Mike, John, do you have a preference? I haven't even thought of it it. Okay. You have a second that Can you come to the mic? He's going to the microphone Yeah, John, I'm just about to fall over the mic Yeah, I hadn't even really thought about that holding us up so yeah, I mean, if we think it's going to delay it for a long time if we think it's a couple weeks or whatever, then I would be able to okay So not a couple weeks, a couple months Okay, everyone's saying yes to a couple months, so then I'd say let's not hold it up"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:00:02",
    "text": "yeah so I see the non-request non non-response syntax is really a very isolated thing So it is one section in I think 5.3.19 to add one additional general message type So it could be potentially added also later because it doesn't affect anything else from the draft Okay, so I'm happy to proceed with a document Okay, next slide please So this is just the recap on the way we do message protect And I put in bold the CAM context where we said also following to the CMS CAMRI there can go in some additional context information depending on the CAM algorithm used, whether it needs additional things like CT or public key which was extensively discussed on the CMS CAMA draft. So if there is something that is a place where we could put it it Next slide, please this also goes so on this slide we have the feedback, the three main points coming from Tom on the message protection and one was also on where to put such context information I just showed how we are considering this"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:02:02",
    "text": "The first was a general topic where do KDF parameters go to So they are in the parameters a component of the algorithm identifier if the KDF use or needs them At least, so I'm not the expert on this, at least that is how I read the respective documents So the next point was this discussion on the context information I just explained upon Yeah Back to this slide There you go. We can hear you again We hear you again. Sorry? Yeah we lost you for a second. Sorry I just ask whether there is any comment on this slide. No, no one's gone to the mic line. Okay, next slide, please please So the feedback from Tom on the Cambay based pop so the two first points kind of were responded to we are reused something from CMS, so CMS envelope data with the camps we use the CMS CAMRI and therefore we definitely have, a KDF is involved and also I feel like the CAM re-encapsulation attack is significant or at least addressed with a CMS CAMRI The last point"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:04:02",
    "text": "was on a security consideration in the direct pop where we where the array was on a security consideration in the direct pop where the RA requests to decrypt a challenge by the client and responded the CMP 4210 says that the decrypted that the decrypted challenge is responded or returned in clear. And he said, yeah, why? not returning the hash of the rent? Like it is also done in the CMS CMC We did not really touch the direct method as this is a sideline in CMP and therefore we did not change anything about this. If the working group thinks we should look into it and consider changing it, we can align in the group of authors to do so No? there any? opinion on this? Everybody seems happy Let you make the decision. Thanks We have one. We have one Hi, I'm Sophie from Google Shouldn't we H-Mack the entire certificate? request with the shared secret to avoid any kind of mis- misbinding attacks? Like if you only give the rant out again then I could forward that and like put it in my own certificate request or something. If you have the entire certificate"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:06:02",
    "text": "request, HMack the C-Shed Secret you would avoid that So if we do message protection using cams, we first in a first round trip, a step establish a shared secret and then HMAC the whole message the whole request message Okay, then I misunderstood that. This is about the POP if you provide an encrypted value and request to respond to yeah a proof that you could decrypt it, you could either respond to the plain text value or you could respond an hash on the plain text value This is what the point is about But thanks for looking in it Good. So then next slide i think that that's it it Yep. Thank you. We just posted the consensus call while you were talking Thanks, Russ Okay so back to the next thing on the agenda is 70-30 CSR attributes michael richardson thought he was going to be here See, there he is, okay. You had no slides, but you sent an email for the list. You sent some email I thought, to us. Do you want to say those things at the mic? Sure, since you know, we're so blessed with so much extra time. Oh, well. Yeah we did a working group last call This is on CSR attributes. This is the clarification draft on 7030 and so we had a working group last call I don't really remember when it's"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:08:02",
    "text": "started or ended, but it was recent since the last IETF And the one of the things we added in this is the ability to essentially to use a CSR as a template in the attributes to return what it is you would like So, you know, give me a picture of what you want and I'm going to give you a picture of what I want and you're going to then color in the gaps. The catch is that, many of the contents don't have invalid or empty values that are actually parsable by a stock ASN1 CSR parser, and so there was complaints that this was a problem and so Carl Wallace I believe has come up with some alternate ASN1 that has some empty values but is still essentially a bit on the wire compatible so if you have such a parser, you would need to use the other ASN1 that actually accommodates empty values I don't think we're completely convinced. It's a bit for bit compatible yet that there may be some buzzer in the ASN1, and that's going to get merged in the next week or two and then we'll ask for another working group last call and that's about it. Thank you We did CSR after testation earlier, and so we're now to x500 x500 x50 testation earlier and so we're now to x500 x509 with the stateful hash page signatures all right hi everybody um this is a combined presentation because it's basically just a single page each first is x509 staple stateful has based Next page, please Can you go and turn up the gain on your microphone? a little bit? I can hold it closer"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:10:02",
    "text": "closer Okay. Excuse me All right, good. I brought my cheap, cheap microphone with me uh okay so since 119 it was adopted. Thanks everybody. It was our already in a pretty good state. We've made updates to refer to 8708 biz because previously it only referred to 8708 We removed any extra ASN1 rapid of the public key to align with 8708 BIS and the rest of the NIST post-quantum excuse me, drafts We received ionoids for XMSS and XMSMT. Thanks for us for the assistants added certificate examples, which had mistakes so they have been fixed locally so the next draft will add those certificate examples Private key wrapping, this was something that Russ brought up about RFC808 biz on the mailing list He hasn't updated anything on his draft, so if it's going to stay the same, that's fine As it stands, all of these drafts are this draft in 8708 is say absolutely nothing about private key encoding, sorry, I should say private key encode and not private key wrapping Well, octet wrapping, right? That's what we're discussing Well, it seems to me that it's the draft saying nothing about how to encode the private key at all in PKCS 8 or 12, and that's actually fine with me because, well, stateful hash-based signature are a minefield and in the absence of, in absence of people how to manage the state and expect the state properly, telling them how to encode the private key is like throwing a footgun in"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:12:02",
    "text": "the middle of a minefield so scott fluhrer wants to make a comment. Sure To emphasize to agree with you strongly, I think that is a private key wrapping for a stateful hash-based signatures is a really bad idea. You should not touch it That's what we're doing Okay, so I guess to that point to that point, should we continue to say nothing or should both this and 87-8Biz add text saying, explicitly we're not saying anything about rapping don't do it unless you know how to do state management? Well, 8708BIS has some words that say, don't use the raw public and private if you want to steal that text, go ahead I'm fine with saying nothing. It's pretty clear from the ASN1 Okay. And then besides that, we think it's ready for working last working group last call so just we think it's ready for working group last call, so. Does anyone have any issues they know about on the one? Okay we'll put it on the list all right thank you, and the next page, please so SLH SLHDSA in X-509 also was a adopted last time. The changes are adding Chautou Shake fast and small descriptions of those parameter sets to the introduction referring to the CMS Sphinx Plan to get the ASN1 Excuse me. More ASN1 was expanding the signature algorithms and public key algorithms lists, I guess, to include these oids I don't know enough about ASN1 to know whether that's what's"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:14:02",
    "text": "supposed to be done. So please let us know Also trying to be super explicit about raw public key and encoding from Sean's presentation Sounds like he stole that text, so I'm happy about that Also remove private key encoding text because that's already handled in the Sphinx Plus CMS draft. Added security considerations and filled out a table of strengths Next steps is like all the other NIST documents to wait for Oids i have here pure versus prehash but i heard in PQIP, I think, Ross or someone else said, we're not doing pre-hash at all in IETF, so I'm happy with that we won't we'll just follow the crowd and only do pure And similar, I guess, to what Sean has said, John had a request to cover other things like PKCS10, CMP, OCSP My question was, is there anything that precludes? it being used in these? And apparently the answer is no, and we'll deal with it in the CMS drive or in something else. Sean Yeah, I think that's the better approach. I mean, we could put a note in there and then the problem is references right so if you start stuff in the CMS draft or in something else. Sean. Yeah, I think that's the better approach. I mean, we could put a note in there and then the problem is references right. So if you start sticking things in there for PKCS10, CMCO OCSP, you know, you end up with this weird thing. So it would be something like, hey, you can use these here's a bunch of informative references. Seems kind of silly, right? So I think just putting in the actual CMS one totally makes more sense. So that's how I do it. But I guess I wanted to jump back to this pre-hash assertion that we're only doing pre-hash because I thought I heard Piquit that NIST was going to ask whether we wanted to get pre-hash stuff. So is the answer definitely hell no? And then we don't need to do it? I don't want to derail us, but I thought I heard that and if that's the case then that makes it easier I heard that as with regard to certificates absolutely. I don't see any reason to pre-hash a certificate"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:16:00",
    "text": "because it's kind of tiny anyway. So don't just don't do that okay good yeah all Quinn's and Quinn can answer I guess I'm, Quinn Dangan. Just a slight correction I just said that we will have two versions and I did not Yeah, that was all And then, yeah so i think i think nest will provide two versions but that doesn't mean that we have to use both versions Well, and the structure of C cms already kind of so it's oh two versions, but that doesn't mean that we have to use both versions. Well, and the structure of CMS already kind of serves its own internal by putting a hash of the message as a find attribute and then signing the set of signed attributes So it's already a prehash So all right go ahead mike just just yeah just history on this so Panos did a bet and I, although I think I've changed my opinion since a couple years ago hashed this out pun intended on the mail list And like, Panos, I think was correct to say, are there any protocols that do not prehash at the protocol and are big like can we find one can we find this mythical unicorn? That's a problem. This mythical unicorn We came up with large CRLs And that was it. That was the only thing we could come up with. We came up with lots of, I'm aware of proprietary signed things I'm aware of weird PDF extensions, I'm aware of, but like, yeah, I think with things that are in the scope of IETF, large CRLs was the only thing we could find that wasn't already prehashed to some extent. That's the history. Thanks Okay Next slide. John in the queue Oh, okay. John's in the queue in the queue. Oh, okay, it's John. Yeah, it's John Entrust. I'm just going to point out also like, you know sending data to an HSM and you don't want to send a game"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:18:02",
    "text": "from Entrust. I was just going to point out also, like, you know, sending data to an HSM. You don't want to send a gigabyte to it as kind of an important use case for a lot of people as well. So that's another pre-cash use case just wanted to mention that so there are there are use cases that's maybe not regarding this because this is about CMS this is about x509 and I'm glad that certs aren't a gateway. Exactly yeah i i think a clear way to say it is there's obviously a use for signing large objects and if you're signing large objects you should pre-hash them. The uses of signing that show up in protocols tend to is there's obviously a use for signing large objects. And if you're signing large objects, you should pre-hash them. The uses of signing that show up in protocols, which is what we do at IETF, tend to be small Okay, thanks Yeah, that's it All right. Thank you, Daniel Next is Rohan on the key usage for I am Is he here? All right, so let me tell you what the state of this is. It's been no need for an update for since the last IETF so we're going to work in a group last call it unless someone has an objection Composite Was that? all the time sucking out of them? Yeah, we have like 10 minutes. Yeah, so composite signatures, it was actually adopted a month or two ago. So thank you, everyone This is just about the O2 updates. We can go to the next slide So the one change affecting implementation interoperability was just a very tiny thing. It was actually just clarity on the PSS-based ML MLDSA-44 and yeah, the 2048 and 3070 and 2. We just fixed the salt. We had, I think it was"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:20:02",
    "text": "Tim that gave us a comment we hadn't clarified that so basically we're going to use a 256 bit salt um when uh the 2048 is used and 512 bit salt. So that really is the only interoperability change. So if someone implemented it that's just a clarity really. So you can go to the next slide Yeah, so this slide I've shown this before the only thing we changed here is we kind of moved up We changed, so we're doing the pre-hap of the OID. We changed that. We call it domain same thing, still bit compatible with the previous one we just moved it up basically a step so instead of doing it on step two, you know, twice, now we're doing it at the time so it ends up being the same thing so and if you go to the next slide, the same thing for signature verification We just do the domain and the hash together concatenated and that step instead of doing it down when it's doing the verifying. So not a big thing, still compatible, but actually we'll save you a step if you were actually doing it that way. Next of doing it down when it's doing the verifying. So not a big thing, still compatible, but it actually will save you a step if you're actually doing it that way. So next slide. Okay, this is just the list same thing we haven't updated them there's also I'll talk a bit later there's a couple changes that are probably are being asked for so you can go to the next slide Yeah, so editorial changes. We had a scott fluhrer because he's been helping us a lot and he always comes to our meeting we have them every two weeks um we move remove references to the parallel pkis um a scott fluhrer because he's been helping us a lot and he always comes to our meetings. We have them every two weeks. We removed references to the parallel PQI is an implementation consideration section because we found it wasn't adding value and I think we had some comments about that too. We also resolved comments from Chris regarding Phipps. We added a use in CMS section so we're hoping that will mitigate us having to write another draft that says this is how you use it in CMS because the CMS section, so we're hoping that will mitigate us having to write another draft that says this is how you use it in CMS because there's a section in this document that says how you do that Obviously, if the working group wants, we can take it out and put it in a different document, but I thought, might as well just put it in there. It saves us writing another document"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:22:02",
    "text": "Yeah, well, so I mentioned this part already the OID concatenation part, showed that we expanded the description of the key generation algorithm Oh, Mike, you have something you want to say Yeah, I mean, do you want to finish this? slides or do you want to I want to sort of force the debate about the use in CMS, but I'm happy to wait until you're done. Okay sure, I can finish this. We added an S S-Mime caps into the composite signature definite in the ASN1 module there was some editorial changes by Jose Ignacio Hiz Grabano, hopefully I said his name right So we find people just, you know, go into the LAMPS working group and you know, make pull requests. So I guess people are really interested in this and of course we fixed knits as well I think Mike, maybe you want to talk now? I think that's Yeah, so- Editorial changes. There's some more stuff afterwards yeah so let's have the debate and Russ this is sort of I guess looking to you for guidance do you do you want so right now we've got this document that defines the algorithms and buried inside it, we've got this document that says, here's how you use it within CMS. Can by can convention in LAMPS, those are separate documents And we've written it with the idea that we could just suck that section out into its own document What do you want us to do here? You know, let me read it one more time and I'll comment on list. Okay. Thank you thank you okay can anyone oh, michael richardson comment comment go back to your slide with the output invalid signature Yes, okay. Should we go back? a couple slides That one there. Yeah, that one there um so of course that's kind of got a, if the"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:24:02",
    "text": "segment, if it ends early then you know the second signature failed so that's probably probably something you don't want to put in the slide to tell people that they should take the early exit constant time Pardon me? It has to validate, well, like you must validate. We just wanted to make it clear. Yeah, I understand that. I'm just saying that someone reads it's like, oh, so I should implement it that way, and the answer is no, because you want to constant time signature verification. Not for verify Why? Because it doesn't have the private key key But then I can find it. All right and a sign that needs that not verify. Yeah, all right. Fair enough. Fair enough Good. My bad. Wednesday afternoon I was like, oh, yeah, yeah right, we can shortcut. No, we can't. We should never do that anymore okay no no it's not yeah all right good okay continue then So yeah, can keep going to where we were I forgot I was a couple of sides behind. Yeah, so you can go to the next one too Yeah, so outstanding issues So I mentioned before so we have this list of 13, so we have a large end user wants us to add 49 bit combinations We could replace, like there's 3072 ones, so we could replace that. Or we could add two more PSS and AP PKK 1.5 then we would have 15 So if you have feedback on that, I mean, you know, you have this way to combine things and people want to use their favorite algorithms. I mean, RSA, four years stronger, I guess Okay, go ahead, Deb So without my hat on why don't you ditch the 2048 ones? Yeah, okay. Yeah, I mean, that's a possibility too"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:26:02",
    "text": "So good feedback. So anyone that has feedback let us know Yeah, and of course we don't want this huge list too If we if there's ways to pair it down, we would appreciate that I mean, that's yeah, you've seen the list, you know, like there's brain pool curves and all that stuff too. Any way that we can pair it down would be great. Okay, so yeah, so there's some comment, Carl Wallace had a bunch of comments and even some people on the list were saying, oh, are you guys just not ignoring those? No, we're not ignoring those. We actually discussed with Carl at the hackathon. And I guess I didn't finish this slide, but anyway, it's a lot to do with the AI ASN1, so he did come up with, I guess, like I heard in a different draft, another way to make the ASN1 much more efficient instead of, because he compiled it and it produced lots of objects for each one. So it looks like his methods are really good. So we probably in the next few weeks we'll be updating that to to add those comments that he had we also had some newer comments just within the last couple weeks from Peter Popes. I hope you said, I said your name right We haven't responded to those yet, but we will so those are on the list would do. And oh yeah, and the last thing, on the list, there's well, actually, there's another slide of these things, but also we can make the domain separator instead of just the code coding of the oid, we could hash it and then it would make it fixed link there's, well, actually, there's another slide of these things, but also we can make the domain separator instead of just the deer coding of the oid, we could hash it and then it would make it fixed length. So that was a suggestion that came up too Right, so we can go to the next slide uh yes another thing, so in the composite signature public key format we compacted it down to take out, you know, in the public key, there's redundant information in there. We took that out so the public key small smaller. The private key, we could do the same. We just, I mean, it's a private key. We didn't, we haven't thought that was something that was needed but if people really wanted a smaller private key, that could be done. Am I running out of time? really okay yeah I'll be done very soon How do we care?"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:28:02",
    "text": "Yeah, and how do we carry the MLDSA public key? And what was I going to say about that one? That's the yes, that's the ASN run wrap stuff. Yeah, so we had a debate with car who suggested that we register in OID for no encoded or null encoded or something like that That's just, yeah, we've debate that we don't have time for in this slide There's still a bit of discussion obviously going on about that. And then i just read that i guess the open PD group, I noticed that Mike you had submitted an issue about this just a couple days ago because they suggested that so they have a pairings of basically composite as well so they had suggested MLDS 65 and 87 both with NIST p384 so we don't have that exact combination. So if we did do this, like, I guess the question is, do we align? I think it would make sense to align again this was just from what we heard two days ago so if we did this this would change the one the one algorithm MLDSA 65 ESA ECDSA P-56, and we use P-384 and they also recommended a combination with MLDSA-4 and Brain Pool so maybe we could just remove that one so they didn't recommend a company of that so we could remove that too I think that's outstanding issues So they didn't recommend a combination of that. So we could remove that too. So I think that's outstanding. Oh, and the last very important, this one is we had a very exciting result at our hackathon. So this is actually i wanted to share um so we actually have four in a raw interoperable, basically for composite signatures. This chart is showing that we've had bouncy castle open QS provider and Trusting Cryptonext. We actually have Composite signature implementations. This table was actually I mean, I cut out a little bit of it because we have all the other PQ algorithms in there too, but it was actually generated dynamic We had a lot of really good GitHub action tooling"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:30:02",
    "text": "that happened at the hackathon. So now people can very easily submit their artifacts and within just a couple minutes get, you know, basically an output that in this matrix this chart is generated automatically. So I think this will help not just the composites this is showing that we have good implementation you know across for providers. But you can see the first one I included in MLDSA. It also shows there's a lot of people that know operate with that so anything else you wanted to mention about that, Mike? Last plug for a hackathon work that's been going on for two years but um mean I can plug that yes we built out some automation to automatically so this is testing against the oqs Docker image I'm also in parallel working on integrating NIST ACVP tests so if you upload this, so the hackathon stuff will automatically be running against OQS and ACVP And we're fixing on it with that yeah we're done So thank you and the rest of the agenda on Friday. Thank you Thank you. Thank you So thank you and the rest of the agenda on Friday. Thank you. Thank you Thank you Yeah Yes because they're not going to publish it as quick That is why They said they're going to do the QMLs MLs. It's unfortunate because that's the only one that you can fit in the MSDU. You want to send it? MLs It's unfortunate because that's the only one that you can fit in the MSDU. Yep. But it also has a signature problem It uses the floating point Oh. The verification does it"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:32:02",
    "text": "design. Yep, which may not be compatible to the environment. That's a good point Oh, yeah, yeah we all said That's unfortunate. Indeed"
  }
]
