[
  {
    "startTime": "00:00:04",
    "text": "two-thirty so we need to make sure that we end at least a couple of minutes early or minute early or something and get out of the room so they can come in and set up okay so with that this is the note well you know hopefully you have seen this many times here but it is important to put it up in front of everything you know there are there are a number of things that are touched on here not just what it means to make a public contribution and the fact that that can be used by the IETF and IETF process but there\u0027s a code of conduct in here you know issues about the process expectations on people and of course our privacy policy and so please if you have not you know please make sure to take the time to review that material so that you know we can all be working together as a team here to make the internet a better place right oh I probably should have started off by saying also that I am James Galvin one of the co-chairs Antoine de Sean is with us in the me deco up there at the top he is the other co-chair we were doing the sound check with him just a minute ago so that we we know that it all works and so with that this is a document review request I\u0027ve always kind of put this up here this is just something we\u0027ve been been doing here in this group we\u0027re a relatively small group and a small group of people you know self-selected and we we have actually been been having some issues trying to keep up with document shepherds and and you know moving documents along and so I just think you know in the IETF context and journal it\u0027s useful to keep in mind that you know the ITF is larger than just this working group so in addition to please paying attention to documents in your working group and taking the time to comment and actually read them and support them work or not as the case may be now please do reach out and take a look at documents in other working groups and equally feel free to ask others to come and look at your documents we have had two meetings here at this IEF session one session two this is our normal regular working group meeting we had a work session yesterday for a couple hours and we\u0027ll get a brief summary of each of the documents that was talked about at that session so let\u0027s jump right in here to our agenda and formally start the meeting as usual we need our jabber and note scribe and look around can I get any volunteers to do jabber and and notes for us please somebody oh it\u0027s not usually this hard but in the middle of the screen hit that "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:03:15",
    "text": "okay fair enough I was trying to expand the slide to be itself on the full screen but you\u0027re right okay so that\u0027s better that\u0027s fine really I know that we usually I don\u0027t really want to reach out and tag somebody to get the regular people but we really do need a jabber scribe and somebody just to take notes you\u0027ll do the dad sorry you\u0027re sitting in the seat that should have assigned it to you because you were sitting there that\u0027s right thanks Wendy uh somebody to take some notes for us please I\u0027ll look in that yeah it\u0027s a short meeting guys really could use somebody just to take some notes you know just a quick summary of actions grab the agenda and if we make any comments about anything really okay Breck thank you very much appreciate it Rick Wilhelm okay we\u0027ve already done the note well so let\u0027s jump right into the Charter update this slide actually shows on it the change in the Charter that has been put on the mailing list we\u0027ve gone through working group last call and it has been submitted to our area director the last two paragraphs under the old were replaced by the one sentence there that you see under new for those who haven\u0027t seen that before there were a couple of issues that were talked about on the mailing list with respect to this you know people in general were we\u0027re worried about this group having too broad a scope and you know likely to take on more things and it really can do and the response you know the explanation that had given on the mailing list and I\u0027ll just highlight here is there is that key you know phrase there in the middle of the sentence at the bottom in consultation with its responsible area director so the idea here is to try not to add too many words to finding exactly what we may or may not do we do want to try to use the phrase you know related to the operation of internet identifier registries whatever those might do we\u0027re believing that that includes both our DAP and EPP and it allows us to to get into some of the operations and and standardizing certain activities that those registries would take on and of course we would always have to make that with the responsible area director so the escape clause if you will is the area director has to agree so we always have an opportunity to make sure that we don\u0027t have a lot of scope creeks and doesn\u0027t just slip in because we want it okay I\u0027m told by the area director that our Charter is on the nextel a chat and he\u0027s oh I\u0027ll let him speak for himself Panama it\u0027s not technically on the chat yet I\u0027m going to look at it very closely make sure tonight socialized health people first but I hope to put it on the next-door chat which is August 2nd okay thank you apologize for that confusing but that should you know the expectation "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:06:17",
    "text": "is that if all of that proceeds without incident then we\u0027ll be well prepared to pick up some of the new work items that we have pending in our queue okay document management this is just another opportunity for Antoine and I just to reach out and appeal to people you know please to help us out with respect to document Shepard we actually have a couple of documents that are pending a document Shepard right now and I know that it is if you use a process if there\u0027s really just a form that you fill out and then you have to manage all the comments that the isg produces as they react to the document once it\u0027s submitted in we look for the document shepard commandments that the important thing is the document shepard cannot be a current document author or editor so you you need a someone that\u0027s independent from all of that and I don\u0027t know Antoine if you wanted to add anything to that all if you jump in the queue there I\u0027ll let you otherwise I\u0027ll just move on here okay so we\u0027ll move on then to existing document status we have lots of document status this time I think that this three month period has probably been one of our most productive here a lot of things can go come to conclusion so that\u0027s been a good thing so we\u0027re gonna go through four categories of things here in terms of items in iesg last call the top two are actually in is G last call there are there in the is G queue and they\u0027re just waiting to come out to Adam wants to step up please good kind of Rocha so just as a the art up object egg and this probably happened now if you made the slide that is now on the upcoming college chat as well so we\u0027ll be balloting on that August 2nd as well okay good thank you so these documents move along most important here is that they\u0027re kind of out of our queue that\u0027s what got them onto this slide labeled IETF last call there they are off of our list which means the milestones list has already been updated too so they don\u0027t have them the last to the organizational mapping and the and the the epp extension for the organization so down here in italics i put them on this slide because they\u0027ve been submitted to the isg but they they haven\u0027t moved further than having been handed to the area director for the next step in the process but they having done that they get to get off of our milestone list and so they\u0027ve been adjusted in that way okay I\u0027m gonna along through these except for a couple that I know we need to talk about unless someone wants to jump up at the mic and we can go back if I move past something that you wanted documents that are past working group last call but have not actually been submitted up so the first one up here is the bunting registration it\u0027s it\u0027s targeted for being submitted for an informational document it\u0027s the one which is pending a document Shepard "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:09:17",
    "text": "so we really are very interested in someone who\u0027s willing to step up and help us along here and and be the document Shepherd for this and just move this document along if anyone is interested in doing that certainly appreciate your you know raising your hand or saying so on the mailing list or please come up and see me at the end of this meeting the changeful document is just waiting for its document shepherd right up and the last one is the registry fee extension and I think we\u0027ll it is past working group last call but a technical issue came up when the document shepherd was doing there right up and which one of you is gonna end up you\u0027re gonna do that James okay whichever you would like I think if you\u0027re here you can be more so James Gould is going to talk a little bit about that and and the meeting and discussion we had earlier today as well as on the mailing list and the recent past trying to resolve where to go with this document the yeah go to the other one I guess yeah so group of us met earlier today and there was a group from Verisign from affiliates from GoDaddy and there was also Patrick on the remotely logged in so what we did was we discussed the particular topic of the standard attribute and in during the review of the mailing list identified the specific comments on the list and why don\u0027t when I was going through the review it looked like there was not a consensus at the time so that\u0027s why I brought it up we discussed it and the result of this was the fact that we felt like it was in line with the data model of of the system and in in line with the protocol itself and that adding this attribute really didn\u0027t fundamentally change the behavior at all so the recommendation at this point was to move the standard attribute from the command which was incorrect to the response as as I was doing the review it\u0027s identified it was actually in the wrong place so we need to fix that what I\u0027m going to do is I\u0027m going to post a message to the list with the notes from the meeting and then Roger will follow up with an update to the draft and that\u0027s it okay and what will happen there is we\u0027ll end up with version 12 I think of that draft at that time and we will essentially immediately well as soon as the write-up is finished then we\u0027ll just immediately submit that to the isg to move that along this has been one of our most dramatic documents we\u0027ve spent probably far more technical time on this document than many others so I think it\u0027s quite a milestone in our work "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:12:17",
    "text": "products here to move this document along please Scott Hollenback Jim if I may I would caution though that we shouldn\u0027t assume that we should be able to move this document to the iesg once it\u0027s updated given that this decision is just going to be described to the mailing list it is possible that someone on the list may object may suggest an alternative and so I think we do need a little bit of time to ensure that we we have consensus on the approach and you know that it doesn\u0027t warrant you know either continued discussion or another working group last call or something right so thank you for that Wendy go before I come in yes thank you and one from the jabber room saying yes we need another working group last call yeah I see that\u0027s my co-chair saying that my co-chair no I may need to sync up a little bit here but you know fair point Scott and I didn\u0027t mean to to extend beyond that implicit and let me just make it so everyone\u0027s clear we\u0027re not trying to overtake the the discussion but the consent the what we decided in our discussions today is we are trying to figure out whether this was a technical error in the specification you know in an oversight at some point in time that we missed and in any case you know as always with in the ITF you know all final decisions are made on the mailing list so there\u0027s always that possibility and in particular Pat Maroni although we did our best to represent and talk about his position in all of this you know in fairness he was not part of the discussion this morning open we were trying to figure out what to do we do think that we we have a decision and a choice which which meets everyone\u0027s needs and also honors and and respects the protocol as it should be so we\u0027re not making a technical change we had an oversight in not having completed a change to the schema when we had a discussion you know seven months ago and it got into the document and it was until the document shepard was doing there particularly thorough review in this case that they identified what was going on but as in in fairness you\u0027re right we will post all of this on the mailing list and make it clear what happened this of course will be documented in an in a proper way by the document shepard when we go to submit the document up and we\u0027ll allow some time for discussion on the mailing list just in case somebody wants to bring something up that we might have missed but ideally they\u0027re you know we\u0027re hoping that there won\u0027t be any issue there we\u0027ve tried to cover all of the issues that we knew about and all the questions that we had so but thank you for that okay moving along quickly again here so there are other documents that are listed on our vert on our we have "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:15:18",
    "text": "other documents listed in our working group list of documents and there are two other documents which are still on our milestones list that I want to call out that we need to make reference to here okay so the ones in italics here on this the second and the fourth one are actually not on the milestone list they are documents that are still in the working group that we have not progressed and have not moved forward now a case of the TM CH functional specification that has a technical issue on on the ICANN side that we\u0027re waiting to be resolved so that document is officially parked for right now and you know we\u0027re hoping that we\u0027re going to get some resolution on the other side so that we can incorporate that into this document and then and then move that one along the verification code extension we\u0027ve just kind of ignored for a while we haven\u0027t tried to progress that or move it forward so and we have not actually even proposed a timeframe for when we want to pick that up so that\u0027s a decision that will have to come to as we look at other work items to take on we need a decision on what to do with this one now the other two documents third-party DNS operator and the validate mapping we have actually had some discussion about those but we we have not chosen to to pick those to move along I know the editors of the DNS operator document really do want to move that document along they have some issues to address and they need to revive that document and revise it and then put it back up on our priority list so that we can close on that document the the validate document and I\u0027m thinking I\u0027m drawing a blank here I\u0027m actually forgetting now after having put all this together yes Roger thank you help me out there so actually this Roger Carney we met and I say a month ago I can\u0027t remember exactly I had an interim meeting and we were going to cover the validate and the registry mapping but we got stuck on the validate so it was actually a very productive meeting we do have quite a few changes coming out of that and there\u0027s been some I\u0027ll say very few suggestions on lists so far since the meeting but we do have a handful I would say probably six fairly good modifications to it that are coming in the next few weeks oh okay good so work is progressing there so that\u0027s a good thing okay all right moving on new work items we have we had multiple presentations over you know the couple of years that we\u0027ve been in existence about potential work items these are three that stand out right now as being recently proposed and they seem to have more energy so this is not necessarily intended to be an exhaustive list of things that might come to us but I wanted to highlight them and make them visible for new work items and I guess James you actually had "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:18:20",
    "text": "a couple of slides here or the log in one and let me and there we go okay great all right um so yeah I posted this extension recently and there\u0027s been some dialogue on the list so I wanna go to the next slide yes so the problem is that this particular extension dress is is first off extending the maximum password length past 16 characters which is in the RFC today the second problem is the fact that there\u0027s no capability in EBP today to return back errors and warning security Arizonians to the client examples include passwords pirates or tippet expiry insecure ciphers or TLS protocols the other one is provided user agent information from the client in essence that way the server can help identify potential security issues or functional issues to inform the client in the in the response so with that the extension was posted and the intent is to fix those particular problems the next slide please so I cover each of the problem so the first one is to extend the password past 16 characters the way this works is that it extends the login command since the RFC requires a password of six to sixteen characters a constant value is used there in essence in brackets login - security and that informs the server to look into the extension and in essence the client continue to use passwords as they do today so it\u0027s forward I guess is backward compatible and then the logging extension will allow for passwords beyond 16 characters so what happens is that the new elements in the extension will support a minimum length of 6 which matches what\u0027s in the RC and it has an undefined maximum so that we could have it move forward as curing standards change in the next slide and here\u0027s an example very straight forward so in essence you can see here that the constants are in the the base and then that\u0027s telling the server to look in the extension and there\u0027s a longer password it\u0027s very straightforward the next one is a little bit more complex but very useful in essence the the server will be able to return back security events and it could be a list of them to the client and the only time this extension is included is first off the unhandled namespace issue if the client includes it that extension and login services and there was at least one event so go to the next slide so these are the "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:21:20",
    "text": "attributes of the security events you have a type and there\u0027s a set of predefined weathers paths or certificates cipher there\u0027s also a statistical item as well at for example a certain number of failed logins within a certain duration and then custom for extensibility and there\u0027s a warning and error level in essence an error should result in a failed login you can have an expiration date for things like password expires or - expiry and there were some additional attributes here for statistics which would be a value in duration and there\u0027s a free-form description for the next one and we\u0027ll see an example there\u0027s an example of a password that is going to expire so in essence is a warning the the authentication in fact worked but this provides the client with information that they need to change the password next here\u0027s an example of a scenario where the password has expired so therefore it\u0027s an authentication error the reason why it\u0027s an error is because the passwords in fact expired keep going ok and then we have the user agent information I gotta tell you it\u0027s very difficult on the server to identify what clients will be impacted by certain things so without having the user agent information we can\u0027t you can\u0027t make those calls so this extension will allow for the client to include the user agent information in the login command itself so move the next line here\u0027s an example of it so in essence in the extension it just has the user agent information includes it\u0027s an SDK use and Java on the Mac and that\u0027s pretty much it so we did have some feedback on the list some of those folks really wanted to broaden this to consider other authentication methods right now it\u0027s it\u0027s very limited so I\u0027ll be looking for any suggestions about how to specifically do that if that is the case there\u0027s comments around the use of the constant value we also had dialog related to setting of the minimum password length and we agreed to use the RCE length of 6 it\u0027s the minimum and there was also discussions related to the XML schema type teams for the password and we pretty much just reused what was in the our suit next slide please so in conclusion this extension solves the three problems by extending the login command to address the password length address the user agents and in the response will provide back the security warnings and errors so I highly suggest that you go ahead and review it and provide any feedback all feedback is welcome ok wait a minute and we have someone in me deco so let me um "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:24:23",
    "text": "Alexander yeah I\u0027m Sally sorry Alexander we\u0027re not really hearing you okay put it in the chat okay that\u0027s much better while he\u0027s doing that please go ahead yeah okay last Fembots may I finish actually for the problem of others additional authentication method so suggestion on the mailing list was to not to reinvent the wheel by ourselves but to reuse I say that I like I said Oh even that I understand it but I\u0027m certain that when it comes to security it\u0027s almost always a variety in reading with yourself so it\u0027s better to simply refer to something which is well known and established the 80s okay I see James taking notes that was good and there it is let me read out what he wrote in the chat room here I like this draft and was only wondering whether those features can be used independently so can I use the security warning mechanism with the standard passwords yeah they can in essence you know the user agent nation is they\u0027re all completely separate yeah I mean you can you can choose to do them separately but I would highly recommend that at least support the password length change okay okay and we heard perfect from Alexander so that\u0027s perfect okay all right good thank you James and going on I think that\u0027s it for those so before we move into the other thing I want to talk a little bit about next steps I just realized I didn\u0027t we didn\u0027t put a slot on here for talking about what\u0027s what\u0027s happening next what we have been focused on quite dramatically this year in particular over the last 12 months since last summer and been especially successful in closing the loop here on a number of things is to clear our milestone list and in the number of documents that we have on our docket we\u0027ve been kind of moving things along kind of slowly and it\u0027s been really helpful to to suddenly come to closure on a number of things and and really close that loop recently so with the Charter update it opens the opportunity for us to take on some additional documents we do have some other work items we have already been talking about registry mapping for example and it\u0027s you know not currently on our list we now have the login document and you know we\u0027re gonna have "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:27:24",
    "text": "and we have some new work items here I just feel like we didn\u0027t there\u0027s a workout I mean we didn\u0027t we didn\u0027t talk about did I yeah I skipped over the escrow stuff didn\u0027t I I went right past that okay we\u0027ll come back to that in a moment and we have the escrow stuff will give Gustavo chance to come back and remind us of that and and speak to that stuff too so we have a number of pending things have been out there and we will try to move these along in the mailing list the critical thing at the moment is to continue to complete the couple of documents that are you know very close and all but published we have a number that are right there and we\u0027re just going to about done with that we also need our Charter update so we need to get past that with the isg and our air a director and hopefully that will be successful so I suspect that leading in to the next IETF meeting we will have opportunities on the mailing list and we\u0027ll be reaching out to talk about working from adoption on some new work items and we\u0027ll need to prioritize them in an upper State update our milestone list accordingly okay so we\u0027ve been doing a good job here lately of getting things off our miles to enlist it is now down to just having the couple of things open that we\u0027ve already reviewed and I mentioned everything else has been shuttled off and had its state change so that we know where it is and that\u0027s been a good thing so I guess I just wanted to call that out for people watch for some notes on the list about the Charter update the last couple of documents to move on and we\u0027ll start bringing some new documents informally into the working group and move them along so just will and the like estado come up now and if folks want to comment on that or say anything about that we give it a STOVL a chance first to talk about the data escrow documents and savory ones say there and then we\u0027ll take questions and comments about anything from anyone gladly yeah once told us on RIKEN so those well of those three documents in reality the first one was the first version and then it was a split into the other two so we can forget about the fuse one but the other two are the documents that I would like in the world to adopt at some point in time so in the gTLD space we have this process called data escrow so basically all utilities are required to create this deposit with some data elements from the SRS database and they put this information to add our escrow agent and then the agent can\u0027t release the deposit if certain conditions arise so those documents are heavily used in the utility space they reduced by DT of these data screens of your providers they have been used several times for doing transitions and they are used on a daily basis the documents are pretty stable now they are not expire so they are current and I they have already "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:30:24",
    "text": "implementation sections so you can go and see which has implemented these and documents so that\u0027s it those those are done that two documents are able like in the future please [Music] Elad speaking for myself not as chair that just emphasize something that Gustavo had said these documents are pretty stable you know most gTLD registries are already doing this and they\u0027re using them so I would hope that these documents probably represent a couple of work items we can progress rather quickly unless there\u0027s a an issue which pops up and now Rogers gonna tell me about something I missed right now this is Roger no I actually haven\u0027t read these I\u0027ll go back and read them but are they stable in the sense of all the changes in data privacy recently yeah they were updated recently to accommodate all the varying data privacy Thanks okay yes please Scott Hollenbeck um gustaba do you know are these practices being used outside of the gTLD space at all and the ccTLD community and here\u0027s where i\u0027m coming with that right in the past when we\u0027ve looked at either protocols or practices that are unique to a particular community a particular company a particular vendor the practice has typically been to publish them as informational right they don\u0027t necessarily represent a industry standard if these practices were being used in the ccTLD community as well I\u0027d feel much more comfortable with saying yeah I mean I see these as a as a broad industry practice abroad in a potential standard for the industry but if not it might be worth describing them as something like you know the ICANN recommendation for data escrow or something like that we can have this debate where we start talking about adopting the documents and what the intended status says bla bla bla but if you do know of implementation outside the ICANN community I think that\u0027d be some very interesting information to share thank you Scott that\u0027s a very good question so I\u0027m hopeful that Gustavo can see if he can get some of that information and have that available when it comes time to talk about it and I\u0027ll stay back here Godric yeah brick will home there we go home bar sign um the Rogers point about the privacy things things for those that don\u0027t lay low and I can and it\u0027s processes very often things related to I can to efforts to adopt the temporary specification and turn into a more formal policy are still very much in flux and it is entirely possible that the escrow provisions might be changed by you know because it\u0027s all still unlit "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:33:25",
    "text": "agay \u0027td - over the application of the gdpr was just went into effect on May 25th his are not really been tested in court it\u0027s only getting its first test right now in German Court so it\u0027s it\u0027s the point is that they have been stable I think they\u0027ve been technically so for a while but we might see some change do the things that are outside of our tentacle control yes a lot of moving parts in the privacy space just have to track that as best we can ok next up on the agenda is work session summaries as I had indicated before you know we did have a working session yesterday two hours we had three topics that came up and will now take a few minutes and give everybody a chance who are the leaders of those topic sessions to give a short summary and and open for any questions that you might want to ask so hang out for a moment afterwards and see what kind of questions we get so roger Carney you up for this Roger um yeah so we met yesterday we went over the overview for those that are new to it those that ignored it those that purposely forgot it we still went over the overview we went through all the discussion points that came out of the last meeting as well as all the discussion points on the list we talked through all those things and I know that we have several items that we\u0027ll be updating and several other several items that we still need to discuss on list prior to updating but the it was it was a good discussion yesterday we will be trying to meet fairly regularly for the next few months to progress this along as as quickly as we can we\u0027ll let the list know as soon as we know anything about future meetings but yeah we do plan on meeting and getting an update to this rather soon so let me make a comment and then ask a question of you before you go away and anyone else has a question please do stand up just to put a little bit of context here this is a work item that that\u0027s been kind of an ad hoc you know volunteer work item it\u0027s not formally a part of the working group although we had always intended to to take it on and it is kind of a substantial piece of work and so Rogers been kind of going forward with that and and we use the mailing list or some discussion about it and and all that\u0027s okay you know the purpose of this mailing list is for any topics related to registries and internet identifier systems so I don\u0027t think it\u0027s out of scope at least for discussions but did you want to draw a line on that could could you say a few words about the the context of registry mapping what problem are is it solving and why it\u0027s why we\u0027re doing it sure a "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:36:27",
    "text": "brief brief overview yes it\u0027s it\u0027s a nice for that because this room is is larger than is typical for us and we have at least twice as many people as usual here so just for the benefit of those in the room who might not have heard this before and the tracking to carefully you\u0027ve got and and I\u0027m from go day so a registrar that has arm boarded a few TL DS and if you are on the other side if your registry you know how painful it is we send out a 30 to 40 page questionnaire for every TLV we on board it has 300 plus questions on it it\u0027s it\u0027s to answer all the questions in the numerous RFC\u0027s that say may or she\u0027ll or optional all those things that our registry gets a choice on as a registrar we need to know what those choices were so and that\u0027s where the 300 questions come from we need to know what every one of those things are one of the big difficulties out of it and why we kind of wanted to bring it to EPP or some other mechanism is consistence naming every registry calls a certain parameter a different name so even with the 300 specific questions we ask we get back responses like yes to something that we were expecting text back on so it\u0027s one of those things where it typically can take six weeks for us to bring on somebody to answer all these questions it\u0027s not six weeks of work but it\u0027s six weeks of process time that we had to wade through the goal here is hopefully we can get 80% of those things done in five minutes you know they just a response to this and we\u0027re done with 80% of those questions and then we can work on the remaining 20% that we need to so that\u0027s the pain that we have and what we\u0027re hoping to solve thank you and I\u0027m not seeing anyone jumping up with a microphone so I guess that\u0027s it for that Thanks I expect this that particular work item to be one of the early ones that we seek to adopt once we have the opportunity to take on some new work okay unhandled names faces Jim goob yes so just to clarify the particular topic here the issue is in the registries there\u0027s a message queue for the clients and these are well structured messages and the fact matter is that when the clients connect they specify what services they support there may be an instance where the message has a extension that the client does not support so the question was what should the server do and then there was a question around what is the intent within the RFC\u0027s themselves so we described the problem we talked about "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:39:27",
    "text": "three different options to address it which in essence is we do nothing the RFC allows for the server to return things that the client does not support or there is a problem and it\u0027s not big enough to do anything about or it is a problem in that we should do something about it and come up with a common solution so what we did was he head up we had a lot of discussion related to alternatives to actually coming up with a solution there was a example of returning a in error with message queue information there was a discussion on creating a filtered queue which it only has messages that the client supports providing a priority queue which will in essence only return the message that they support first and then after that it will turn an error another one that we said was to be able to reformat the poem message so therefore it is protocol compliant but will still provide the information to that client for later processing so the results of this was that it was clear that there is a problem from a protocol perspective many agreed that the protocol should not or the service should not return back extensions that the client does not support the question was coming down to whether or not this is a policy decision or a technical one and with that with those three options it looked like there was more support for this being a problem but there\u0027s not need for a solution for it but with that I believe the next step is for me and Martin to create an internet draft at least define what the solution that we proposed it would be up to the working group whether or not to take this on but I believe it is a problem I believe it needs to be fixed and we will go ahead and create an inner graph to define that so that\u0027s it thank you we had quite a bigger escutcheon about this issue yesterday and last night continuing into the evening the I\u0027d Roger this Roger I agree with Jim I think that there is the identification of a potential problem there on the server side I\u0027m not sure how big of a problem it is and I I think it\u0027s a good idea if if Jim wants to take it on that he documents what the problem is and what possible solutions there are again I\u0027m not sure I\u0027m sure that it\u0027s a priority thing definitely wouldn\u0027t bump up on my list of work items to look at so just my two cents so I agree and speaking for myself I guess my real challenge in the discussion about it all was whether or not this represents a problem or not "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:42:28",
    "text": "it\u0027s certainly a question and we can examine whether or not things are set up in a way that the right thing is happening or not but that was my pushback at the time but we\u0027ll we\u0027ll save that for a future discussion about it all as we as we settle on until okay I\u0027m not seeing anyone else jumping up to the microphone so I guess there\u0027s no other questions from folks that\u0027s fine so Francisco want to tell us he talked yesterday a bit about our gap search capabilities and authentication please go ahead do you cover my slide no oh you want to put that up if not I can just look at here it\u0027s fine I only takes a moment that\u0027s it that\u0027s the beauty of this thing here hello everyone this is Francis Scott is from ICANN and oh I sent a I want one with the summary anyway it\u0027s all you send a summary with I\u0027m sorry no it\u0027s okay that\u0027ll take an extra minute but you\u0027re probably done by then I had so a few things came up yesterday on this session well I guess I first shall explain quickly what this is about and for those that were not there here yesterday so our table has some limited search capabilities defined in RFC 77042 one of the quarters of the RFC yesterda scared us and I think I\u0027m sure of a real specification that was fine a last minute that meets in serious improvement and but the motivation for this to doing this now is because as part of I can forth on GDP our compliance there is a temporary specification of was fine with this and one of the things that is defining the term spec although some people contend that is that they are coming to offer our dub search ability and there are specific requirements on that regard so one of the suggestions from yesterday was to move the searches to use regular expressions as has been proposed by Scott and others there is already a drop on on this regard the result there was also the point raised that we need to do a serious review for internationalization to make sure that searches work correctly since we will be dealing with data that is not just a ski since we will be talking about feels like a contacts name for example and what else there were some concerns about the resources that will be used on the server side and the mechanics to deliver potentially large result sets on this regard a Mario low Fredo point out that there is an or there is already a drop "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:45:31",
    "text": "for a couple drops from from him that deal with this topic and so there is potentially a solution therefore for this and there was also a suggestion that maybe there is a better mechanics to solve this problem the underling from that is trying to be solved and although I don\u0027t recall a specific creation on how to about this one I was also point out that this is an evolving topic just as Rick mentioned before regarding privacy at least on the icon site on the Italy site and this is something that is still sort of a moving target and that\u0027s solid cap okay thank you comments or questions from anyone I guess just speaking for myself I saw this as you know that this is a space that needs some some better structure and better specification you know in the in the last round of gTLDs and in the ICANN world there was you know some comments about how to support search and what you needed and how it applied everything but I think we have an opportunity here to really step back and look at this from a technical point of view and really think about what is the right thing to do and and the right way to to provide that so that the policy considerations have something to build on something more a good foundation in which to build so I look forward to having the opportunity to have a discussion about the searching issues and and what that really means in general to our adapt services and our debt based services and no comments from anyone else okay Oh wrong set of slides got to go back over here okay that was the end of the working group sent my assistant and that brings us down to any other business yay we\u0027ve actually given people back we\u0027re just about at 20 after the hour so you know that gets us to a little bit of an early place which is nice few minutes early anybody have any comments about anything at all anything we\u0027ve talked about haven\u0027t talked about something you want to talk about open door and if not you know I I think again I want to want to thank people for keeping up we\u0027ve had quite a productive year this year in and finally closing loop and a number documents so you know thanks again for that and let\u0027s see if we can keep our energy going as we move into to to new work items so thanks everyone and we\u0027ll see you on the mailing list that\u0027s it I guess we\u0027re adjourns is the official phrase that should be stated at least "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:48:31",
    "text": "once thanks to Wendy and Rick for jabber and four minutes [Music] yes that\u0027s right I have to actually I\u0027m sorry so I\u0027m was then yeah please if I missed tracking something thank you very much I guess what I would would suggest is yeah you start talking about making sure that is resolved you "
  }
]