[
  {
    "startTime": "00:00:04",
    "text": "membership yes we can hear you um I know he's traveling she won't be with us um Anna is not here she's in vacations yeah being not sure is not an issue to join the WebEx but or uh Medical but being in vacation is different so that's my best so she won't be joining so you will not join okay there was this item on the architecture so yes but ivani is here next to me okay and uh we can discuss we saw the agenda and yes we have the architecture discussion okay okay so let's leave five minutes for others to join hello hello this is [Music] Happy New Year to all I haven't met yet this year it's about the last day to say so foreign enter the meeting uh and I also did some work in ipa6"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:02:01",
    "text": "I wanted to know how how often the media every every week um okay uh this is this is a intermitting that we set up uh every other week so once every two weeks so it was 15 years 15 days ago and there was another one 15 days from now 14 days and it's all on the lp1 page on ATF data tracker the if you need more information and all this please just ping me on email I just how we we did it as a website 10 minutes ago so I also very interested in this group and I wanted to like more knowledge from you that's that's nice um okay so all good I mean if if you have questions for the group just use the lp1 mailing list and if you have questions about how to start then use lp1 Dash chairs or just my email and we will answer your initial questions the next meeting is also uh before zero o'clock we we have been using the exact same time for every interim um now we are not used to have people"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:04:01",
    "text": "visiting from China and I realized I realized that in China it's it's already 11 pm right it's 11 in China is it no no no it's already a deep Night in China so I wanted to know uh what what a time for the next meeting we use this exact same time if you wish it to change then we will have to discuss it but we we we have been using this exact same hour four years now okay so thank you very much uh you know I I didn't have a walk about the creek yeah IPv6 I I also wanted to share my result uh to you uh could you could you please give me some search engine change for me and for my next step what would be nice is you drop an email on the lp1 mailing list asking for a slot like 15 minutes or something in the next interim two weeks from now so same day uh I think it's it's around the 14th of February we will have interim four and so if you ask for if you just drop an email over the lp1 mailing list we'll give it to you okay thank you very much I will write a an email address to the email list about my result as you will give me a plan"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:06:01",
    "text": "about my um my report right yes that would be fantastic thank you very much okay thank you okay and uh with this I guess we have just uh five minutes past the hour so it's time to start to start our intern um just a quick check since you know Anna has been usually capturing a lot of the minutes for us uh do we have minutes takers I mean uh yeah I'll be on the notes as well Dominique will help did you did you find the the page did you see that the interminates is already in there just the format because sometimes we have issues with the URL of the notes so do you do you see them correctly yes I'm on it you're on it okay that's nice thanks so much as well okay please please mute okay we're getting samiko uh Alex do you want to do the intro or do you want me to do yes yes no hello Pascal thank you very much thank you all and hello everyone very very nice to see you here um so uh yeah let's get started so this is some official uh meeting of the lp1 working group and uh uh so it's an official ITF meeting and a search for ITF policies apply um local various topics such as patents or kind of code of conduct um so please do read all the different BCPS that are listed here um you know as a reminder by participating you agree to follow the ITF processes and policies um so uh with this we can move on to the agenda so uh this is the the agenda that was uh uh uh published before uh so we"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:08:03",
    "text": "have a big uh uh point about the re-chartering and this uh uh today uh then we have a presentation in the discussion about the shake data model with both 48 so congrats uh for getting until here the last thing last mile to to go uh and then we have a discussion about the architecture and next steps uh so do you have any other item that you would like to to discuss uh maybe for during today's meeting thank you so now and I I mean the the the okay uh content yes yes it's maybe just a primer on um let's say I'd like uh we discuss a bit about uh the uh specification of chic but there may be some some stuff that we can publish that would make it easier uh to to use seeking scenarios when you use Shake over something with tuning and all that stuff so yeah just just a heads up on what we've been walking on with Mario and uh we will develop that uh in the main list but yeah okay so that that sounds great so uh the way I understand it it's not something urgent that we definitely need to address today no but okay so that's good so let's I propose that uh if you have some time at the end you can talk a little bit more about it and if not uh I mean you can uh uh you can send in the mail and and we'll and um and don't forget to request this lot for for the next time and you'll have a proper slot about that uh over that but that's excellent that's excellent okay perfect thank you very"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:10:01",
    "text": "much Council um so moving on uh yeah so we have uh uh the state of the different uh uh drafts and the that are in the in the different states let's say so uh we have of course the Sheikh young data model and uh Aloha Montana I'm going to talk a little bit more about that later that the Android in author 48 and we have she cover and the iot that is in the RFC editor queue um so I'm I don't recall if there was something that we needed to do about the she cover mbiot document foreign to pick it up and uh probably uh they will pick it very soon after the young data model is published and as you see the young data model uh is in the earth 48 meaning that we already have a hint on the RFC number by the way and no just so that so that's good news I think it's 9363 my memory but it's it looks like like a a neat number yeah or multiples of three okay so that's that would be the new mantra 8724 19363 we'll see it's going to be good so so yeah congrats about this and I mean uh and um of course there was uh so I finally did my homework and I'm very happy about this and uh thanks also to Sergio for uh uh you know for making the last uh changes so the about the Chic compound deck um so I put I published the the shepherd review um so I'm not sure what should be done next so do we I mean uh it is sent to the isg"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:12:05",
    "text": "uh we need to push a button somewhere or I don't remember from here what was um what was the next stage foreign there is something in the data tracker where you can say submit for publication okay there's a I guess it's to the working group state you click on it and get a drop down list somewhere for doing it okay I was looking for uh for that button and I didn't find I mean I don't either I found it and I was like okay I'm not sure if this if I okay so uh technique uh okay I'm going to uh so I'm then I'm going to Pro to push the button right and uh and it's all good yes it's a b2sg for publication submit to iag for publication that's the button right yes that is and then you need to edit the state and use it okay good perfect so uh yes I'm going to click the button and request publication okay so that's perfect and uh you know also that that thing is done so we're advancing pretty well and uh I think that's uh everything for uh for for the time yes yes we just had a meeting with Marco tiloka and and he made a very very nice review of RFC 8824 about Co-op and uh he will publish soon an error Town some on some point there is nothing uh dramatic but just some clarification about the document and a realignment with Co-op and okay okay so so actually that sounds"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:14:00",
    "text": "first of all really great that we have another like a review with some uh you know some new insights and to me it seems that it's almost uh in the same so I'm not sure what what content Mario want to talk about uh but I get the feeling it's uh it's in the same uh Deen like uh having read a bit more like readability or like finding some minor errata so so that's good that's excellent yeah just wanted to say that the compound Arc is fine as I know has not done the working group last call yet oh if you look into the Easter of the document I don't see it so maybe it was done over email we've already did that record this maybe then it's okay I think we did it there's no tracking to the history of it oh I mean Eric we need to dig but I'm pretty sure I mean my memory tells me we did it okay and then the other point is for the uh Chicago there is still one pending comment from Roman uh waiting for a reference to be at it so it's very minor but as far as anything has not been done yet to be check with Sergio of course okay yes the world group let's go for compound Act was done around 22 of October 2021 2021 yeah yes so it was completed on January 2022. and since then we were held with you know the interaction with the the Sig facts document so that that's and then there were some"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:16:03",
    "text": "yes it's yes it's my butt here okay if you wave it into the email archive and that's okay right so we can go over yeah yeah we do I mean the money is done by the data tracker the thread started on 22 of October and the the end of the call was November 2021. there were some issues right it was the war group let's go and then there were some issues on it and then we fixed it and blah blah blah blah blah and then to be honest we've kept this shepherding for a long time so it was it was really time for us to complete the shipping but she doesn't work but but yes we more than a year ago went through a good plus call and then solved the issues yes anything more that you want to to oh no it's it's um foreign will have a little slot and I guess Alex you you mentioned pretty much everything else that's being discussed here so we can we can move on to the next slide and the next slide was on the read chartering so maybe I can take over we we discussed it twice already this is the third time we discussed the uh recharging text in this meeting first"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:18:02",
    "text": "time was during the main idea of meeting and then we discussed it through uh the interims so uh one and two so so uh so it's Fourth type yeah um well the first intro was not really about the tax but since we have we discussed about recharing at the atf-115 and then through the interims we've been discussing the text already and so there we go the background text is kind of stabilized I don't see custom anymore today but we with cast and help we are very much stabilized the background text we feel it's useful for the ASG to understand what comes next we understand what they told us that this will not end up in the charter but I think it's useful context for the ASG to to read the charter so there are two slides for three slides for the charter um this one has changed a little bit since last time because we discussed about the scope of the group and so the text after the description of last last time you know mostly the first sentence looks now like what you're seeing so the scope of the groups to enable benefits of shake um for um to to report identity networks and non-lp UI Networks and and so we include Zero Energy Scavenging devices as we include dtl and also we list a number of tools for which we could do Chicago film I can let you read but the other paragraphs are pretty much the same as we had last week yes yes just uh to talk about the shikator"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:20:02",
    "text": "type do you think it's an action that has to be in the charter because I think it will be solved soon and it's not uh lp1 working group business well we we've discussed that with Bob and um uh with the eight actually coordination and it appears that to request the newest type from the ATF standpoint we need to add it in some RFC so the the goal would be to to to have effectively an RFC that discussed discusses the need for this shikita type and um by the way this is probably not lp1 document probably an interior work group document but the it will mention the need for an ether type and then once this goes uh in the final stage of RFC like ASG review we we can effectively go and talk to I3 police now and get back with a Nissan type and when we publish RFC we need some type value is in it maybe to have something more generic but we'll say that the working group who will make liaison or I don't know with other groups to uh to allow the transportation of Sheikh on on over Technologies or we need to write that down because that's a great command um do you yeah we could generalize it so so make the second sentence of the second paragraph a bit more generic and give this as a example we see I I still wish to list it because it's very very important for us that it happens and when we go talk to Interior we can tell them hey you know that's really something that we are"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:22:00",
    "text": "chartered to work with your if we don't list it at all if we keep it very generic I'm afraid that interior will say ah you know what are you talking about but yeah we we we we will push to the ASG that we really want that teaser type and so so I'd like to keep it listed but but agree that we need to to make that sentence more generic with this new Charter is it still possible to uh edit amend the Chic specification or not I mean maintenance is always part of the charter but it's the next slide but yes I mean keep be patient please bear with us but you will see that maintenance is always part of a charter part of the reasons why you reach out there is to to ensure that you do the maintenance of the previous chart that's for sure okay thanks so for this one I I keep that um I mean look I keep that we need to make the second Center in general but I mean if you look at the first sentence I was worried that's what it's seeing right I mean we could instead of saying for this in the second sentence we could say as an example but this first sentence is very generic and much of saying no do you think it's foreign but I think it's too technical I will say that it's more to allows Chic to be used in different Technologies or something like this so the the remote discussion was we know"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:24:02",
    "text": "we we have this concept of a Chic session I mean so there is the local endpoint and the remote endpoint there is you know the device and the application and so that's what the remote endpoint comes from now I'm happy to change that sentence but just saying with where it comes from so if you go over any l2sv network then it's between two endpoints which are remote from the perspective of those 2s 2003 in point as opposed to being facing like we we are used to yeah that's what the remote means I mean you have to do multi-hub overall to our overall streams yeah but uh I think it's too technical in in this sentence because for example if we want to do a Chic over http uh it's not in the charter here because we say that it's a 203 except if so okay so instead of filter and S3 you you would say larger into a nursery you could like you could replace that with multi-hop so remote [Music] yeah that's that's what you does it help [Music] hmm okay so replacing so read the intent here is Chic has been one hop so far right it was foreign between those two endpoints I agree totally for multi up but uh here it will it looks more for me to get identifier to carry Chic on something uh"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:26:03",
    "text": "different than lp1's Network and and so here is more the the Quest for identifier um yeah but it's and you have another problem is familiarity up because uh we say that it's up and down and we don't have a pandom in mesh networks and all that yeah true but I mean do you want to share the chatter to be more specific about that or is it you know the goal at the end of the day is we need to Signal the staff session we need to signals playing uh applications playing device when we know all this but basically the prime comes because we have new networks which are multi-hop and can be peer-to-peer as opposed to hierarchical and and so at the end of the day we need more data plane signaling for the Chic session right and that's what we say okay yeah I I will need to give you what I have now but basically the changes I made so far uh we say multi-hop Network as opposed to larger l23 and instead of for this uh we say for instance the fourth is the entire compassion and shikita type for instance the interior group is working on so as you as you point out this is one example now if you want more but but we need to publish uh what we have it's it's in GitHub somewhere but basically yeah we need to publish it so so you can look at it"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:28:01",
    "text": "actually it's not in GitHub it's in I'm looking at it it's in the Dropbox that we have for the lpo working group so yeah if you want to edit it further I mean just talk to Alex because it's our Dropbox that's okay okay I need to move on so let me just save what they have so I I'm saving on the Dropbox what I just said moving on so the point content that you made about chick maintenance it's the first item it's no surprise in this Charter so the work that you seem to be willing to conduct would fit I guess in item one [Music] katana that's that's an additional item which is what all the necessary amendments to do to shift your love for Chic operation for example in uh in a multi-hub network for example okay okay multi-hub is not from the previous Charter you're always one step ahead from us here um so so the way the slides are cut those they generate what we need to do then there is this slide two which is what we continue on the previous Charter and then there is slide three and what comes new for the new chapter and everything multi-hop is new so it's the next slide yeah that's my fault thanks I didn't say so you know but but this one is about maintenance of existing mechanism and as you can see that's item one so we do maintain our existing mechanisms"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:30:01",
    "text": "we also add in the previous chapter that we would be doing oh yeah and so yeah there we go now to your point here are the items that we foresee for the new Charter and that's where something Gotham might be missing that you would like to edit thank you and Foo multi-hop is is typically a food right Chico or multi-hop so please look at three and four and see if you still need something foreign protocol and Etc yeah go ahead please because uh yes there's one thing um uh the question on how to to do for example a rule for IPv6 in IPv6 that's that's well that's something that we'll have to discuss later that's technical stuff but yeah you mean tunneling so so yeah I mean clearly in my mind it's completely um so basically Chic over full social IP IP over IP I mean we've done that already somehow because but we did not compress"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:32:01",
    "text": "both layers but yes I mean certainly it is if you can do Shake over PPP yeah it doesn't even because PPP is itself of our IP or if you do pppoe or poip yeah it's not written explicitly but we could we could say you know tunnels next to TCP if you like just to make sure yes yes I agree on this one because I agree with you uh Pascal that it's clear also in my mind that that's something that you know could be covered but at least this way we will explicit it here for for the ASG and you know yes so I added IP tunnels in the list okay perfect compress both layers because when you do she cover IP if it's a if you check over IP over IP I mean the inner sheet doesn't need to see it but it could we wanted to compress the tonight yeah yeah I mean perfectly agree here I mean to me it seems pretty pretty clear and and uh and complete so once we once once we have the latest version what do we do we we discuss it on February 14th or maybe Pascal you can send it to the mailing list and then um uh I would be happy to send it to the mailing list and start adding feedback outside of this interim and the English is happy and then Eric you will have to tell us what to do with"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:34:01",
    "text": "this I guess and the word to do it as soon as the working group is ready to with a charter you send a text to me I put it into the data tracker and it starts internal consultation within the ISD and iub for about two weeks between two teleschat basically then it goes for kind of a last call right so basically to the community to get any feedback but basically again it's pretty much as soon as you ask me to do it uh I will be in the driving seat of course relying on the working group and yourself the chairs uh for any change obviously okay so the next step I guess is that we uh push the draft that we have now to the mailing list I will do that after this meeting and start asking for commands I guess and uh we'll see how it goes and that's as consensus I reckon when we're happy with the concerts we will ping you on this thank you okay and in the chat in the the um agenda there was some minutes for discussion with uh Lohan on the where is it yes because we are in North 48 law and there was a discussion last time that you wanted to make some changes and then I said yes you can make them but you need to wait for Earth 48 and guess what we are in those 48 now so so could you be more specific on what changes you want to make or do you want to discuss that in the mailing list uh I already sent a mail last week I think in about the changes uh it's what"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:36:00",
    "text": "I presented last time it's uh just so it does it doesn't change the model or what you produce is just the way you arrange a model for validations so the thing was about a union that was made that uh you know the type Dev and I would like to move this Union into the the structure by itself because it's some validation tools doesn't see it when it's in the type def so that's the main change and the other change I wanted to to Pro I wanted to propose is to add something to distinguish a co-op option from Co-op overheaters so it's not uh it doesn't change anything to what we process but it's clearer so we got the notification for r48 this morning and so we have now the nice LFC number is uh 96 and 96 63 no 89 that I don't remember but uh and this um so I will uh there is some uh details to change our proposed changes by the FCA editor but it's not that that difficult to to answer to these questions I wait Anna to come back to to do this and so next week we will have a new version and we will discuss also a realize the editor to to modify the young data the young data model ever because we have to put in inside some references to to rfcs and we are very if we do with Channel that's why I asked the question on the mailing list if you agree or not to to these"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:38:00",
    "text": "changes but you will see on the on GitHub is very few lines okay so the number is nine three six three so like like I said it's a multiple or three it's nice number and the Egg sorry I was interesting so please go ahead and continue no no no finish what you wanted to say well I wanted to basically Pour at least the people in this call to see if uh everybody agrees that what law is saying makes sense I do agree but but to make sure there is no nothing I'm missing at least that people in this call can see and the email is depending on the mailing list as well so I guess when Nana comes back if there is no position please do those changes and go ahead with the OS 48. okay and what I wanted to say is that if you look you can change the data the young module for the small change don't change the semantics so it is fine but you may uh you change the revision number as well right because it's not the same one okay it's what I did in um so in the GitHub you have a new version with uh with this change that has a new revision number perfect thank you another point I would like to to ask to the group is that now we are about to as a young data model so I think it's now time to request seeds for this young data model and the other point is that we don't I I think we don't have to use the default seed numbering because we raise already that that issue is that for example rule ID length and Rule ID value are far away in the data model which means that it's not very efficient"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:40:02",
    "text": "to cut them in using C bar so we will have to reorder the seed to to make something more efficient in and to save some bytes so do how we proceed with that so do we write a draft to explain that or do we just issue a seed file with the correct order and that's all draft is uh uh in the final stages before submitting for to the to the ASG um so there the Sid registry at the at Ayana doesn't exist yet so you cannot really request it's it from Ayana so at this point what I could suggest is that you pick some scenes uh uh and uh you know you start treating them in a provisional way and uh then the moment that the seed draft becomes an RFC and that the seed registry becomes created um you know to uh to ask Ayana to allocate these seats no the only thing Alexander is that as far as I know Ayana is not ending it's not planning to end all Sid I can be wrong um so actually there is uh there are two types of uh yes so ever yes you're right uh to some extent um so there are two seed Registries two levels so the Big Blocks it's not Ariana that is going to so it's like on a very high level and then for for some rfcs that request uh see the location there is going to be a registry about that and actually it's I if I recall correctly I need to double check the document it's uh it's just a column that's added to the to an existing Yang registry"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:42:01",
    "text": "perfect thank you I stand correctly yes yes no no I mean it's I I understand that it's it's uh it's not as straightforward as uh uh you know it's not uh how can I say it was simple uh a simple answer to to this one right but in any case um you you have no place to to request to see the location today so okay um and that that will come right that will come and we'll we're waiting for the RFC for for some time now and uh we had some last disc so there are some some commands from uh from the isg and uh I think that we have there are handled now or or I mean Karsten is on working on that uh so we're really in the final stages of this um of this uh RFC to be of this of this draft perfect this with this we can move to the next item which is the next steps for the architecture document and you know that this is a document that is a very dear to us and even and I guess Laura you are behind I've been working on some suggestion and the thread has started Anna has started started responding to this so what I did is I kind of collected the comments by Ivan and even since you're with us maybe you can argue or explain what you had in mind with those commands so there are two slides basically you made seven points or when you made points on seven sections and so if you could please speak your mind and"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:44:01",
    "text": "explain what you want to do and yes I mean you've got the ball so please speak go ahead you know go ahead we are not hearing you I'm still not sharing even am I doing you up and hearing I'm not hearing it I'm not hearing him sorry so I think it's better now so yeah so the idea was to what I did was with Lauren we read a bit carefully again this um draft and uh we think we should change the uh the arrangement or ID or at least make me make more clearer how the sections are organized and then how to add some content to each one of the sections because uh the main point is that we now are going from one hop topology to a star topology so the document starts right with the uh yeah so they well yeah so that's the main argument Anna told us that maybe we can start just saying where are the main use cases and then from that we can build uh General topology but it's it's kind of tricky because what will be this architecture in this point maybe a multi-hub topology is the general one and then uh a multi uh one hop over an star topology is a subset of that one so that's that's the idea so"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:46:01",
    "text": "the idea is just to review the document and then to rearrange the sections yeah I don't know what that your inputs about that Pascal yeah well that's said it is a big vague but your text was more specific so so that's good um yes we we are clearly going to something which covers multi-hop as well as single hub but yeah at the end of the day as soon as you define a Chic session you'll you'll whether it's Monday Hub or a single Hub below doesn't matter you still have two nodes talking to one another over the bike whether it's one Mac address to one Mac address of our single Hub or whether it's of our tunnel point-to-point tunnel at the end of the day you have two devices and one session between them yeah yeah we agree with that so the main idea was that if we want to uh like creating a graph or graphically an architecture maybe we can start with a multi-hop and then say that one Hub is just a subset of that multi-hub it's a collapsed version where like Laura for instance just to give you know the most used example the some of those parameters that we have are kind of collapsed right because you're one hop and and the session is not signaled but implicitly it's there and we have takes for that but um it's not that we are not covering it it's more like you want a different organization right yeah yes it's it's what we thought is that it was better to start with what we know right now about the start topology and server this can be extended to other kind of topologies and then say but you see it's the same it's acting in the architecture view"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:48:00",
    "text": "it's the same and then we enter into the the definition of this architecture all the elements and um that's all but it doesn't change the content is Murphy organization I'm comparing what you have on that slide and what we have on the original document a the document has some introduction like something on lp1 Technologies and profiles something on shake so it basically says what what the Sheikh and the Sheikh profile is all before it really goes into architecture uh the real architecture starts in section five well we talk about end points and instances and yes we could talk about networks as well but I mean I think session because you you really start in your explanation in your example with section two um it's close to what we have with section two we have right now explains well section two we have right now is about np1 technology you don't have it in your in your proposal but section three is pretty much what what you propose a section two yeah yeah the idea was also to merge the section and then uh what we have for now in section two to be uh more generic and then we can start explaining some use cases and the first one will be I'm trying to understand right don't get me wrong I'm trying to understand but I'm trying to say okay we've got some content that is already in the document which doesn't which is not clearly positioned in your proposal and I'm trying to say okay if I if I wanted to go towards what you're proposing what do I do with for instance the current section 2 which is if you want Technologies and profiles three the broad thing about help you"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:50:00",
    "text": "want and I I don't even see it in your new proposal anymore I don't know what to do with it which is very small right it's mostly something which says hey there is what lp1 has been producing and then three seven six seven eight seven two four Etc it's just some you so you could tell me hey your section took it going intro okay I'm good say section two goes introduction so our current section three about chick pretty much becomes your section two kind of a line because they're about eight seven to four um but you want to regroup Shake applicability in section two right so she applicability Anna you want to take the current section 2 which is a P1 profile it doesn't really matter I mean whether whether we collapse two and three into a two what's more interesting is you want your section 2 to focus on Startup energy right you don't want you want the current support the current support is tall we get the network Gateway and we've got the devices talking to the Gateway it's a bit weird and star because one device can speak and multiple gateways can pick it right but it's scary for example we have 5.1 that take the lp1 architecture and maybe it's too far away maybe it's better to to put it at the beginning and say okay this allows that but we have some limitation and then we we open it to our example and then we go to the architecture all right which is uh okay 5.1 it looks like 5.1 is written really for"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:52:01",
    "text": "um the the star where it should be more generic so we should pick something from five one move it to section two basically yeah and and then make five already single and multi-hop hmm okay let's see now four four is really very small it's about cheek applicability so so the current four I mean so so basically when you say you would like to regroup two and three you would also like to regroup four I guess I mean what what is Shake used for that's for that's the current section for Chica pregabality and that's where we say uh compressing several stream goes dlms existing mp1s it applies to more than just existing mp1s but clearly it applies to existing a few words so so she kept the ability section four now I I don't mind that that we keep it three section or we collapse that into one session as a section I I doesn't really matter yeah we could make it a single section if you want to so it would be not just two and three but basically two three and four that you would like to to collapse but even the beginning of five when it has to do with uh star networks I guess I'm trying to understand right um it's a oh you did at least to me it seems that it goes into the direction of what uh Ivan and past and uh are saying um I'm still trying to understand it writing because it's a proposal of the"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:54:01",
    "text": "day boy I could not make much sense I I wanted to talk today because I could not really make I wanted to make sure I understand what what you propose it seems to me that you won't have to have a section 2 which is current section three which has some things from section four but but you know like Goose the LMS and the generic architecture it's very interesting because you know in um like it's the way I present it do you go with uh what's existing and then to a more generic with the risk of people like maybe confounding the two or do you go with the more generic and then say okay well how does that apply to uh how does maybe like have a section well this is the the the most generic architecture it's like this boom and then section two is okay how is how is this relevant to lp1 Star topology and I mean everything that is set here and then section three is how does it apply to like mesh or other um yeah because big 5.1 that long about is there to do here is the current but it's not limited to that and we we effectively generalized it to us to a session over multi-hub and and so that's basically the section five one was there to move from what we have today which where the session is completely implicit to the fact that when you're going multi-hub then the session has to be explicit but it's still the same thing that's what we try to do with five long I I'm not too happy to have I mean the point that you remainder like having one"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:56:03",
    "text": "uh store architecture and then one generic architecture I want a single architecture which does star engineering okay and basically we wanted to show that store lower is just a generic one where you collapse number of things and the session is not signaled but it's still implicitly there yes that would you have a single architecture and it's like this is reference and then as you say like Star it's special case okay so now we see section The Proposal says describe the architecture in two ways so instance is five two right now yeah and then the rules we we have cryptography we've got data models we don't have rules agreed so rules management is missing but we wanted to put it in so that's clear so so your section five we need it I completely agree we we started basically that in section seven section seven is about deployment so so it could be deployment and management and and session seven two as rules publication so so we have some space for that I mean basically we we have the elements it's just it's just a matter of structure but we at least we are not missing elements they agree we need to develop what you have here written here about section five it should be"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:58:03",
    "text": "the rule management Etc it should be in section seven today yeah what is now section 7 that will be it depends on how we start the document yeah yeah I mean but I'm looking at the two-day today's document not your proposal and yes we can collapse one two three one two three four into one and then the numbers align better so after that security is fine and then six provisioning but also onboarding like sometimes life cycle so seven is life cycle so onboarding should be in there rules management is part of the life cycle so so if you look at seven right now today it has the device development because we expect some things to happen we've got the rules publication we've got the device deployment we've got um some point we should have the rule management yes we have the rule publication which is 7 2 then yes so that's where you know your point about how the rules are manage and you say current section six but three seven that's also maybe I'm looking at or you are not looking at the most recent version of it so Pascal I see the time uh the time running I think it's a a really really fruitful discussion so um how should we move on do we I mean I'm not sure well the the one thing is whether we we want a big architecture and then explain how"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:00:01",
    "text": "it works on our single hub or whether we want what is written there which is two architectures like section two is one architecture the current and section three the future why does multi-hop and to be honest I'm I'm not keen on having two architectures I I'd rather explain that the session is collapsed when you're in in Star topology so explain that we do have startup Bridges today and and that's that's basically makes it less necessary to to expose what the session is in the packets but really implicitly it's there and then work on the Chic session at the architecture level so I'll second I'll second to the part about having them like the the true generic architecture in the first place and then develop like how our things are working in specific lp1 start apologies because you can have also start apologies in which you have sessions right well you could sing all the sessions it's just that loja for instance there is one session per device so the session ID is read up the MAC address of the device because there's only one session that's pretty much it and then it goes all the way to to the network server and so that the peers are on network server um is perfectly identified by this um okay so I mean um I think that that's really the the important question here and um like how do we structure that um so we are past the hour so maybe even maybe you can I don't know we can go get that to the mailing list or you can just like think about you know how that fit with uh put your proposal of reorganizing the SEC the sections I don't think that's like a big issue there and uh I've just not convinced"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:02:01",
    "text": "right now to be honest but it's just what was said so yes we are missing some stuff about the rules Etc that you know go in section seven today but reorganizing right now I'm I'm not convinced in any case yes as you said we need some some content on the some some text on on the like the things that are already that are written here in on the next page I think so uh maybe you can in yeah we can start working on that and then have in mind us like okay how eventually would things be reorganized once we have some part of the text but okay let's maybe get back to this question on the next interim or the mailing list because it's we're um it's a super interesting discussion that is like a big chunk of a work and uh we're not going to be able to to get them to any meaningful I think yes Eric thank you very much for for being here so yeah thank you as well so um let's let's stop here and we'll continue on the mailing list and uh enter the next interview okay bye goodbye okay thank you bye bye questions bye-bye and thank you for the undertaking you are welcome my dear okay right ciao"
  }
]
