[
  {
    "startTime": "00:00:04",
    "text": "oh yes we should wait two more minutes get started okay I\u0027ll say we start in April 13 oh yeah no I just - I\u0027m gonna get out three minutes oh we\u0027re supposed to sign in Wow really lasting feel what "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:03:30",
    "text": "okay all right good afternoon good evening everyone happy Thursday homestretch last session for the day yeah don\u0027t go there okay so welcome to the mile working group so if you\u0027re not here for mile you can choose to listen in or do something else instead next slide so hopefully by now you are very familiar with the updated note well so I will not keep you guys any longer I\u0027m presuming you guys know all this so I guess we can do the next slide but I\u0027m gonna take a pause so go ahead and do do the agenda yeah so will will go ahead and take su do you want to give the status okay um so again in the interest of time this is the agenda we\u0027ll do the quick agenda Bash does anybody have comments or can we just move forward great okay so before we get to the model status what the chairs would like to do is gratefully and deeply thank our outgoing ad as an ad she has been or continues to be a personal friend advisor and guide to both of us so we will sorely miss you as our ad Kathleen but yes I\u0027m relying on that um so we decided to give you something that may have a little alcohol but gluten-free and also with that I wanted to welcome our new area director I guess we\u0027re gonna do something a little new so he apologizes for not being able to be here but he is actually not a security area director but was the chair prior chair before my joining and that\u0027s Alexi so we\u0027re looking forward to having him back okay so with that let me turn it over to Takeshi so this is a state as a mile as you can see we have completed a lot to work on Tina for the data representation we have already published RFC 7970 so the remaining specs we have to work on is JSON you\u0027re "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:06:30",
    "text": "deaf regarding transport we have a lot to do so we still have to work on XMPP great for the Rolly Rory Cole was already published in February but we still have a sisters Rory so we basically have to work on JSON and you\u0027re deaf she\u0027s at Rory and XMPP great and so on and the milestone we are a bit behind schedule as usual so we want to finish XMPP great by April hopefully and she\u0027s at extension by I don\u0027t know - that also we will discuss on that later maybe yeah we can we can discuss that later and I apologize for some reason my I\u0027ve tried to send out after I did the call for adoption twice and that somehow didn\u0027t make it and it\u0027s my fault my laptop so I discuss on this data again okay so that\u0027s about it it\u0027s gotcha that\u0027s in depth yeah so um so as I mentioned the Rolly sea sir I did put out a call for adoption and it was positive and I tried to send out the yes Steven graciously and I accepted it this morning did submit the actual working group version of the draft and I\u0027m presuming that\u0027s what you\u0027ll provide the update for yeah so I think with that we should just go ahead and let Steven go okay oh it\u0027s louder now for those of you that were in sac home there should be a couple duplicate slides so try and get through those and then into the body of what I actually want to get into next slide please so as I talked about before these are the Rolly drafts that are currently being thought about or being worked on there is the c-cert document here in Miele like Nancy said that was just officially posted as a working group document this morning the software descriptor document that\u0027s in sockem which was also updated recently there is a rolly discovery draft that i want to talk about today in this presentation as a personal draft and in the future we might work on something specifying search and there has been interest in this room in particular with working on a JSON version of Roly which I\u0027ll talk about later as well next slide so Roly was published as RFC 832 - so that is very exciting thank you - the working group everyone in this group that contributed to that document either as "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:09:33",
    "text": "review or comments it was great work and we made a good document so that\u0027s that\u0027s great next slide so Roli c-cert adopted as a working group document it\u0027s draft IETF mile roll EC sir zero zero so as per the discussion that we talked about last time an IETF 100 we had some comments regarding the requirements when an i/o def content is being carried in the entry we have these requirements that came into play as soon as you started carrying io def I think Chris put in a bunch of comments about that so thank you we have relaxed those requirements what that means is that it is much easier to actually carry io def enrolling it was a little bit it was too difficult before there was all these requirements all these different things you had to do so and it\u0027s not much easier to actually carry io def in a Roley entry it\u0027s much easier to implement it\u0027s much easier to parse it all makes a lot more sense so those are really really good changes I\u0027m really happy with that and then in this most recent version we also made a number of small editorial net changes updated all of our references I went through and just made a series of small updates in the future there are some things that we would like to change moving forward so the document is currently an informational draft because it does not have particularly many normative requirements moving forward we would like to upgrade some of the requirements around properties and categories in order to make sure that inter compatibility is maintained when you\u0027re dealing with iof and other c-cert datatypes and move some of these requirements up to musts so those changes have not happened yet that\u0027s something we\u0027d like to do in the future and I\u0027ll be getting that draft out soon at that point I would like to get the giraffe switched over to a standards track document since it\u0027s all it\u0027ll be it\u0027ll be normative at that point so I\u0027ll make sure that goes out to list when that happens and we can decide what to do from there next slide oh yeah I was just talking about this and media type registrations as well yeah I talked to Brad about the go ahead Brad Jordan yeah so I\u0027d like to help work on this document because I am very interested in the top media type being supported by this I do know a thing or two about that the app the actual registration for sticks is being done elsewhere so we won\u0027t need to worry about that "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:12:34",
    "text": "here so I am in the process of submitting that but there is a weird caveat because the sticks is still trademarked and owned by DHS and so obviously we can\u0027t register it yet because I Ana won\u0027t accept that so we\u0027re working on that as a separate outside this thing but I would like to work on this document if that\u0027s okay yeah yeah so I was not aware of the of this sticks media type issue so we won\u0027t register sticks but for IO def won\u0027t go ahead Dave first before we move on um yeah actually in the media type registrations I don\u0027t see one for IO deafplus JSON I guess maybe this is directed towards taki as the editor of that draft are you planning on doing a media type registration for FRA Adela\u0027s JSON they haven\u0027t think about it yet but I have to I guess but maybe I have to ask assistance from you guys I\u0027m not gonna get reset yeah you would be happy to help so I just went through the process of learning how all these media type registrations work so I drafted up the swig tag plus XML media type and in software descriptor so I\u0027d be happy to show you that and I did check and there\u0027s no media type registration for i/o deaf unless anyone you know knows otherwise but I did not see one so I think that it would be the best course of action for us to register that media type so that we can be using it enrollee in order to describe these iof documents be able to tell the consumer hey this is IO def at the moment my plan is to do it in the actual document the c-cert document itself although I was talking to Ben oh yeah he\u0027s not here because he\u0027s not responsible AD anymore or not for this I mean here eck amended that we talked to the designated expert for media types and asked him if it\u0027s best to do it in the document itself or to do it in an additional document so I\u0027ll figure that out but it is my plan to register the io def media type for Rowley so we can be using that and then yeah we\u0027d like it to be standard track once we make those changes which will be soon next slide so before I go into this talk you asked about working group last call I would like to make those normative changes as well as the media type registrations to see cert first before we go to last call so I guess the the fastest it could go is I do those updates and then we get it well first we need to follow process which is we need to have reviewers provide feedback Brett mentioned he wanted to contribute so what I have to do this update first yes so once you give me the update once you post the update sorry let me know so I can I mean "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:15:35",
    "text": "so once we\u0027re done I was going to ask for people to help review and provide feedback depending on the feedback if there\u0027s very little changes and/or if they\u0027re all editorial then I can then ask the question to the group do you believe this draft is ready for last call right so I will make that update they say I mean I haven\u0027t done it yet yeah well so since we are a little behind schedule the question is when do you think you can get the updates done it won\u0027t take me that long I I mean I can get it out in the in a couple weeks after I get back okay so let\u0027s just say mid April and then so who has read this version of the draft and who is willing to be a reviewer if that\u0027s yes question I want a question too okay so so who has read the current draft okay we\u0027re gonna need more people so who is willing to review the updated mid April mid April okay so whoever is taking notes can you please write down Chris inácio Brett Dave okay okay and then Dave Cridland okay more importantly the note takers because I\u0027m gonna be going by the name studies and then Kathleen maybe thank you yeah thanks everyone it\u0027ll be hopeful Dave Dave Kemp Kemp all the Dave\u0027s oh wait wait but I hate to another surname so Walter buyer Crittenden must be getting late in the day in the week okay so those are the that\u0027s the core draft published as RFC c-cert being updated we\u0027ll get that new version now mid-april and then we\u0027ll go from there this is work that is relevant to the core and I want to talk about this for a few minutes because it\u0027s it\u0027s important and relevant to people that care about Rowley and this is something that was actually taken out of the core document in order to get it through publication as quickly as possible so your next slide please we do not discuss discovery in the Rowley core document but we used to we took it out because it was something that was going to delay the publication of Rolex it was something that we\u0027re gonna have to go and figure out and write all this text for so we took it out of the Rowley core document in order "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:18:35",
    "text": "to get Rowley published it\u0027s quite as possible it\u0027s something that is still important because at the moment the only way for early repository to be discovered is for someone a human to input a service document location the full URL for it which requires some kind of side channel communication right they they pull it off of the front page of a website someone emails it to them they stumble across it by accident and and just find a service document laying there one way or another a human actually has to be involved for this service document discovery process and clearly as a machine-to-machine mechanism that\u0027s probably not how we want to be doing things we want to specify a discovery mechanism that allows for machines to automatically discover the full locations of service documents from a domain name that\u0027s that\u0027s the kind of top-level requirement here next slide so in order to accomplish this I\u0027ve posted a new draft it\u0027s really short because it\u0027s just kind of the framework right now it\u0027s a starting point we have a lot of ideas on how we want to do discovery then I\u0027m going to go over we have the technologies in mind and how we\u0027re going to use them we\u0027ve even started working on some implementation of it and actually getting testing of it up and running already so we have a really really good starting point on this we\u0027re not doing R\u0026D we kind of know what we\u0027re doing we just got to kind of figure out at the text go ahead Brett are you going to walk through those examples and how what you\u0027re proposing okay because I\u0027m one of those weird people that still runs their own bind server and I\u0027ve tried playing around with this because we have a desire for this and another tangental thing and have yet to find a decent solution so I\u0027d be curious to see what yeah so I yeah I believe we\u0027ve found a decent solution that\u0027s that\u0027s my belief anyway so next slide we found two different ways of doing this one is DNS SD and the other is an apt Oh records the first DNS SD is represented defined in RFC 67-63 it\u0027s based on DNS it builds out basically your typical zone file stuff but apply a whole suite of extra requirements on top of that in order to basically expose arbitrary information so it allows for arbitrary data passing through the DNS query system and and full path resolution from DNS queries so using DNS SD would allow us to using a specific resource type go in and actually from the query pull out the full path of a rolly service document as well as any number of roli service documents in after records defined by to nine one five would also let us do the same thing but with a lot of downsides that make it "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:21:38",
    "text": "I think not the right choice for this it was originally designed for the s IP protocol it\u0027s based on reg X it\u0027s a little bit heavy weight it\u0027s complicated it would be really difficult to define in the document it would be long and kind of difficult and and really the killer for me is that it requires additional implementation on the DNS server side DNS SD just works since it\u0027s using existing fields to fill in information and additional requirements on top of that DNS SD just automatically works on any existing DNS server so that\u0027s cool so we\u0027re moving forward with DNS SD but I wanted to give the two technologies that were possible solutions up there just just a couple of additions so there is a there is a profile of NAT called unit I think which is same record type but supposedly vastly simpler I think it\u0027s probably still sorry Ted christened it is probably still too complicated but I mentioned it for completeness the other is and the dot well-known well-known URI forms yeah I I see that that not noted that I last I looked and I confess I\u0027m not I\u0027m not keeping up to date on it but taxi I run Oh over in the stick land was using dolt well no yeah so so was Rolly originally we actually had dot well known specified in the core document and when we took it to the is iesg they said it\u0027s they said no they said that dot well known is not designed for that purpose they say we were effectively misusing it for as just this kind of arbitrary pointer when it\u0027s it\u0027s really meant for these kind of universal resources like your robot text and all these other things plus it meant that I couldn\u0027t have more than one service document per server because there\u0027s only one and a bunch other suite of problems I can see that well you could work around them multiple service documents but I\u0027m let it color me surprised that the IAS tree is saying that you shouldn\u0027t use dot well known for well known your eyes it\u0027s it\u0027s because it\u0027s it\u0027s pointing to a specific instance of a resource it it\u0027s it\u0027s not this yeah yeah I and I could go back to the email chains and and see that\u0027s all that\u0027s all on the mile list there was lots of feedback on it but ya know we tried dot well-known and these two are the the remaining I don\u0027t know you get you napped or I\u0027d not heard about so that thank you for pointing that out I\u0027ll take a look and see if it fits on this list but yeah sure right so yeah so um I "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:24:42",
    "text": "actually found another one I\u0027m gonna dealt with some really interesting ways of viewing text records and some stuff like that to do a lot of this I tried these in my buying server and I couldn\u0027t get this to work well so I really I\u0027ll help you work on the document right I\u0027ll help you write this this discovery thing because it\u0027s a personal interest to me because I want to find a solution to this because like I said I I run my own bind and I couldn\u0027t get this to work so and Dave correct me if I\u0027m wrong but I think we got this to work yeah I am Dave wall tomorrow I have a virtual machine with Byun set up with DNS SD I\u0027d be happy to either send you the virtual machine or the zone file as an example of that but yeah I took me about I don\u0027t have 45 minutes or so to to configure the DNS server and a lot of that time was spent kind of reading through the the RFC and trying to figure out how to how to do that so it\u0027s pretty straightforward how to how to configure that I spent about an hour and a half couple hours trying to decipher how to do nap Durand didn\u0027t really make much progress on it so I haven\u0027t yet been able to build a demonstration of nap door yet yeah yes we do have DNS SD working it was works well next slide so we\u0027re moving forward with DNS SD in the document just because it we checked the other options we\u0027ll take a brief look at you nap der but it seems like DNS SD is just the right choice for this it\u0027s simple it\u0027s easy to specify it makes the document much shorter and easy to read and it\u0027s so much easier to implement so unless someone has has another solution and I will look at you neptr then I think DNS SD is the right choice for this so this is something that\u0027s important for roli it\u0027s a core mechanism enrollee that we took out of the core document I think we go yeah so this is something we have to ask the group that\u0027s right right so I guess we can ask right now does the group believe that we should address discovery for roli can I have a home please is there anyone that objects or does not believe can you hum please okay so that\u0027s good um it seems like given the discussion we still need to look at options so let me ask the question more directly you put out a draft yes right how many have read that draft okay so we need to have that draft reviewed before we can say are we "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:27:44",
    "text": "ready to adopt but it also feels like given the discussion that\u0027s happened that it would be good to have a summary evaluation of all the different options that have been at least discussed here you might find some others so that we can get guidance from the group okay I could so we already have the compilation of info on DNS SD and mapped er I could go and take a look at you napped err briefly and then send those findings out to list okay so if we want to move quickly I hate to do this but if we want to move quickly we could hold an interim otherwise we can continue on the list and then make progress do the call and face to face no no it would be over limit I am NOT going to host a face-to-face calling the masada it would be a virtual interim yeah I mean so so we could I mean that\u0027s another thing that we can follow up over the list is to see if there is interest and then we can do the doodle poll to get it moving okay okay and the other thing my last item on here is at the last IETF we had in groom in room interest in starting a JSON version of Roly I haven\u0027t written a single word of it but I would like to take a chance now to see if there\u0027s anyone in this room who would be interested in beginning to do authorship or contribution on that document I know taki you were interested and Bret was interested as well yes I will help co-author I brought that up in Singapore and you know tried to gauge the the temperature of the room to see if it was even of interest but yes I would I think we took a home and there was University so we can\u0027t really do much until there something tangible right this is just a call for people who want to help me you\u0027re not trying to get a working group consensus or anything yeah I I work at my ideas were working various working groups here in the IETF but I haven\u0027t written my own IETF document yet so I know how to do it in other SDOs I just need help getting started you have people here who have experience so yeah so once I get you know start a doll I can produce a lot I just well I don\u0027t thank you so but the ask isn\u0027t for you to do everything or to no we can all help you along with that no we\u0027re gonna make you do everything so I think Stephen is asking for the meat yeah hey I\u0027d like to participate in that also ok great coming from a information models perspective see how much of Rolly can be put into that format to make it easier to translate to JSON okay great sounds good all right so I\u0027ll reach out to everyone that have volunteered the two people and we\u0027ll get a draft ready for the for the I guess we\u0027ll just start working on it "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:30:45",
    "text": "it\u0027s possible we could have it for whenever this interim is and if not I\u0027ll have a first draft ready for the next IETF okay and that is rolling for today I think unless there\u0027s the next slide hiding which I don\u0027t think they\u0027re it okay I don\u0027t think so all right thanks about your slides so XMPP draft so Nancy please wow you\u0027re tall I got it I think I think this works cuz taki will be up and you know okay so um I\u0027m really reporting out from all the great work that Peters seen Andre my co-author did on next life so this is just really really brief so from the last set of feedback I had way too much stuff in there that tried to show the entire workflow and so the suggestion was that perhaps I have cut too much out of the draft and also the request was to do a better mapping of how XMPP could be used and milds more specifically how we could use it with i/o deaf or how io deaf could be carried through the XMPP system next slide please so to that extent what we did was we kept the basic flow of how you would establish a connection into an XMPP echo system or what we\u0027re calling the XMPP grid and then from there how you could establish a pubsub so I think we took out the query which is the direct and just showed the pub/sub because it needed a little more explanation the other thing that we kept was how you could do the discovery using that so we think the draft is ready Dave Cridland we think we\u0027ve addressed all your comments so but we didn\u0027t get explicit confirmation so it would be good if you tell us if we did or not you did thank you but given some of the feedback and Sakon I guess the question so I did these lights before you present it so again the whole notion was to show that and and we didn\u0027t want to put all of the different chips in there right but was just to show you the example the base example of how you could carry information using the XMPP as a base foundational architecture as well as XMPP as a transport the question now is whether we need whether this group feels "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:33:48",
    "text": "that we need to put more on here or as we\u0027re now unfolding interoperability and sockem whether we do another well I still think we should do a separate one that\u0027s specific to sockem since this one is specific - IO death but this is where I need more guidance because prior to second I\u0027m willing to say this is ready for for another review and then if everything\u0027s okay then I think we\u0027re ready to do another last call but I put a lot of questions there before my my conclusion here a democracy is M yeah we\u0027ll review it again let\u0027s see what it looks like and keep in mind that we\u0027ll probably do something else like in addition with you - yeah which would be great but yeah I\u0027d like to give it another review because if I remember correctly it something still wasn\u0027t there that I think I wanted to be there but I can\u0027t really talk about it right now cuz I just don\u0027t remember okay sorry I\u0027m gonna hold you to it I can commit - where - give me another full review and I can also commit passing it around the XMPP signers foundation sometimes any takers that yep thanks so that\u0027s all I have this film onion I reviewed as well and I think the the only real question I had was for maybe a little bit more clarification on how the was it the the broker the controller was going to authorize the subscription to specific topics right okay so authorization is typically not in scope how one affects the authorization so I can add a sentence to the effect that when it authenticates that it\u0027s presumed that you get authorization but the whole policy of how it gets authorized I don\u0027t think it\u0027s an Mis coke okay so I heard the most recent version the question I had was regarding the requirement level of the you know like the first seven sections the non-security requirement stuff yeah I don\u0027t think there\u0027s I think there\u0027s like one requirement in that in all of that so from all the way from the beginning of the document down to security considerations there\u0027s like one or two normative words and then there\u0027s like 30 and security considerations and so I\u0027m wondering from an implementation perspective you know how do you how do you conform what are the definitions of conformance and actually implementing this standard when I think there\u0027s probably not quite enough normative language to drive that I think maybe more normative language in the first couple of sections just to make it clear like you know you must do this you "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:36:49",
    "text": "should do this the implementations can actually I can do that I mean the base was supposed to be the normative but yes fair point right right there\u0027s just I mean there\u0027s a lot of normative stuff in security considerations which is really well well laid out I mean no one\u0027s gonna screw that up because it\u0027s all something\u0027s gonna screw it up but you know it\u0027s all well this is why it\u0027s and the security considerations but I\u0027ll make sure that they get reiterated like I said I might have cut too much right on from the thanks that was good feedback and I\u0027m welcome more if there\u0027s more right okay thanks another may be some plants a chair that\u0027s up to you so I will I will do I can well so the question is up to you whether you want me to wait until I get the feedback but you have to be changed that was a comment I guess yeah so I can I can turn another revision and I can try and do it um before you know by minute mid-april so so I hope everybody can provide a feedback maybe before the end of April so that we can finish this draft ASAP thank you yeah I don\u0027t know if this works but I can click okay yep so now let\u0027s meet up let me update JSON binding draft so me myself and Roman Emil is working for a JSON binding and this is very easy well compared to the other box it\u0027s a binding of as a JSON to the ionic button - so I just want to quickly update what I have done so based on the discussion at ie gave 100 we just revised what we do is just minimizing the pages we have 60 pages well now we have 39 pages we minimize a lot gone please so this is a structure of Dortmund we have a just like the same way as a deaf person - we have a data type on JSON data model another example and schema calm please so in the data type section we have a table we decided not to write sentences st. it\u0027s a too long we don\u0027t have a mapping table if we take a look at the table we can see this is all the type of the IO def defined by I will fight until we can see how we implemented that by using JSON it\u0027s very simple that\u0027s the same way this is a "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:39:50",
    "text": "JSON data model section we decided to use a table again this is a list of the elements of the class this is a corresponding section in IO device and - by the way here I try to use a question mark or class or asterisks in order to describe the numbers quantities second please so in Section 3.2 this is very important I guess this is a list of the changes I made because we are using JSON we have to change a bit so this is the kind of a change I did so for instance we use attribute and element without any difference they are equally treated other members over the class and we deviate some classes hello class is deleted application head across it deleted signature data class indicated attackers observable reference for us we could close what an idiot as we discussed in the previous meeting they are just continuous they were prepared for the semantical purposes so we delete it but it does not mean anything to the content of the data I guess so this yes so in the JSON schema section we have a schema defined so basically the document is only for the schema other than schema everything just information in section five complete schemas written other place is just explanation not normative this section is only no motive the problem is here I don\u0027t with you can see JSON schema is not yet published at an RLC that\u0027s a problem we wanted to finish this work today but we cannot because of this reference issue JSON schema is still individual draft and we cannot reference it as a trust for reference for the standard track RFC so so is the JSON schema draft a working group draft do you know it hasn\u0027t been even adopted as a working group the reference we were using for JSON schema is not which is why we\u0027re looking at CD DL okay which is progressing okay from my understanding CD VL because I\u0027m I have another draft that\u0027s wait that will ultimately be waiting on it as well that it\u0027s up for working group last call that they\u0027re working through the last few issues and that it should progress you know fairly fairly soon yeah I mean if if we know that it\u0027s stable it\u0027s okay we can still progress all it means is that we can still go through and I can Shepherd the document it just means that it cannot be assigned a "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:42:50",
    "text": "number until C CDL has you write with we should switch to CDL already or we should stick to JSON schema maybe the answers already could yet to me we just want to skip relying on to see DB and maybe is it also possible to maybe just do this as an information model so that instead of a data model so then it makes it really easy to map to JSON no no technically we can\u0027t because the information model is the is the i/o Devi to spec because 7090 is the spec that has an information model which is the UML it has a data model which is the XML and we\u0027re positioning this as saying here\u0027s another data model which is kind of Jason what I wanna do if I move all the JSON schema to the appendix and I will create the schema by using c d BF c DD l in the main body text in this way we do not have any problem i guess i just hope people can wait until i understand how to write c DD l i\u0027m not sure but maybe one month three months i can produce new draft and try to ask you to review and we hopefully can finish it ASAP as well so I guess the question to the group is the original if I remember the original impetus for moving to JSON was to make it more compressed as opposed to the raw or as I recollect the motivation for JSON it was to get more adoption implementers wanted one a JSON so well XML is old-school [Music] yeah so and I can speak to that you know for other work organizations and web 2.0 companies don\u0027t use XML anymore and if yeah I know I saw that that\u0027s the reason right is the developers they only use their have their development stack and they know JSON they don\u0027t know anything else right so that begs the question of why CD DL is CD DL going to get you know is that the new cool shiny thing to use it\u0027s unclear whether that\u0027s the new shiny thing in terms of adoption but there\u0027s no other way to specify how to say it in JSON otherwise because if we didn\u0027t do that the document would we be two pages saying here\u0027s parsing guidance about how you do one thing well how you take the thing that\u0027s an XML and do it in JSON so that\u0027s the only way standards way that right now we can specify how to state things in JSON I would argue you don\u0027t actually have to "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:45:51",
    "text": "do a schema you could actually spell this out in property tables and call it out what it is in JSON and then you don\u0027t get into this cat-and-mouse game of having to reference something that doesn\u0027t yet exist Dave well tomorrow I think I think the value that when providing schema is that it helps implementations with ensuring that they can form with the model that we\u0027re describing and it\u0027s also non ambiguous whereas you know having you know textual pros can be non ambiguous but it\u0027s a very hard lift in order to it to try to get to that to that level so you know having some normalized vocabulary for the the model you know really can help with clarity in in implementing I\u0027m going to assert that the kinds of developers that Bret refers to as as the aviary you know they\u0027re the web 2-0 developers and other people who refer to as the cool kids and I hope open enough to stay to saying that I don\u0027t think that they are also the kinds of programmers who will care or be able to handle any kind of json schema they\u0027re using json but they\u0027re not going to be able to handle json they\u0027re not going to effectively do validation up against yeah that\u0027s exactly they\u0027re gonna look at a piece of json and they\u0027re gonna just implement it and so when you when they implement against the Twitter API or the Facebook API and on their page and it says here\u0027s how you talk to our API they just give a sample the JSON and they just code to that I mean literally verbatim and so [Music] sort of tossing it out we haven\u0027t talked at all as the editor team I mean since CDLs new to us I mean this is a late-breaking kind of development perhaps we can offline kind of explore and bring it back to the working group to figure out kind of what makes sense so I guess as far as the group is concerned to the authors do you want us to hold off or should we review this version hold off okay kind of there\u0027s three that I would share to ask to reduce so hopefully people can review later yep great thank you okay so I think with that we\u0027re to reviewing oh "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:48:56",
    "text": "that\u0027s right Nia sorry Mia we have one more presentation I think we\u0027re running out of time beyond the tacky work I was just like American bata motto Bob you we are aiming to combat from Jesuit a document to XML document and vice versa and also it\u0027s a planning code for latest jails this I owed a draft sales redraft and I\u0027m currently implementing that Khambatta including this idea focus on dates in London next time we considered three approaches the first is our customizing or existing Oasis combat us there is this many Oasis combat and combat zone libraries for example on JSON to XML or XML to JSON XML to JSON it was a trying to track these tools suitable for simple conversion but difficult to implement custom mapping rules between JSON and XML and second approach is using Excel SL T and X types eat in France Rita C 0 and it have two factions and wines JSON to XML and the other is exhibit to JSON it\u0027s described this double use ratio of edges and I think it\u0027s suitable for simple chromosome and also it enables custom mapping rules using expose functions but it\u0027s a break and I\u0027m not familiar with Excel cell T so which is the sod approaches making it own and are you think using existing isolab diabilities this is a overall combated design we use Python and Python "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:51:58",
    "text": "and I really like some modules we we use two types of modules my intern I\u0027ve already called the iPhone j\u0027son\u0027s schema objects and and the other is XML fortunate a library called generate ESP white library read JSON I with Emma and generate I saw objects and also generate these reads XML I oldest Emma and generates by some polls and we we are now writing this mapping rules among these objects and objects and coming to you we are we are aiming to read example example document is a possession domain and pocket ignore XML document a I\u0027m next right and we encountered some problems and [Music] object generator makes Angra caused by self-report defiance tickets this is caused by an indicator expression fast Andy it is originated from the original and I ordered it famous in heart but I think I it\u0027s a implementation program of the Python library but it could cause a loss on some other generators but data\u0027s so we may we may consider and see that hmm was not to remove these set of occasions in that JSON draft okay that\u0027s "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:55:01",
    "text": "all so one question are you planning to have this converter available in open source yeah of course great thank you one question this is awesome so as we think about the JSON version of the document or they\u0027re more parsing rules that you learn then maybe we need to add in that in that list and there\u0027s like eight or nine of them I think we have there are there more based on this I think it\u0027s based on rate this latest vodka so it is awesome Thanks thank you this is awesome so are there any other oh don\u0027t forget to sign the blue sheet given the size we only we only put one yeah well yeah don\u0027t don\u0027t don\u0027t ask for that you may get it Dave we\u0027ll try er yeah for the notes what is a OB on the agenda where we supposed to do something any other business sorry alright uh so we\u0027re down to the a OB there\u0027s anybody want to raise anything going once yeah really quick I forget what we\u0027ve said about the discovery draft at the end I don\u0027t know if we asked people to read it yet or not I was gonna say I would don\u0027t read it yeah I I I don\u0027t think we decided okay we would read it it was more that you would come back with the group yeah yeah I would pull I would ask for participation and the question to the list as to whether we wanted to hold a virtual interim so that we can discuss further I just wanted to request that if the project that converter project was going to be open source to post the link to github or wherever you put it into the mailing list I think they have to get it working first but yes or not that no no I mean that oh you want it even now okay where you can find that code already hey hey yeah it can\u0027t be really rude and and half back to something that we covered this morning in second someone mentioned something about a sort of an XPath for Jason that was you all right RFC 6901 may be of interest to you thank you okay now count again going "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:58:04",
    "text": "once going twice thank you everyone and nice try Adam yeah because I was pretty milk human you\u0027re just about done but now there\u0027s a new discovery it\u0027s all good the more the merrier last call on blue sheets or blue sheet okay [Music] "
  }
]