[
  {
    "startTime": "00:00:10",
    "text": "Okay. Let's get started. Good morning everybody. Welcome to the joint session of Pals mp and D net. The I'll I'll go through the slide. So I am not Andy Malice or stuart brian. Dave Ci. I'm usually the powell secretary, but I'm filling in intro my to esteem colleagues because they are not here. And should be sleeping, although I do see them online. We also have Nick Lay. Yeah. Good morning or whatever. The time is in your time. So. So I'm one of the Mp shares to other are also online today. And we mp sessions often them. Okay. So I'll run through the the chairs intro slides and you'll see that the primary reason for the session today is to discuss the mp network action work. But there are some other drafts and we're gonna take care of one of those initially. Soon I figure out how to advance the slide here. Okay. There we go. So just a reminder about the note well. Take a look at that. If you have any questions, as secretary criteria? Then the meeting tips. So like I started to say just before we open the meeting all the folks there in person in the room today. Be sure to use the mid echo on tight tool, the meet lite client. From data tracker. And then make sure that you raise your hand on mid echo before queuing up at the mic because I will go by the queue and meet echo, not necessarily the body positions at the mic. Okay."
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:02:01",
    "text": "Also, if you're in the room, keep your audio in your video off. We can see you just fine and there's cameras in the room to take care of the rest. Please wear your masks unless you're actively speaking at the microphone. Okay. Remote participants, make sure your audio video off unless you're chair or presenting? Or about to percent? And we strongly recommend the use of a headset for example to keep background noise to a minimum. Okay. Then as I started to say earlier, the the primary purpose of the meeting is to discuss, like pals one particular pals draft, but primarily the joint session between pal and P and D net is to go over the M and a work subs and post design, the m and M m m, and the M and a to support deter latency. Also have a thirty minute open discussion at the end of the session. There are two orders of business really for that session. The first is to determine the future of the open Mp design team. Whether it will continue to meet or we revert back to normal Etf process. And the second is to discuss the drops that were presented time permitting. So you'll see our meeting agenda here. This is the list of the the drafts And one thing I'd like to point out is that the draft from how you song will actually be presented by Rake Gandhi. And that was a last minute agenda change. A matter of fact, it happened no sooner than twenty minutes ago. So that's the only change that we've had so far. And the resources you can find at the bottom of the agenda page."
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:04:02",
    "text": "And I'll hold off on the open mic until we get there. So Let's see. Where over here. Okay. So with that, let's get to the first presentation and I will bring up the Well, it seems the slides have been duplicated. The private line emulation draft. So Christian, you wanna take it away from here? Yeah. Thank you. Thank you dave. I hope everybody can hear me. Good morning, everybody. This is Christian, I would like to give you a quick update on I product line emulation. It's a draft that we have been working on for a while. It was officially directed to pals at Id at one one four and I would like to show you or describe the changes we did since since that happens, and we are now at version. That's number three. Can we go next slide? I'm really jumping into just the changes. I don't wanna take too much time the offer from multiple vendors as well as customers. That's been working hard to clarify various things and improve the content. For example, we clarified the applicability with regards to see p or R c four eight four two, a td m issue, you know, two do wire standard from the past. We also, you know, made the definition and more clear and optimized. So we now have actually two payload time one is a basic payload and one is a buy line payload."
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:06:01",
    "text": "And the major change actually is the fourth bullet. We introduced a section called emulate Services. This section actually has also been present in previous standards like Rf c four five five three, for example, And in this section we clearly specify what's the interface of the technology technology specific Ns functions, the native services processing functions are and what payload type is being used for this particular interface or technology. Why you know, and we spent, you quite a lot of text in this area is because in the pass Td interfaces were single lane fairly simple. But with the advent of multi ethernet or fiber channel interfaces, all of the vendor forward, they are correction being added to Ot. You know, things are no longer as simple as a serial interface. So what we have done is basically in the section describe, you know, what's to do regards the forward error correction what happens? Or what shall be done when there are unpredictable errors? How the dealer with multi lane operation and also the technology specific replacement signals and downstream fold indication. We also added the text now for fiber channel. So all the various fiber channel face types are documented that in addition to ethernet some of the the who on support. We also had a discussion among the authors about large due to the buffers and how to deal with them and we have now a proposal how to expand the sequence number the space to thirty two bits. By using both the Rt and to the wire sequence number. And last one least you know, over time, some of the reference Internet draft also became Rf by want we updated that."
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:08:00",
    "text": "Next slide. So, Christian, I'll hold for for Sasha, we we're gonna hold questions till the end of the the presentation. So we've got you in the queue. So long story short, you know, the authors are confident that the draft has has reached a stability and I stage where we would like to work ask the working group for you call maybe side notes. There is a quite a lot of interest in the market space. And as well there is an implementation, the first implementation from Cisco available as well. Of course, even total draft we believe it's in a in a very good shape any feedback for improvements or input, of course, is welcome. Thanks laura for your time. Thanks, Christian. Go ahead, Sasha. I have Hi. I'm Sasha Wei. a question related to the introduction of the draft one of the examples. Use cases presented there speaks about synchronous line between two customer devices and the the proposal is to carry the stream. But the mode the active stream of Ethernet transparent. I wonder what happens with the ethernet synchronization messages. But if you in this case, that carried the information about the quality of the clock quality. With the proposal assistance that these Messages would be also carried transparent the Ingress p would not actually recognize this message and would not do anything. And p simply regenerate them as is"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:10:01",
    "text": "presenting the remote c information about the clock which may or may not be correct. I think that this should somehow be discussed and the draft. And the only the only thing that I have found about it that the clock recovery clocked address the requirements in the It t g eighty two sixty one, which doesn't say specify some things about Cook, but it doesn't It doesn't preclude different quality of clock being used because that's common for You well, have it in navigation as networks you have and not so good about that. Buttons it's definitely present. Is used by the receivers to select the best available clock. So I'd like to... I think that I don't have a good answer to to my question, of course, and I think that this should be somehow addressing the draft. Yeah. Thank you, Za. You know, I think this is definitely something that that we can discuss further, but let me maybe put my two cents here what we trying to I mean, what we're really doing is something similar to what an optical transport that Right? The optical transport network would not be interfering with the Ethernet frame operation hence the years and c packets would go transparent through like in our case as well. Of course, there's probably the concern that private emulation over back network is not a connection oriented approach"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:12:00",
    "text": "So some of the assumptions or the implicit trust of ot network doing with regards to the clock quality. May not be present. Right? I think we try to address it. By describing that differential clock recovery is being used and that's the quality requirements have to be met by by by and implementation. Now whether we can add something more to to ensure that everybody is clear about that you know, the network in between the two endpoints has to be you know, okay guaranteeing the bandwidth and no lost to those packets happen. If that is the case, then also clock recovery will work. You know, I think we can discuss this and I'm happy also for any inputs. But we feel from from a generic perspective, I think the the boundaries hopefully have been at least stated in the draft. Okay. No questions. Okay. Thank you, Christian. Thank you guys. One thing that I failed to mention beginning note takers. If folks wanna take notes, you can use the pad or the hedge. I keep calling you either pad. Sorry. The head facility from the agenda. I take notes up here and will ama all the input that I get both from hedge dock, plus my notes to produce the proceedings for the meeting. The other thing is just to note that the session is being recorded. So the next slides would be the open D report. Good so we don't."
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:14:00",
    "text": "Yeah. Can you hear me? Just the confirmation. Yeah. I can hear you. Yeah. You don't see it yet. Because it's not quite open yet. Hang on. I'm not sure why. But Here we go. Okay. Thank you. So Thanks. This is the status update on N mp in design team activities. This is the fifth report that we've produced from the design team and shared with Groups. My name is Dark, and next slide please. So bit of overview about this design team before we delve into the progress, this started as a joint activity between three working groups, Tls falls in death net. And the chairs from the different working groups are coordinating as agendas and decisions that we take in design meetings and outside design meetings We have a a weekly meeting that mostly we attend some times week sold. When there's no agenda, but it happens to be on Thursday. Eleven Am Eastern, and we also from the chairs we meet as well to discuss the progress participation is decent. We have fifteen to twenty participants every week The last bullet has a link to the documents the active documents that the design team is working on so in case someone wants to take a look. Next slide, please. So since Id one fifteen in terms of the working group documents as when the status update on them. The first one, we have used cases for N mp network actions network action indicators and and and Tls ancillary data."
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:16:03",
    "text": "This is a a revision tool right now. It's a working group document So we have addressed some the authors have addressed some of the comments that design team has produced And at the moment, we continue the working group and can continue to refine this document and keep it in line with with the use cases that we want to tackle. The second document once for N mp plus network action indicators and mp ancillary data, This is currently at revision four. The authors have reviewed the document in in light of recent adopted working group documents and there wasn't much changes to note. At the moment, there are no outstanding issues and this is this document is a working group candidate for working group last call. Let's next slide please. And the next document that design team has been working on is the framework for N mp plus network actions. And it's at the moment at revision four. So there was an update to explicitly indicate that post tag data for N mp network actions is an option for the solution There are currently no outstanding issues for this document, and it's again the second document that's candidate for working group last call. And the last document is the N mp network actions sub solution. So this is a solutions document Right now it's a current revision is number one. And this document has been recently adopted. We'll go over the"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:18:01",
    "text": "the progress on it. But there are some comments that that were collected during adoption and the office are working to address them. Next slide please. Of adoption for certain documents since last time there were two working group adoption poles that were good. By the chairs and here's the status on those. The first one, so there was the Mp network action stack solution we just went over that on the previous slide. The Paul went on for three weeks. We allowed some extension a disclosure for for the an Iv And In terms of support, this document received white support And eventually, we we adopted it. There was a request to contain or constrain the solution described into the... In in this document to in stack data for Network actions. And remove any references for post tag data we expect those to be tackled in separate documents. And the next document we have is the n mp network actions using post doc extension header, So this this document was called for adoption again, for almost three weeks, and we allowed some extension Because there was a relevant Ip r to be disclosed, the Poll showed minimal support and some substantial objections from the working group with regards to the Ip r filed against as a conclusion the decision was to not adopt this document."
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:20:03",
    "text": "Next slide, please. So some of the open action items that are still pending And in fact, there is a recent update on this open action item on this slide we have a document that the design team has discussed and produced titled A registry for first following a label stack this is at revision five currently and And the progress on this document installed a bit but then the shares had to get in and assign a new additional editor So Greg volunteered and thanks to to Greg. To continue to drive this forward. There was a new revision for this draft and in and eventually, we... This this draft got adopted So right now, it's a working group document. X slide. So notable action items that we closed since last time we met. We agreed on the design team that any existing Mp use cases The call coexistence with N mp network action solution needs to be documented somehow And the agreement was to add description of how these applications need to be tackled with in light of M and a proposed solution in separate documents or drafts. And in fact, there are some drafts that started to document this coexistence but we expect multiple drafts to tackle this action lighting. And the last slide, I believe next"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:22:03",
    "text": "So this slide, it's going to be elaborated more and David mentioned that earlier. We have two things to talk about today is how do we want to process on design meetings open design team meetings and maybe the David. And the next last bullet here is to we have tried to adopt the document for the solution for post Please the right So Eric, I think your audio is breaking up a little bit. If you could here you could cover the last bullet again. Sure. How was how was it now? Is it little bit better? Know the that's better it was glitch. Okay. So the last item here is we the working group and client team tried to adopt a solution for post data encoding for Ambulance mp network action. There was a proposal, but it were not successful to adopt it At the moment, we're on the look for alternative solutions or proposals and we continue to look for those proposals. That's it. Okay. Any questions. So in the queue, I've got Greg, I realized now I have two points. First, without questioning, there conclusion that Tu presented on for"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:24:00",
    "text": "post data. I recall that there were technical concerns with the proposed solution and it was some comments from myself and from others, on purely technical concerned about the complexity that This introduces m and a I don't know whether they were decisive factor of not adapting this solution, but or again, expressed by several several reviews. Second is my question about this was bullet alternative solution to m and mma Phd. Yes. It's too that, you know, framework and requirements There is optional support of post data solution for M and a. But I look at it a little bit differently. So We do have documented use case is for net mp network actions. And I think that will be a more pragmatic approach is that to first analyze, re analyze and look at this use cases and see if any of the use cases really requires posted data and cannot be reasonably addressed using existing and adapted solution for instant data and mp network actions. So if that will find out yes that we have a use case documented"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:26:04",
    "text": "use case that we agree on to support that cannot be reasonably supported using existing and adopted by the working group solution, then I agreed that we might be looking for alternative solution for Ps d but Doing that of the rock for the art and just mental exercise that might be really not using our resources and time wise in the best way. So I think that there This activity for exploring alternative solution for Ps d can be supported only by existence of the case that cannot be solved by state data. Thank you. Thanks greg. So I'll try to answer you quickly and leave room for more questions. So I'm I'm hoping that I'm still audible You are tar. Okay. Thanks. So in Greg, there were tech nickel point three against the document or solution. And not on purpose, I did not mention that, but a majority of the concerns where with regards to Ip call, The second point of searching for alternatives for Ps Indeed the one alternative could be not to have one if we can come to agreement that we don't need one. So I think even Lower agrees with me on that but maybe. So but If is indeed if we can, you know, prove that there's no need for it then would be not to search or implement one. Thanks."
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:28:02",
    "text": "If I may. Again, I'll be quick. So, yes, I would just say not to look at this at the moment. Okay. Thanks. Okay. Go ahead, Andrew sorry. A hi, Andrew rooting Id I just wanted to put a clarification in about the objections regarding Ip r because I think it's quite important that we'd be fairly specific here. That the objections were not around the Ip ipo, but rather the terms of the Ip r. So because there is like there is a difference and I think we just need to be very clear that while a working group can object the terms of Ip, it's not a questioning of the validity of the So just as a clarification point there. Thanks. Oh, thank you. Andrew draw on that. I totally But site we should clarified that as well. Okay. Wait on? Yep. This is way I'm from Channel Mobile. So for the Partnership solutions, my understanding is to currently, I'm a ae solution is just have a basic framework and lot of use case hope to use that for the work. To develop some solutions So My point is that maybe This moment it's enough. So let's see if I cancel some k problems. Then"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:30:02",
    "text": "we decide if we need some other solutions. Thanks. I am an agreement with your last part. We need to have that and come to an agreement that It's not high priority at the moment look for that solution. Thanks. Yeah. You from Holly? Yeah. I think we have been having a a long time discussion about it versus Ps and actually each one has his pros and cons. We also have the discussion about how to deal with the multi this in the level stack, what is the impact to the existing hardware that customer has not been answered so I for Sd, it is useful for specific use cases and for some specific size of data. To be carried. Well, for other use cases, Pst will also be necessary component. I think this is has been reflected in the framework document Well, current stage, I think the both option need to be move forward. That we have a complete solution for the M and a. Okay. Thank you, Jimmy, I think this is a good discussion to have the and I think there are there's a slot that is dedicated for this discussion and Let's help that. Right. Alright let's move on you next Okay. Thanks. This is a combination of of the draft to M and a header draft and the Ps m and a header drive."
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:32:00",
    "text": "So So Jack, yeah. Go ahead. Okay. Yeah. Thank you. Hello, you everyone. Know given update on our that a etf mp on behalf of our authors and quarters. Next slide, please. These are the issues those are used in our slides we have provided this for your references. Next slide, please. Today we will discuss about these scope of this graph and the high level solution of the graph, which consist of network action. And action format. We would also discuss some of the subject examples Finally, we will discuss about the in stack M and A, course. Those are resolved for the solution. The mixed step for this traffic. Next slide please. This draft discussed of all the solution of M and A including format. Carried indian stack. Also, this solution addresses the Requirement provided in the a corp document. And I'll alliance with the m and a framework document. Next slide, please. The m a header mainly kinds of stuff two parts. The first one is and action. A new Bs label is... They indicate presence of cash such. And the Nas encoding parameters. Next is the action and coding forward. Action or encode in a Tl format? That is type this as the Network cash Core. And let just does the action."
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:34:02",
    "text": "Then I use for actually data, which is optional. Next slide please. This is the M and a network actions of tag. The first ls consist of the M and A label that will be allocated. For the from the Bs label range by Ae. The second Ls, ls ses t and Dc fields are used to encode the network actions of stack parameters. The main parameters are Just. This is a two bit value. The scope of the thermostat stack. You bit. This defect. Indicating the unknown Op handling procedure if this video is set and if there are any that note does not invest understand. By processing the packet. The packet must be dropped. If it is not set then skip the unknown and process the process receipt the next. Express the. This is four bit value that represents the total length of the current network action. These are different ls see end encode encoding used in our solution. Different Ls encoding are as a different format. This would be easy to represent a specific encoding. Format a, This is this is the M and A label indicator? You indicate the presence of M A attack. And for a b, this is the M and a stack initial lab code and encoding format. This the network action parameters. And the initial of"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:36:02",
    "text": "those may need only less than or equal to thirteen bits of time very data. Pharmacy. This is the M and a subs stack. Subsequent encoding handling. The same codes the that may require to incorporate more than thirteen bits of financial data. This consist stuff in the isolated data and the action left. That is the length of specific cache that is encoded. Farmer d This course the thirty bits of data. The actual data, those could not fit in. Will be quarter in this. Next slide, please. This example shows the in stack port those are encoded in the packets. Next slide, please. This like shows how multiple network actions scope are corner in the same packet. So this thing... This contains... This packet contains all the three scope as english to leave. Or they hop school. Next slide, please. In the M and A solution, there could be a network action. Which we're not need any extra data. Be carry. So to carry those kind of actually network actions. And instead, network action you is reserved So the Tools data will carry the work actually this. Similarly, like in And stack, of, is resort to carry combination of multiple natural caches that we need luxury data. Instead, of, one twenty seven is reserved to"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:38:03",
    "text": "external the network action, of code values beyond one seven. Next slide, please. We addressing some, like whether we need the reserve code three the authors have discussed and decided to remove the, but for the approval to remove it. The yearly Bs allocation is requested for the and your comments and feedbacks for. Thank you. I can take some questions now before going to next like Okay. Thank you. Hello. You next? Lower... Or do you still the comment? For me? Hello? Yep. Now we can hear you. Yep. Okay. Alright. The I have a bad Echo. I good I got made mailing list Okay. Alright. So you'll take your question to the list. Any other questions? Okay. Let's move on to the next It's a continuation. Yep. Was it the same deck or as a same That. Oh alright. Sorry. Let just through. There we go. Go ahead. Okay. Oh now I'm gonna present the new our new draft Ja imp Post tag M and A header,"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:40:01",
    "text": "on behalf of our authors and quarters. Slide, please. These are the observations. Those are using on a slide we have ordered for this for references. Next slide, please. This is a today's agenda for for this presentation. We will discuss the scope of this graph. And the high level solution of the tab, which consist of post tag network actually. Post action header. And up post tag action hedge. You discuss the result in stack Of. Those are used for the post technical action solutions. Finally, we will discuss some post caption examples. On the next steps. Excellent please. This draft discussed about the solution for M and A including formats carried it after the stack. The solution addresses is the M and A requirements provided in the M and mma economy document and aligned with the M a framework document. Please. The post m A header mainly consist of two parts. First is the post action indicator. And the second one is the post and for cash encoding. Like. In the stack and have keep it set to is reserved to identify the presence of post data. Corner it in the packet. That's all the post and used proposed data is twenty five."
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:42:01",
    "text": "According five. So the I ihs scope and Bit and unknown handling pit in the in stack and. Are also used to indicate the scope and the unknown hand procedure. For the post tag network action. Those are encoded in the packet. Next, Slide This is the post action top header. So this is common this is common for all the prospect network actions. Those are The first will consist of new value that does not overlap with the cache control board or ip ip before starting. Emotions. The version field indicates the post tag portion And the the post tag M and A header? Field indicates the total length of the post network action. Those are encoded in the packet. Next step. K. Yeah. So this is the header used to end encode. Any specific go post at work actions. This comes consists stuff seven bit post that network m and mma. That indicates a specific network action network what action led. Indicates the total length of the data encode corresponding to the specific Next slide, please. Fact up code one get you had a couple of in stack codes are reserved. To complete the post tag solution. Solution? So it's a of code one is a result to store the starting off"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:44:00",
    "text": "set of the post data from the mp bottom of stack. So this is a optional. This will give the flexibility to encode post data. Anywhere after the sec. And then in stack four is reserved to force processing order. Across the in stack and post. Hello Next page. In this example, we show a Pst and encoding. So in this example, p has set to indicate packet contains to post that data. This scope set to hop hop in indian stack scope that persons what's type which is same quarter as by apart from school. The first level of the post tag data I is set to zero zero one zero This has to be allocated by Ae But know, just for the example sake, we make the mid sure that this... This label is not overlapping with the cash can't control board. Might be soon for versions. This is to support the legacy devices. That may interpret the value to be control or cash or ip so before version. Actually what is the total length of the M and a is set to said Three three words. And the post network action, output code three is encode. The post network. Action length is set to That is... It contains additional two words of data. That is encoded for the corresponding corresponding post upload three. Next slide, please."
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:46:00",
    "text": "So here actually given plenty of for examples. I'll just go through one I won't go through a detail I just flipping through for that or you can take a look later. This example describes the in stack flat based action two and and then post that option post code three in the packet. This example describes the encoding of post agency. Next week, please. This slide describes the encoding of Is two. Entry. And the post tag. Next slide, please. This is the network action processing in order. How actually the port forward is useful. This example the head add an intern then is that individual should process the in stack and post or order. That is in stack of code to must be processed first And then the post tag of code three must be processed, then finally, it needs to process the in stack of eight. So this end encoding shows how much like the order has been preserved. And the passing order should be preserved and the notes. Next week, please. This the solution is made made keeping in the mind that it just a backward competitor. So it can coexist with the cash and control information after the wireless stack. The solution defined here is naturally extension of actually extension of the stack m and solution. It uses the similar encoding of Tl b entered"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:48:01",
    "text": "cord and variable that. And users it uses the users the the scope the new flag from the in stack header. Next week, please. So we we currently work... We are currently working on some of the comments from Greg low and others. We will come your feedbacks and come. And we would like to request for the working option. Thank you. You. Any questions? Joel Joel Hal from Eric I'm not concerned about the format. I do need to work out if we're going to do post doc data an exact format that everybody wants to see. You've done a reasonable job But that's not the question. The question I have and the question I've asked from the list is do we need post data at all? As far as I can tell, Any solution to post tag data. Involve significant added complexity to the processing of the in stock data and of the Mp label stuff. If we really need it, Okay, we pay complexity for features we need But I haven't seen take clear demonstration of the need. And before adopting a solution, would want to understand what problem we are solving. Thanks Greg. Greg Eric. Yes. Thank you for working on addressing my questions on list."
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:50:03",
    "text": "I share Joe's concern And as I mentioned earlier in the discussion, I believe that before we start discussing technical merits of specific proposal for a posted data encapsulation we need to identify that it's really required to come with one based on analysis of existing use cases. I propose suggest that we look at them at this doc use cases from the point whether there is any documented use case that cannot be reasonably solved using data M a. If we find that there such use case that we agreed that is in the scope of M and a solution that cannot be reasonably solved with our instead data encapsulation. Then we can get to discussion of and looking for post data. Otherwise, I I feel that we're using all time and for not the best way. Secondary, what I would point out that and that's something that came to me that needs to be discussed in the first legal document that tare mentioned His overview of the work that zero zero one zero may conflict not with assigned n but also with S base header first level. And I will look at it in more detail and we'll prepare some more information"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:52:03",
    "text": "for the next discussion, whether would be and phyllis working group open is. Thank you. Yeah. Actually, we have already use case document they caller use cases, one of the use cases I. So which leads and Bs that's reason like we came of it this one. Thank you. I think that that is not yet conclusion of the working group that I am really requires and cannot be solved using Is. So I I want to stress not that it may be supported using Ps. But that it cannot be reasonably supported using. And later today, I present I'll be presenting how I am functionality can be realized using Is. Thank you. Rake cash. Ecosystems to answer the question on why we need the Ps. So it's as a Ja head it's the I m. Au has a multiple option and types. So there is located once, there is a direct export that is s u and whatnot. So some can be solved with in stack. I agree. But if you're doing pulling off the data on every hop there is an Option call pre located, for example, everyone, every node writes sometimes stamps and and the interface information and whatnot. That could be a one good use case for post. Thanks. Okay. No other questions."
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:54:04",
    "text": "Okay. Let's move on next on the list. Is I believe Greg. With Io direct exports. So timely. Or a coincidence. Okay. Okay. So we present presented this at open design team. We work together started with the med, Tony, agreed to join in the work. He shared his comments that help to improve the documents significantly we align with their accepted by the N working group data encapsulation and I would like to give you the overview of this solution. And the problem that we're trying to address. Next. So as noted that in Oem is an example of on path method for generating and collecting operational state and telemetry information. So it includes several optional modes that are pre incremental tracing. These modes are combining generating on the note I capable note information and collecting this information in a data packet. H the edge and proof of transit. The r ninety one ninety seven extended operational modes for in Oem by defining"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:56:00",
    "text": "I direct expert export mode. So I am direct expert export mode. Allows for generating the information and then transport collecting and transporting it using out of banned methods. For example, over the management plane. But it shows the same mechanism of defining the informational elements that expect to be collected. And generating by the node. Next. Please. Next. Okay. So this is more detail of I direct expert And it gives us opportunity the advantages of I index it allows for faster processing. And more accurate measurements. Because especially on egress. Side, reading the world clock. For measurement of transit time or resonance time. The time that their data packet versus their node itself. While experiencing queuing delays which are variable by the nature. It more accurately to be measured using I am direct expert because we this associate taking the measurement and storing this value in the packet. As the packet being trans transmitted. So as we know, the more accurate we can do do. Clock reading, the more reliable and useful information we can generate. So this is a very important benefit of I decks."
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:58:01",
    "text": "Next slide. So with we proposing to use there international elements in the format of I index header as defined in Rc ninety one ninety seven. But map it into their defined in stack data M and a. Yes. It's not exact We are mapping because of restrictions especially because we're using label stack element format And as you see, so we we have to give bids four bottom of the stack indicator and the first the it, to make a a guaranteed station from their based special purpose label, But this mapping is function sufficient for the purpose of I functionality using direct experts option. Next slide, please. So now how this I index M and a can be used in agreed upon and accepted adopted by the working group data. So first, it can be used as M and a op. And again, I want to stress that I am direct expert requires use of two long words And currently, two additional optional Fields have been defined. So at the minimum,"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:00:01",
    "text": "I am index at two room words. Yes. There are some use cases some might be interested to use for identifier for one one word, and sequence number for another long word. Next slide, please. Also I index can be used with the current proposal with the network action indicator with data. Looks a little bit different. But currently the defined architecture of M and A header how allows was that? Next slide, please. So what our conclusions? In the course of this work, we in our discussions we realized that currently their M and A solution allows for two. Ways of expressing the same action. And that seems like creates unnecessary complexity. So what we're proposing for the discussion and consideration is to keep and mma op codes. And consider on eliminating network action indicator with consider the data. So glass making only one way of expressing actions with data. Two ways of doing the same thing to solving the same problem. It's unnecessary complexity. And there are some questions about some field lengths that can be discussed further on"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:02:00",
    "text": "but we think that this draft presents their viable way way of supporting the most useful I option. And we ask for their and the working group to consider its adoption. Thank you. Okay. We're a little bit behind on schedule and the next drafts in particular, It also deals with Io o m. So I'm gonna ask the hold questions until the at least the next draft is presented So with that rake cash Europe, explorer data planning encapsulation for two Oem. There we go. But we can have we can have a a broader discussion when we get to the open discussion and this. Thanks. Thanks good morning, everyone. My name is rake candy and presenting the mp data billing and kept out on Iowa on behalf of the authors and contributors. And next slide this the next slide. So the agenda is look at the requirements and scope for this draft. There are some Mp they fine, so we review them and the next steps. So requirements is to carry the Io data fields which includes the Au as well as export that was defined in see nine one nine seven as well as nine three two six."
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:04:01",
    "text": "The processing either on edge to edge, or how by help or on nodes And using the encoding for the in stack in the recently period adopted working document. As well as the the proposal for the post jack's document. Next step, please. So the graph has been around for about four years now. It's going through multiple encoding formats. Also had completed the Rt for review and that's when some of this M and a related ideas where came out So recently, we moved to use the latest in stack and post echo M and A coding, and that's what presenting today. Next slide, please. Next. So the in second encoding as Ja presented basically in the working group document the I and solution, we will use the existing fields. For the unknown accident coding as well as the scope, but define a bit say that there is a post tag data present for I. If you're using Op two, there is no need to have x and for flags for this one, so it can be set to zero. Next slide, please. And for the scope for Io as just mentioned earlier. There are multiple ops and types defined. So there are edge to edge, types or data port as well as pre located proof of transit, So in case of doing end to end, the are a couple of ups and types that that's carried and scope is set to It."
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:06:00",
    "text": "And then intermediate note we'll just ignore those options. Okay. So by hop, the the pre located and blue transit option and types as well as export ups and types carried in the in this case. And I think we are suggesting do not support the incremental type just like Ip six case. I think when people work on Ios for Ip six case, they said let's not do incremental, so we let's do the same for M mp as well and not worry about it. And in case of select, it's almost same as how by hop except the scope is said to select notes and only the select notes will process. Next slide, please. So if you look at the the encoding from Jack's drop for post deck, basically, there is first. I think it can be allocated by or we can reuse the existing one. We prefer the I allocated one for post tag. To avoid any backwards compatibility issue? Again the option types is carried. Those are the coming from the couple of for I and direct export here. And the length and and whatnot is added. So this is all in post deck. Next slide, please. So if you if you need to carry multiple offs and types, so if you have a use cases like you're doing how by hop tracking of parts. Or doing end to latency measurements and things like that you can put multiple post tech network accents with Op code for Io, and option and types are already defined in the two Rf and this also includes the export as well."
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:08:04",
    "text": "And the rest just just to follow the normal Io processing for the data field. Next slide, please. This is just an example of how by hop and It, including M a So in this case, as I S solution is defined, we have two M and S subs one for each scope, So in this case, we would have two M and A subs. And another key point is that if you're doing how by help processing, how by hop Io is put a ahead of the end to end. So that you you don't have to have deep packet the right Next slide, please. So this is concern on the direct export, Greg one draft twenty eight the the solution defined in this draft is for post tech. So that's where the direct export ups and type is stored. There is definitely some useful nest have something in stack that is a draft. I think we will have presentation in a bit where defines a telemetry trigger just like a sr o flag or the alternate marking flag. That's also defined in Ip six. In nine three four three. So we have trigger in stack and then the option type is in the post tech with all the all the baggage information that we can have. Next slide, please. So we welcome your comments and suggestions and I was gonna say the requesting working adoption, but I know that the post encoding, the absolutely solution drive itself is not a working group document. So we we had to wait for it. And that's all I have on this one"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:10:01",
    "text": "comments questions. Any comments questions. So let's let's take comments and questions for the last two drafts. Good. This for the great presentation. He he asked us to remove the upward, which has the both the combination of M and a action bits and bit that. Yes, actually, we discussed with authors and then we agreed to two Thank you. Okay. No other questions. Then I'll go back to where we are. Next as well. Yeah. So we're we're running a little short on time. So if you can keep it to the ten minutes, okay. Just give me a second. There's a lot of buttons to click here. Okay. K. You've got the Do you want segment routing? That's right. There it we go. Okay. Go ahead. Good morning, Everyone again. My name is Rake Candy and presenting the draft on the enhanced Pm. This is Sr and draft on using the the stamp the simple."
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:12:03",
    "text": "Presenting on behalf of the authors and contributors. This is actually a draft in spring, but there is M and A intersection. So representing the word here. Next slide, please. Next one. So Agenda is to look at the requirements and the scope of this draft. Summary of the solution that proposed So as our N mp is using M and A and this why here, and there is a sr six equivalent of the solution, and we look at the next steps. Next slide, please. So requirements is the performance measurement in Network networks so into Ns parts, including policies, data plane Sr mp as well as S sr six. So the what we're trying to do is to have know dependency on the reflect side of the T So it's it's an our unaware of the measurement protocol in as, as you know, the state is in the package, So the goal is this way we achieve a a higher number of this scale faster interval So this is using the network programming model. That's being proposed in this duct. The scope is the the stamp, the T one C eighty seven sixty two and is also further extending the sr drop that's spring working a document right now. And next slide, please. So just a reminder that in sr dock, we have three modes defined when we to way and look back measurement mode. And in this chart, we're adding the network programming, like a services six endpoint instance to enhance the loop mode"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:14:00",
    "text": "Next slide, please. So just up of the look back more that's in the spring dropped. Basically, if in the stamp, what happens typically is that on the reflect r three packet printed and then re inject it to collect the timestamp g two and t three. And in loop back mode, the packet is just forwarded, like, data plane on r three. So we don't get the t two and t three. It's an optimization of point ten inject, but we're losing the the the one with time. Calculation of one time and only thing we got is around to delay. So next slide, please. So what's proposed the network programming is that we in case of Mp, we use M and A to collect the time seventy two in the data part. So the the line rate packet forwarding on r three, not only forwards to packet, but it also has a timestamp So kind of the operation upon and rein inject and all that step is is been optimized And now we have not only the one way delay to minus t one, but we also have So this is quite useful for for lot of Sr use cases. Next slide, please. So we are using the stamp test packets. It's if you look at the receive time stamp in stamp, it's at sixteen and thirty two offsets. From the start of the payload. So that's that's what's getting updated by the network programming. Next slide, please. Just the encoding for sr mp using the network accent for timestamp and forward the M A. Basically, there is an upward defined. Is quite straightforward for time and four, what you have an offset which"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:16:00",
    "text": "timestamp to use P or Nt, and we're done with it. Next slide, please. S sr six just the equivalent the endpoint behavior that's defined. We call it n dot u t s times seven four sixteen or thirty two. To defined under the deflect node, is at there with the note in the segment list and when it's processed by the reflect node, it will add the timestamp stamp and forward the package. Next slide, please. So welcome your comments and suggestions on the dock and again, just a reminder, this is one more measurement mode on top of the s sr draft using T that already working on document in spring. that's all I had. And Okay. Questions, Greg, Hi. Regular. There is some inconsistency in the first slide that's second slide that states that the goal is to combine session reflect being not aware of their measurement protocol at the same time, to ensure their accurate one way measurement. So their basic requirement and and you pointed it out that for one way measurement, the clocks must be synchronized. So basically, the session reflect has to Put the stamped t two stand to ensure one way measurement. And if you are somehow using stand for measuring two segment routes, then it should be pointing put their three times stamp"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:18:02",
    "text": "accurate and then t four stamp will help us to do to one way measurements. Another concern that they have is how with sr and P. You can do guarantee for accurate round three measurements that will be useful because if the packet is send back on not routed path. Then basically, you are measuring two different paths and then you're dividing it by half So it doesn't help. I can envision how it's done in a service six but I think that in a certain is more of a challenge. Thank you. From And I you go back to the pages it. Seven. Page seven. Seven. Oh, yeah. Maybe it's the same question which have already been rise in the middle before I upon Closer to the mic because we're having a hard time hearing yeah. You might need to do that... So if it's a same question, which have already advised in the mail before I apologize in advance. And here, you use the by t two minus q one, and I'm just the one who it it's in makes sense. By the rewards pass it's the as a policy, or the metro Ip. Because you just use the stand on t three and them on one. And for the wrong trip, things what's the type of the going trip things make no sense. And it's it well be made some hub orientation. You've take the take to"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:20:01",
    "text": "or the label stack of the ground trade. Yeah. Good question. So by default, this stamp reply comes back Ip udp. The thing with the segment routing is that you can put the part segment list in case of Mp well as s sr six. Also in the packet. So it will get forwarded from r one to our three, and then you have segment list in case of wireless labels bring you back to the r one. So you can ensure the code part forward And was direction. That's good about Sr Okay. And and another question is for the if the reverse pass is the native Ip, and how can keep it in the first pass? Without prompting. Well it will take some special destination inside Yes. Yeah. It's a good question. So in the Ip add Ip four Ip six header, the destination will be set to our. Okay. Okay. And the the last one is I'm just concerned about here the last two sentence here it's the clock synchronization. Wondering it's requirement here. As the clocks normally just with the frequency synchronization. I think you needed the the time with both the face and frequency. Yeah. The P clock... So if using the Pt p timestamps on t one and t two, the most p p clock must be in sync between the two to do the two minus t one. Okay. So some kind of fifteen eight eight version two and Pg Okay. Thank you. Yeah. Fifteen eighty eight we too exactly yeah. Okay. Thanks."
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:22:03",
    "text": "You have about thirty seven seconds to do your last presentation. Okay. I can do it. So I I will give you more than thirty seven seconds to do the presentation, but you you keep it short can. I I'll do it here. Course it may take me thirty seven seconds just to find it in here. Everything is listed twice I'm having to scroll through twice as many things. Hi again. My name is like. I'm pleasant presenting desktop laptop. It is on behalf of. I'm not how think he could not make it So I'm presenting on his behalf. And there are a couple of telemetry and network actions defined in this draft. So I'll just go them quickly. So we talked about the Io, the recording part. We talked about that export, Greg talk about direct export. What's missing is the the one bit to trigger telemetry to two beats to do the alternate marking. So Sr v six already has o to do this one bit base marking And so we're putting a bit here in the network and flag to do this telemetry trigger. That is Nine three four three, I believe defines the Ip six alternate marking that are two beats L d, So we're putting the two bit network accents to do this loss and delay alternate marking, the two flags are defined in this drop. So it's basically one plus two... What it was in As service six or Ip is already there. They're bringing this to flags in Mp. And that's basically the draft. Okay."
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:24:01",
    "text": "Alright. Well, Skip through the rest of the slides then we'll skip to... Yeah. Greg yes. Quick. I just want to remind that working group adopted and progressing solution for synonymous labels that are useful in addition to other things for ultimate marketing. Indication. Thanks. Okay. It's no other question. So then let's move on to... Thanks for That's the last one. Right? You get do you get to finally sit down? Okay. Next one is. Yahoo group. Can hear? I'm attending remotely. Right. Let me bring up your presentation. Let me bring up your presentation. And and you may wanna shut off your speaker. Name. We'll turn it down or turn it down. Okay. Is is it okay No? Okay. Go ahead. Okay. Go ahead. Okay. I'm city. My presentation is about sec based mp inspection. Next slide. It's mentioned in M and a work that's a note that pushes and unless onto the enable stack. The responsible at determine mean that all that should process a nets. You has the mask is red. Label. And signal is the common method the concept Ms days originally advanced for And you guys there, it means the maximum payment number of six. And has."
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:26:02",
    "text": "And must speaker defines the medicine label taps. Made of work. Document defines and you and the speak. And in the mechanism to signal on this using ig. And next light. This Is called ways and inspection. And it just different many numbers of labels, the can read in the n mps labor pack We received only incoming to. Putting the top of the step. And it can be used either ingress arms. To determine the foundation of the next. And while is necessary to insert multiple mess at different positions in the label stack. And on the other hand, with the inspection and. Network actions is a five like not it. For example can signals slow network action capability. And this place Inspection. To indicate that it can this network action. Within. And the code extensions thing. A new Ig msc type is requested. Slow that mistake can be advertised of via is I and and the It extensions can be about ties the via Reps as well. That's what and welcome feedback and comments. Any questions? Any questions?"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:28:04",
    "text": "Okay. Let's move on to the next. Okay. Let's move on to I'm not sure why it's doing that that I'm not sure what's it's on that. See you on. Yeah here. So how many minutes do I have. You have five. Five minutes. Okay. Yeah. Because we we still have the open session talk at the back at the back. So Thank you ready go. Okay. This graph about stack in encapsulation full a deter transaction. In a slide please. Okay. The determined take terminology is from Net double So this draft to provides a solution on the deter, latency service support using m a. And we use Dot net double took you know, he requirements a draft as basis. Okay. So let's slide. Yeah. Okay. It's down the requirements draft there are full main requirements new to satisfied and fold the number one, number rate and number four."
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:30:00",
    "text": "As we discussed this three requirements has been certified for mk. So But for the second requirement just support the information I just by functions ensuring latency has not been So the attention to the existing than that Solution as needed. Okay. So last slide. A consideration for the Solution, First, the indicator for the D is required. And then I is detailed latency information it also be carried. Such she as cure and related latency information. And the information is as expected to be processed by health. Okay. Let's slide. Okay. This is encapsulation for m and a for dr a. Yes. We use I'm a solution to resolve this question. And the format to encapsulate the determine take information. And use Op code to indicate the Dr. Assistance and the flag used for cue item used in the than that network."
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:32:01",
    "text": "And it's out to identify to indicate its lens for the data. And the data will carry will carry some detailed latency information, you know depends on the queue type fields in the deter network and the lens for the id add It also depend pounds a number of he knows in the determine that's taken network. So will be variable. Okay. This night. Yeah. This is for the a queuing type. Actually, which you item. It's will be used for that night plane to resolve the enhanced it enhanced know house support so we will also follow the new discussion of double g And this encapsulation for the queue. It's certain now. Yeah. And it's an and as initial stage. Now. Okay. Thank you on that slide. Okay. Folds and steps awful this draft we will make some updates on the terminology and"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:34:00",
    "text": "if there's new house requirements happened where we make some updates for the consideration for the information. And for has encapsulation maybe there's necessary to consider p solution. And for the a forwarding behavior. Maybe it may also have some consideration make some on that. Yeah. Okay. Thank you. Okay k Thanks. We have time for One, two quick questions. None. Okay. Thank you, si. Okay. Thank you. Okay. This brings us to the the open discussion part of the the session. There are... Like I said, at the beginning, there are two topics that base we need to cover here. One is in the in probably the thing to cover is the future of the design team. Let me bring up the chairs slides again. And there's a couple of slides that I we put in here walk through. Okay. Here we go. Okay. So the the question on the table is whether or not we should consider or whether or not we should continue the open the open design team meetings calls. To to work on M and a or whether we should... Wow. Already haven't me to pass the first slide and we get queue. Whether or not we should continue to design team calls or revert back"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:36:01",
    "text": "to what would be considered normal Group process with inter meetings and doing the work on solely on the list and in the Ihs meetings. Just... There there is a question on on what as we heard earlier today. There's a question on whether post data is needed and if so we might need to find a solution. We need to find a way to progress the work of M and a in a timely manner. And the calls and the interim meetings, whether we do formal calls as a design team or virtual meetings and and between Ihs meetings that may be part of how we facilitate getting the work to progress in a timely manner. The other point to make is there are still some corporations that are interpreting the trade restrictions that exist. Is is prohibit informal contact, like, having private telephone calls. So this was one having the open design team calls or a meeting is a way to get around some of those trade restrictions or at least not circumvent them, but deal with them. So just some pros and cons quickly. Option a would be continuing the open D calls So the pros here are there frequent they're informal flexibly scheduled between the draft off draft authors and the working group leadership as well as other parties. Their way to provide quick feedback to the draft authors potentially achieving a faster consensus. And setting up the open d calls is far less, it's administrative restrictive and more flexible logistically for the... Than then setting a working group interim call. Some of the downsides of continuing with the open d calls is the authors are mostly discussing amongst themselves amongst the subset of the community. Without the wider three working groups worth of input,"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:38:03",
    "text": "The d really can't make any decisions without coming back to the working group. So regardless of what's the us they need to come back to the working group. In order to to rat any decisions around proposals. Not everyone who is interested in M and A is able to make these design team call where it that would be something that would be addressed by having working group virtual meetings. If the calls are needed to progress the work, the virtual meeting process is generally the method that the Etf ask that we use. Not not the continuation of we're not the open design team. It's it's only supposed to be used on a limited basis. Option b would pre to progress the normal working group process that in includes both using the email list and the meetings as well as working group interim meeting calls. By doing this, we would presumably get wider community input We would have via having most or all the discussion on the email list, the work is at the point where decisions conclusions need to be made. There's many, many many proposals tools that have been framed through the use of the design team to date The work at this point actually needs to hone those proposals down to a few and make some decisions on which way we go forward. The decisions can be made on the calls and the email list without a be or re rehash of the discussion to the working group. So the idea here is even if the design team comes to consensus, whole decision has to be rehash on the email list or interim working group call an order... Or an Etf meeting in order to actually make a decision. There was also claim that you could get greater greater clarity of the decision making. It it's"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:40:03",
    "text": "there's no question as to who is making this this the decision in the normal working group process, it's the working group versus in the open D calls. Some would claim that the D made a decision which really is not the case. But... And then the important thing is that all everybody can participate in these working group calls. Some of the cons for resuming the new the the normal working group process is that the interim working group meeting process is administrative less flexible than the open D calls It involves a bit more overhead than in scheduling the open D calls. Which puts a additional burden on the working group chairs and Ads at and the working group secretaries. And it is likely because the administrative burden that there will be less of or or there will be fewer of the working group interim calls. And that that in turn provides less opportunity for, like, an open exchange of information and discussion between the interested parties. So this is just to give a few highlights of pros cons, different viewpoints, The important thing is it's not a to the leadership to decide this. It's up to the community. So should we continue with the open d key calls? Or should we resume normal working group process. And that's the question on the table. So at that point, I'll open up the mic. Tony was first in the queue then followed by all Thank you. Tony Lee Juniper networks. I've been participating in the open d calls for about a year now. They have been incredibly productive. We have made a great deal for progress simply because we have the time we have the bandwidth to talk to each other, it's been incredibly helpful. If we did not have the open D, we still be just getting started"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:42:02",
    "text": "We've probably made about five to ten years worth of progress in the last year. So I strongly encourage continuing with some kind of frequent and open call. Now how this works administrative? Well, I'm not too picky about that. All all say that I think that the administration and the bureaucracy should conform to optimizing the work and the work should not conform to the sake of the. So I guess I vote for optional. Thank you. Hello, Joel Hop on direction. I hate to disagree with Tony, but I fundamentally strongly disagree. Not with whether they open D did work. I don't I could not make the calls. I therefore keep judge. Whether the open Bp calls were useful. I can't observe however that I couldn't make almost any of them. Was rather than frustrating. More importantly, When I look at the list of things which need to be resolved now, So all our things which will need to be discussed with the working group. At this point, whether the authors agree or not is almost not site they're really good people, but almost you're irrelevant We need the working group to agree on whether it wants post tag data, and if it wants it which solution it wants, having office try to negotiate bits, while we're trying to figure out whether we want the bits at all, is just not effective. The Has procedures. The open D is an interesting abuse of those procedures not gonna complain about it having been done? But I have real problems with it continuing."
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:44:01",
    "text": "Okay. Thanks Adrian. Hi. I'm I'm agent I'm gonna agree with turning and Joe. How about that. Yeah. And from my next trip. So I I'm completely agree with Tony that the design team has made great progress and that progress would not have happened. I think trying to drag the whole working group through. What really worries me is the the design team gives a flavor of feeling to those of us outside of making decisions rather than making recommendations. Of documenting those decisions rather than coming back to the... To the working group and saying, we've reached this point and we need you guys to give us guidance and storage. So and I think the third thing then is is from Joe, It's not actually easy for everybody who cares about this work. To attend those meetings. And the record of what the the design team is doing and how it's progressing. Is maybe not coming through enough to the working group. So I think we could continue with the design team, but it's got to understand its role within the working group better and and communicate better and take input better. So no other questions, sir, Andrew? Yeah. Sorry. Yeah. Didn't about that open to hit the edge join the queue. I just wanna kind of second what Adrian says. Because"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:46:00",
    "text": "even myself as the ad that trying to keep an eye on this stuff. It's not an option for me to be at the design team meetings because it clashes with other I tea stuff. And without that constant feedback, it actually does create a bit of a problem when you're trying to monitor one is going on in that design team And As Joel said, the design team does not have decision making power. That is with the working group is, the working group makes the decisions. So that flow of communication and that decision making power need to be very clearly sitting in the working group because otherwise, it's gonna create a problem. Hello? Lower go ahead. Okay, Laura. We we aren't hearing you. So if you are speaking, you You need to do something with your mic or maybe put your comments on the list. Okay. I'm gonna move to Tar. I wanted to mention that Laura was having audio new problems he was chatting with me offline I'm gonna relay my perspective as well as his, I think he favors the design team and and trying to bring at least a recommendation forward to the working group so that the decision finally gets made within the working group. This is a process that we have been following"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:48:00",
    "text": "specifically, when we wanna make, you know, effort reach a a decision making stop we have been engaging the working group on the on the mailing list and trying to converge on on on the decision. In here, we are presenting again a decision we want to know make about the post tag data. So I think maybe design team has a role to play still. At least until we converge on bringing forward the recommendation to the working group. It from my perspective as well as noah as I think. Okay. Thanks. So far? So far, I I agree with the Joel. I think and and many thanks for the design team for doing for? Phenomenally job. But now I think we are a stage where the inter meeting plus the normal working process. Can get the job done. Is if you, like, there there an issue with many people to be attending all the design team. Meetings, even people are interested in. So if it becomes in in our working process, the easier and better engagement for the Thanks. G? Jennifer from Huawei. Yeah. I can agree with figuring that. It is more efficient to have the technology discussion and analysis in the design team as a small group people interested in this topic. That of shaking the whole working group on the middle list. Right? And I think what we can to maybe in the next step to have timely synchronization with the wick group about the recent summary or conclusion made in the design team. And then we can also always"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:50:04",
    "text": "provide some like, a weekly or bi monthly report to the working room middle list. So that people who have concerns or interests they can try to communicate with the different design team I'll try to participating the some of the meetings So that is more efficient and accounts make yourself the efforts energy. After working group. Thanks. Thank you. Joel. Joel hal from Eric again, the fundamental disconnect I hear here is the difference between our design teams useful. Design teams are useful. I did the lot of person to argue that we shouldn't allow design to. The question is is this open design team thing as it will be functioning forward, to get what it did before a design team over a working group or some strange hybrid that bends the process out of shape. If there is a specific problem that the design team a set of people can't get together by phone zoom Webex side care and talk to each other to see if they have agreement as a design team because some of the are allowed to talk and figure out a way to put some observers in the room who are even participants who are somehow making it possible for them to have the conversation, which is essentially what we're pretending to do. If that's what you need, That's a design team. I can't say you can't have a design team. That would be stupid. They're very useful things. But the working group decisions and everything I saw listed as work items for the open design team were working with decisions"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:52:00",
    "text": "need to be worked on the working be list or under mean, are only allowed to discuss things. You still need to work the result on the email list. That's where we do our work. And the fact That may be a little slower. I mean I'm sorry, but that's the price of daily standards Any other comments questions or views? And I'm under no misconception that we're gonna come to consensus in this meeting about this problem. So we we pick taking this to the list and discussing with chairs based on the list input. I've tried to take copious notes about what was said in the yeah. Nick as well what was set at the microphones? Well, with that, we have about eight minutes left. Well, Tony is your comment about the open design team. I was gonna switch over and start taking comments and questions on the drafts. Yes. I was kinda respond to joel Okay. Go ahead. And then we'll switch over to the drive. So Joel, you agree that design teams are a good thing. And we allowed design teams to make decisions. We have to of course recognize that the design team's decision is not binding on the working group. And the working group has to make its own decisions. But the the design team certainly has the right to make decisions about how it wants to proceed. And there's apparently a few people who are unclear on that concept and maybe the real issues that they need to understand that."
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:54:03",
    "text": "Okay. Thanks. Any other questions or comments on the drafts? At the risk of blowing up the queue, this is where you would ask questions about the need for post data. Crickets really? Okay. I guess the prior discussion is more everybody out. Alright. We will give you six minutes of your lives back. Thank you very much for attending and we'll call her today until next time. Thank you. Perfect. Perfect. That because this is usually a complete total."
  }
]
