[
  {
    "startTime": "00:00:30",
    "text": "once it all right I got the chopper up yeah I could have somebody else per also but you know we good if you had someone else in the Jabbar - because I well we\u0027re so and as usual anybody want to volunteer take notes anybody want to volunteer to monitor the jabber room everybody looks down certainly somebody must be have the ability to take notes yeah just on the ether pad and nothing major just decisions all right was that so that\u0027s all right good all right and I\u0027m honored with a everyone everybody wants to look over his shoulder to catch where he misses something in the Internet all right I think we can probably start I think I see most people we need okay welcome everybody hey BT core our note takers take her back there I\u0027m monitoring Jabbar but everybody else most much cover also your your Dan you\u0027re not taking it either pad right yeah great perfect anyone can join the other pet so blue sheets are going around or possibly have already gone around if you I see one sitting up to the front so he didn\u0027t get one come get one all right we record a Medeco no well it\u0027s the last session of the week so hopefully while seemless already if not welcome to the ietf agenda so "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:03:32",
    "text": "rachel is not here she is switching jobs switching roles at her current at Huawei so it\u0027s not clear she\u0027ll be able to be coming to the idea or I think it is actually is clear that she will not be able to be coming to the IETF anymore so probably want to talk to Barry about that at some point if he still thinks we need three chairs so did she confirm that to you that she won\u0027t be coming in the future because when I left okay yeah cuz when I talked with her she wasn\u0027t certain yet what the future would be she didn\u0027t come now so the three the three of us should talk with her at some point we do have one agenda Bash Colin needs to be in another working group or actually research group for the beginning of the session so we\u0027re moving his to the later that\u0027s what happens when he\u0027s our TF chair he needs to be at the IR D F so sessions amazing how that works other than that you see we\u0027ve got the V BBC presentation and real-time text for multi-party conference as well so that\u0027s what we\u0027ve got up on the agenda our working group documents three of them are still in the in the cluster 338 so that\u0027ll come out whenever that comes out and we\u0027re not stressing about it one is on one is waiting on frame marking so hopefully we\u0027ll get that resolved today and then multiplex guidelines so the opening is one of the here I\u0027m speaking as one of the authors of the document editor we missed during the process to an address Bernard\u0027s comment and hopefully I will do it next week so I\u0027ll probably have to ask probably from Bernard for some clarification but I\u0027ll try to do it next week and the last one di feedback CC Fitbit message that\u0027s the one that Colleen is going to present when he comes to frame marking Mau do you want to speak to this most nineties editor of the frame working so we updated to version 10 based on Dale\u0027s substantial feedback let me preface this with it was it was quite a bit of quite a quite a few comments and I think several of them "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:06:34",
    "text": "required some substantive changes so unfortunate I think we do need to go through another working with last call to make sure that those changes are ok with everyone I\u0027ll summarize them briefly but I think people are gonna need some more time to digest it and make sure that we\u0027re not breaking anything with these changes so the the first major item was and I guess we\u0027re on a you should pay attention to this the floor reserved bits that used to be in the short format you know where the with a temple area ID and the and the base layer SiC bit with those bottom four bits were all zeros in the short extension format and since we added the ability to omit in the long format the other parameters so that made it ambiguous whether something was dead zero with B equals zero or whether something was a non scalable extension where you should ignore those so it\u0027s really not possible to reserve them for future use which one is draft was relying on them being available for future use for the non scheduled extensions only if you knew that beforehand that you\u0027re only ever going to use non-scalable streams through some other signaling you knew that there was only non-scalable screws that\u0027s not time you can really reuse those bits if you had a case where there could be scalable and on scaleable streams then there\u0027s no way you could reuse those bits because there\u0027s no distinguish the two so this current version explicitly says that those bits are always zero and they\u0027re not available for future use for non-scalable streams those as a individual I\u0027d say that that\u0027s you know if you do need to change system adding some gets you probably want to put something in the signaling anyway so that\u0027s probably you need not do it different you neither see they need a different header extension or right I mean this thing is just to have a different you are n or n parameter after three marking but that\u0027s essentially a different extension ID so you could differentiate them that way but that essentially is a different header extension at that point so if you know if Ronnie wanted to pursue the priority work you just have a different you are n then frame marking and you could then you could reuse those bits but with the base with the base ER n that\u0027s specified in frame marking it wouldn\u0027t be wouldn\u0027t be advisable that we use those bits almost somehow the application knew that there\u0027s no chance of scaleable streams coming in this the next point was in the case where you\u0027re in the base temple layer 0 the B bit which is base layer "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:09:35",
    "text": "sink is sort of useless because you\u0027re obviously in the base layer so everything only depends on the base layer and they\u0027ll pointed out that it was an oddity that the baby that would always need to be one in that in that case because you you only on the base layer but in other cases we say that the be a bit of zero for example for non scribble streams so to clean that up I just forced the nib it always be zero when the ten is zero that way it\u0027s clear that the natural the natural case is when something is ignored at zero so then you don\u0027t have to always set it to 1 and then in the base layer it\u0027s just always zero in the base layer so that seems a little bit cleaner that\u0027s a substantive change and the next changes tells your epic index the current draft the older draft said that it counts the typical zero frames and that\u0027s not completely accurate that\u0027s from the combination of typical zero and lid equals zero so it\u0027s basically the base layer not just the temple base so clarified that it\u0027s both to zero and with zero that that labels the TSR pick index next change is that if you don\u0027t have a tid it\u0027s implicitly zero so basically non-scalable streams are flat and they they only have that simple base tipler\u0027s ero and similarly lids are implicitly zero when you\u0027re using the a short extension so if you don\u0027t specify it you\u0027re in the base special layer and if you omit it in the long extension same thing it\u0027s implicitly zero some text to clarify that that\u0027s not stuffs into this just clarification they are ID mappings that\u0027s also just clarification it wasn\u0027t obvious to some other readers that if you\u0027re having non-scalable stream there\u0027s no layer IDs and so there\u0027s no mappings clarified that must rest and then finally the editorial changed just to not show the header extension ID with a specific value it was more the specific value in some of the sections and it should be a question mark that\u0027s negotiated by signaling that\u0027s all changes but I think we do have to go through the work with boss called heaven everybody digest those my inclination would be to say like the first two weeks of December so it\u0027s after the Thanksgiving holidays for Americans and before the Christmas holidays Bernardo bulla Microsoft I have just a clarifying question for you mo because the fray marking draft is relatively simple to implement it\u0027s attractive to play with for things like a v1 and the question has arisen as to which loads of baby one it is applicable for so my taking tell me I\u0027m wrong or "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:12:35",
    "text": "not is that it applies for the tempo modes and this normal kind of spatial modes but not for the KS v c or c shift modes or any of those weird things or this I\u0027m surprised you\u0027re asking you Bernard because I think you\u0027re well aware that the promoters of 81 are not actively binding to this specification so if if people wanted to go outside of what 81 specifies and bind to this specification yeah the cases where you haven\u0027t you know nested temple hierarchies would would be usable by this but that\u0027s kind of is difficult to say other and that we should recommend and have a section 481 about this because you know the first of all there is no any one art speed you have not in not ITF draft for that and if there ever were one it\u0027s my understanding is it\u0027s likely not to specify a binding to frame marking it would have its own type of descriptive marks I mention this because a frame marking is currently in library RTC and so when a v1 is added in you have to figure out what do you do with it and even if we don\u0027t mention a v1 just understanding what kinds of modes because some of these modes also exist in vp9 just understanding the applicability of a draft do we have a slide for that vp9 finally thank you so just it just for clarification is as far as I understand that for the frame out theme for any new codecs which are not part of this document didn\u0027t need to be specified elsewhere because we are closing this one so if you don\u0027t need for everyone you need someplace to write it yeah that\u0027s correct it\u0027s just the more question comes up for vp9 as well so just just having a clear understanding of which modes it\u0027s applicable to it just be helpful yeah I mean I think the vp9 draft does mention its frame marking mappings in it but again it\u0027s only I think frame marking is pretty clear that it\u0027s only for these simple and common scalability structures and you know all codecs can do weird things only but you know only difference is how easily can they describe them but they can all be weird and frame working is only for the things we thought were the simple cases when we were writing it "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:15:37",
    "text": "yeah it\u0027s just it\u0027s just helpful to give an example of of modes because a lot of things look weird to a lot of people and just the question is where that where the boundary is do you want text in this document saying here are some examples of things that are specifically out of scope and not supported like this for marking yeah I mean doing this yeah I mean as an example there are you know we have this now standard nomenclature to describe the modes and so you could say like KS vici modes or shift modes are not supported and normal temporal and spatial notes would be yeah something like that Oh looks unhappy I mean you know given that those are just you know just recently within a few months you know I mentioned and you know widespread deployed so I I belittle averse to starting to enumerate things that are newish because that list could be you know I worked really long and if they never see deployment then it\u0027s kind of you know we mentioned those things I think it\u0027s cleaner and what want any might things and then have someone say oh well you didn\u0027t write this so it must be in scope so it\u0027s kind of ambiguous whether or not something that\u0027s not her enumerated you know is in or out of scope so I think it\u0027s cleaner just to say only these very very well-defined streams are in scope and everything else is out of scope okay big what will happen so that\u0027s why we have either be so we make a new definition for frame mounting like you suggested we may need a different a different structure a different a different bill other expense extension for a first specific one so but that\u0027s we don\u0027t have to decide it now because now we are closing based on the current text that there is a current called exit out there yeah so it sounds like that are we good if we just you know acknowledge this to ourselves but don\u0027t put that text in the draft describing these things and think of current text saying we only describe the case case we do handle does it officially save us not use if doing something weird I mean I may be free marketing should explicitly say must not use if you\u0027re doing something that doesn\u0027t match these patterns but I don\u0027t think you have to prohibit it it just won\u0027t be efficient right it\u0027s not it won\u0027t blow up your network of anything the worry is that you know if your it depends what what the wrong thing is yeah forward too much stuff it\u0027ll just waste bandwidth but you it won\u0027t cause stuff not to render if you don\u0027t forward the right stuff yes to home right there so knows an audience it\u0027s explicitly stated in that in that "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:18:38",
    "text": "skillet a structure section that it is not recommended for other you know complex or irregular scalability structures I mean it\u0027s a the creator of the structure knows better than we do whether or not it would work with frame markings so I think to actually prohibit it and you would be the wrong thing you know if I\u0027m if I\u0027m creating a complex structure but I\u0027m clever enough to make it work the same as nested structures then I should be prohibited from being able to use the frame marking you know approach but I could go either way and I prefer to leave the text as is not recommended but I was a little too strong in the room not recommended doesn\u0027t don\u0027t see any contradiction so okay let\u0027s leave it as it is all right so you dressed if anybody objects will do it and working to west call all right so yeah so I think probably whatever there\u0027s like the week after will start like the we got the Thanksgiving and kill for two weeks all right great thank you okay yeah so we so it depends on you put them in your weaker my week we should decide we said which of us is issuing that oh okay all right so you got to okay so we have I mean since we were chopped still give them as an X payload document so we have the G is G TS visas they\u0027re still an open issue and open discuss and of the relationship today ts visas document and we could be addressed the ttml just this week they put the in lieu 0-6 version which addressed the comments and it\u0027s now already was a also already to the RFC Attica so this one is is finished it\u0027s that it\u0027s nice G toy already will be in the IFC editor it\u0027s me for this week at the other work on the first one the status there is where the author\u0027s are waiting for the ad to respond correct I\u0027m not sure I think I think they that\u0027s I\u0027ll have to look it because my understanding is that there was the issue about how it\u0027s related to to internally into the text that\u0027s in the TSA Vietnamese point for that is it a normative reference information informative what to do is it or to include the text I think that\u0027s the point that is open there right but I think the elastics the last message was from the author and it\u0027s waiting for an ad response I think and if as I\u0027ll double-check that and if it\u0027s so I will I will beat on the idea this afternoon "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:21:39",
    "text": "okay the other the working with documents we have that route the payload was registered by group from Etsy to the our cycle the auto submit to the zero three version he\u0027s ready for a new plus Cole I\u0027ll just check with the author\u0027s and if they\u0027re okay then we will do last call the JPEG X s there were common so the least and the auto address that in this new version we need more reviews I will again ask on the list and ask them also to get reviewers because sometimes they\u0027re Jews are coming from outside our regular community vp9 here we have to be ok yeah so I did a minor refresh and I think it was a one minor update but there\u0027s still it\u0027s still basically waiting on a bunch of informative texts which I was hoping that my co-authors would write and they haven\u0027t so it might be that we need to find some other volunteer to write that text just sort of like an overview of how the vp9 codec as a whole works I mean this has been you know deployed in production for a number several years now in the Chrome browser so not as having this is an individual as an ID is slightly embarrassing so so I guess we should probably so look just III don\u0027t know but just publish whatever you have yeah I don\u0027t think you need to explain an explanatory text about how a codec works when when there is actually sample code that\u0027s in production for years yeah I mean I can just get that yeah my only concern is if there\u0027s stuff in the in the payload header which you actually need for that\u0027s true so if you\u0027re if you\u0027re fencing a document that include the information you just point and say go read there that\u0027s okay because if it\u0027s mostly if it\u0027s informative if it\u0027s not something that you need in order to to use the payload or descend the payload did not the payload the RTP payload okay so let\u0027s just verify the fan if there\u0027s no issues with that then we can do it last call and finish with that okay so that\u0027s okay is that yeah I guess I\u0027ll just go probably go and I mean yes it\u0027ll be a little sparse in terms of descriptions of vp9 but you know better than our perpetual ID so this was a conversation not between the two chairs but between the show and the video just to be clear so the last word that there\u0027s a new individual drop the RTP pellets words for the PVC coating to represent it later okay we have to go back to the goals in milestone and you think see that what to "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:24:42",
    "text": "need update but currently we have the tetrarch\u0027s already passed you the RTP header extension for video frame hopefully we probably hopefully will have it by January or February we\u0027ll be able to send it for publication so we need to update this this date the that\u0027s the June 2019 that\u0027s the draft for calling hopefully is done we hear about it when he does this presentation because we will ask why it\u0027s not finished yet and it\u0027s mostly because Colleen is trying to steal some stomach texts to add to that vp9 we discussed now will change the will update the the milestone the JPEG X still we still have time estate and the TTL is already done so we have to just change it to them anything anything else on that before we start the individual presentations CDC I guess because we\u0027re still waiting on Collin to get back oh wait sorry F this one oh it\u0027s Collins here so we can have to be on Bosch this week a nun - did you suck in so before we go into the specific stuff I mean unless anyone knows living in a cave I\u0027m sure there\u0027s a lot of energy around you transport formats and potentially media over those new transport formats and whether or not it uses the same you know formats as abt is defined or not is still an open question so if anybody here is not aware of that it\u0027s just a strong suggest you follow like you know the quick work and the rip work and all that and figure out whether or not you have some comments about it I understand that Collin Jennings is planning to create a mailing list for grip as soon as he comes up with a better name for it so he knows what it named Llanelli must you will make sure that this won\u0027t be kinda yeah I\u0027ll make sure I\u0027m the code that will make sure that when this is announced with it\u0027s also announced on the ABT balanced okay hi I\u0027m Colin Perkins I want to talk about RTP congestion control feedback so the draft content technical content has not changed in the slightest in this revision there have been precisely free updates one of which is to fix my core Mallos contact details one of which is to mention the REM B format along with my minds blanking timber and that sort of thing the other is to add a paragraph "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:27:43",
    "text": "which discusses a relation with the Hulman draft and essentially all this points out is that you the home address adds a night EP header extensions give a packet sequence number and then reports that as a sequence number for the aggregates in the reports and this uses the sequence numbers which are already in the packets and reports the SSS here in the per flow sequence numbers and it just points out the obvious thing that if you\u0027re adding a per packet sequence number this adds you overhead per packet but simplifies the reporting if what you want to do is can get congestion control the aggregate and the approach in this mechanism and has less overhead per packet but has slightly more complex reporting and gives you makes it easier to congestion control the individual flows and perhaps also integrates better with the rest of RTP which also reports sequence numbers per SSRC so hopefully this is a sufficiently neutral description of the trade-offs and will not cause great objections hopefully that addresses the action item I had to clarify the relation between these two drafts with that I believe this draft is ready for working group last call I see some nods on that anybody disagree with that you figure out the timing of this so we\u0027re not running too many working device calls at once but let\u0027s see yes any problem one yeah basically I guess we can do them both or I\u0027ve been the same considerations apply we want to avoid you know the holiday season I think but oh yeah well I must I\u0027m not unless we think we get about a fortnight between holiday season right yeah so so I guess but so probably overlapping this with very marketing it\u0027s fine I don\u0027t think it\u0027s neither of them are terribly long so nothing either of them will require yeah and this this has been bashed upon quite a lot so I think my guess is anyone who wishes to comment has already done sir yeah so I mean well I guess big make sure this goes to our own cat as well as ATT for yes on the prior note about the new trance performance Thank You c\u0027n for writing all this up concisely because I think this will be very informative for people trying to design those new formats and thinking about how feedback and reliability and recovery work because it helps to really distill what is needed for a media application some people that are reviewing those new protocols should review calls draft in parallel and understand what\u0027s missing in the current transport drafts yeah there\u0027s a companion draft which is in our MCAT which needs work which talks about the feedback rates and you have heads or the different feedback rates so which may be of interest to people as well and now this is finished there you know it would make sense to update that one because it depends on the details of this format somehow do you think we should actually I mean we should actually send this last "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:30:43",
    "text": "call to other working groups are just hope they\u0027re paying attention to our MCAT and apt III would greatly doubt that those other groups are paying attention to something like this because media is kind of worked on their side right now so it wouldn\u0027t hurt to ask them to consider it but I think specifically if you ask the quick folks that are working on the recovery draft to take a look at this because recovery mechanisms and reliability mechanisms and acknowledgments and things like that are are critical for media and they should understand why and how they\u0027re critical for media which this draft lays out but I think that\u0027s more izi for information here is something we we we believe we need for doing media and you may wish to consider it in your design decisions rather than we once change it based on what they\u0027re doing in I usually provide this information in the in the AK frame so it looks similar I mean in terms of least information if you\u0027ve seen on I mean you can say but it was mentioned to them that they\u0027re similar working on cut for a long time as I understand in the current quick formats it\u0027s speaking entirely as an individual and a somewhat uninformed one the current quick act formats do not actually have arrival timestamps just just the counter is not the timestamp so it might be something that we would need to ask them to you know or not we but media people would need to ask them to put back sometime in the future for media but yes that\u0027s not this working groups problem directly and worse than the timestamp there\u0027s also things like you know recommendations that things should not be act you know or delay should be delayed or something which you know what those media congestion controllers that would pretty did lay backs with this as well sometimes we\u0027re not suggesting you back every packet with this it was just in you AK every frame every couple of frames well I do like this idea of like educating others like what we need for media and stuff like that but it sharing this to this last call to multiple working group would I would like to make that decision based on like what exactly this working would like to get this input from if you if you share it to some other working group on this as though you do did this change and all these impacts are is this working or willing to take those I from quick working group coming like okay you need to change these and that rather than I think it should be like working last all in every arm cat and an informational saying like guys were happening but you make a specific like this is for your information only yeah he\u0027s probably good idea "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:33:48",
    "text": "I mostly agree with dread but um that you know there\u0027s a few things that are like we don\u0027t want conflicts between the areas like I think that you know the quick stuff says you know I w10 everywhere basically I forget : whether or not your draft says ah w10 is okay this dress there\u0027s nothing about congestion control whatsoever it\u0027s just feedback that there are a bunch of proposals in our a bunch of congestion control candidates in our MCATs but that\u0027s a different group and most of them RFC\u0027s already yeah okay I think we should be okay I mean I guess the only thing would be like if they say oh no you know millisecond level timing is not nearly good enough we need you know microsecond timing or something like that but even that seems pretty marginal yeah so yeah my inclination would be to say I mean my suggestion would be that we let\u0027s call this here in film our MCAT that the last call is happening since it came out of that and directly relates to that group and then we\u0027re done okay yeah I agree with what do you say yeah oh no this one I think sure Jo former chanson not sure if IHF has offices for how to fill mercy to first-time ITF presenters if we do please to follow if we don\u0027t ask question use your own gist question so we pillow form it just really brief instructions what is BBC anything it\u0027s a just me some of the key point she\u0027s one of the hybrid video codecs similar to BBC TV see in Tim targets finalization in the first version which is July 2020 you know similar has the pictures ammunition makers of support mq sighs machine precision approach inch event areas the Mille Lacs HTV see so similar to everyone and BBC has supported all currency stability system Pro special I say or it\u0027s also tablet II a similar premise aircon seven and now here a concept similar to the all these hybrid codecs so our approach to really see pillow format designs to really start from the service of NIH most Peace Corps is widely deployed in and generally works even though there are some still open issues and some stuff we should not exercise at all but that\u0027s our starting point "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:36:48",
    "text": "most apples to the changes in our header our current first strapless doesn\u0027t reflect the newest to change but we were a petition wants the general meeting in GV at 2020 so our design press was really trying to remove as much accomplished as we can base our studies allows for things in cement now is not applicable at all okay so that\u0027s a way of trying to go for with a clean design so our first step is all to trying to do B this transport player first right and all the silicon is somebody gonna come last it\u0027s not because we forgot it it better we\u0027ll do that later um so we targeted this thing right after a baby see our first version which is next to an Atari after July you\u0027ll Ambridge so that\u0027s pretty much the overview really see if any questions just move forward just so I understand currently we\u0027re just putting the work it\u0027s still time until we have to do it because you\u0027re looking for the exact region yes and another question will be a reference in any of the really co2 66 to the RTP payload format because in the past Mew they needed the RFC number it was like a situation is there some reference there reference it\u0027s just for the the the ITU is system layer standards are pretty much dead so I don\u0027t expect that the dependency we had in the past to 323 and things like that well be an issue here we\u0027re not on a time pressure not an artificial time pressure there\u0027s discussion over in 3gpp essay 4 - that\u0027s actually in work item that they want to perhaps reference that and they would need it but you know and that\u0027s not so that\u0027s not so they for the codec itself is just for their the reference they called it nd I\u0027m talking about the reference to the RTP payload for yeah so in NSA for they may need that at some point but let\u0027s not worry about that one I think on this one we we are not in a brutal rush not like in the past so this is to the overview were very over you with the opening issues that we have identified so far I have a a Celina for each of them so I\u0027m just gonna go through what are we are concerning the open issues the first was really concerned well concern is something we need to discuss the two the transport mode Mrs T and M are empty then the second is really discussion was we need for the pocket package anymore ma BC which is defined in the semi semi negate that they\u0027re otherwise really c4 we need this answer building support "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:39:49",
    "text": "coming from this dolly basis signaling for the incident supporting from 7/7 and I ate the last one we hope you can leave the two chairs if we can Japanese working group draft and move forward to sue so the first one is a the support with a need for the air nor stom are Machias or srst is simply everybody knows it in is why deployed so ii would say Mrs T but those of you who don\u0027t know what is is very carry MOT Portuguese stream is you know transport the distance no7 I don\u0027t have any signaling SST B similarly at all so there\u0027s a long history to be back so that\u0027s even longer than I a participant a standard so I will leave that out but that every settler to make the STP signaling for Mrs T are useful in our eta contacts right somebody in the RTP in the RTC web group who we have a source SRC much cleansing uses already about a boost or instructional if that\u0027s actually not about Microsoft Mrs T is not easily incorporated within web RTC I either in the API soar in the STP right so I I think the jury is out the jury convicted it and it\u0027s it\u0027s pretty much gone okay that\u0027s good to know okay last was MRI TMR empty so as far we that\u0027s actually more like academic exercise at that point we don\u0027t know it\u0027s really supported Oddity application given earlier to casting so this miss Mona said Mrs T is never being implemented and whatever so um I saw the questions really I guess we don\u0027t have to ask this question anymore I so we I should be removed just now for the first question mostly I think we can safely omit and our entity I don\u0027t believe anyone is interested and in that I grapple and forget about what the complications are with Mrs T I remember the motivations were clear that you could you could more seriously detect losses and things like that because you have separation of the layers and therefore we have sequence numbering independent for all of those layers but "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:42:51",
    "text": "I suppose that with something like frame marking maybe maybe the the ambiguities that you get with with srst aren\u0027t as bad as they used to be but I don\u0027t look well completely shutting the bell on and on for simplicity on floor eliminating as many modes as we can I just wonder whether there\u0027s anybody has actually thought about are people actually already doing the marsh team don\u0027t even realize it certainly simulcast is going across different RTP streams right nobody\u0027s bundling all the simulcast streams into one stream so I mean Bernard Abell mic so we implemented Mrs T for h.264 and one of the arguments is you don\u0027t have to rewrite this sequence numbers so there\u0027s a little bit of an efficiency there but a lot of complexity that you get out of doing it so I am not aware of anybody doing that with a TV see it is done with h.264 but still my please look that\u0027s all a summer research I didn\u0027t see me so today if someone is doing it with h.265 with htpc then they are doing it not in compliance with with 77 98 at least not in full compliance the reason is that the signalling defined in 77 98 does not support Mrs T and there\u0027s actually a comment to that regard in in there in 77 98 yeah so so this is an this is an area that was under specified because we wanted to ship this thing out of the door at the time for external dependencies that were good and valid or were thought to be good invalid at the time so we left that open we had references informative references to drafts and stuff in there in the hope that someone gets an act together ones one certain drafts from that were kind of clocked over in RTC web once those drafts were were were done that someone would get the act together and do abyss or something no one ever had the energy no one no one cared yeah that\u0027s that\u0027s not only because of the success or lack thereof of HEV C and in the video conferencing business but also no one cared right no one cared it I hate to have stale text that but we read what question one says should we do it now should we wait for a companion document to do it later if anyone cares or should we person to be Papa do it the same thing that we did with 711 98 and do it in abyss and both later options are something which I\u0027m kind of him maybe the first one I just say no we "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:45:52",
    "text": "shouldn\u0027t write to support any stream roads and nobody wants them so yeah I mean that\u0027s easier again my cherub does anybody actually want to do the work from all these three modes that sounds like though we should yep great all right so environment T is auto question right so when we when with that and then the last one so Bella the fourth noise also come all right so I need four Paki right history so I don\u0027t want to go through the history again so the one of the uses of the Paki extension is really for chimp earlier structure in signal they actually no other uses you may have identified correct me if I\u0027m wrong but we would like to hear if there\u0027s any other usage for Paki so this one is a little bit different I do understand the argument that some kind of RTP extension is likely to be the way that that SF us operate generically but you know the thing is there there may be there are situations in which SF use will parse the bitstream and kind of prohibiting that from working you know basically requiring you to negotiate an arch at the extension to function doesn\u0027t seem quite right to me and there are also other things in here I would say that that can be supported as part of this that may be valuable things like layer drop indications again you could put it in the RTP extension but it isn\u0027t in frame marking and so you know if you remove it from here there\u0027ll be implications I think in some scenarios okay different thing every funding to this so the my main point is and the thing that\u0027s your said as well the the right spot to put to put SF as a information ever as a fuse would typically need to do something smart to a scalable bitstream I think is not the payload header because the payload header is encrypted the right spot is in an extension to the frame marking Draft right where that thing is not encrypted right so the scope of that thing is only the payload format and so far so so I mean we we can we can volunteer please ship this time frame marking draft yesterday right dependent so let\u0027s get "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:48:52",
    "text": "that thing out of the door but I officially volunteer here to think about an extension mechanism of the frame marking draft for generic stuff where we can possibly make a be too happy if not a be one where we can possibly make make put what this type of stuff in but throwing in a generic extension mechanism of the payload header when we don\u0027t have a single use case that makes sense in today\u0027s world where media is supposed to be encrypted I\u0027m sorry I don\u0027t at least the frame marking cells has a section about future code okay lig mapping and it says this should be part of the new RTP payload format that\u0027s what it says okay so so in other words we may want to have in here a section that says how to use the frame marking draft for the absolutely agree thank you very much for reminding me yeah that\u0027s what we\u0027re going to do and we volunteer to do some work there and a yeah go are you online territory for you to grab work to do next one yeah yeah go it\u0027s muted okay yeah go well probably do it hehe volunteer to do some work there he wants to be involved so Yahoo can do it person anyone fall one on that thank you someone for bringing up the distinction between having things and payload headers versus artsy headers like the reiterate that in the new transport work all of his stuff is going in an encrypted basically tunnel and so we would lose the ability to have authenticated but not encrypted data as RTP hitters are today so people that you know care about that should probably review the specs and figure out if that\u0027s something that\u0027s really necessary for for designs or not and and how to solve it if it is hello so I I think more what\u0027s that some as write in that direction but I would think that the model more like what perk houses is actually what we\u0027re discussing is that yes you\u0027re gonna have now to encrypt the layer between the nodes in a centralized conferencing structure and things like that so you\u0027re really talking is is maybe more like in Prague how do you expose the information when you have the payload being encrypted and and then I mean really the media payloads so and I think if I remember correctly that would mean that you the payload part of RTP skarbek is enter and encrypted why not they had or extension students it\u0027s it\u0027s still in this booking good contact I think that\u0027s the the right way are thinking about this but I I wouldn\u0027t see a need for necessarily "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:51:55",
    "text": "doing this in the in the base spec for this payload format I got Magnus the highest runner case is his media nodes being able to access this but I think one of the other motivations for having our theatres and the clear was not necessarily a conference bridge but even on path elements to be able to see and do things intelligently with this and of course you lose that ability with work doesn\u0027t allow beyond bath elements to see you know anything about the header extensions if it\u0027s going really over DT less than that over RTP not ridiculous or to me if it\u0027s going miscibility yeah so it\u0027s really like you need some proxy there in your medium for doing that\u0027s not in this scope so it says you know it when we\u0027re if you join the whatever rip becomes mailing list make sure that discuss it there so I have two comments one comment is that the typical lifetime of a video codec is about ten years we\u0027ll see whether we see initial deployment of all this modern stuff that more sites within the lifetime of this codec yeah I mean come on this we\u0027re not the fastest organization on the planet that\u0027s number one number two and that\u0027s probably more important the argument the the key argument for all this encryption stuff is or hey you know one of the key arguments for the frame marking draft has been as far as I understand it that the middle box that sits there in the middle of the network and is operated by someone else who is who is not supposed to see the traffic itself can act on it now when you have some super fancy new transport then you don\u0027t have to worry about the transport from your say sending endpoint to that middle box and you don\u0027t have to worry about the traffic from the middle box to the receiving end point but you still have to worry you still need to have some stuff on one hand encrypted so that the metal box can\u0027t see say the video signal the compressed media signal but on the other hand it has to see some controlled information like this right so so just putting them in in all in the same kind of giant bucket it\u0027s either encrypted or not in that scenario is wrong yeah so I think what we take out of this is that we have to be people who are interested in this work should follow what\u0027s happening in all this work that\u0027s trying to encrypt everything which would prevent so we are not living under that rock which Moorside that we are not "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:55:00",
    "text": "because because just just as a reminder we at the time we try to write it requirement for RTP under quick to address also to mention that there are issues with the article others that that are needed by the middle boxes you to see if you can address that right just kind of summarize I guess we are safe to say we are lean to frame working based solution for now how can we discuss that I think your question five is the question you want an answer to write generic payload header extension right so I have to do yeah yeah I think there is value to that I don\u0027t think it\u0027s has to be it may be distinct from frame marking but it\u0027s a generic I think he means payload header extension inside yeah that\u0027s a yeah you think he answered a question five is yes you think it\u0027s not okay it\u0027s formulated the answer to question five is no because we I don\u0027t think we need to extend the payload header itself ever however there should be a question 5.5 which is do we need a mapping of the mechanisms of the new BBC codec to the frame marking draft and the answer to that question is a resounding yes and then there is a third question whether we need that in this document here and the answer to that question is also resounding yes good all right okay okay all right so that will be the last ones we\u0027re thinking about removing the Donny based signaling for engineering support M so that\u0027s a better trend for the better codecs such as ABC ABC M also also HTML maybe see that we know the coup de selva is already good enough to know let\u0027s argue hole for the success for error concealment that\u0027s also the one of the question reached by Yago right so the question is really should we remove this county-based right siga knowledge for clean messages and to be even carrying a picture reversal is right now no okay I guess that\u0027s a yes yes great all right so that\u0027s it the "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:58:00",
    "text": "question is does this group want to adopt this as a working group item that\u0027s clearly in scope yeah anybody object all right thank you very much so looking for looking for looking for Mentalist yeah whoo oh my lord so just fulfill trust for the milestone what what do you think should we should have as a milestone date for that work after the draft right after January turn Ettore and it\u0027s you know maybe so there\u0027s something there there\u0027s a newer now header feature which will not include on the first draft so so make it make it end of 2020 for the milestone with the understanding that rarely a milestone is hid in this organization did you see TTML they were ahead because they wanted to finish that so that\u0027s depending again that\u0027s but that\u0027s why I said rarely and not never hello you see you would not sure we hear you get can you talk we did not hear you know he sees the baby the médicos doing it for us they\u0027re paying attention and we did not hear you still no okay good so is it my time yes yeah so I am submitted good draft about the real context media handling in multi-party conferences and made it with a music in the topic or in the name but it really affects many groups for example unity core next piece so what is real context some basic facts it is to transmit text while you create it so there is no special user action for sending it that provides tight interaction between the participants they don\u0027t need to wait for completed messages it is required now in many places for accessibility reasons but in fact it should be it is useful for order to get more live text interaction the "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:01:00",
    "text": "presentation level is IQ tt 140 which is a simple standard for based on utf-8 transmission and I ISO 6425 control codes we have transport for it by RTP in RFC 4103 where you have some robustness by redundancy and there is another draft for transport in web RTC now just in progress where we have the robustness or by the reliable type of data channel it\u0027s used it\u0027s specified in next-generation emergency services we do - regular sip VoIP services and in relay services so next slide please but the multi-party real context is not specified it\u0027s mentioned in many specifications that we need to do multi-party but it has never settled in any standards document it has been said that well you do you use regular ought to be mechanized but we need to settle it so everybody knows what is the best way to do it so that therefore the current user terminals only support to park a new of Vietnam text course therefore we need capability negotiation for telling that we have a capable multi-party capable terminal and we may need to tell which one the other conference mechanised are based on centralized the servers where we have said that we need our turkey so therefore a centralized conference our mixing method is needed so what we need to go from two particular multi pocket is that we need to identify the source of text we need receiver to separate text from different sources and we don\u0027t allow we shouldn\u0027t delay the text presentation should still have the flow and since there are many implementations already after doing two party we need to have a fallback method for mixing when you have received that is not capable of sorting out the receives three in two separate presentations it\u0027s possible "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:04:02",
    "text": "then and there are a couple of different display types display styles that we need to have the receiving up to select between and so which is seen in next slide one way which I think is becoming the most common is a view like this where you labels in front of text chunks from different parties you see probably the three lowest icons here you have people typing so the text is going from multiple parties in the one you have completed something that can be called the message you let it flow up in the in the next slide we have another way of displaying a real context that is to have a column for each user the stable place the text in some kind of relative time holder so lower text is later Senate\u0027s still there is a requirement to not put every character exactly at the time it was displayed it is a requirement to have chunks of text readable together so there\u0027s no compromise between time display and the readability next slide is the requirements we have is for the real-time the multi-party you is that it should be applicable to the 3gpp for general sip for engineering mergency services and services it should not delay display we have an overall that display shouldn\u0027t happen not more than 500 milliseconds after sending then we also have a slight risk for text loss when we are redundant same use so and we have a standard saying how we shall indicate that to the receiving user but the mark in the stream and we need to have that still available to mark then and we shall collect text from different users so that it\u0027s readable and the source is identified we also support erasure and that complicates the display for the multi-party case even must not let it erase other parties text for example the win it what for security and "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:07:06",
    "text": "we should not have something that is still complicated there is a some urgency for getting this done so implementable in near future would current implementations and we need also to describe this for back method for cases when we only have a two-party capable of receiving terminal mix like next slide so in the draft I have had a draft long time ago which I revived now and I did a lot of stuff in then so here we have right now away is formed as a kind of discussion paper because there are many alternative methods that we can select from for coordination of OTP based oddity discussed them with pros and cons and the same thing for web RTC based streams and then there is a method be presented for conference unaware devices and since they\u0027re already implementations out we need to have a method for capability negotiation for the multi-party and there are a couple of methods to select from we need to discuss how we identify the source we have some presentational aspects we have the discussion of robustness and the indication of loss and performance and security and Ayana considerations next slide please so the goers now are to discuss the different alternative methods for stream mixing and source identification and grading on preferred methods and then make that clear in the draft and same thing about about the capability negotiation how to describe that you have a party that is capable of this display and agree on preferred methods for that and then make sure that we have a method support back method for unaware devices now they drove to touches topics of money working groups "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:10:07",
    "text": "it\u0027s for some marketing aspects for a week or its notion ago she ation for her music it might be something Pacific or I don\u0027t know and so we need to arrange the discussions in a practical way I wanted to take advice on that so we have it in a music even if it touches every key topics or shall they distribute the discussions let\u0027s comment and that\u0027s like is so here are examples from the draft some discussion topic how we coordinate RTP it\u0027s different marketing methods translator or mixer more have in the source indication in the stream or have a mesh mesh about the end points or even multiple RTP sessions and we also have the discussion on the conference on the web with agents or we provide some sense of multi-party to them next night please another discussion topic in the draft is the capability negotiation where I have identified three possibilities one is to somehow make it implicit by saying that if you have a multi part of our device acquiring text in the stream it must be of course speak markup a party where also for the text and you can start sending multi-party contents to it another is to a new media tag for declaring multi-party the paper lately and third one is to have STP media attribute now there are pros and cons for this three and mark the other ways to indicate capability next slide please so I think guy Jeff is the right place to do this because we have needs from different pockets we have Nina and we have three EPP dollars and they often refer to our ITF currently I think it\u0027s a best current practice document should be produced might be some small registration of negotiation that needs "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:13:11",
    "text": "to be in standard drop and it is a bit urgent to get this ready the urgency has been announced from Nina and the next generation emergency services so at least only 2021 that I want to see implementations running Ollie\u0027s and max like this which is lost I look forward to rapid progress on this and hope that we can get discussions going Thanks don\u0027t you go any question for clarification or anything okay so I think we\u0027ll have to go and discuss with the a dealer to progress it because I\u0027m not even sure if it\u0027s him and music because it\u0027s like it has a spectrum shape like we said from c4n music and some abt so typically we do it through dispatch but then I\u0027ll consult with the with the ad about what to do and we\u0027ll come back and saying how to how we can progress it and whether it\u0027s well and then we\u0027ll have to decide afterwards how after we decide words it will be progress then we\u0027ll have to decide then there will be decision within Swan document to document or whatever but first we have to find the home for that yeah okay I just started with an music let\u0027s see what we\u0027re to do it depends on what solution we do which makes it sort of a chicken-and-egg problem it has topics for a number different areas but yeah yeah that\u0027ll be no don\u0027t don\u0027t select area of the course of how we selected no it\u0027s the solutions okay this is Barry I wasn\u0027t gonna stand up yet cuz the chairs had the right idea I think the abt core chairs near music chairs should chat first and then go from there taking dispatch is a reasonable thing but if there are two pretty clear working groups that it would go in one or the other and you should work that out first and if the answer is neither of them thinks it\u0027s the answer is clear then we\u0027ll take it to dispatch or I\u0027ll chat with Adam about it and we\u0027ll see where we go and Magnus obviously has something to say so so let\u0027s see what Magnus has to say so I actually have a question which I think defines part of the scope to goon r8 are you feeling that the multi-stream multi-part solution is clear for this "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:16:11",
    "text": "that the current payload format UNS use it for multi-party with when you actually have multiple offices are sees multiple RTP streams is that clear enough in the specifications sorry we even if we have so if I mean if I take the RTP mobile the obvious multi-party model for real-time text is that each each you shoulda tried something has its own as a source II the stream is forward the whole way to all receivers and and it becomes solely question of how do you display these users it\u0027s an implementation it\u0027s it static fully click the right assumption here for what you would say be the right solution for updated users etc and that that would be the right and then it\u0027s the question of how do we deal with legacy implementations that\u0027s only assumes expect one single SSRC when it\u0027s deals with teleport know the my view is that that would be the ideal solution theoretical one SSRC in in one RTP session one SSRC per sending user because then you can really identify where text was lost for example that is the main problem too if you merge it into one stream to know who-who did we lose text from but I don\u0027t want to complicate implementation because multiples SSRC multiple streams seems to be not supported by STD there are multiple SSR systems in the same session a lot of people spective say I know I know the result is this we get into getting the whole bundle and multiple and all this you get a lot of em lines and and which which is interesting in these cases where you have I would say large groups of conferencing etc and that is using and I think this is downside of the result all of so therefore it\u0027s an M in some sense let me use the question of the complications of using RTP as intended for this use cases is with Plan B in STP years that you get a lot of ambulance if you have a large number of potential users you know but okay thank you Magnus while you\u0027re there do you have a thought on no okay Magnus is going away "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:19:12",
    "text": "do you have a thought on where it belongs I so I mean it\u0027s this is tough I think because some of these solutions to these legacy problem is is in the space that you actually or define the internal of the text formats and and the rest is very much tingling I think for dealing with et cetera so it\u0027s it\u0027s I think there\u0027s a large part which is probably more Indian music country and then you have this specific media how to deal in media and that\u0027s section and I it might be that it\u0027s small enough and it\u0027s not really changing the RTP stuff anyway it\u0027s something that you could include their music document and they\u0027ll say ok here is our recommendation and cross lot working plus call it but that\u0027s assuming one set of implementations of include how to deal with the legacy cases for a music it\u0027s mainly the negotiation capability negotiation which way to go with that shall we add the STP attribute or is it good with the media her are all strong just a word of warning this is generic multi-party chat service we have a long and glorious history starting with IRC going through XMPP and various other efforts the fact that this particular iteration tries to reuse STP an ar-15 it\u0027s more or less an implementation accident that you will talk when the problems of multi-party chats and you might want to take a step back or you might want to shut down the scope of you so that it\u0027s okay to first you a point solution that you can get to quickly because you don\u0027t consider consider either other requirements or other technologies but this is nifty party chat it will have all the problems of trying to say on you had multiple artists solution architecture in the document and you have to figure out we have to figure out which one will be "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:22:13",
    "text": "simple to implement and to start with that because I assume maybe when you having a conference and a conference of an MCU the does that may make it simple because signaling would be simple because like a point-to-point with handling all the mechanism we have today to do multiple conferencing like the focus the one to a defining sync so we better to look at all each cases and try to analyze what is needed to implement these cases whether it\u0027s already supported and we can do it what I wanted to ask is a qualifying question is and all of those deployments are they real or just purely nothing but text well are you sometimes trying to mix the text with other media that would be the only rationale but I could see why you would go to any kind of Artemia solution if it\u0027s purely text than all these deployments and no other media type I think has to be a hack it\u0027s an accident worse than an accident it\u0027s a it\u0027s a giant mistake oh yeah I can respond yes most common is the combination of video audio and written training here himself limitations in 3gpp and that is what is required in the states at least mentioned video and closed captions as part of that so the text appears so big order presses closed caption now but this is real-time text you see it flows as no type juice this is Barry I also want you not to forget MLS yes which is going on in the security area right now so there\u0027s Bernard about myself a clarifying question I believe this is part of the next gen 9 1 1 architecture is it not because as I yeah recall right you can have real-time text and audio and video and it can be conferenced that\u0027s how the recording works kind of go for a conversing so it tip it can include both audio video sometimes I understand it a lot of the implementer community would net needs us as participating in Rob it\u0027s that correct so we probably should make sure that Rama\u0027s in the loop for this that\u0027s kind of a distinct but related scenario it may it may be the VRS or it may just be a 9-1-1 call the point is that gets the the root of really user equipment is "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:25:13",
    "text": "probably also often going to be used for real-time text and one of the use cases you need is a conference real-time text to a from a row to a piece app yeah right Ruby yeah yes and in that situation it is because the piece app wants to conference in next party in their code first the piece up handles the call and then they want to link in another person but still be on the call and therefore it gives the conference called a simple three party or in most cases and the user part might be a mobile terminal so IMS um yes I mean I can just I mean which I guess that might quite there is that what\u0027s what implement solution spaces are likely to be easy for that community depends yeah that effects what what we choose to do yes yeah so I think it does sort of seem like people are feeling this is more in my scope with M music than here so I mean we should presumably talk music did meet this time that we have to talk I did I didn\u0027t see them I mean I didn\u0027t see the chest the chairs are both Fleming angry yeah pretty sure he\u0027s not not haven\u0027t seen bow around and I don\u0027t know whether he\u0027s not to also yeah so both of them are not here so we have to do it some mosquito kuzmic so we will connect also with the music chairs and I think that the good thing what what you need to be done is to try to focus on what solution you really think will be the best fit for being able to progress it faster and try to try to see how to do them but from a standardization point of view and from something the implementation community can do without too much pain you know that\u0027s good summary thank you okay thank you thank you okay but so I think like this we finished the agenda for today anybody have any other business they wanted to bring up today otherwise this is the last session of the ITF so Wes you\u0027re an ad welcome to the end of the ITF otherwise and see you all in Vancouver "
  }
]