[
  {
    "startTime": "00:00:06",
    "text": "this is the, uh, yeah, you meet the end more to find and then, uh, SBA, right? Yeah, I know that's got some good okay okay okay? okay? So, you see, do you want to try sharing your screen? screen? I don't think you need to but I don't think I need to Thank you very much here Yeah, it's coming up Okay, I just granted you Okay, okay, can you see it? It's coming up, it's coming up He's coming. Yeah, it's being started, but I think it's slow you have to select which tab one window i guess Okay just to try anything Okay. Yeah, the works. Yeah, the works. Good see it. Okay Thanks. We are not in LSR yeah just"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:02:00",
    "text": "to put it back to our slides slides You can You can Yeah Do you start to slice? Yeah, I'm stuck We're okay to stand? Okay Okay it's time to get started So welcome to the LSVR working group session Please know that this meeting is being recorded Okay, the note well basically this is a reminder of a set of IETF rules and talk basically this is a reminder of a set of IETF rules and topics such as patents, code of conducts and privacy. Please read it carefully and as a reminder to the chairs, we are not suggested who interpreted by our ourselves. So just really carefully. And for further information, you can take a lot out to the things on this page right this is you should know this really well basically They should respect each other and being kind of people okay the meeting tips today is Thursday, you should be already very familiar with this and the resource for the meeting the gender of today, as we noted on the main list, where we use most of our session time to this discuss open issues on this BGPSPF based document so that we can conclude and send it to the IESG next step Okay, as for the working group re-charger, we have sent a proposed charter update to our AD, Jim and it will be taken forward for the IE evaluation right after the main"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:04:00",
    "text": "specification, which is the PGPSPF, has been sent to the IESG IESG The updates of the working group documents, BGPS spec SPF-based document, it is currently in working group Glasgow and this is on today's agenda The RISVR applicability the authors have indicated that it will give an update after the missed specification working group Glasgow comments have been addressed For the BGPRRAS Young Model it has been expired and we check with, we need to check with the editors on the further program So um we'll try to check with Mahesh if you know he's going to be able to continue and have spent time on this else we'll need some other, somebody else from the working group to also join in and do the heavy lifting that Mahesh has been doing so far Okay, the last one is L3DL after discussion with the authors the stages of this document will be changed from proposal standard to the experimental And they have also agreed to merge the three documents into one IRS 3DL document Currently, the authors are waiting for the working group last call, which is dependent on the reach hardering So I don't know if Randy is online, Randy, as soon as the charter is approved from the IESG, we'll start the working group last call on this. So the working group is you know welcome to review and not wait for that and if you have any comments just please go ahead and share. Yes, go ahead, Randy I'm online"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:06:03",
    "text": "Yeah, Jim, go ahead Yeah, I wanted to ask about so on the document update, updates wanted to ask about, so on the document updates, I really would like to take the application document forward along with the spec but I don't know from the author's perspective whether that's reason or not. I don't want to hold up the reach rechartering because of the applicability document Obviously, the rechartering needs to happen after the main spec Hey, Jim? Jim? Yeah That's not possible. I've already gone That's not possible. It's not going to happen Okay. All right. That's why I asked Okay so now we, so before we go into that, anybody has so our agenda today was, is, solely and mostly focus on getting the main specific discussion around it and trying to complete this work Hopefully by the end of tomorrow optimistically but does anybody have any other agenda or any other point? that they would like to bring up to discuss before? we get to this document? No, no I'll just say yeah, this is A.C. Landam, I spend another few hours on my life on a lot of these comments, and it seems like every time we get a new review, we get a new lots of books opinions. And you know, a lot of these are subjective comments"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:08:00",
    "text": "you know what they say about opinions anyway so with that as a preface we let's just, I suggest we just go through. Okay remainder. And I think I answered all of Lee Zangs, and we need to cover them Yeah. So give me a couple of minutes. I'll just run through this one. Before we get to the discussion points, right? So we are still awaiting IPR response from some of the contributors I have dropped reminders to them some of them are not really very active at the I IETF. So we are still going to make our best effort to get from responses from them but otherwise we're not planning to hold up the document just for IPR responses from them if they can't be located maybe we'll just remove them No, I think I think from my understanding, it's okay. Who's left? Just but new? is he though you know abai direct so some of them. Oh, yeah, we can get Abbe. Yeah, absolutely so can get Abay. Yeah, I'm sorry, but. Okay, so we need some more, yeah. Go ahead, Almond. If I could make a quick suggestion, Alba Ritana, is that, I'm assuming that at adoption, the contributors were also asked about IPR, and probably at the other working group, let's call, and the other working group less call yes so you know it's possible that you know some of the the, whatever, the response are already on the main list. Yes, they are for those yeah yeah the disclaimer, the, whatever, the responses are already on the main list. Yes, they are. Look for those. Yeah. So we need some more reviews and responses we have received a few Response is not reviews. We don't need any more reviews We need some reviews and responses But we have got some of them And the working group last call will continue till tomorrow as well"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:10:00",
    "text": "before you go to the discussion point, I did, I was asked to do a shepherd review as a chair when I joined as a co-chair And I did review the document in a lot of details and we had a lot of discussion I had a lot of discussion with the co-authors One thing that I'd like to bring out here and now I'm not wearing any hats is that this is bringing IGP IGPS-SPF into BGP, which is a distance vector protocol. There may not be one single right way or a best way to do it. There are many different ways to do it And we have had our discussions on that So, uh, sympathize with AC when I see the anybody reviewing this will come up with a new perspective and, you know, that's fine but it's all about having those discussions and moving forward so I think that's to explain why every review gets different and more comments The three, before we go on to the actual issues one of the things that has come up from the comments as well is for the working group to consider whether the status should change from standard stack to experiment and we have reviewed responses on the working group specifically indicating the desire that this be progressed as standard track So now is the time for anybody who wants to make a comment about about on that point"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:12:00",
    "text": "okay you're in the queue go ahead Um, think you are getting to a point where the reviews are going back to circular argument and we are at a point of no return meaning we aren't getting any constructive feedback which, by the way, you should still solicit reviews, but we should be very quickly getting to a point of concern because some of the conversations we have had in working group in past are the reasons of which we have made at its so many edits so far so i think we should keep that in mind as well as opposed to standards track, speaking as an author, I'm quite open, but it you're getting a feedback to be on the standard tracks will be it Please note that we have an implementation for this, both in an open source versus a vendor implementation for route reflectors as well as a non-route reflector based implementation So there is a multi-wander implementation in play Yes So on the implementation, there was one, there was also a comment from Adrian uh we'll probably get to that but since we're on that topic the implementation I think, points to an older version of the spec So if you are aware, do you want to share any details on that part? Yeah, yeah. And thank you, Adrian, for the review. I'd say most of the stuff we have implemented had been on the stable version of the drafts we have gotten a numerous feedback since we have implemented Quite a lot of things that we have incorporated so far as part of the feedback has been"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:14:00",
    "text": "editorial. There are a few changes in implementation that may be required, not a major surgery but we are waiting for this to go to IESC post, which we will make a one final edit and get it done from a implementation perspective yeah i think what i not a major surgery, but we are waiting for this to go to IESC post, which we will make a one final edit and get it done from an implementation perspective. Yeah, I think, A.C. Lundum, Bavin, I think we have the one thing based on your comment, because it wasn't really being used for anything necessary We took out the SPF type. That was in the implement comment because it wasn't really being used for anything necessary we took out the SPF type that was that was in the implementation even though we didn't support you know different SPF types. So you said, well, we got rid of that The error handling has been more specified more so perhaps there'll be more, you know, I know, I know we have more error handling than we ever had before Yeah, those are the things I'd see is. Oh, and there was also for unknown we have more error handling than we ever had before. Yeah, those are the things I'd see is. Oh, and there was also for unnumbered links. Yeah, there was, there was an additional TLV and uh how you how you make sure you use them for the appropriate address families Correct. But all these are, as I said, quite incremental So we want the draft to go through the last call post, which we will quickly re-actor it in the implementation Yeah, thank you So now we can get to the actual comments and discussion on them so thanks, Adrian, for sacrificing your slot on the TVR to be here So I believe ACL TVR to be here. So I believe I'll hand it over to you. You have responded to Adrian and a version has been posted as well. So this is now kind of let's say, open mic Adrian, would you have any responses?"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:16:00",
    "text": "or any discussion on AC's reply? If you had, I've had a chance to look at it, I can bring it up some of it we should have discussion yeah yes it's Adrian I very much appreciate it getting the revision out and the email I'm kind of busy at a conference this week, doing some internet stuff and I just can't keep up with email. So I suggest yeah this is the forum just to go through it and get my tick in the box or I can sit in the corner and read the email whichever works I think there were some points You see that, so go ahead. Okay, yeah I don't know if I can, if I can share it It seems like it wants me to share web content instead. Let's see what happens. I can share. You can share the email yes I can I don't know why I when it can i can share uh you can share the email yes i can i don't know why i why when it when it did it for me it wanted wanted me to share tabs in my browser instead of Yeah, we definitely should just discuss that major comment about the scaling and stable Yeah, so I'm bringing it up, I see, I don't know if you can see it in here or maybe there is better we'll just we'll only go to the which need discussion and rest expectation is that we'll close them next week not right now Okay, yeah"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:18:00",
    "text": "now okay yeah so we had this whole discussion about very stable, because we had one line in there, it said about D.C.'s had very, I don't know, that that was from the original draft very stable environments, but like I was saying, I don't think this is limited any more limited than be I don't know that that was from the original draft very stable environments but like I was saying I don't think this is limited any more limited than BGP would be in the same environments like from the original draft, very stable environments, but like I was saying, I don't think this is limited any more limited than BGP would be in the same environments. By BGP SBF would be any worse That's why I know we did have that one that one line that said you know that it's in advantageous to use BGP SPF and a DC and very stable environments, but I don't think it's limited to that Yeah, so I don't need to lecture the people in this room about the properties of BGP BGP I think that probably you might even find that the right thing to do here is point at the applicability document and then just not say anything here about applicability It's when you start saying things about, well, look, DCs are very stable and this would be appropriate, that it's begs questions about when it's not appropriate and what we know about what would have if you were thrashing VGP And obviously BGPL is a different shape from BGP but nevertheless with will law BGP engine stand vast amounts of churn in the data? I don't know. I haven't got one in my, in my, what shall, I call it, lab, kitchen at home So it's either point out to the applicability or put some scope in here or warning if you feel a warning is appropriate"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:20:03",
    "text": "Ah, that you feel more comfortable if we remove that line? line? Yeah, I guess I would Let's just up level a minute about this review okay this is a review for the area to director pointing out things he might want to want about. So, um can discuss this is a good thing I'll stop worrying the area director if we fix this or whatever, but in general, you don't need to make me go, oh, that's better and that's right You kind of need to make the AD say that But yeah, I would, I guess I would be more comfortable not not stating stuff about environment unless that's what you mean That was precisely what I mean That's why I suggested maybe we should consider removing because I think both you and AC are saying, hey, Steve or no stable, it doesn't make it any worse But the fact that that line is in there raises a lot of questions. And if we could, and I see that point. So if we could just remove that, it makes it easier By the way, it doesn't change spec at all because it's just describing so from my perspective I'm good to go if that's if that's making it simpler Okay, the other point that I wanted to bring here is about separating the registry between BGPLS and BGPSPF I'm the reason why the registry shared over because a whole lot of BGPLS was leveraged here or is being leveraged"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:22:00",
    "text": "in BGPSPF The question is if something here from BGP SPF is gets advertised into BGPLS what happens And no hats I mean as an individual contesting contributor what happens Something crashed? Oh sorry uh see Something crashed? Oh, oh, sorry. So on that one, BGP SPS is anyways more like a transport thing Whatever is send there is really left to the consumer to interpret so maybe we need some text or something language well we don't think we should split the registries just because they share the same attribute you know we we we we piggybacked on that from the beginning to try and change the protocol now I mean, if somebody wants to do that, they can do that and BGPSBF version 2 or something. To me this is another circular argument. Look, in BGP, we share a lot of things that is infrastructure BGP based across different office. We never made a point across in IDR working group. We still don't do it to say, hey, let's go because it's a new Safi, let's go share it across or replicate it or make a new registry for it the point is what you can reuse, you want to reuse, but you want to make sure you don't scot over it in a manner that you can break it and that is what we have done here So I think this was discussed earlier in the working room We've made that conscious choice. And unless there is a absolute reason where someone can bring out and say look this is courting and it breaks the functionality in a particular manner or it has a risk of doing that, I think we should seriously consider"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:24:00",
    "text": "keeping it as this Right. So the concern here, and I think you just caught it was what happens if the new TLV that you define here shows up in BGPLS A solution might be to our Ayana to put two columns in the registry one saying BGPLS, one saying BGP and then you just fill that in, populate it, everybody knows what's going on It doesn't cost you anything, doesn't change any of the protocols or anything like that That's a fantastic situation. I'm okay by that Thank you thank you. And you mean to add those? columns to the already existing columns? And then everyone in the future needs to okay, so many okay, my only concern is that many of the TLVs that are reused by VGPSPF, where the fun in IDR or somewhere else, right? Or in reality, we're defined in OSPA, but they were inherited by someone, right, and they're defined somewhere And so a future TLB right, does the find to carry something that now OSPF decided to do that draft may not actually end up marking the column of BGP SPF, even if it might be useful with BGPSPF because, you know, that's not what they're thinking, it's being done in IDR it may not be consulted in this working group, so my only concern is that that is may fall out of sync. And so we may end up with indicators of things that were useful that are useful here"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:26:00",
    "text": "that are just not marked because the work was done somewhere else I don't think that there will be TLVs defined here, right, for the opposite problem So, but the one where this working group is inheriting things So, yeah, it's not a idea, but I don't think it necessarily buys us much. And what would the consequence? be if there's a TLV that be? VGPLS didn't understand? No, no problem. Yeah, so why are we being? anal about this? so the idea no because that's that's the type of people we are So the idea, the IDR working group in IDEA working group which owns BGPLS, we don't care about, we don't specify anything about the consumers because it is out of scope Okay, so that's good so maybe you add a line somewhere that says don't worry, BGPLS has got line 27 of paragraph 13 that says what to do if you don't understand it. So knock yourselves out Okay, that's a possible way forward That's better than the splitting the register okay so better than adding Unnecessary. Columns in the register, okay okay mean, you would think that additional use of different TLVs would be defined in documents here, but having to go back and change IAN and put an X here or there I agree with Elvaro. It doesn't seem like a lot of be defined in documents here, but having to go back and change IAN and put an X here or there, I agree with Valvaro. It doesn't seem like a lot of... So there's a comment as well, which is, if BGPLS defined something that the SPF doesn't know about what will happen"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:28:00",
    "text": "And I assume, I can't remember, but I assume that's in your document as well Yeah what we Yeah well yeah, yeah, so what was to check it across if it fails, then the duck, you know, get to play, and you don't let it go true. So, right, yeah, so what So you'll get about yeah so you'll get about some of you not. And I added the checks at loss, which would put places to that part, you're right, and so you'll tend to either chair review, Robert review, or I adder review the same request for cross-review on any GTP.LS dot Sorry, Sue just as a remote participant. If you're going to speak, can you go to the mic? Because we can hardly hear you remotely? Yeah, then again, the draft is very clear, I believe and we can add if you feel the text needs to be added on what TL is to use and what TLVs to operate upon. So in future, even if there are new TLVs that are added in LS, we will choose to not recognize them if they are not applicable I mean, we can add, we can make it explicitly clear, but I'd be believe in the last version, that was clarified itself that says the only subset of the TLV are recognized and will work on that Here's what it says. Yeah. So this. Here's what it's says. I'm going to politely answer, Jim The comment I made earlier, this is- Sue Harris IDR co-chair Wallway. Okay. The comment I made earlier was on process due to a direct question from care"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:30:00",
    "text": "The process that we use has checked at the routing review and at the Ianna. That only is manual checks and there is no automated checks. And the statements that everyone made can you just not say it applies to the application fine the question is we the statements that everyone made, can you just not say it applies to this application? Fine, the question is we've never really defined, Kate, an application versus, you know, who's the consumer? Is it only the VGPLS application? Is that application? really LSVR? You're getting into calling LSVR only the VGPLS application? Is that application really LSVR? You're getting into calling Ellis whatever you're doing over here as an application. Have you called that out? It might make it simpler. Jim, did I? answer, did I, I hope that I was helpful to fill in the back detail. Yep, thank you Yeah, so their document uh does call out explicitly which TLVs are valid and used in BGPSPF, and I believe it also says the rest are ignored unknown TLVs are ignored here's exactly what it says it's says the usage of other PGPLS TLVs or extensions is not precluded and in fact, expect and is expected. However, the details are on the score of this document and may be specified in future So if you want to if we wanted to use tags, you know, or something like that, yeah, but they would need to be specified in a document Yeah and in minders, then, the benefit of you sharing the registries whenever a new team is defined in another document, maybe not in this working group, whenever we want to reuse it we can just use a document without"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:32:00",
    "text": "adding a new registry components Okay you see the next one it was just something that needs to be discussed. I think we discuss this, but uh, yeah. Yeah. Yeah sorry to jump back, but before you go forward, did we agree on how to address that? because it wasn't clear to me any anyway, remotely. Did you come to conclusion? conclusion? I kind of agreed with Alvaro comment. I'm a little concerned about you know putting in an extra column in the registry because then you've got the potential for mismatch it that just seems like it could be quite problematic Yeah. So I think let me summarize the action here The only text clarification needed here is to point a reference to the BGPLS spec which says that unknown TLVs are ignored in that protocol yeah so We discussed about improving implementation report or the implementation already The question here is, and I think it was answered by Keur, so I'm not sure if we want to, Adrian, did you have any? comment on the implementations? section reference? So I love implementation sections and I'm really happy that there's one in here But what it currently does is is pass the buck to and and basically a dead draft. But if that dead"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:34:00",
    "text": "draft is going to be updated sometime around the publisher, request, then it makes it perfect Yeah, so I have, we have, requested the author of that draft to post an update. The other alternative available is for the authors of the BGP SPF draft to add an implementation section here and perhaps put in text here so it ensures that it goes when it goes to the ISD, the implementation set here and perhaps put in text here. So it ensures that it goes, when it goes to the IESG, the implementation section is available there. So I'll leave it to the authors Either have the other draft up upgraded, refreshed and published, or moved the section into this one We, I mean speaking for AC as well, but we would think keeping that documents separate would be great. I mean, when we formed this working group, we didn't say we need an implementation, but it is important that we have one or more to ensure that the solution moves false working group, we didn't say we need an implementation, but it is important that we have one or more to ensure that the solution moves forward. To that point, we have a separate document. So I suggest we keep that because it will be a landier document we're a detailed document. And while this goes, through ISE, anybody wants to refer that, should be able to do that and you're absolutely right we should we should refresh that and make sure it is up to date so that people have the right reference sounds good so the action is. And then what we can do is like IDR does, we can always set up a wiki for implementations and track it as part of wiki key. Yeah, we can do that. So the summary on this point is that the implementation draft will get refreshed and we'll wait for that before we send this to the ISD. OK, and I'll add that reference back too. I took the reference out because it's said it was going to be removed anyway but"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:36:00",
    "text": "then the next point was about the RR mode of deployment You see, yeah I said I said possibly you could remove it but uh Kair said that that was also implemented so I'd wonder what we need to add for that That was my comment. I didn't know about what we want to specify that or not Can you repeat the question? RR mode as to what? So it's what we are sharing up here adrian had a comment Sorry, it's the name. I can zoom Oh, yeah, I can zoom Oops. Can we add something to say? everything's, I mean, that's kind of policy, local policy Say what you put in there My suggestion is that we cover this in applicability spec because as you know inside BGP, whether you do a full mesh IBGP or a route reflect base or a cluster base as a confederate confedrations or you deploy it at eBGP is a matter of choice for an operator Most of those choices are available here in data system The default deployment is eBGP hub by hop but you can do route reflector as an overlay as well as an underlay, and this route reflectors couldn't be in line or off, out of line So I suggest we move, I think and beef up the applicability draft when we come to that and just make sure all the procedures in this document holds up to all those deployment use cases, which is what"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:38:00",
    "text": "we have tried to do I might worry about having it in there and just pointing to their document without it I don't know. Maybe that should be separate. I don't know So I think we're discussing two points at once, which is just a little confusing because the two paragraphs there are bunched together so the first one is my fault I got confused by the text right at the top of Section 4 because it says depending on topology, scaling, blah, blah, blah, and actually, I think what you really mean is depending on what the operator's policy is Because if you say depending on topology, then I'm immediately asking, well, okay, so which topologies do I do what in? But your answer is, well, that's up to the operator to decide according to their policy. And that's that's fine just you know I'm somehow put in the word policy in the time of Section 4 and we're done done done I don't know. I don't know. Pair, did you get that? Yeah, I think think yeah, I think one point to pull up the raft sure I guess we have a section for you too I can say. I mean, adding a pointer to the probability would be an extra super thing to do do Or just not, again, Keir Patelartis, would you be okay if we instead of putting so clearly this should"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:40:00",
    "text": "some of these things should go into applicability document? but we don't want to set up the dependency with applicability document. Would you feel? comfortable if we say hey a lot of this deployment choices are outside the scope of this document at least and maybe covered some somewhere else yeah i think the trickery um weasel words are, this is discussed further in. Thank you you Okay, so I think you are in the queue Short legs, thanks to for the two documents on the implementation report, it's worked just fine to put it on a wiki for most all of ideas documents You don't really have to have it as another document so CARE's comments well taken Yes Okay all right, so the second point was on the route reflector thing And what I wasn't totally clear about, route reflectors often have policy saying what they're actually going to reflect and not reflect and we know how to do that for regular BGP because we've got loads of experience and there's probably quite a few RFCs talking about it Here you've got a route reflector and it's receiving stuff. What sort of policies might it do is the general expectation that it actually redistributes everything? Just a hint"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:42:03",
    "text": "So you're saying we could just say that everything that's received is reflected to all the peers If that's your intent, then say it is helpful What do you think, Kayer? I think that would be good just to say that and because I don't know what I'm going through going to what you could do to optimize things I'm okay by that if that clarifies I'm I again this zero change to implementation but I think this is more what I think Adrian is hinting is it gives it clarity to the text. So I'm okay Okay, so the summary on that is section 4.3 clarify that all info, all info is just reflected by the RR. There is no filtering policy Okay. So I'm going to move over AC let me know if there is something that you like to discuss here or it's something that can be done over a email. Then we can skip over over But let me know this section 5-2-2-1 over but let me know uh yeah i think this section five to two one there was something about the unnumbered links that you wanted to um sorry i wasn't i didn't type enough characters when I was writing this if you have a look at 5211, it's talking about the SPF status TLV"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:44:00",
    "text": "I agree with you. But one of the fields in the SPF status TLV is called SPF status And the different, the no and the link status TLVs, both have SPF status fields Can't find the second one Yeah, the node one and the link one. They both have SPF status fields, but those fields have different sets of potential values with different meanings. And it's only, it's marginal okay? It's not like a big deal, but if you were to able, to call one of them the SPF node status field and then it would just well what I was getting that is we use I mean this is the way it's been implemented, and maybe if we were just if we would have gotten this comment five years ago, I'm not changing, not change technical here, I'm just changing the name of the future but it's the same TLV and all the No, it's not the... The same coding I mean, I, I, I, I, you're saying, you're saying, you're saying different... They are different TLVs, they have different TLV type numbers. Oh no, they are. No, they don't They have the same TLB type number. Same, same. Okay bad. You've got sections calling the TLV's different names, but they are actually the same TLV. Right In a different world I've written a different review comment. I had a similar comment and we agreed that it was too late I think you have 100% right to shout at the original LS authors some of which are present here here Okay, so nothing to be done there"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:46:00",
    "text": "I think Sue, you are in the queue queue I see you in the queue. Oh, I'm sorry. Okay sorry think sue you are in the queue i see you in the queue okay okay uh on five two two one unnumbered link links was there a discussion? needed there? so I don't know if I don't know if I want to I don't know if I want to put a must for an unnumbered link, you know, that's a interdependency between, you know, how it's how the link descriptor is and everything i don't want to make it malform. It's just not going to be work yeah so just for a background some of these details for unnumbered were clarified only in the recent versions and the text before that is been there from an earlier version Yeah, so my trigger, when I do sort of reviews like this, my trigger words are should and may Whenever I see a should, I go, well, where's the corresponding may? And whenever I see a me words are should and may. Whenever I see a should, I go, well, where's the corresponding may? And whenever I see a may, I want to know under what circumstances am I as an implementation able to make this choice so I think and then there's possible a little knock-on consequence that if I do that may for example, leaving out a I think, and then there's possibly a little knock-on consequence that if I do that may, for example, leaving out of something, then do I end up? with something meaningless? It's it's not about the the the the the sped something meaningless it's it's not about the the the spec and the protocol it's about the implementation and the interoperability that you might get if people make different May assumptions What we say should and we say the"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:48:02",
    "text": "consequence is for an unnumbered link, the link to descriptor won't be used I mean, the alternative would be to say must and then would that mean that we'd have to make it and then would that mean that we'd have to make it... Must for unnumbered or something like that. Yeah, but would that make it would we have to make it malform then and treat with it all i don't know yeah that's that's what i didn't want to do just when i was editing. So the next sentence is the main Adrian, that you're looking for. If it's not present, then what happens? I don't think we should get hung up on it, but we could make it a must and make it malformed if it doesn't have it for an unnumbered Yeah. So Adrian, the May that you are looking for is the second sentence and yeah yeah Thank you I'll leave it. I'll leave it to you too Yeah, I have say SBF status So, it read is that who is is that with 5 to"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:50:05",
    "text": "Okay Okay, so Okay. So, uh, there was moving to the end of rib so there was a lot i had i also had comment on this in this area and we had a lot of discussion, the history of the background is that end of rib has been optionally in bgp and it's the same here So, hello yeah, do we need some magnet? to indicate weather and a rib? will be sent or not from a peer? If it is optional how to determine? whether I should wait or not It is in the management section Yeah. It can be like a knob to make it consistent Actually, I think another comments related to Anna Rebbe is from Lee is asking about a... Okay, maybe we can go finish this and then maybe we can go I wonder whether that's it that little mini paragraph at the end of 4.2 is actually just needs to be worded mike english"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:52:00",
    "text": "rather than in BCP 14 and just say that the Safi may also be present I mean, does it mean that a receipt? implementation may choose to expect it? Or does it mean that a sender may choose to include it? Well, it means the sender I think that can, and it's more of editorial, we can never and it's more of editorial, we can, maybe you can take it offline. Yeah, I think, yeah Is that, yeah. Sure, sure uh so i'm going to go ahead go further It does in the management section, we say that it should be configured consistently throughout that VGPS yeah it's out I I don't think we you know, you can, you can, that's the same with VGP. You can figure it inconsistent it's not going to work right. That's a must then Must be connected. Should sounds like, well there are special circumstances. Oh, yeah, okay, yeah, we could say Okay, must for the configuration Okay so I, so for some of these things, I think, I think these are mostly editoria You have a DBD here. Yeah So that's one Talk back here. I think we talked about the session reset"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:54:00",
    "text": "that was another thing we added late was that if we got out of, if we detected you're out of sync, you could reset the session. And we were talking about getting a theory another thing we added late was that if we got out of, if we detected you're out of sync, you could reset the session and we were talking about getting a, I mean, we could add to reset a session a reference to our 40271 which is the base BGP and then just say this is the section number which is to reset a session a reference to RFC-471, which is the base BGP, and then just say, this is the section number which says what reset translates into notification Yeah yeah, but that is something we can add as a subsequent one AC I think we're too late into this if this goes through into I IEC, we can do that subsequent one But here, simply adding a reference to 40271 section that says what in 4271 BGPRFC, where it says, here is how you generate notification. I think the inside 4271 BGP RFC where it says here is how you generate notification. I think just putting that reference here would be good enough Adrian train So you see, do you have any, others are more, I'm not sure we want to kind of drain over all the things, but do you have anything else that we want to? talk? Yeah, if you want to cover the whether or not we want to put anything in the security about a VOS attack of somebody making it flat I mean I don't know why that worse than regular VGPA, but yeah, I mean, mean mean Different, if I was reviewing it, AC, it's a different circumstance so BGP has some assumptions and has that in all the documents going up to 4270 you can't really say flapping doesn't matter"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:56:00",
    "text": "in this environment. You have to couch it per applicable. No, I'm not saying it doesn't, but I'm, was saying it's no worse than VGP, but it is worse for the environment you're trying to apply this to, in my understanding If it, or if it isn't, then you need- to just simply reference why it isn't worth in this environment It's a different environment, either it's really the same or it isn't If it's really the same, why do we have this if it isn't? prove out why I would say this behavior is exactly the same as you would see if you had configured IP4 Unicass BGP and you keep flapping it in data center versus SPF So we could add some text to clarify it as to how you would want but but but I think it is exactly the same as you clapping IP for the unique yes um standard bgp so i mean you can add a text if you like to say here is how it is no different but different But that should go to the application. Yeah. Here, it's not, it's almost saying here's the application almost saying here's the application that says that. Makes sense? Yep that's for you. Yeah, I think that's I think we should discuss the manageability things away whether or not awful in the email because we're not. Yes. We could be here yeah so we are not we're not going through every we're not going through every point only the ones where authors wanted to have a discussion and they were and adrian if you feel strong and you would like to suggest the text about anything, happy to take that into account as well okay Okay. So happy to take that into account as well okay so on the other comments that we received technically"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:58:03",
    "text": "comments, there was from the I think most of the I think most of the Lee's comments has been resolved just maybe one or two remaining clarification things do you want to take a look here or about... Yeah, why not? Why is about an end of rape? But is Lee? here? Let me check i i didn't i didn't see that i had to end the rip one way he said so I think, yeah, so let's take that on the on the on the email then Can we briefly because I think, I know on the email then. Can we briefly because I think, because you're not being in the end of river is kind of, although it's optional, maybe more helpful for this uh pjp and I think, because in my opinion, end of river is kind of, although it's optional, maybe more helpful for this BGPA SPF, maybe we can briefly go through it. That is very implementation specific right the implementation we have we've made end-of-ray purely optional There is no reason why without end of rip this can't work yeah just the there some text about with the end of rip is enabled, which nourish should be, should wait until you receive the end of rib. I think this is something different from the traditional end of rib usage, so this is maybe we can take look. If the end of rib is enabled, you should wait for all NLRIs till you see an end of it, right? Yeah, I mean, it is a text is about after you receive the NRRA should wait for all NLRIs till you see an end of it, right? Yeah, I mean, the text is about after you received an rib, only after you received the end of rib, you can send some NRIs. This is something no only after you receive an end of red you can compute. Compute and then see. Yeah, but the text is a slightly different from that Okay, maybe we'll take it"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:00:00",
    "text": "uh on the list yeah just maybe so we have a a yeah, I apologize. I am going to have four, six, okay, I don't know if we know, who scheduled dinner and he's also scared to go home on the red ice after the dinner of all things. Not even his patient not even his doctor calls him patients so i'm a around, I can go longer, but maybe you can think the rest. No, we are up on our time and the objective was to bring points that need discussion Lee is not here so I'd suggest we do it on the unit. Sure He didn't have that in the secondary. Maybe Sure He didn't have that in the secondary. Or maybe in different male systems. Maybe it's a different thread because I didn't see, I, I, I, I, the two comments he had. Yeah And in his follow-up email today or yesterday. But Adrian, we are going to incorporate all this as per what we have this discussed and hopefully maybe you can help take second look and see if that makes sense so this all sounds really good and my thank you for taking it in good spirit because I know what it's all makes sense. So this all sounds really good and thank you for taking it in good spirit because I know what it's like getting a late and pissy review The only thing that's likely to keep coming back from me is the use of May, should, and recommend it And so if you recommend something, that's the same as a should, so what are the options? Thank you. Okay so anything... And thank you else? Anybody wants to bring up? Okay so next steps is my, yeah, Randy. No, sorry"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:02:00",
    "text": "i misinterpreted that okay so next steps is we are still probably expecting one more update and working group last call is on till tomorrow So we'll look forward to closing this working group last call and the next steps in the following week. And I think we are done here. Thank you Thank you everyone"
  }
]
