[
  {
    "startTime": "00:00:04",
    "text": "I might as well join that generally as West yep and we are or at least with this idea quantum corporate that\u0027s fine any /title back all right well it is time so welcome everybody to the collects working group at ITF one or something what it says on the slide is not what it says in the Java room denote well is here I\u0027m sure everybody in this room is well aware of the note well and what it means to you don\u0027t be bad and copyrights apply etc snow snow submarines no bad submarines this is the draft agenda that I\u0027ve put together do we have any changes any suggestions to this I think\u0027s Ken says he can\u0027t hear anything can you hear me now in the other one yeah maybe we\u0027ll see see where we get to cool I guess we can scribe things for Ken if he\u0027s stuck or can try plug me in your headphones or something well if we use more time on event up we\u0027ll use less and other things it\u0027ll all come together Mike also does not hear anything on that\u0027s me yelling into the microphone pretty loud and this is Barry at the floor mic checking whether you can hear that alright while we deal with technical details let\u0027s at least bring up the event pub page so people can read "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:03:06",
    "text": "it and get talking about your eyes you while were just trying to wait till Mike gets on because Mike\u0027s the one who needs to respond to it mike has tried reconnecting and does not have sound possibly this is the first meeting in this room so clear this sounds working in here but Lucas says audio works okay alright Mike is that any better blue sheets hello hello reverb people know there on the front on the front hall ah don\u0027t trust don\u0027t trust my co-chair it doesn\u0027t know what he\u0027s talking about alright ah it was definitely an employment with it okay you can trust him again now what is going on here I already put your name on push it alright um still no sound for Mike I guess we\u0027re gonna have to transcribe in and out of the Java room yeah yeah Bob made her car already aware I was just gonna take notes yeah I have pen and paper stashed away all right we\u0027ll give maybe another two or three minutes for Mike to sort out his sand issues yeah [Music] candy cane also has no sound hmm and Ken had sound in dispatch earlier yeah Tim "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:06:09",
    "text": "can you hear us gotta love technology all right max just disconnecting and reconnecting by looks of things I can go was no point asking there\u0027s mic switch to firefox and has sound there you go all right so Mike\u0027s back ken is hopefully gonna start soon but let\u0027s get started since we\u0027ve got Mike here barrage do you want to talk about the URL and event publishing ok this is Barry liebe I don\u0027t know if we have critical mass here and was really hoping that this would have gotten discussed at Cal connect where the right people are really there for it but the the gist of my discuss on this is that there there\u0027s a lot of malware and spam and other crap coming "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:09:11",
    "text": "through calendar things that calendar clients often automatically resolve dereference you are eyes and there have been generally limited use of you are eyes in in the calendar standards to this point this draft add the whole boatload of new you are eyes into this I\u0027m really concerned about what will happen if calendar clients start dereferencing them left and right and and they\u0027re the places that the URIs are in are our places that I think would be likely to have clients automatically do you reference them so we need to say something about that my my first preference would be to change the draft to not have URIs in places where it\u0027s not really necessary if we can\u0027t do that if that\u0027s not practical or don\u0027t meet doesn\u0027t meet the needs of the users or whatever then the next best thing would be to have a very strong very strong advise against dereferencing these things without user interaction and warnings to the user that this could cause bad shit which is a technical term so I\u0027ll stop talking and you can let Mike talk that\u0027s you hear me yes yes we can Oh amazing technology\u0027s wonderful isn\u0027t it yeah we did talk about this my feeling is this there\u0027s a weird echo going on here is it me it sounds great to us so okay good is I I do agree with your points but there\u0027s URLs that could be automatic dereference turnip all over the place and I I just don\u0027t feel that in your the event pub draft slash spec is is the is the best place to deal with it we talked about this as that possibly what we probably need to do is come up with a say I know some some know best practices thing that is standing I hope yeah it\u0027s still sounds fine great some kind that that deals with what what a clients do when they get links to things and you know they can have an "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:12:12",
    "text": "email they get open link headers there they can turn up in all sorts of places and and yeah i i i guess i guess the event pub draft does add some i don\u0027t think it I don\u0027t think it there\u0027s an explosion there there in your if you\u0027ve got a location that\u0027s based on a vCard it\u0027s a reference to the V card and but we\u0027ve had them all the time in in in encountering we had the the river it\u0027s called the URI property which you know clients could have followed blindly but there\u0027s no guidance for that and I I I get your point but I just don\u0027t think it\u0027s the best place to deal with it so I\u0027ll agree with this not necessarily being the best place to do it i I think the idea of doing a BCP about this is a good one but I would want this document to block on that and not be published until it\u0027s ready because I really think advice is important III obviously I disagree with I but I would I would I would be happy to to add a very large section on warning if we can move ahead with it but I might you know saying we\u0027re gonna put together something I think we you know a warning on okay well let me come up with something yeah I I could live with that if we had a strong warning and a statement that we\u0027re working on a BCP or something like that I could live with that and that would work Daniel you had your hand up oh sorry Mike you\u0027re breaking up okay yes I was able to say I think can you save me now yeah I would say I I we need a commitment to do something to follow on so we can put that into the into the spec and and if affecting reference that I think I wanna said the the main problem one is the style description I think it\u0027s called in here which is basically lets you put in an HTML version of the message body or calendar description which a bunch of people are doing anyway just in the regular description property even though it\u0027s meant to be plain text what\u0027s unclear to me is why that is I think that one will be better not being your I both because because that\u0027s the one you have to actually fetch to display the event when you open it everything else I don\u0027t think you necessarily do but that one you do and also it means it can\u0027t just "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:15:13",
    "text": "be arbitrarily changed without actually updating the event data later which is I think a good thing I don\u0027t think you want we wanted to just randomly change under you each time you open it for spam scanning all sorts of things like that if nothing else and in jeaious calendar we let you set the content type of the description so you can put an HTML description in but it\u0027s not your I reference it\u0027s just you can embed HTML in there if you really want to so the question I had is that can is that reasonable view that we do without any you arise here even pub Mike did you want to come back in again because to me if there is one that it\u0027s the same as if we have a lot of those so is it possible to to pull the you our eyes out of this and rev this after the BCP to put them back in or does that just not make sense Mike well here\u0027s a long history behind all all this but the the the idea was to try to make locations and and participants and all this - it\u0027d be based on information that came out of things like vCard right that\u0027s where the information is is in directories and you know they\u0027re they\u0027re promised at you if you copy information into something like it like a a counter event it neva tably gets out a date you don\u0027t have any idea of where you go to get the most up-to-date version of that information that\u0027s what the URI is is where where do I find the up-to-date version of of this thing it can also be where do I find the updated the up-to-date version of a lair or whatever that or oh yeah to get that but but I I don\u0027t I don\u0027t know that this is I don\u0027t I don\u0027t think this is a huge step from where we are in terms of risk it there the problem at the moment is is it\u0027s all over the place you know I mean we already have in I found "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:18:14",
    "text": "attachments are generally just a URL to where I can download this attachment from that difference to me is that for privacy anyway is that that is explicit user action to download that or in it almost everywhere there\u0027s no just I open any of engineer shows yeah so and I think there\u0027s a big difference being between being able to refresh something by giving the UI of where I can fetch an updated thing at some point versus I have to fetch this just to show it in the first place so if you did include copy of the data but also you can refresh the stage in case it\u0027s changed a later point from this URL that\u0027s another option that that would make me happier especially that was a morning in the autumn about what a bad stuff can happen if you\u0027re going and breaking you are eyes so so I think the I think the way forward right now is for Mike to try to come up with some text that we can bat around so Mike if you do some draft text for the warnings that would go in here and will start from that so just to be here are we going to include the suggestion from nail because I think you on the prod with that the content can be added and refreshed on the yeah for the remote people that\u0027s can you just come up and repeat that on the microphone yeah I think this is this is diverged a bit from what\u0027s in desk calendar for a similar kind of location object and stuff which I expect it to kind of be a mirror in that that tends to embed all the information that you can can always add links to external places if you want to if the user wants to fetch more or refresh or other stuff but is never expect it there that\u0027s gonna be fetched automatically just to show the event because the information is already there so that would make me much happier having the information that you expect to retrieve from the URI the current version of that information in there have the URI available to refresh it and have a warning text in the document about what can happen both from a security and a privacy point of view if you start going and doing that I I could live with that that that would be good I will so Daniel I also like the suggestion for mostly privacy reasons and that\u0027s a very good one okay so I think I think where we are right now is that Mike Mike has an action item to go off and try to write some checks out but enough just given that to invite Jabba and yeah might keep in touch with me and "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:21:14",
    "text": "we\u0027ll sort it out because I do want to get this published I\u0027m not trying to be a dick so it\u0027s cool all right let\u0027s move on to Jos calendar is there much to say on this I gave it ten minutes but I don\u0027t think we actually need ten minutes it\u0027s been in last call since the previous meeting basically what\u0027s what\u0027s happened since then is mainly just creating registries for everything as discussed in Montreal so that it\u0027s easily extensible which is one of the goals of it so and I\u0027ve had some good feedback in the last call\u0027s have been a few minor tweaks based on that but I think I should publish the new version with just the final tweaks that have been made and hopefully we can push that out yeah so Daniel yeah regarding the registry I sent those to the IANA for an early review I\u0027m realizing either mr. email or haven\u0027t received any feedback so I have to check that through the IANA yeah so yeah so I hope we made the right thing I think yeah most likely we even do more because I don\u0027t think it was pretty required to have all this registries at the I knob so I think we I mean we\u0027re good students at that point but I\u0027m waiting for confirmation and once we have the confirmation as well as the IPR from Robert I wouldn\u0027t get a cent but that\u0027s another problem it\u0027s just it\u0027s resolved in a few weeks that\u0027s a yeah yeah my my console is most with the IANA and it\u0027s one of the document I think we got the most review on so I think it\u0027s a it\u0027s a good example cool no Alex Monaco I just reminded that you might want to talk to our any people this week I know that busy but you can remind them that maybe it\u0027s a at the top of your priority list so maybe they can help you cool all right yeah it just because it\u0027s on the slide there\u0027s actually a second document being discussed here which is the informational one about translating between J\u0027s calendar and I calendar there\u0027s been no work on that since Montreal but yeah I think Robert will finish that off when he gets back in a month or so and it doesn\u0027t need to hold this up so just short update on that so "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:24:15",
    "text": "are you saying that the document is gonna be ready in a month or no sorry the J\u0027s calendar icon de I I don\u0027t know I think it\u0027s fairly complete already it just needs updating for the changes that I made I think Robert will do that I he\u0027s currently where is he from off on holiday somewhere and right when he gets back in holiday we went to part of the world yes I\u0027ve get him to hope you finish that off and yeah but that\u0027s just an informational one and I think you shouldn\u0027t hold this up especially as we need the final chess calendar and to ensure that everything is covered in there mike has bad Network but he\u0027s been working on the Java implementation of this is quite a lot in the past few weeks and says it\u0027s fairly complete now so he\u0027s happy all right next is subscription upgrade Mike I cop the video it seems a healthy yep no as I guess I\u0027ve been working on the implementation of other J\u0027s calendar package with the intention moving on to the G map stuff yep the next thing is great I had a question about status deleted and how that works for items that have multiple recurrent so days do you always have to send all the recurrences if what any of them are changed and if you\u0027re deleting a recurrence to send the status to latest occurrence ID or are you just sending all of what\u0027s left for that recurrence hear me out I cut my own video I can still hear me yep okay hey I was gonna say it\u0027s good question yes it\u0027s not in the document so it will need to be clarified I think certainly coming from a Cal Bev view where each URI contains all the recurrences for that particular UID yeah I\u0027d say what we\u0027re trying trying to do is essentially create a so a lightweight webdev sink so we\u0027ll play follow sort of what happened there but yeah that\u0027s destiny I don\u0027t think I\u0027ve thought about yeah we need to address exactly what "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:27:15",
    "text": "needs to be cleared from the case if you see something with the UID otherwise he could have stale recurrence that is lying around in the case and nowhere for living them yep okay that\u0027s a good point this is yeah I read through this is this morning it seems mainly find there were a few question does somebody else send through to the list I thought the water spirit was kind of section 7 is where it says there\u0027s a number of different ways you can get stuff you can get a card out thing you can get a coward eye thing with auth and they don\u0027t have almost no description to them and they don\u0027t actually currently have references to the specifications which they definitely need yeah do we want to keep that in or should this document you\u0027ll be tight if it was just this enhanced to get method I I don\u0027t know maybe the card I think so I think that the point the point is that when we started is is that we felt many clients who servers already support caldo so allowing a client to upgrade to a full CalDAV was almost free so this would be a way to advertise to do that so is that better than having me enhance to get them to actually enhance get was the enhanced get was where I see that being useful is is in relatively primitive clients mostly you know in in my implementations and deployments we have a lot of web-based feeds that can work very nicely with this that they they just look for updates and and then they update their view so our lightweight synchronization process works works pretty well you\u0027d have to implement CalDAV we told wrapping a CalDAV subset for a while and then decided that really what we should do is just implement some you know did find something that was more in line with with typical web practice and then just say if you don\u0027t if if you if you can do CalDAV then Ducal that okay yeah I think that\u0027s fine it just needs a little bit more fleshing out than that sexually okay the biggest change with the whole thing is people realizing that the biggest gain for this is in mobile "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:30:16",
    "text": "clients we sort of talking from server perspective we started this I think the biggest gain is for mobile clients that are downloading huge these times and upgrading to something more efficient probably means battery savings and goodness as Wells mmm okay sounds good I\u0027ll send you my other feedback to the list I don\u0027t think we need to discuss it here it\u0027s more minor okay all right V alarm extensions the main issue with this stuff was around the Geo privacy stuff for location-based alarms so Ken and Daniel were the main people on this so what what we did is that we asked for the GOP people so the former chairs of that working group and he actually he told us he well it advised us to to send our comments on mist which is not so much helpful for now because I think the the real problem is that if we have no perspective to end up with that documents it\u0027s going to be hard to find it the resource and the energy to move that document for one so back to the comment we had regarding its Joe privacy I think well there is a j.g reprieve framework so we should not ignore that one and I think the previous versions of the draft were a little bit ignoring this framework so I think we should consider that framework but I\u0027m regarding - I mean if you\u0027re able to to produce the localization aspect I think it\u0027s still better than having no specifications so it\u0027s true that if I provide you some indication about which time zone I am you can infer in some some areas I could be but I think this has also to be balanced with if we do not think while full GPS information is going to be provided so it\u0027s still better and in most cases the people you\u0027re providing you\u0027re asking for this time zone are the same you\u0027re providing your GPS information because they also map services so I think well privacy is important but at that point we also have to balance with what\u0027s the impact of not doing anything and what would be the impact given that it\u0027s not a single the only application that use geo localization so my what I would like is that we we make sure that this draft could be moved forward with that "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:33:19",
    "text": "perspective and so I mean so can can work on that and I think what I\u0027d like to really to avoid is that we improve the draft very close to and then we we\u0027re back - oh yeah but you leak some information yeah we will need some so we should work on leaking the smallest amount of those Alexei Melnikov I think in general my advice would be state your assumptions you know if you are saying well if you are leaking this information will read you leaking it throughout the channels you know at least if you write it down people might agree or disagree with you and general I think people are more tolerable to you stating that there are certain limitations or certain risks as opposed to saying nothing so honest honesty is the best policy so document what you know all right so can you have able to join us to talk about this are you falling asleep yet here it comes if you need to kick mic and then add can I think alright now I can again we\u0027re not hearing you I think we\u0027ve lost him off the queue yeah can we and we\u0027ve lost him again [Music] so maybe we can really back to sure let\u0027s move on to series Mike do you have things to say about the series draft can you hear me yep yeah the audio is pretty bad it\u0027s it\u0027s coming going the series draft I I think it\u0027s surprising more complete than "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:36:20",
    "text": "I thought it would be it was a reaction to the the the problems of recurrences that recurring events the the the world I live in mostly went with with things it\u0027s public calendaring and organizations tend to produce very long-running recurring events in which every instance is modified but in reality that\u0027s sort of true but meetings where every occurrence every currents has a has an agenda in it so the the you know the the recurrence model as it was works very well for something it doesn\u0027t change much like birthdays it\u0027s very bad for meetings and for the kind of thing that libraries and places do which is what they call a series so we it\u0027s it\u0027s a different model and it treats each recurrence as a as a separate event and links them with the the related property which is an extremely underused property encountering but I believe it\u0027s a lot closer to what is happening life so it I think the the attempts to compress the the recurring events is is is not going to work very well because it\u0027s just a bad fit so a series I think is about fit from that so what what people are actually doing now that\u0027s where it as the motivation as is Neil Jenkins yeah I think this idea is good I think draft definite needs some work so I I thought I saw on the list something about this being going straight into last call which I think must be a mistake because it\u0027s not ready for that yeah to be accepted into the working group yes last call yet yeah yeah no I wouldn\u0027t III don\u0027t think it\u0027s ready for that I mean it\u0027s had its had a it we exposed a little bit and in fact I just spent one evening producing the entire draft and it with had one small upgrade since oh no I wouldn\u0027t believe that either yes fine good so yeah III said I think the idea is good if we need it means various things "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:39:21",
    "text": "for start to make sure it\u0027s interoperable and I think we want to be clear how this interacts with CalDAV and whether a service should be generating these to me it has to be a server generating these for it to be useful it\u0027s it\u0027s kind of it wishy-washy at the moment that a client or server may generate these ahead of time there were few other things I thought were a bit unclear how the split concept I did not understand at all it didn\u0027t see what was going on there and there was a discussion that the series master is not a member of the series which so it\u0027s like a template I presume which makes sense that\u0027s good but that means that you\u0027re not meant to show that as an event but any client that doesn\u0027t understand this is going to show that an event no I I think I think well yeah this is probably not the best place to get into that discussion but the the idea was to attempt to prevent clients from seeing these things so yeah I should different top-level thing and rather than a V event of the event template or vehement series template or something so that the car time yeah let\u0027s have a look and see what\u0027s going on it the backwards compatibility thing was a lot the idea was to try and and build this so that clients have just this is actually the missing thing from Cal dev is is the idea of an expansion where what you see are just things that look like real events and and so from from the backwards compatibility point of view you just see these things look like real events and he just real events I think I think it\u0027s a way of getting the server to generate a series of real events rather than the client interpreting rules no master as I guess that\u0027s really good I just don\u0027t think I think we need some work oh I actually agree I think but yeah yes I agree okay well I guess I guess probably better take this to the list rather than us talking about it over yes I just have one question what is the overlap with reference that the promoter occurrences the recursive work really well if if nothing changes so if you\u0027ve got to say a birthday and and you the rules the rules are exactly the same but but in recurrences you produce "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:42:22",
    "text": "recurrences and so they\u0027re very lightweight if nothing changes but if every instance has a change in it and override then that turns up looking like a real event and recurs recurrences in icon or not a change the recurrence override is actually a full copy of what the event looks like so if you if you change every resource that it\u0027s megabytes in size Mike\u0027s breaking up maybe I\u0027ll just give a quick explanation as I\u0027m in the room question was do we expect that one is gonna replace the other know different things this would be a good fit for a number of situations where currently recurrence is used and they don\u0027t work great yep okay all right and the last thing we\u0027ve got is V polar belief so this I believe some works been done on V Paul but we didn\u0027t get ready for pushing a new draft but now is that okay so can you unlike anything here no you\u0027re cutting out a lot me I\u0027m coming up yeah I am running eruptions here yeah hang on wait a minute see then cut my video again yeah it keeps coming on again maybe not say am i any better now great now is that yes or no yes yes you bet oh okay okay veto so yeah pretty much finished the update the traffic our first participant and yet Candace has offered to help me work on that the problem we have is is is largest structure the issue of whether we produce a single document that is V fo without any of the modes and then and then have basic mode and a few other modes are separate documents "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:45:23",
    "text": "or or M merge them into one it so I think that\u0027s where we are still so sweet I claims I\u0027m shouting so I think I won\u0027t just be ongoing work and the next little bit which is good because the next thing that we have on our slides is reviewing our milestones so running down what\u0027s their attachments draft is done update update milestones certainly needs to be done again this is Barry I think there\u0027s something quite ironic that the one of the most outdated milestones is the one to update the milestones yes we are going back our relation draft jazz calendar draft and event pub our relations has been done I believe but jazz calendar an event pub will update them when do we expect to have a Jess calendar we should be sending off very soon so we could say that\u0027s by December stayed up the send event publication draft to the IAS G should be marked done I mean the the you have sent it to the iesg there was the first thing we discussed today yeah might discuss on it so the fact that it isn\u0027t out of the iesg is irrelevant you have sent it to the is G some are done yay cool is something with update milestones I can mark down as well when oh well maybe just update they to reach out yep so for the documents that we\u0027ve discussed today on the list let\u0027s just zoom back to the start here where the agenda is event pubs been sent joyous calendar will be sent subscription upgrade I\u0027d say we should aim to have that done by the next HF so maybe February next year is that same realistic to people the subscription upgrade yep of the year chairs calendar is target Cindy already yeah yep it\u0027s that that is done VL arm extensions has the the privacy stuff so it\u0027s every alarm extensions should be soon as well yeah so maybe will target that for the end of the year series target from mid next year that same about right yeah sorry yes Mike could I "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:48:31",
    "text": "ask about IRA combs questioner dr rule most plurals the question was multiple errol\u0027s in je s calendar no one else seems to want implemented I guess it\u0027s a problem Mike because we\u0027ve not I do I know I know that\u0027s why five five four five changed it from two to four five which I thought it was to be one instead of multiple and the reason the reason why that was done that was because you you know user applications didn\u0027t implement it and I I get that hmm but the reason that I always disagreed with that and the thing that the reason it came back to my mind was I had to work on a bunch of data for some site that I support and discovered they had seven recurring events that all had slightly different recurrences and the only reason they did that is because they could not express that with Nas blah rule out of interest would that use case have been better fit with series just know it would soon be the same property you have to have multiple rules to do it I\u0027m saying suppose series supports multiple rules as opposed to event so it\u0027s some template cat they\u0027ll be sidestepping it\u0027s you because yes he would I could I could say in Susie must support multiple URLs yes I do wonder whether yeah it makes more sense for this template generation the point things it is actually often easier to express difficult things broken down to multiple rules than it is to express in one rule from the I I agree that say any in the the commodity application this sort of gret the usual user type application simplification probably works fine saying once a week once a month whatever in an event publication that\u0027s not the case if then the publishers want complication okay but you publish these events that\u0027s going to be consumed by a consumer application right that\u0027s generally that\u0027s the point of publishing it and so if it doesn\u0027t understand the multiple currencies you can\u0027t publish it the "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:51:33",
    "text": "reality is that most clients will actually display them correctly what they won\u0027t let you do is not apply them or I do not think either Google or Microsoft\u0027s online services at least support more current rules in their data model if they\u0027re using iCal for J as their as their thing which they do they will probably support it okay we\u0027d have to test that I like my trouble is adding multi adding support for multiple makes the the base case the common case more complicated just just having single one now the rich all it means is all it means is turning to an array that\u0027s all Tony for a yeah that\u0027s I guess I don\u0027t think I things I I understand the point of view of people who have to build UI is the rest of it but I don\u0027t think the data model should be driven by the simplest case yep look I\u0027m not strongly opposed to it I think an array when changing from the current recurrence rules would not be a huge burden i I\u0027d be interested if any other people had feedback I yes but yes we could do that it\u0027s my it\u0027s my only at the end we can take you offline I don\u0027t want to spend a lot of time on this here because we have no much time anyway but I did want I do feel symport alright well let\u0027s stick it on the list and we\u0027ll contacts some people who should weigh in and just ask them as well if they got anything yeah I think I think we could we could change that yeah all right thank you so back at the milestones just to rewind slightly V Paul was the lasting when are we expecting that to be ready to go is that before or after series Oh before well their previous or the same I just need to to figure I have the same problem I had with Oersted generated drop that won\u0027t be long alright so let\u0027s say maybe April next year then oh okay yes you\u0027re tuned like this is when it\u0027s supposed to be done by it doesn\u0027t mean you have to go oh okay so yeah but it just lets a spaced out the order in which we\u0027re expecting things to happen a little bit okay yep awesome alright I will update all the milestones finally is there any other business "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:54:37",
    "text": "awesome thank you buddy I will see many of you in five minutes for extra and thanks for staying up late ken and mike particularly okay alright thank you yeah all right okay Oh transcribe these into nice notes afterwards or a calendar event no okay yes the Thomson stuff yes [Music] "
  }
]