[
  {
    "startTime": "00:00:29",
    "text": "okay now that I\u0027m in the room here I can look and I can see okay no okay all right thank you I was actually just looking in the list of people in the jabber room that I was gonna start at the top and calling somebody thank you thank you all right it is just ten o\u0027clock so let us get ready here this is the registration protocols extensions working group and I am James Calvin most people here on tour know me you Anton for Schwerin is with us in miyako and yes so he\u0027s waving look at that and yeah this picture up there too that\u0027s awesome you want to say hello and we heard you it\u0027s great oh no didn\u0027t hear that not hearing you up there you go yes we can hear you excellent okay it\u0027s skipping right ahead this is the usual note well I\u0027m sure you\u0027ve seen it many times it\u0027s already Thursday this week and many of you\u0027ve been here all week so I\u0027m sure you\u0027ve seen this many times and just important to keep that in mind and so we\u0027ll jump right in here to our agenda we do have a jabber scribe Thank You Suzanne and we have a note scribe thank you Oh Rick we\u0027ve done the note well and document managing this is just our opportunity to remind people that it is important to review documents it is important to acknowledge that you have have looked at it I realize that not every document is important to everyone so you\u0027re not going to give it a detailed review and study but please do take the time especially during last call to read read the documents and take a look at them and acknowledge that you\u0027ve read them and don\u0027t have any issues with them it\u0027s very important to be able to show some consensus here on our documents and we really appreciate that okay let\u0027s go to some of our existing documents yeah for us we\u0027ve had three RFC since our last meeting this is this is absolutely wonderful so we have had a very productive year this year moving some things along that kind of a slow start there for a while but we\u0027ve got our change polis al we got the organizational mapping and extension documents published so that\u0027s a good thing and we have two documents that are currently in is G evaluation we have some comments that we just have to resolve that don\u0027t think there\u0027s anything particularly material going on in these things but I know that both sets of document Shepherds know that they have work to do and they\u0027ve acknowledged to us that they\u0027re going to move those documents forward and we\u0027re gonna we need a new version of the feed "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:03:30",
    "text": "document I don\u0027t think the bundling needs a new oh it does need a new document you know the bun they need a new document too so it\u0027ll be one more of those that will then get pushed out into the publication cycle so those are moving along that\u0027s a good thing there it is I remember the main thing this is Barry the main thing in the fees document is fleshing out the security considerations dealing with money so that may be a bit of a challenge to figure out what to put in there that the security IDs will be happy with okay and Raju is taking notes right there\u0027s seven changes yes Roger saying that there\u0027s seven comments to be addressed in seven things that he has to take care of but all all doable okay quick milestone of you we had kind of proposed these milestones didn\u0027t really get a whole lot of discussion about them but you know here they are just putting them up here again login security at the top is actually in working group last call which will close the week after the IETF it\u0027ll close next Friday not tomorrow the data escrow and the DNR D objects mapping is on the agenda for today so we\u0027ll get to discuss them later we\u0027re also going to see the partial the are gap the next three are DAP documents we don\u0027t have an agenda item today for the open ID stuff there\u0027s nothing to progress at the moment there but it\u0027s also a further out target for us so we\u0027re just waiting for some activity there okay so now let\u0027s move into our existing work and we\u0027ll jump right into a few presentations here I put login security up here not because anybody was going to talk about it but just as an opportunity to remind us that it isn\u0027t working group last call that will close next week we normally do a two-week working group last call made this one three weeks because we only opened it last week and we didn\u0027t you know to allow an extra week because this is the ITF week so we\u0027re kind of just ignoring the fact that that week is there but again not expecting a whole lot of discussion not expecting any issues but please as a reminder please do read the document please indicate that you\u0027ve read it and that you have no objection even if you don\u0027t explicitly support it or have a need for it it is useful to to know that people are looking at the documents and moving them along that\u0027s really very important really could use some help and getting more people to acknowledge that they\u0027re paying attention to the work so the data s crew drafts will actually be up first and Gustavo\u0027s can do this but Frederick Frederick you\u0027re gonna Francisco not Frederick so let me get your slides up okay no doesn\u0027t seem to be working "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:06:35",
    "text": "is it on other yeah yes okay hello this Francisco I\u0027m presenting on behalf of Gustavo who could not be here so this is about the dura scroll drafts they have been around for quite a while so quickly what is the Rascoe is a process by which some parts usually the registries registers in the minimum space store critical data necessary to restore service in case of catastrophic failure and they usually do this with a tea party normally called that is corrosion and there is usually some contractile conditions that if they are met for example an emergency failure then the data could be released who to party beneficiary for example in the case of Italy\u0027s I can so that I can give it to someone else to run the race your the register next slide ok thanks so this has been around for quite a while the concept of the rostra in the little space since 99 in the first contracts with Common Era NORC and as part of the natively program there there was a thought of having a new more modern that also format to use that was define and has been in use since the launch of the natal business slide and there was in in the side of the IDF there was above by in back in 2000 I won\u0027t say I don\u0027t whenever idea 77 was and and unfortunately the worker was not formed but a memories was started and work on the draft was carry true in that many lease an order for the specification had been stable now for a couple years or more and only minimal updates have been done basically maintenance or minimal issues that have been detected and next slide and the drafts I think this is just a quick history they it was originally one draft he was fit into two then there was the proposal by Jing qu here and others to extend the format to not only be XML because the original proposal was only XML as so the proposal so Jim and others proposed to make it be basically a dual format so it\u0027s XML alone or XML plus CSV to escrow the objects next slide and the "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:09:38",
    "text": "primary target is domain names however it can be extended to other registries or other older type of registries and the format also supports supports different types of deposits it can be the full deposit meaning the whole set of data or it can be something incremental or differential just adding or deleting objects as they have been changed or removed or added next slide and so the the first draft the radix that Icecrown that\u0027s sort of the container definition of the container for that I\u0027ll scroll and finds for example the type of the process you are making a pool incremental or financial the ID etcetera and a couple other things net slide defines also importantly the the watermark what is called the where mark that is the day and time corresponding to when the deposit or when the data from the registry or the database has been pull so for example if the data escrow deposit is corresponding to today we the time some of today the format is also extensible so you can define you can identify the extensions that are being used the objects are being a screw there next slide the objects mapping is is what you defined the work what are the definition for all the objects that can be escrow is is define as I said before it\u0027s supposed to format xml or CSB next slide this is the list of objects are defining the in the document this list has not changed for four years now you will find what the typical type of objects you find in a registry the Menem ratio register next slide who uses the other Astra format as I said most of the deities are using this excuse me since the launch of the new Tilda round in 2013 this has been in use and nowadays even some legacy utilities have moved to this new format excuse me so it\u0027s been used for the data escrow obligations are contained in the contract but also is we understand has been used by races when they are transitioning so it for example register is changing from race the service provider and they typically use this the rest grow format to transmit data from one hour speed to another it is also "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:12:39",
    "text": "being used by the corresponding their escrow agents I believe we have nine in a little space and all of them currently supported format they have to do some validations per contract they have with icon and I have to confess within check if this is being used in other contexts for example Z tilde space it is also being used as in the Italy space by the emergency button range operators this is a service we have United contract we have three providers are really available to take over TL leave there were some emergency and we totally had to use this year or two ago with one detail it had a failure one of the critical functions that are described in the contract so that that really was successfully taken but why buy one of the Ebro providers and we used the Rosco format to rebuild the LD it is it has another use also in the icon contract the utilities have to provide access in both to registration data to icon on a periodic basis and we use that format that Alaska format for the racist provided to us next slide so we we think these straps are quite mature they have been around for several years and so we know this has been just adopted by the working group recently however likes that we we think they are ready they have been used they are being used by several parties so we are asking whether if you guys agree that it would be wise to now go directly to working low classical and and there are the two drops that\u0027s it thank you any questions or comments about these drafts from anyone I see Antwon getting in a cubicle head down here first forward please like this is a wish from the foundation I would like just the you said that the the escrow format is extensible so are the objects extensible to and I believe some we have seen use extensions to the contact objects yes okay let me go online to Antoine okay let me get one - phone line - the sound something is a bit shaky but I don\u0027t know one question actually and it is can you explain to me what the intended status of the documents why these standards I\u0027m sorry I could not I think it\u0027s question is why is the document standards track why is the "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:15:39",
    "text": "intended status standards track so what was the last instead of informational or best current practice I don\u0027t think we have a strong opinion but genes is your quarter I don\u0027t know you want to say something about it yeah she go from Verisign um yeah we\u0027ve actually gone through that site or the length of these drafts it livings in existence but in essence is in front a standard file format that\u0027s used for s pros it\u0027s not a operational practice it\u0027s actually a file format and it\u0027s used by many many different parties in the registry industry so I\u0027m not sure would be a good fit for informational I really see it as a standards track based on its usage and the fact that it\u0027s defining standard file format and I guess for me what I would add to that is just that it is a in essence it\u0027s a communication mechanism it\u0027s a protocol for communication between parties so file format is what it is because you\u0027re transferring a whole file but it is really a communication method and the syntax and semantics for all of that so I think standards track is is the right thing for it did you so let me just go back to Antoine did you have a preference that it not be standard to track well I was I was asking the question because I don\u0027t know if this is going to if this is a completely new protocol or that it is defining something else and it is defining a file format and that that\u0027s what I understood but it\u0027s also defining a forest fire forward between a limited number of parties so hence my question papers okay thanks and the rest will probably they have a discussion on the list Thanks like to keep just general the very same again um actually I was thinking that it might be a good idea for us to add an implementation status section considering the fact that we have so many mutation with us that we go ahead and update the drafts to see that yeah that\u0027s a good suggestion thanks for that Rick two questions one since there\u0027s going to be PII you transited in the escrow on in a lot of cases is there some sort of privacy considerations that we need to put in on that good because I don\u0027t because that that is you know from the data that gets collected in certain cases is going to have contact data and so obviously it needs to technically get escrow for the written order for the escrow to fulfill its function but it is gonna be having that data in there so it\u0027s just something that is like worth considering and then and in the last second late and lastly who\u0027s that it\u0027s it\u0027s good that we\u0027re standardizing "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:18:39",
    "text": "format again sir certainly support about that but the given what\u0027s going on in the land of gTLDs the expedited policy development process related at registration data the the data that is collected by registrar\u0027s and registries is likely to be morphing and changing over the next period of time relatively soon and so it\u0027s unclear to me at present what sort of flexibility is already built into the standard to accommodate this or are we going to need to rev this document in order to accommodate some possible future changes to the escrow format that might be driven by the changing registration data requirements right so the data scroll specification was defined with have any minds for multiple set of contract our policy requirements so the the way was the finest makes almost everything optional and it\u0027s up to some other means contract policy whatever to make the list of things that need to be included and so in that sense I think we\u0027re safe but it would be great to hear what you think or others thing about that okay okay maybe we can look at that and make sure that that language is explicit enough that we said that clearly finds that this is that kind of mechanism and doesn\u0027t really prescribe what is required so good thank you no shit I think this has been the only deployed but use stable before I would urge us that you should push this over RFC so we have an RFC and proposed standard I think it\u0027s the right thing Thanks thanks mom I\u0027m not seeing anyone else in the queue there I will add myself speaking for my self you know and we are at an implementer of this as as other folks are in the room here I\u0027ve been doing this for a long time it is interesting the question that about the future of this document in format given what is going on and I can or what it\u0027s gonna do I don\u0027t know how to respond to that right now but we should take the discussion to the mailing list part of what\u0027s going on here in my mind is some these things have been broadly used broadly deployed for you know almost a decade now I think the documents are pretty well baked and it is important and useful to to get that document publication closed that cycle let\u0027s have a discussion on the list as to how far we want to want to take revisions to this document it may be that it\u0027s we should iterate on the "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:21:40",
    "text": "document and iterate on a published document instead of iterating on this specification at this point in time is a better thing just because of the broad deployment while we wait for other things to happen so that would be my personal comment all of it I\u0027m generally supportive of moving these things forward chin yes you go from Verisign I\u0027m thinking about the future of the document and the potential for changes you may want to consider relaxing some of the requirements in there if it becomes an RFC and that\u0027s something which is required becomes optional based on later changes in policy we wanted you know have to kid you are so yeah so something to think about yeah so thank you Francisco just a quick comment then is as chair about this document again it\u0027s on our milestone list the intent was that there probably wouldn\u0027t be too much discussion of this document although it was important to bring it back to the surface put it up in front of people you know yes take the time to give it a review and make sure you know that there are no issues with it but ideally to progress this along pretty quickly but we will take the concrete question to the mailing list about whether or not to drop this into working group last call and move this along let\u0027s see if any showstopper objections come up on the mailing list and get everyone involved okay next up on our agenda is the our DAP documents so Mario yep a preference in what order Mario or can I just bring them up in this order or you\u0027ll have all three of these right you have a preference on the order of these three okay I\u0027ll just bring them up in whatever order they\u0027re here okay so here we go partial response first hello everybody on Monday afraid the phone dr. T registry this will work for you yeah okay we could do that these are very short presentation about the progress of each of the three drafts is only four summarize the most meaningful changes since the last meeting and to collect possible feedbacks from the attendees and the first one draft is passer response then the question zero one the Russians you know one the basic field sets has been changed from required to optional so their implementation now is considered helpful but not required to "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:24:43",
    "text": "improve adapt interoperability the definition of fields included in the field setters be removed because there was a clear feedback from the working group to avoid a clear definition of the fields including in the brief it says and to let the other providers to to implement the brief etcetera as it see as they see fit so now another pod is free to define the content of the briefing set in the version zero to zero to the negative answer session has been added so now it is clear that the request including including a non-supportive visa to obtain a bad request response code and the IANA consideration section has been added to ask Yana for the registration of such setting extension yesterday Tamera zone I can see I can see here provides some feedbacks about each of the three draft I I provided my my comments in turn this this feedback is not included in this presentation due to the lack of time but I hope that everyone every working group member could give his own contribution to the discussion of do all these new feedbacks apart these apart the feedbacks provided by Tamera zone I think that there are no other issues so I the other consider this this document pretty ready for the working group last call I can pass to the other ok the second draft um how do folks who want to do this do you do want to take them as a block and make it we\u0027ll just quickly go through the couple of slides for each one and then we\u0027ll take us a lot to talk about them seeing "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:27:44",
    "text": "a couple of nodding heads on that so let\u0027s um do it that way I prefer to talk about the rest such as the last 30 pin paging okay the change is shown in this regard about the sorting of pages draft in the version 0 1 the page a metadata object has been simplified and now it contains only a free free members total count page count and links in the Russian server to the duality between offsetting cuts imagination has been fixed now the cursor for parameter can encrypt above offset and cut some pagination information these are shown him in the slide simply encryption based on a base64 encoding but obviously they are not they are not considered the real so the both offset and limit 1 are meters have being removed and also in this in this version the Yana consideration section has been added to ask a Yana for for the registration on sorting and paging extension in where some versions are 3 the CC sorting property has been added to the list of the sorting property due to the publication of RFC 8 8605 in addition to the issues provided by tamara zone some issues the author consider Mina minor for example should the value or jacquard sortez parameter be considered when sorting we think that the the answer is no because this parameter is related only to the N and the org bukata elements and it makes sense only in a collection of of jacquard of jacquards this is not the case because we are in the case of a collection or "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:30:46",
    "text": "objects including jacquard could a possible jacquard the replacement effect the sorting capability this is a possibility that will not affect affect the draft because the they are the implementer would simply need to change the Jews apartment member in sorting method sorting metadata so he can change the [Music] representation of the contact information and simply changing the the department member in soft metal metadata 212 to maintain the correspondence between the sorting properties and the [Music] the jacquard element okay one is a better search draft as a consequence to the discussion inside the working group we in the working group about the privacy consideration I have changed the privacy considerations section to make clear to make clear that this capability must be provided only on the strict control and only to users who are legitimated by illegal legal basis in the previous consideration section some of these potential users are supposed are reported I think that probably there are other potential uses that can take advantage from this capability and are legitimated by some legal basis these are just to refresh the current path available for for this capability and I think that there are two open issues - - to tackle one if for example we should should we add a pod "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:33:46",
    "text": "segment to enable the research on a custom property just to make this capability more extensible for example at OTT we have a property about a registrant that that is the personal the tax identification number and this is a custom property it is used only in the context of the daughter GE registry so my opinion is that this is an example of a custom property and which we should provide a Marais to stand the the possible property subject to reverse search a consequence to the introduction of this new search segment path but segment is if we should opt for a unique path allowing the research on an entity detail on any entity details so for example the previous entity rental or entity F and search path segment could be translating into new search with the same sharing the same [Music] research pod segment another problem is if we should avoid the value member to have different types this is the the case when we press from the representation of an address and the representation of any other value connected to the other the other reverse search properties so the solution coming to to my mind splitting the value member in s value and value to represent an string value or and an object value just to not too blige the other prominent implementer to customize the reason decidedly deserialization methods another possibility is defined by the member type always as a string and live "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:36:47",
    "text": "and join and Medicaid\u0027s to a future capability so for example the the last example of a query reverse search query could be transformed into reverse search where we join in in and by by not by a future adapt capability addressing the complex disobey or queries with predicates join it by endo or or or so on and so on ok ok just to put these documents in contact so the mic is open now for any questions or comments you know concerns with these things and as we get ready for that these all three of these documents are new features and enhancements are adapt stuff that wasn\u0027t there before so it\u0027s important to take a look at them and consider if you know this is really the best way to do them from the point of view of this working group we had targeted having all three of these things done and published pushed out the door by the next IETF in November so it\u0027s important to keep that in mind you know there we need to have whatever discussion we need to have about moving these forward and I\u0027ll observe that currently it looks like the first two the sorting and searching and partial response do seem to be relatively stable the reverse search document seems to have just some open questions and issues here so if there is no further discussion that happens on the partial response and sorting and searching they\u0027re likely to go to last call sometime relatively soon we\u0027ll we\u0027ll push through the data escrow things first and then we\u0027ll be coming around to these documents and look to move them along so you know please do take the opportunity if you haven\u0027t been thus far to give these documents a read and a review and you do consideration to whether they\u0027re ready to move forward or not and with that the my clients are open so please great thanks thanks Maria for doing these and some good updates in this recent round my thoughts and concerns around these are more macro not related to the particulars of either searching sorting partial response or research but more that from an industry standpoint are standing largely in stark contrast to the thing that Francisco just presented which has been in production for eons the target production date for I can contracted "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:39:48",
    "text": "gTLDs for our DAP is August 26 as many processes no and so our gap is ramping is heading towards production and no one has really any skin not knowing operational experience at scale is very limited across the industry and I would offer that the industry in itself is going to be going through a rapid learning curve just on basic our GAAP operations both from the server side and from people building clients against that and so while these features that we\u0027re talking about are you know generally interesting and certainly applicable and I think are going to happen might be concerned about the entirety of them is that implementations are going to be evolving very very rapidly and we may be inadvertently memorializing into an RFC something that with some implementation experience is going to be subject to revision you know son thanks right and then I think the thing on reverse search is a slightly different one because they\u0027re even the policy on that in the gTLD space is is yet to even be really started on the reverse search and so I think that standardizing and that one in particular would be very premature and the other two you know I think we\u0027re probably safe from a policy standpoint but the technology in our community learnings on this are going to be moving rapidly and in 24 months we\u0027ll be standing in you know we\u0027ll be having a regex meeting wherever it is in 2020 100 said wow it I can\u0027t believe it\u0027s been two years looking how this is grown so generalist is worried about the concept I just think it\u0027s a little early to be cooking and serving this dish when yes I\u0027m aware that I think that there is a distinction between the three documents if reverse search and parts partial response address a problem that is common to every rest service providing data so I\u0027m quite confident that this solution we will not be encounter any issues in the future any particular issues in the future if if we now release this document as as RFC in the in the short term different I have a "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:42:48",
    "text": "different opinion about the research I know that this is it is specific it is specific solution for a specific problem of in the domain context so I am no rush I am I I can\u0027t wait for possible feedback possible feedbacks coming from the working group members I I thank you thank thank Tom for his contribution to the to moving forward this dog to moving forward these documents but I hope that there will be other feedbacks coming from the working group members so the first to do the first two documents seems to me more stable than the research so this this is why I\u0027m thinking to to ask for to postpone them the milestone of the research to have a more comprehensive document I have no problem in this sense so let me ask a clarifying question by May erectus to make sure that I heard you correctly so I think you made an excellent case for actually pushing out the current milestones for these documents to give ourselves a chance to get some real implementation experience with them because you are asking a very valid question about has anyone implemented these that you\u0027ve interrupted with all three of these do you\u0027ve done the implementations has anyone else maybe Thomas made and I made another permutation of of the Nutri graphs there are implementation about paging from Google and no other implementation okay hi which I know I can so that\u0027s an important question it did I hear you correctly Rick I mean I guess basically that\u0027s what you were pointing out that\u0027s that\u0027s fair I don\u0027t think there\u0027s a particular I think that these would benefit from some implementation experience across the board and the community and as well as the other thing that we\u0027re that the community I think is going to be soon and we\u0027re seeing that soon encountering is implementation experience yes possible changes required "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:45:49",
    "text": "for vanilla are gap right yes some of the discussion later ending up in the Jay s contact that\u0027s an example a day working group to decide the priority are these documents I am no no problem to i my my wish is to have at the end the most comprehensive document so okay so let\u0027s continue moving down to so thanks Rick and we\u0027ll make sure to take that certainly the chairs take notice that delaying the milestone might be appropriate here and we\u0027ll bring that to the mailing list to and get some other input I think your point here remember not having different types is a good one I think it should be a string in all cases like you said it just will make things easier for implementers more generally on the responses that this I think one of the issues that effects both reverse search and sorting and purging is the CC and country name issue you might have one server that publishes country one so the publishes CC one does both different parameters etc a half on the weather just getting rid of country from sorting and just going to CC in both cases and saying service can yes ie I provided the air a sponsor to your questions by email my opinion is that the the situation is different for sorting for sorting and paging and for research in certain managing the under implement decide to to provide CC as a sorting property because CC is the element that the other server returned returns so in the case of reverse search you are searching for something connected to the country so if you if you for example if you declare cc equal Italy I my other server can transform this information as something to to match in the my in the country information oh yeah so if I have country name I I will search for Italy if I am the country code I will search for da TT because it is a search so I don\u0027t want "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:48:51",
    "text": "to as I told you by my as I don\u0027t want to define an S and explicit mapping I want to to define a semantic equivalence between the concept or between the country code that it is reporting in in in the query and the information I have on the underline DBMS so I think the implementers should be free to map this information on his information if he if he if the country name is available instead of country code they will map the country the the information the Queen so the country code i-i-i-t to the country name Italy okay just to not lose to to to not lose a relevant information and to provide as many results as possible which are relevant okay this is my opinion we can due to the fact that there are that the information is represented in different ways and there is in my opinion it is much more difficult to define explicit mapping it\u0027s better to to say when you are searching for CC dot 80 you can search for CC dot 80 country name Italy you can search Italy instead in inner structure address for example so you can provide all the relevant you can your server can return all the all the relevant information to the users the different different perspective is for for the sorting capability because you expect that the CC dot ID will will appear in your response because you are sorting for that information so in that case they see see for example the CC parameters must must appear but you as and our DUP implemented decide if CC is the sorting properties or country name is the sorting properties or something "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:51:51",
    "text": "else is a sorting profit so thank you mariya one thing I want to be careful of a little conscious of time here we don\u0027t need to solve everything here but since that was a question was on the mailing list we can just refer to taking the discussion there too so trying to have shorter responses but please go ahead we got in there we go so developed I don\u0027t think that it should be as a working group tied to like an policies because aldub is also used by a CCT ID by VG\u0027s twist so so it\u0027s not a problem for me if we move forward but but there is of course a big problem with piracy issues because of the power we must search you can find a lot of things as you didn\u0027t know the fact that you can get information about the domain coca-cola dot-com does not mean you have a right to know all the domains registered by the coca-cola company and it\u0027s even worse for individual users of course so this has been discussed already in Dragon as final but I don\u0027t see any progress on that the current privacy considerations could be exactly the same for the ordinary held up there is nothing new in it just saying that it should be done you know foodway which is quite obvious all of us share we do only a lawful thing so really this before there is someone killed warning the privacy consideration that we the search is much more powerful than ordinary search on these special protections you know that my opinion is not it\u0027s not the same as your because I think that add up as they the measures to to implement to enforce the security to to allow this capability only to legitimated users there are examples available on the web but of bulk reverse with capability available for for money so we are talking about something that has been overcome in from the technology from by the technology in the reality there are some services available on the Internet you can do the reverse series and probably in the "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:54:53",
    "text": "future you you you will you you are you will have the possibility to reverse a tap for money and these services are open to everyone so I think that is better to have a capability to provide the research only to authenticated users then to provide adapter the research to everyone in the future good guy should have no problem doing people so this is I think but it sinks a thing I don\u0027t know a very good question though and and a good point which really we do need more discussion on the mailing list there is a distinction between you know privacy policies and the effect on what the protocol does so having a protocol which defines the right way to do things and then in the privacy considerations we just need to call out that you know there are policies that are going to affect us but we should have more discussion about this on the list and what we need to put in these privacy consideration sections for this these droughts I agree with you that it\u0027s about the issue of policies not what we should do is to clearly what we do sir to create very different problems from ordinary access and require special policies speaking personally I tend to agree with you and but what I think is important and why I\u0027m stressing more discussion on the mailing list is we do need other voices in this other people need to speak about what the right way is to characterize this so and then we should have that discussion that\u0027s funny I agree we need a bit of privacy story around the I can\u0027t should not be the gating factor for for this first off the I can it\u0027s not one of one mind about anything the TS she actually pointed out the reverse search draft is something that it\u0027s needed so that\u0027s part of ICANN that was an I can group just because the policy people and their expedited status aren\u0027t really doing anything you know we can\u0027t sit around and wait on them also our tap is used by cctlds it\u0027s used by the RIR so it\u0027s not just a dick deity thing but I do think we need a better privacy story I also do owe it to to Mario to review all the drafts s comments early on but I need to do that again okay just "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:57:54",
    "text": "a clarifying question then so Rick was was kind of making the case earlier - you know delay publication but I hear you pointing out that Rick\u0027s argument was was based in part on deployment at scale and what\u0027s going on in the gTLD space but you\u0027re sort of arguing the other side of that\u0027s not the only customer Eric so maybe we shouldn\u0027t gate based on that is that correct yes there there are many people who have deployed this at scale already so there\u0027s plenty it\u0027s out there and if we want to wait on I can policy we could be here for 10 years waiting on that to happen so we should not do that yeah yeah Jabbar scribed for Peter Cook who says I want to go agrees with step on this working group has not addressed the risk of policy laundering of the expression there on thanks I\u0027m not quite as crisp as Peter this brick wall and so to be clear it\u0027s not just I can policy that I was talking about its yes the I can policy there is incorporating particular privacy restrictions that are be that have been put in place by the GD P R so that\u0027s the issue of I camp policy that so just to be clear it\u0027s not that this group should be beholden I can\u0027t but that the GD P R is rippling into I camp policy which is causing a bunch of changes gonna cause a lot of change for a large number of implementers of this and so that\u0027s the only that\u0027s the key point there is that it\u0027s the GD P R trigger on I can\u0027t policy cuz I agree that I can\u0027t policy can and frequently it\u0027s all over the map this is a particular situation we know that you\u0027re the EC lot EC EU law GPR is coming in so they think so if I may I want to I\u0027m gonna try and frame that back and actually make it even more general we did say just a little bit ago and it is true you know Spain\u0027s got us on this discussion we really do need to have a better privacy discussion about what goes in these drafts and for the privacy considerations and we need to address that much more carefully it\u0027s you know GDP are I can might be principal motivating factors but it really does need to be a general discussion about privacy and its effect on this registration data in general in all of the context in which it\u0027s used so that\u0027s definitely a discussion to take to the mailing list on these documents yes Jim Wilson Verisign one additional item since we\u0027re talking about implementations can we need for people implementation stats actions of these drafts to cover that yes that actually is a something that we should do I to mention that earlier thanks for that Jim when we\u0027re when I was asking you before about um whether there were implementations other than your own we should add that section into the draft so that it\u0027s there and things and get that on record as we\u0027re going forward okay so okay any other questions "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:00:56",
    "text": "or comments were a little bit ahead of schedule so we have time go ahead one of the struggles I always have a running an implementation status section is my lack of knowledge of what other people are doing right so it\u0027s okay to sit here and say hey Mario put this text in there he can document is implementation experience but if you have implemented these drafts please let Mario know right so it makes his job easier to NSX when he knows what other people are doing and so in point I know excellent point thank you for that okay quick recap just keep in mind the first two documents we\u0027re thinking or relatively stable except now for dealing with privacy considerations and implementation status and and the regex weekly we have some additional discussion we\u0027re going to have here on some issues on the mailing list but okay you know please do come into the list thank you all for your comments and feedbacks okay next up on the agenda is an interesting topic discussion is this EPP our tap to stream model working and George Michaelson is going to come up and poke the bear I should be good that should be nice about that but please go ahead hi George here this is a very quick no slide talk it is too soon it is too soon to answer this question because we own the end to this phase of operation correct me if I\u0027m wrong one ietf ago I think we we decided we would have this model in Prague didn\u0027t we yes yes oh you should see with the models hoping what I\u0027m trying to do Here I am NOT trying to wreck the joint what I want you to do is I want you to keep in mind this question does the model work because I think we are going to want to review this probably in two or three ietf time so I\u0027m putting this on the table now so that we start thinking now is this producing a pace of work which works for us the reason I\u0027m doing that is because the two document model it feels to me has potential to create a risk and an example of this would be we have here or document have substance the reverse search document and we now have a massive issue of substance the privacy issue and it\u0027s effectively going to block this is going to be something that I would believe you and Peter reasonably are going to say it\u0027s not tenable to progress this work if we do not adequately address a significant privacy and policy issue and so we\u0027re going to wind up probably and I know I\u0027m predicting a chair behavior but the probable outcome is a substantive document and privacy is going to appear and it\u0027s going to be a blocker for a reverse search draft which means we\u0027re going to stack another document on top "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:03:56",
    "text": "of the document stack we\u0027ve got and the to document pace we\u0027re not going to progress these documents so there\u0027s a process aspect of necessarily discovering we have big work to do and all I wanted to do a my stress I am NOT trying to wreck the joint all I wanted to do is say start thinking now because this is going to come back probably in two or three IETF time is it working that was it questions discussion whatever the chair lets you do dancing lessons rhombus is very very deep one of the reasons that you have this is ad communication with the ad VAD asking you to gain your work and not dump everything in so what I\u0027ll say about that is that if unexpected things come up and you suddenly realize you need to do something new - that blocks other South I\u0027m going to be flexible about allowing that to come into the stream I\u0027m not going to stand here and say no you\u0027re already full you already have all the documents you can handle we\u0027re gonna negotiate yeah I mean that\u0027s good so no relation no yeah I\u0027m not saying your question your question is a very good question and everybody needs to think about it but I\u0027m just saying when you think about it be aware that while we have guidelines for progress of documents yeah I\u0027m going to be flexible about that so I think what I would want to stress is be generous don\u0027t assume that we\u0027re heading to an oh it\u0027s not working outcome we should be generous and give it its chance and George I think you bring up a very good point I admire your ability to predict the future I got a horse on the 12:45 stakes Kentucky anyway my biggest question when you brought this up was did we actually write down with us to three modelers and even going further is it in the Charter um this is a let\u0027s see the Charter does have us working in both of these areas so this is just a functional implementation of being allowed to work in both of those areas and we worked this out with the area director in March we just kind of proposed hey let\u0027s do this and we kind of had a verbal consensus from those in the room and no no objections I\u0027m hairless no has to be the Charter I don\u0027t be hi ceremony about this but just some place that people can refer to it because when I was just like model again because I could barely remember from Prague so if we could have them running down someplace that\u0027s easily accessible I think would be great that\u0027s a good question and absolutely fair oh yeah but working up wiki which is good that\u0027s good for me yeah excellent suggestion "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:06:58",
    "text": "maybe that the chairs will we\u0027ll take that action foundation I think we did Liberty shoot this model because historically this group answers are not being the most active to say the least and we wouldn\u0027t improve the situation by splitting us in two body groups because I mean people because we do work in groups doesn\u0027t mean we have 48 hours a day so well I\u0027m gonna be over that I could be the other side of that conversation but I am trying to behave respectfully if a model we talk and all I\u0027m saying is think let\u0027s think about it I mean I\u0027ve said my piece that\u0027s all I needed thanks for listening okay No thank you George it is actually a valid question to ask you know whether whether the way in which we\u0027re working is working and that\u0027s important and it\u0027s useful and I\u0027m glad that he raised the question and yes we should write this down and document it and and think about it and and after we\u0027ve done this a couple of meetings or at least for a year so maybe next March we should make a point of bringing this question up again and sync that\u0027s working for us so we had some good motivation and reasons for creating this model and just something to try so we\u0027ll see okay with that me pause for a moment to introduce this idea of new work and and what it means the reason why this is on here is yes we have a couple of documents that are in isg evaluation we have several documents which are targeted ideally to be pushed out for publication before the end of this year so before the next IETF meeting we have a set of documents that we\u0027re looking to move along and that opens up opportunity for us to consider new work it is true that we have quite a backlog of a dozen and a half or so documents that are potential for moving forward this is just another set of things to put in the mix for us to think about so we have a few people with some suggestions that we want to put on the table the have not been adopted by the working group yet but we\u0027re putting them out there for consideration because at some point here as we move between November and March IETF meetings we\u0027re gonna have to be thinking about which documents do we want to pull up to adopt and add to our milestone list to go forward so we\u0027re gonna add these to the mix as well as all of the other ones that we have okay so this is just calling them out for people so let\u0027s move through them here first thing you\u0027re actually going to do is this is we put it under new work but mark you want to come up and talk about what\u0027s going on with our DAP deployment "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:09:58",
    "text": "and findings Mark\u0027s been keeping quite a good document going for us here there you go and I believe that will work for you right yes good morning I\u0027m not blushing this is about a position about this draft so all the details are there the context of this draft is that while developing various tools and in my team and myself related to our adapt so client servers and confirm installs with found many issues in the field some may have been corrected hopefully but the reality is not that much all the information about the guilty yard app servers are redacted so you\u0027re not going to be on this but some of you that\u0027s a many applies to domain but there\u0027s some applies to IP and AES registries um and that\u0027s the summary of the issues example of our values for example that are not inr registry or badly use these are examples on the left that we see on the field and possible good values on the right so it\u0027s kind of is sometimes I would say it\u0027s something knees enos of developers not using the right strings or the reason but they don\u0027t register the values as they should in the RCS as said in the ARP C\u0027s others like you know okay instead of active or own urns that a registrant there\u0027s a it seems to be there\u0027s a need for a registry entity that is not yet model or identified for example in the u.s. we the registry itself is identify while in the air adapter sponsor does it\u0027s not identified itself and that\u0027s could be for for example providing info about the registry website for example another case we found is while we are working with Diana is to have a downstream registry for example if that you request in the Ayana our dev server will actually answer for you know calm but calm would actually you know in the response we should actually say this is the our dev server of that TLD right that model is not it doesn\u0027t exist "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:12:58",
    "text": "actually in air Deb should it be a rare down or a specific entry that\u0027s something that needs to be work out yeah are not extensions everyone almost every our web server has its own extensions they are not registered a Ana I can are that technical implementation guide and response profile are been registered and as you see there are some kind of a confusion on you know 0 or level or version and stuff so I guess we need probably to update the spec to make it here what what\u0027s the actual usage because it\u0027s just by seeing the values in the field it seems that you know there\u0027s a there\u0027s some probably some text to add and you know please people register your extensions course is not set by some servers the RFC says recommended I think it we should say must if you are deploying in our DAP in server in the public Internet all kinds of things that I\u0027ve seen in JSON responses object last name empty we seen other things links relation values different things including a URL which is completely buggy but those seems to be if you look at the registry for links relations there\u0027s like thousands of them being different defined with no real semantics being you know actually clearly defined so it it appears to me that people are just you know picking one and and then we all will kind of losing semantics so it we might be an inspiration where we should probably you know do a little more work in defining those semantics correctly so people use the same value for the same semantics right seen this as you see the example is redacted the actual server but this is an example of self with related which points to itself a customer I had my client who was buggy was looking for you know going to the related then go the same object and then was doing a loop you know what mitigation maybe to update the RC - pretty bit this case and I\u0027ll give a little bit more details at the end for you know what we could do for a client if you "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:16:01",
    "text": "send me a link without a rail I have no idea what to do with this thing you know what is this right how do I show it what\u0027s the semantics between this link we could update the RFC that says you know require value the Creator see especially response is pretty nice you know there\u0027s no requirement no you know you can do almost anything well okay so therefore they may be compliant but that doesn\u0027t tell me anything for the client site so we might like to tighten a bit the RFC or another possibility at the end I was thinking was maybe to have a BCP like you know that says you know you should while the RFC says you know you\u0027re free to do this you know you may prefer to do this the BCP being generic for not related necessarily to I can you know gTLDs but you know for IP registry students for hours an interesting one in transition is always fun here\u0027s an example of the self and the href so again redacted but you know the real thing which is a mix of Unicode a label and you label in the URL well the self actually should be the kind of the unique you know identifiers for this object but the queries could be a mix of you labels or a labels right so you know what\u0027s what\u0027s the policy right so what\u0027s the real thing and the this actually this server was actually reporting the self differently for the same object depending on the query so so I think again that the specification could be a bit more tightened and saying you know for the self always return the a labels or like that so it will be consistent this is to me about registrant which is within the entity of abuse not makes any sense to me but URL encoding so this is actually from the one of the are our because that\u0027s the only one that has Collins in the URL for request so when a dir server actually accepted the first one but decline rejected the second one because it was person decoded I think I\u0027ve been into the our season it\u0027s probably legitimate but not nice for the clients because some clients library is just you know personally encode as soon "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:19:02",
    "text": "as there\u0027s kind of a you know strange character in it and because the bad thing of URLs and schemas is that the depend on the which scheme the processing of the of the right side of the scheme it can be different so anyway so I think that would be a right thing to do yeah so this one is interesting I\u0027ve seen different uses of rel equal related and the ICANN are that profile actually says this is the link to the essentially the registrar server to get the registrant information however I\u0027ve seen other use of related which is related means something larger than just registrar server therefore there\u0027s a kind of a ambiguous semantics unrelated so I\u0027m not sure what to do I guess the ship as the train already gone but maybe something like a new realm that would be registrant info would be more appropriate but I\u0027m not sure what to do with this one search for things that are not so this is a reported to the two others of RFC 2482 and they agreed so I guess the wording was not clear about patterns when they were not patterns actually G cards this is the worst part look at the left one I mean so as a client what do I do you know nothing what do i display right essentially this v card is is empty seen in the field the right side they I don\u0027t know I think it\u0027s an easy developer I\u0027m sorry if you are the person here but this one is the address and we just put an arrow while there\u0027s nothing to put in the area so it could be just you know coke right but they put an arrow with empty in it so you know I need to on my client site to actually look oh there\u0027s an Arri so I\u0027m preparing to show the area like in multiple lines because that\u0027s that\u0027s what it is and then it\u0027s all empty so I need to revert and it\u0027s like you know please this is done bootstrap registries the he says you should have a training slash not all we\u0027re done but actually it\u0027s been fixed it seemed because all now are done so good that my draft is being read "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:22:03",
    "text": "by some people a comment I got from a few people I\u0027ve seized 7480 for the bootstrap registries says you could specify a multiple or adapt servers and that was back in the world\u0027s working group discussions and there was ideas of maybe HTTP and HTTPS and maybe provide some level of redundancy what people were saying is is just too much and that needed we should have only one and it should be HTTPS I don\u0027t know what to do is kind of bit late now but that\u0027s what it is Bertrand status so the document contains obviously ephemeral issues you know bugs and implementations that should be solved hopefully values to be registered in Ayana so that\u0027s something that should disappear obviously but I still think and I\u0027ve seen some people fixing the the bug the eff as this show though so I think there\u0027s a value of the document as it goes there are recommendations to specifications discussion points on all to improve and other topics I recently discovered and haven\u0027t got time to document publish so two things we could do with this document just let it go continue should working group decide to update the specs then there\u0027s some recommendations there if we agreed to be followed in happy to start working on this or if the authors want to do whatever my my idea is to that it could become a BCP by having you know you know best current practice on things that you should do and not do and remove all the ephemeral issues that are gone so that\u0027s my presentation let me first start just by thanking you Mark for for doing this I\u0027m sure you\u0027ve heard that many times from others who were on the receiving side of your having gone through and done this but really quite a just an enormous piece of work and very happy that you did this so let\u0027s sum quite a few go in here let\u0027s go down the list this is awesome I think your group should do something with it on BCP whatever but this is exactly the type of thing the IETF should be doing so hopefully we continue down that road I don\u0027t know why people aren\u0027t registering there tensions with Diana I think maybe two designated experts or jerks I don\u0027t know let me offer something about this specific point will be well for the extensions I think you could yes who who is the guy I know there\u0027s some "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:25:21",
    "text": "sort of other hang up in the ion or registration process that would be interesting to know as far as the fifty I think it\u0027s 5840 links registry or whatever that\u0027s a very good I thank you for pointing that out that\u0027s kind of a there\u0027s a lot of confusion around that and I personally have never registered anything in there and I don\u0027t know I\u0027m not sure what the process is so maybe we need to look at that and you know we wanted to use things that the IETF had already standardized Jake are and so that\u0027s what we went with the 5840 links registry as well and you look through the what\u0027s already registered and some of its kind of like so maybe more appropriate that\u0027s exactly the point that maybe it\u0027s not a real you know RFC protocol standard but the BCP would fit well you know with in there that you know here\u0027s the you know values and semantics we understand and we you should do those kinds of things instead of using you know weird link values for example yeah so two more points the I know you\u0027re not kind of shame people but as a server operator I would like to know if I violate any of these things so you\u0027re welcome to send me all sorts of the emails name I mean otherwise I can\u0027t picture that I don\u0027t know it\u0027s broken again takes it the other thing is that I\u0027ve done some not exhaustive because I became wait but and there\u0027s some issues that I found that I didn\u0027t put in the draft because I contacted the guys and this is like awful please fix it and then she cards example the other thing is is that this isn\u0027t in the document there are several people who created tools Aaron has tools a peanut has tools you have tools and I don\u0027t know why people aren\u0027t using them to validate their servers so maybe if we should maybe that in a section in the documents saying by the way here\u0027s all these tools that can help you figure this stuff out or at least so you can point out if you have problems well okay thanks thanks thank you it\u0027s got all be a plus one to everything he may be said but a couple of additional points with respect to the extension stuff I have to admit even though I know I\u0027m one of the guilty parties who is responsible for writing that document when I wrote the object tag draft which had a requirement you know to add a new our data conformance value I was looking at 74 83 "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:28:21",
    "text": "and I have to admit I was confused because there are places where it uses examples of a string like lunar Nick and in other places it uses lunatic level zero yeah so I\u0027m significant okay so what should I do with this object I think I got it wrong so and you are one of the author of a need for us to read spin 74 82 and 74 83 at a minimum right yeah there\u0027s enough here that we are learning as a result of implementing these footballs yeah and which is just great yeah proposed there proposed standards right it doesn\u0027t mean we got it right really right there\u0027s things we need to fix and I am certainly willing to put some energy into starting that process 74 84 I\u0027m less than good stuff but hey let\u0027s talk about it right now thank you Rick great thanks I\u0027m critical embarrassin tactical thing you mentioned in here the course requiring the course with a train to get to a must in the heart out and profile that\u0027s used in the gTLD space that there is a item in there that requires it to be a must as general agreement yeah because we found it to be useful to tighten that up I mean the ATF knows I\u0027m kind of a you know more general I\u0027m just for people that are that don\u0027t know marks IETF regex document has been getting a lot of air time and attention in the in an ardent group that meets basically weekly ICANN accredited registrar\u0027s and registries that are that are doing our dad implementations and so while it\u0027s getting some attention here is getting a lot of attention live in a community that communities it\u0027s certainly thankful appreciative to all the work that mark has done in regards to documenting these problem yeah well just to respond to that um I think there\u0027s like fixture bugs kind of issues and also in in the same document which is okay I think for now but at the end we\u0027ll have to you know cleaning up is you know recommendations for you know new versions of specs or maybe BCP deployment and you know there\u0027s a mix of different things but I hope that they but you know I can community will actually fix the bugs at least so those will disappear the notion of flipping this more thing this evolving it to a PCP I think that\u0027s a great idea I would offer that right now it\u0027s probably more of a collection of anti patterns and so I think that yeah the PC the best current practice part is probably going to evolve over the next of course several months but yeah yeah that seems like like good idea thank you let\u0027s go it\u0027s Jim "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:31:21",
    "text": "goes embarrassing Rick just stole my thunder I was gonna call them and type I really support the work I\u0027m sure the registers would have really appreciated this for you can be the way that I process this particular documents I looked at things that work when I consider implementation issues of specifically publication issues we\u0027re on our issues as well as like RFC no feedback so if they\u0027re I\u0027m not sure how you even categorize those things that\u0027s how I was doing identified who would agree right now it\u0027s not fully it\u0027s more like a book of you know Canada a structured logbook of what I found and you know obviously we\u0027ll tighten up as we go yeah agreed hi Marie I want to do agree with some things God said which is oh my goodness the process is working we have required experience let\u0027s go update the status track document so terrific if I can help with that in any way as a participant in the former Terra weirds please let me know one thing though as I skim the Charter the Turner doesn\u0027t talk about modifying those you might have to tweak it if you need help radio chatter text um help do that excellent assistant movie this long as much as I can that\u0027s not what I said no he wants to be in the next ad oh that\u0027s an um come time [Laughter] Yuri chartering is a when you were talking about the problem of relinquishing types as well not leave unused consistent way you are thinking of fixing the registry of types all fixing down laptop humans ah good question I should be away from complete you just have to read the registry yeah i-i-i i\u0027m not sure at the moment i was more kind of raising the issue you know either way I don\u0027t know I\u0027m obviously if it\u0027s the link relation type registry to fix then dad discussion should probably be somewhere and art you know Aria somewhere but or HTTP I don\u0027t know but I I don\u0027t have a good suggestion at the moment I was more reasoning the issue in see you know where is the right place to do in some ways this you know the registry itself is full of stuff you know if we\u0027re going my back to dick well okay but there is so many to pick right and in some ways a lot of them are "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:34:22",
    "text": "essentially irrelevant to our adapt and asking the community to go back and then put semantics and all those may be something that will never happen even if we ask so I always maybe a bit towards let\u0027s do a BCP or something and define the key values that are useful in the air that context and have the clear semantics for our DAP maybe that doesn\u0027t fly I don\u0027t know but I\u0027m almost hurtful in this I\u0027m just raising the issue first because I wasn\u0027t the impression that the client was right in using us in some coding on one of the point of other is that we rely on HTTP so we we use everything we don\u0027t have to define everything by ourselves we just say okay look at the UI spec of the HTTP spec so it is it really so ambiguous in the you are your eyes back my guess was I found a loss to all this because it\u0027s actually depending on the scheme right so it\u0027s I\u0027ve been the co-chair of unsuccessful working group call I are I that was no fun so anyway I\u0027m just saying you know both both kind of queries should be supported by all servers because client lives often do kind of a to escape of if this is scheme number one then I should percent and code only these characters and if it\u0027s scheme number two percent and kind of the other you know characters the lips are just lazy you know whenever there\u0027s you know almost on ASCII things percent-encoded all the time so that\u0027s that\u0027s the behavior of the standard lips at least the lips I\u0027ve seen so I was sending percent-encoded by my client and then it was rejected it was like what I think the server should be liberal and accepting both I think we should probably true I\u0027ve read the RFC and I\u0027ve read the Italian registry and I get confused by it I don\u0027t want to step on it or anything like that so you know he\u0027s a he\u0027s probably just asking what he thinks the right thing we do this but a completely agree yeah maybe we should "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:37:24",
    "text": "also consider what clients should do in the BCP that\u0027s necessary yeah yeah I think both sides are could be you know some recommendations on behaviors for the BCP okay thanks very much next up for a potential work is Jim gold with secured authorization transfer thank you so yeah this this draft was recently published and its primary purpose is to address the increased dependency on the authorization info value in essence the the goal here is to provide a more secure way of managing the authorization info while using the existing features within the EPP rfcs but what\u0027s out of scope in this is the transfer process policy things like the form of authorization or the the implementation of an immediate transfer or even defining the concrete time to live for an authorization info so the elements of this draft include three different things the first thing is the use of a strong random authorization info value the reality here is that the this is a generated value and to increase the security is to ensure that we have the appropriate level of randomness specifically the recommendation is 128 bits of entropy for the value the good news is the fact that the epp RFC doesn\u0027t have any length restrictions for the authentic in element is to make the auth in fort lid to be able to do that the server needs to be able to allow for them to be unset many service a day don\u0027t do that but the RFC does in fact support the unset you know the authorization info the other thing is that the the authorization intro would only be set during the transfer process so therefore there\u0027s no need for an authorization info unless there\u0027s actually a transfer that is occurring the other item is to be able to support a TTL that his client managed in essence the registrar\u0027s would have to keep ability to be able to find what that time of live is and use the features of the server to be able to unset it when that TTL expire so the more the critical the domain name the lower the TTL would be and then the last islands storage specifically whether or not the authentic should be stored in the registrar if it\u0027s stored in the registry how it should be stored the recommendation out of this graft is that the Registrar does not store the value at all it generates it it provides it to the Registrar and there\u0027s no need to storage so there\u0027s no risk of somebody within the registrar having access to "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:40:25",
    "text": "that value additionally in the registry it\u0027s the store it even in one way hash so similarly there\u0027s less risk of somebody being able to have access to that authorization info value so if you go by this operational practice these are the steps for a transfer it first starts out with a create so the domain has to be created during the create the authorization info would be passed as an empty value there\u0027s no need for the authorization info at the time create because there\u0027s no transfer when the registrant wants to transfer what they\u0027ll do is they\u0027ll go to the losing registrar which will then generate a strong random value the Registrar will provide it to the Registrar and also pass it through the registry which will store it as a one-way hash then what will happen is that the registrant will go to the gain registrar provide the authorization info which will then be can be pre checked using the info command which accepts the authorization info and then they can go ahead and submit it with the transfer request which the registry will hash it compare the hashes if they\u0027re match then it\u0027s all good the last thing is when the transfer successfully goes through the registry will auto unset it so in essence it\u0027s like a create so a transfer process is complete and the registry can go ahead and auto clear it so in looking at the epp RFC\u0027s I wanted to see whether or not the RFC supported what was defined within this practice the first thing is to be able to create with the empty auth info it can so the fact that matter is that there\u0027s no length restrictions on the auth info there\u0027s an ability to be pass an empty value which allows us to feel support this the next is the ability to be unset the auth info it just happens that there\u0027s two different ways to do this in the domain RFC it actually has an explicit element to be able to unset the author for it\u0027s called domain norm I\u0027m not sure if you know about that element I found that out and then there\u0027s the other way where you can just pass the MPE domain PW element the contact RFC which also has authorization and fill values does not support the corresponding contact element and then the next is to be able to update and use a strong offense Oval you again there\u0027s no restrictions on length there is an issue related to inclusion of a space in the random value it just happens that whitespace is replaced in the external parser so it might be a good idea not to include the space the last thing is that if the registry is storing it as a one-way hash they cannot return the value in the info response that is an optional value in the epp RFC so it can "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:43:27",
    "text": "be a can be supported so in conclusion this BCP is meant to enhance the security of the authorization info without the need for any new EPP extension just utilizing the features that already exist and the EPP rfcs and the idea here is the fact that the authorization info is only set during the transfer process the client the Katyn this case the registrar can go ahead and manage a TTL since the server can support an unsetting of the authorization info and then the storage is secured by not storing it in the registrar and only storing it as a one-way hash in the registry and so I encourage you to review and provide feedback for this draft and this is very what is the intended status of this traffic right now it would be a BCP so let me put a bug in your here too look up ye applicability statement it\u0027s okay no RFC 2026 this is not this seems to me to be more of a standards track thing of this is how you do this not a best practices and on applicability statement is exactly that it\u0027s a standards track specification that says how to use existing standards to accomplish something so consider that okay thank you hi this is no measure from the Swedish internet registry yeah that\u0027s exactly what we do you do this oh good yeah that\u0027s good okay cheer oh I\u0027m sorry do you support unsetting yes I\u0027m sitting and pretty sure about that and B\u0027s story to the Psalter - and never returned it to the info request okay well maybe you can provide your implementation status information I can add it to it okay sure hit the last is your implementation allowed to register on - saying that what doing the create can you keep me in focus having dead I think that the register on have disadvantage because for the time that you want to transfer he had to contact the losing that just drop at that time I don\u0027t know that because I want to transfer without do it they\u0027re losing register and also I know it\u0027s an implementation people have to do it can do or not by just thinking that a register on on appeal that would be using my disadvantage yeah I didn\u0027t know I\u0027m saying you say there\u0027s a disadvantage to manage because as a registrant when I created my name I would like to get my info so anytime a lot of times but I can do it well I guess the question is that how many registrar\u0027s out there actually allow for "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:46:28",
    "text": "the registrant to set or have access to their authorization info at the time of creator guys um we don\u0027t allow the registrar to set up and we generally don\u0027t like to give them the off-color on registration because the domain can\u0027t be transferred for 60 days this is for GTA news anyway and we don\u0027t it\u0027s a risk to have that off code out there and have the customer forget that they actually happen and it\u0027s in an email somewhere the email gets hacked and the domain is gone because they had so it\u0027s something that we\u0027d like to see the auth code don\u0027t don\u0027t ask for it until you\u0027re ready to transfer so that it\u0027s out there for just a little bit amount of time that is my concern to customer okay thank you Tom Harrison yeah there is this is gonna be a five-minute discussion right okay so this is about a profile for Jacob there\u0027s been a fair amount of criticism of Jacob from implementers on both the server side and client side some of that is about the structure of Jacob particularly its use of arrays for things like attributes and also for delivery addresses the structured part some of it is about V code which underlies Jacob and Israeli comp is really a comprehensive contact information specification that includes a bunch of stuff that at least on its face isn\u0027t really relevant in the Artic context a profile obviously can\u0027t do anything about the structural issues but it can at least limit the surface area of the card that implementers need to worry about in the Artic context we have an add up server we have some investment in J card we\u0027re interested to avoid having to switch formats if we can so we thought we\u0027d put this up and see if it will be enough to address people\u0027s concerns about J cards use in this context the document itself is really straightforward we took the servers that are in the eye on a bootstrap file got a few objects from each of them and effectively did the union of what those servers used from J card and documented it a couple of extra things on top of that language and alt ID tags because we\u0027re intending to do multilingual stuff fairly soon and also the extension is defined in RFC 8605 because they\u0027re specific for add up so "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:49:33",
    "text": "we\u0027re interested for those who have raised issues with J card if this is enough to head off switching formats though the list traffic today indicates that it probably isn\u0027t in the event that it is does anything else need to be included and then at a more general level if people are concerned about free cards complexity but perhaps not interested in the profile approach do we need to discuss getting more and/or better check our libraries for implementers thanks this is very this is not binding on you in any way but the ADEs think that Jas contact is a better approach were is likely to be a better approach anyway it\u0027s still under development so any other comments or questions this Shingleton Barrow Stein this may be obvious based on discussions on the mailing list but is there consents thats related to the Whipsnade CJ cart I know that we talked about you know redoing the RFC potentially but these are consensus and in essence then once the consensus that we need to replace it then identify what to replace it with and you need I support and actually come to figure out how to do the best we can with J card at the moment we already have many people who have implemented J card I\u0027ve done it four times already so we there\u0027s plenty of deployment of this yeah J card is screwy but it\u0027s not that scurry I\u0027ve come across worse things in the ietf much worse things and to be honest as far as they are tobiko systems go I think the bootstrap registries are far more structurally unsound than then J card is so the I\u0027ve I favor just trying to go forward with J card the only and I will note that having been on both sides of the communications both as a server and a client for servers it\u0027s not that it\u0027s it\u0027s hard to interpret the RFC sometimes but once you get it you got it it\u0027s the clients where it really it really is problematic and that\u0027s where profile will help if we switch to something else that then we start talking about you know flag days or something know how that transition is going to work and so there there are a whole lot of questions about switching to it so I prefer us to at least try to do the best we can with J card for the time being I knew Jenkins I can\u0027t comment on whether it\u0027s suitable or not I\u0027ve been involved with it J s contact at Owens wanted a few quick "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:52:33",
    "text": "comments on that two things firstly one of the explicit goals is that it well being fully featured it scales for simple use cases to be really simple it should appear simple if you\u0027re only using a few bits of it we J as calendar which is the kind of iCalendar equivalent of this is in last call Norma\u0027s published that perhaps gives you a better idea of how that works if you\u0027re creating very simpler then it looks super simple it\u0027s real easy to use we one of the problems with things like gay Cal and J card is even the simple stuff it\u0027s horrendous to work with them not the way anyone uses JSON outside of those systems so in that respect your body were good having said that joke on tact bit is not as developed it\u0027s that\u0027s still going to take some months at least to finish I don\u0027t know what the deadline is this whether that\u0027s an issue a lot if you did want to use it we got more people to get on board with helping develop and finish it it\u0027s certainly something that is going to be happening regardless of its adopting but it stopped it here I think could a need to cut the queue at George Barry not speaking as an ad the so in response to Jim and Andy I suggest that rather than saying first we should figure out whether to replace J card and then look at alternatives I suggest that considering J is contact as an alternative while you\u0027re making the decision is a better approach because as Andy said you know yes other things suck worse but that\u0027s not a good reason to stick with things on the other hand existing two planes are so it\u0027s all part of the decision hi George here I think I might have a question an implicit question to the implementer so I\u0027ve got kind of two or three points to try and make it I want to echo what Thomas said that this is quite important for us in terms of our son cost of investment and I know that is not a very compelling argument in a community with many many activities who have yet to make an investment but nonetheless there\u0027s a tussle going on here between people who have made an investment to a structural form and people who are considering an investment and it\u0027s difficult I acknowledge it\u0027s difficult so the particular thing that I brought up at the rrow was that we have a compellingly strong desire for multilingual representation of high volumes of the contact information we have a specific and meaningful use case that relates to the le.a and abuse contact function and this is not over field should be utf-8 so that it can be a name in Swedish with diacriticals it is we they\u0027re to be the version of the field in English and the version of the field in Croatian and we want that because it empowers law enforcement behavior that\u0027s "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:55:35",
    "text": "based on this thing called mutual or assistance program em lab which is about not having the FBI tried black helicopter in country to deal with criminal it\u0027s about having the FBI pick up the phone and speak to a policeman in Mongolia saying by this bad actor can you speak to them and dual language representation empowers the two actors to talk sensibly about the data because it respects the hint htdp of browser preference for language clearly we\u0027re not going to have that we do 69 languages per record you\u0027re going to have local language and English the lingua franca and it\u0027s going to that is quite funny isn\u0027t it and it\u0027s going to empower a circumstance so whilst I am here saying please can we consider a profile please can I ask you to consider investment in analyzing is a profile viable and I understand I\u0027m asking you to we\u0027re cost and faced with the decision do I just say Jas contact and we\u0027re out of here or do I invest in the assessment I am asking you to wear a cost I would like you to do that my stop line in this is can you confirm that you can support a dual language structure that is not the same as multilingual in the field it\u0027s the representation of semantic field States collections addresses in more than one language just very quickly because I had cut off the cue in running at a time so I\u0027m happy to anyone about this after this is new again but they leave leave yes you look at gets calendar of this similar kind of spec it has an approach where you can essentially you have a core language for the object but you can so pash per language so you can say each of these things now in this language it\u0027s these sorry it become cages here let\u0027s talk afterwards next time okay thanks let\u0027s move on to the last discussion that we have here and Joseph I see you out there you want to jump into present mode here on the queue there you go you should be able to unmute yourself and talk and I can do next slide for you and you\u0027re okay thanks Joe next slide this is the graph about the registration report definitions the problem we try to address is actually we did between registries and registrar\u0027s we do not share common formats to inform what specific paper reports cook should contain can contain trim and also component that we have multiple mechanisms of delivering a file the report right now ago we can actually using the same mechanisms to delivery not all of the reports but the reports definition file as well so next slide so "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:58:35",
    "text": "the proposed is using JSON format and reach the reasons behind composing JSON is because reason formation is simple it\u0027s flexible is extendable I and the current mechanisms for report deliver is rest HTTP and SFTP and JSON works well for both if in future there\u0027s a desire for EPP a song can can converge through exam we offer a fairly straightforward but conversion to XML is not in scope for this draft next slide so this is just one of the exam one of the year the bare minimum examples of what the JSON file contains contains the difference names the report contains and what the carry is use and token Isis for for separation the file value on an X so this one may be hard to repeat this one is I is also included in the draft this is just in expanded examples with what could be contained in the report definitions this example here contains more about steam the report naming format and about steam the report definition for stuff like versions and last time this definition files can update next fly and this is the snippet of examples about the the few definitions is this example here it talks about the name of the few what type of data ever been and examples like candy for you Allah give I use and this example is also in the draft next like so right now the drive have nothing need for IANA considerations but I\u0027m trying to propose and would love to get more feedback of whether we would love to have a IANA registry that people particularly registries can submits their report definitions repository that could benefits registrar and maybe more people uniting FM public and mixed lie and thank you would love to hear more people feedback about this trash okay thank you one thing that is important to point out is we do already have and in our backlog a document data data set file format document so this is is an alternate along with that so at some point when we come to moving to this work item if we decide we\u0027re going to do it then obviously we would bring both of these documents up together so that we could go through them as a working group and see what we wanted to do and but Jim go ahead please yeah I just make one "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "02:01:35",
    "text": "comment to Verisign yeah actually just I just reviewed it it looks very similar format so I think we\u0027re pretty much in line really there how maybe we\u0027ll do it in the case dataset file format it\u0027s an XML based approach with XML schema so I think there\u0027s excellent other comments or questions okay then thank you very much everyone we do have one last item on our agenda which is any other business but let me just you know call for that here and otherwise we are a couple of minutes over so I would say the right thing to do here is probably just say that we are done I don\u0027t see anyone jumping to the mic no one\u0027s in the queue over here Thank You Joseph and so we\u0027re adjourned folks thank you very much look for the mailing list [Music] "
  }
]