[
  {
    "startTime": "00:01:18",
    "text": "[Music] [Music] I can get started here we can settle down all right welcome everyone to cozy our last session of the last day for those of you paying attention let\u0027s see so unless this is your first day here I\u0027m pretty sure you\u0027ve seen the note well but if not please please take note of this it is important to especially for the group working on things related to cryptography IPR disclosures are very important and very critical to us so please please consult the the relevant BCPs so as part of our administrivia a reminder that a minute taker do we have "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:04:20",
    "text": "anyone willing to volunteer for taking minutes all we\u0027re really looking for are action items and like broad conclusions that the chairs will will call out to you we don\u0027t need a blow-by-blow thank you thank you Michael in jabber skype we have Francesca taking that so that will be anything that needs to be relayed into the room if we can\u0027t do it if for whatever reason media echo isn\u0027t working or is it the inconvenient we have the media Co links and the links to all the materials all the slides that we\u0027ll have today alright so here\u0027s our agenda we\u0027ve already gone through most of our administration but we\u0027ll be covering this drafts hash algorithms x.509 from Jim\u0027s and then wrap up with Mike Jones and web authentic to the time we should be out of here pretty quick so any any bashing of this agenda all right so let\u0027s move on I think that\u0027s it for our slides the one document we\u0027ll note is the the hash signatures document has is an ad evaluation the ad evaluating and switched from Benjamin to Roman thank you Roman so we should be able to start advancing that here soon Jim you\u0027re hiding okay this actually probably won\u0027t take very long at all you want to put me in full screen no we were there we go so first of all the document that is on this way hopefully to be coming the real standard this is the set of open issues that I listed at the last meeting I believe that they are all finished so everything should be there for the continent for the economical encoding you know I just basically went through and made sure everything was cleanly said and actually ended up removing the reference entirely in terms of that particular piece we still potentially have the down ref issue we don\u0027t know how fast is the seaboard based documents actually going to get out it is not moving nearly as fast as "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:07:21",
    "text": "what this document is so we may still end up having to argue with the IHG about that particular down ref but I don\u0027t think it should be a big issue as we\u0027re doers doing the most basic seaboard stuff in our up status one of the things we have to do is convince the IES chief that we actually do have interrupts so far I have found eight different implementations three of which are mine all of which are actually up on github interestingly enough almost everybody does signing and almost nobody does encryption I\u0027m not really too sure why that is true because when I wrote my code I started with encryption it probably has to do with what people actually need in the real world and I basically just went through in red code in terms of trying to figure out what people were doing so we may have this may actually change as I find other I\u0027m at Justin Richards just a quick note that parallels the hoes a world where I just about everybody does Jam to the US most people don\u0027t do jwe and even in the classes that I teach on a often Jose I teach jws and say if you want to do JWA co-create or something yeah go that\u0027s that\u0027s an exercise at home so this this is not at all surprising to me because in the real world that seems to be where most of the use cases are dragon is signatures question Jim if Mike or Tristan is a sign one and sign generally are they both implemented or is it mostly just sign one almost every a might implement stuff okay because they don\u0027t know which one they\u0027re gonna want and once you had once you\u0027ve done the full sign sign one kinda just falls out without thinking about it a lot of people will only let you sign with one person but they actually have curves you will both I think the point of my question actually to that point is whether or not users should be specific or protocol users that is should be specific about we accept sign one and only sign one or you should accept the generality of both structures which may only be signed by one for one entity because there\u0027s a little bit of subtlety in the clarification code if it\u0027s that\u0027s there if you don\u0027t eat it you don\u0027t have to have it but the other hand of ending what everyone\u0027s implementing it then maybe protocol users should be a little bit liberal of which one they they deal with Michael Richards would be good for "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:10:24",
    "text": "you our notes I was wanting you dislike says interrupts status and in you you talk about reuse of information did you do interrupted these different interpretations of what what was done I have not managed to actually get in Rob status on Oliver I\u0027ve started and the first thing I started with was which ones do I want to play with because which was a the most complete which which implementations did you did you investigate did you post up somewhat because I\u0027m curious on whatever I have not posted it someplace some of it is posted in the in the structured document because there\u0027s a section that talks about implementations and I need to to get that post in someplace I\u0027m intending to put it up on the github site but I haven\u0027t done so and no yours is not one of them do you want the chairs to set up a wiki or something to Travis would it be appropriate what phrase do another way would it be appropriate to use the wiki either the ITF wiki or the github wiki on the project for doing this traffic I was planning to use the wiki on the github but I don\u0027t think it actually makes a big difference in terms of interrupts testing almost every implementation I\u0027ve seen actually pulls down the examples from the example repository so half the job of testing for interrupts is is probably already done that is everybody can already verify stuff that I signed or stuff that I encrypted it\u0027s just a question making sure that the other the opposite direction works as well going forward I think we\u0027re ready for Less call I have no open issues on this I don\u0027t know of anything that is outstanding that stop the document itself from progressing it\u0027s just a question of getting a sufficient amount of interrupts for the iesg questions all right I mean speaking for myself met this matthew Miller I mean I\u0027ve read through the structure and hallux document I know we\u0027re talking about structure right now and it seems fine to me I will submit to you the editorial notes I have within a few days okay "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:13:25",
    "text": "the algorithms wrapped this is basically the other half of what the original document was basically the things that I said I was going to do in Prague I went through and did and I think this document should be ready to go to working group last call there is one interesting question which we may want to consider and I think is a good thing to consider during working with last call which is do we want this document on standards track or should it be an informational document I\u0027m agnostic towards that does anyone want to venture an opinion Justin Richard since you can\u0027t really use kuzey without having and the specifics of an algorithm why would this not be a standard track document well I have zero intention of ever trying to progress this to a full standard okay but I mean most of what the IETF sits out never goes a full standard anyway because nobody cares yeah I have some personal opinions about that I\u0027m just saying the perception from the outside well one perception from the outside world don\u0027t care if it\u0027s informational standards tracker experimental it\u0027s just a thing that exists and if it\u0027s got an RFC number it must be good but from a from a more philosophical perspective seeing that this is this is fairly important and course stuff I don\u0027t see a compelling argument for being informational incidentally this same argument is also why in the first iteration of the cosy working group which which I co-chaired that\u0027s why we had it in a single document instead of splitting it out because the two are inextricably linked you can use the structures with new algorithms yes but you have to have an algorithm somehow and so saying that the algorithms are somehow less than standard just feels really funny to me but I\u0027m not here to re-litigate the documents Frank I understand that that\u0027s that bad decision has already been made here fine but that\u0027s kind of where I land on what this ought to be been connected yeah I\u0027m kind of sympathetic to that just it but of course you think that the set of documents is good because you know we change our rhythms more often than we change bolts then I hate to ask you to stay but do you have a do you have any particular concerns about this being "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:16:26",
    "text": "informational versus standards track or I mean so just in terms of process wise it\u0027s a whole lot easier to start off targets in this truck and then move it to information than it is to go the other way around you have to do all new right last call etc so like that so my my gut feeling it\u0027s too I\u0027ll urge the night great I can\u0027t see why you wouldn\u0027t it\u0027s just a label although everything else happens the same way and and is your is your it\u0027s some of your reluctance that you believe that by the time we get to step two that the algorithms will have changed let\u0027s start all over again or is your reluctance bigger architectural IETF thing well I mean I would never progress this one up because if one of the outcomes does go bad you have to basically rerun the whole thing up to full standard right yeah saying everything every time the numbers change it to redo it so so I have to look and see what the IV set working groups are recommendations with are should pluses and minuses how that worked whether we put informational or standard I never thought about it okay to be honest you could probably look it up in the thing but under something you\u0027re probably not familiar with that but but we extended must and should and stop to have must plus and must - and should plus and should - and that basically means these are algorithms which we\u0027re thinking about deprecating if they have - as they\u0027re going on the way down and if they have pluses they\u0027re going on the way out you should think about they\u0027re becoming mandatory and and I think we\u0027ve read that about every approximately every five or seven years I mean about three grams of it now you know the original one said triple des plus okay must plus single des you know mate and at this point it says triple des you know made - single des must not and you know he s various things you know with various levels of mustard plus yeah you see how that processes over overtime yeah I mean we do exactly we did exactly the same thing with the S minus specifications and I\u0027ve never thought about trying to progress those about to fall stands because we since they got algorithm recommendations in them we Rev them on a you know every year basis but you know in the last 20 years I think we\u0027re now on the fifth or sixth version right so I think that\u0027s just fun so yeah so put the standards track it\u0027s not gonna get it\u0027s not gonna get step two and that\u0027s okay "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:19:27",
    "text": "okay so I will be asking for working group last call on this right so working group last call for struck the end for owls the algorithm in that is is to be done or actually I\u0027m not too sure if it\u0027s about how we actually if Modi in a charter for new algorithms so far we\u0027ve had one only one person has actually said I really want if this algorithm if it\u0027s only one hey I can do that really I can do that by Singapore in him we can be been finished if other people really want us to put in other algorithms I really want to hear about it yeah let me know otherwise we can basically say when new algorithm documents are needed we\u0027ll just go ahead and let them be AV sponsored x.509 certificate document basically everything that we talked about at the last meeting most of it basically is after I thought about it for a while I don\u0027t think we need to do it so I didn\u0027t write it into any of the documents we have had one person asked for an early assignment of the curb points for this this because they\u0027re actually going to start doing some interrupts testing in about three weeks and then if we actually have real numbers that would prefer to use real numbers than to use made-up numbers that purpose I actually intended to push examples for this up to the to the repository and I ended up with problems with open SSL in terms of trying to generate certificates for things like x2 55.9 because of course you can\u0027t actually create a CSR with it so they have some funky language for command switches which I haven\u0027t managed to figure out how to get to work actually I need to actually like synced up my version of open SSL and rebuild it in debug mode and try to figure out what I\u0027m doing wrong one of the big issues that I talked about was defining a new cozy key type I actually in my codebase said no I\u0027m just gonna have a parameter which says how do you create it create a cozy key from this public key and I\u0027ve found that to be sufficient so I don\u0027t "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:22:28",
    "text": "think we actually need to carry them separately the places where we actually may want to do this is in the ACE working group in the pop draft there a way there\u0027s a way to define a way to carry things there and it would make sense for us to be able to carry x.509 certificates at that point question question yes I should be let\u0027s say it should be a co-op content type sorry yes well I\u0027d like to have sure we have at least a day idea of what I\u0027d use it for and there are content types defined for just a bearer I mean it would make sense potentially to define a content type for bare x.509 certificate but not for what not for one of you not for a barrier certificates maybe but we would wanted to find the content types that match up to the current contents that exist like that at one point you were planning to do a drop at this stage as a general principle of it when you touch one of these things you do a other form of registration because you might even trenched an issue reasons believe you don\u0027t yeah I could certainly have that in that\u0027s that\u0027s not that difficult to do any other questions on this page so obviously if I do the content stuff then that\u0027s one revision before we do the working a group last call but I would still like to get the early adoption of the code points for the cosy attributes done so if there\u0027s no objections I\u0027d like to just go to Hannah and tell them to register of them since I\u0027m one of the expert reviewers on that registry I think the back I\u0027m not an expert reviewer on that registry which means I guess we should be a little bit more formal not end books they have to talk to the ad to find out exactly how fast we can run now anything anybody any other questions okay I will have a new "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:25:31",
    "text": "draft out within two weeks okay thank you at least regarding these four drafts that we\u0027ve just kind of blasted through the chairs have talked about it and we\u0027re we\u0027re we\u0027re leaning is whoa if you work in group last call for the biz drafts you immediately either today or by Monday and then the other ones mostly for our own sanity than on the reviews hold those off for one or two weeks so that we can get ourselves a cadence I might suggest that a four week process to be due to vacation schedules may be reasonable okay well we\u0027ll do a if we can record that in minutes or we\u0027ll look at a four week working group last call or four weeks scheduled for these so two weeks let that finish the next two weeks is that now I was actually thinking more weeks got off now if yeah I know people who will be on vacation for the next week and a half that\u0027s very all right Mike hmm and we\u0027ll talk about the web offense will good afternoon and thank you all for being here at this last session okay there we go so this specification as you may recall the purpose of it is to register some existing algorithms that are used by the web application specification both in the cozy algorithms registry and to make corresponding registrations if they\u0027re not already present in the Hosea registry and the draft fulfills a charter point this is not advancing so what\u0027s happened since we last met our heroes we had working group adoption of an individual draft we changed the title as requested by the working group address review comments some of which were substantive from John Matson Matt Palmer and Jim shod and we did make normative changes the primary change was to change the Jose curve identifier from P 256k which had been made up and was in use by some early implementations to "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:28:32",
    "text": "sect P 256 K 1 and that was discussed on the list I won\u0027t repeat the rationale here we also specified that the signing is done using sha 256 as the hash function where previously we\u0027d been silent on the hash function which was an unintentional omission there have been no comments received since those things were addressed this is a very simple draft that but I merrily has ia and I do some actions so it\u0027s my sense that we\u0027re probably ready for working group last call but I\u0027ll obviously defer to the chairs of the working group well when the chairs convert conversed earlier we were yes we were looking at advances unless there\u0027s any strong unless there\u0027s any objections here we\u0027ll be in the similar cadence with the other documents so this would follow the best drafts on its on its cadence thank you I was making adjustments in the minutes one small point we actually right now the registration on the the k1 algorithm says IETF recommended we need to go through some sort of procedure to make sure that\u0027s correct because I think in point if I answer it right now is no I\u0027m not positive and I\u0027m okay with that coming out differently just put a comment on the list possibly as part of the last call or you could do it right now thank you thanks Jim all right so with that so that\u0027s effectively over all of our outstanding drafts and our outstanding work so unless there\u0027s anything else to talk about at this point we\u0027ve got a number of last calls we\u0027ll be going through we expect that we\u0027ll well - so amount of turn on those probably very very mine like editorial stuff and then hopefully we can for really lucky we\u0027ll have bees in into the is GQ before Singapore unless there\u0027s anything else we think we ought to be covering I think this can be "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:31:33",
    "text": "a wrap for the day I see the adsr quite happy about hearing that alright so this is open mic time you\u0027ve got going once twice okay sold we\u0027re all done go home thank you no really people we\u0027re done I do got to admit this is the first time I\u0027ve ever seen a room not clear out as soon as it\u0027s been told you can go home [Music] [Music] [Music] [Music] somebody can bring us the blue sheets if anybody has not signed the blue sheets please come to the front "
  }
]