[
  {
    "startTime": "00:00:08",
    "text": "huh let's wait two more minutes until everyone is here carsten have you returned from your coffee yes I have anything as appropriate so one more thing that we maybe can briefly discuss now that Christopher is here is what the intention is with respect to the uh the the actual data format specification I forgot what what's its name Guardian something um whether that's something that that the sibo working group should work on some other activity in the IHF uh should pick up um thanks I'll I've added it to the agenda for today thank you question there are two other things that I would love to maybe uh talk about one of which is the registration of tax um we chose some yeah we uh you know the same question so so we can discuss that another same point"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:02:02",
    "text": "well that's actually a different way um uh there may be some confusion about what we're registering so the that has nothing to do with DC board so uh maybe we can we can talk about that so um uh the other thing is do we know how many people are actually I mean are we good we're are we only going to be meeting virtually at uh at uh uh San Francisco or so far I don't I think Carson's not going to be there I don't know who's going to be there in person for the Seaboard meeting um I mean it's next door to me so it's easy for me uh so that was another one of my questions like what's the agenda for um and how many people and etc for uh the Facebook the the agenda is something that is the main agenda point for today and I think Carson has prepared slides primarily on that cool uh so I I've taken that as a question for for India already okay okay I'll see that is free past the hour and I think we are and we are at least um five people are together um let's get this started hello everyone this is an igf interim of the Civil working group um you all know how this works uh the note well applies and everyone please all have a look at the minutes um the link is uh at the top with in the note-taking tool um so that uh that we can work together in this um and thanks Michael for um taking the lead here so we have um yeah as we've basically basically we've already done the agenda bashing um we we want to talk about what"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:04:01",
    "text": "we do at the ITF in San Francisco um I want to follow up on the working group adoption calls on edn literacy and CDL 2.0 roadmap that would be very short and then we can continue with the topic of core topics of guardian and registration of taxes um if there is nothing more to add here um Carson please take it away uh on the topic of what you suggest we talk about in the itf17 agenda uh why do I see two versions of that slide take I do not know um frankly I relied on everything to be managed by medical automatically um I also see just one set so maybe just pick one I know and now I see two here yeah um pick one and if it doesn't kind of if it doesn't look like what you expect then let's pick let's try again well I think it does look uh all right um so I I was um probably could use this meeting to do a little bit of uh planning so not so much focus on any particular uh document but just see where we are with the um various documents and uh um so timing wise we have three and a half weeks until the internet draft deadline and then we have two more weeks before the ITF week so this is kind of the the planning Outlook um that I I want to cover today and I would just like to go through a number of documents that that I have on my radar that doesn't mean that we are complete uh so let's see other documents come up"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:06:03",
    "text": "um so um one document that that we uh have had in in a waiting mode for a while uh no is the the time tag document so this is a document that defines civil structures to represent time stamps the durations and and periods and um this has been stable for quite a while it has uh received the the tag allocations the Target locations actually came before RFC 89499 changed the registration guidelines or these were still pretty much first come first served um and uh we are just waiting for a good time for this document to be published as an RFC and one important other activity about information about timestamps in the iitf is the C8 activity which had some some administrative extra Loops but now has gone through an ITF last call which is scheduled to close tomorrow um and there are already some interesting comments but there are probably no impacts on the the way time tag accommodates the the new sedate information um so we we probably should wait until the the sedate uh last call has been completed and the the error director has pushed this into isg um but again I think we're not going to"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:08:02",
    "text": "change a lot um so my hope is that we can submit a final version for isg submission before ietf 117 and and possibly we don't even have to do very much at iitf117 because the document has been submitted to the isg for publication so that's my Outlook on on this document okay so please feel free to interrupt me at any time I'm just going to go to the next item which is sibo picked uh that actually passed the working plus call last year already um it actually is is a document with two Parts uh one is the part that defines the the tags that are used for referencing information out of the the tables that um silver pack defines other people call this dictionary um so um that appears to be pretty stable we had one one major uh change by by using the the only two uh table subtables for one for sharing and one as a generic argument table we used to have more of those so we merged those and um but we really want to have before we go ahead um is a little bit of implementation and user experience with tables set up so right now the the draft defines a tag 113 that is used for a table setup that is"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:10:00",
    "text": "setting up shared and argumentables separately and I think we actually want to merge this at least for the default setup the ideas that other documents that make use of package may go ahead and Define their own table setup mechanisms possibly using tags possibly using information that comes out of media types and so on so the the context that is used for interpretation of the sibo data can also provide table information about the reference tags should be something that is common to all applications of sibo pack so this this can be put into a library and doesn't have to change for each new application that uses sibo packed um so um we should play with the the table set up um a couple slides later I'm going to mention a DNS c-bar as an example for an application that defines its own table setup mechanism and I think a little bit more experience is needed to uh actually be sure that that we're happy with uh uh the the whole situation so maybe we want to have one more interim where we look at this maybe in two weeks um I don't know that that would be my suggestion but my suggestion would also be that we have something that that we can finally um push forward and we have to decide how exactly we push it forward and iitf1 17."
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:12:04",
    "text": "so um yeah I see that that Martin is not here um that's why I was hoping to maybe coordinate that with her so I really need to have uh I will need to do this offline so that is what I see happening with sibo packed so the next item is the three documents that uh bring us forward on the way to CDA 2.0 um there's the the grammar update which is essentially a fixed document uh for for 8610 as it is um we Define a few more control operators which is something that that is just exercising an extension point that 8610 has so so none of these um uh really in CDA 2.0 but there are things we we want to have in place and the the part that um is going to be um the the one of the major uh components of CDA to zero is the modules document um so uh I made these slides an hour ago so um they're of course completely outdated by now because the call for adoption has been closed and um yet I'll come to that in the next items oh I'm sorry the data tracker told me it was official yes it sure did so the the data tracker is kind of writing you out"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:14:00",
    "text": "here um okay so um I was going to ask do we want to do this but we will do this in the next um item but that would be something where we uh probably would uh think about next steps at 117 uh my personal guesses that we will push forward the grammar update and the control operators relatively quickly because the the grammar updates are kind of um yeah that's some things we need to do um and um we also can do the control uh document because that's really something that uh uh we probably will be doing um somewhat regularly so the the last one was published in December 20. uh 21 so maybe having one of those every two years or so what would be a good keep alive here and this is essentially based on feedback from from various uh specifiers um so uh yeah we we need to discuss this of course but I I don't expect big surprises we might throw out some of the proposed control operators if they are not clear but others I think are very very obvious so I think we should be able to actually work in Google Plus call these two documents pretty soon the modules document of course requires more attention and and feedback from people who have used it um so both uh people who have written specifications uh and people who have uh put that into"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:16:01",
    "text": "their uh CDA Tools in in one one way uh or another so all three drafts are implemented um but we we don't have multiple independent implementations yet and that's usually a good thing too actually have um so I would expect we will discuss CDA modules a little bit beyond uh 117. um so one thing that that has been discussed on the list a bit is the diagnostic notation and it seems uh we actually want a document that goes a little bit beyond the original purpose of the this IDI and literates um a document this this was just a simple extension for for uh civil diagnostic notation civil diagnostic notation was originally defined in in RFC 7049 in 2013 um and uh has been carried over to the current um sibo standard but we already extended it once in the context of cddl so it's a bit confusing mainly for people that RFC 8610 extends the diagnostic notation of RC 8949 whether it comes later in the sequence but that's uh the result of this um so um the the attention that we have got points to maybe a need to actually Define the ABN f uh for edn um of course we have implementations and and implementations probably are employing a puzzle generator so it should not be too"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:18:01",
    "text": "hard to translate the models for those puzzle generators into ABN f um so that that might be an addition we might pursue uh once we we have adopted this but maybe there's also other work uh that that is useful in the diagnostic notation uh context so this is a document where I see active technical work um before us but probably not something that will take Beyond iitf 118. so the since we just have adopted a document that doesn't have the ABN F yet we would need to make an explicit decision that we do want to add the ABN here so RC 7049 said that diagnostic notation is not meant to be passed um and that was a pretty um strong concern that people would think that the diagnostic notation is actually how you uh interchange sibo documents and that's very much not the intention but I think we have survived with the diagnostic notation and the actual sibo encoding being around um for for a decade now so I think the the uh danger of of people confusing this is smaller so I think we can now go ahead and Define the ABN is that something that we would discuss at ITF 117 yeah I think as soon as the the the proposal is I mean if if somebody says no let's not do that we can stop that work now but my my intention would be to"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:20:02",
    "text": "do a dash or one um of of the draft ATF um that has the ABN f in it and then we can discuss whether that's useful and decide as a working room whether we want to continue with this or not and that could be at 117 that could be earlier um depends on on how long it takes to actually get the ibnf in there not sure I answered your question no you didn't good okay laughs okay then we had some interesting discussion about deterministic encoding and um I think we have um I probably shouldn't say cut the guardian knot um I think we We Now understand why this discussion was so uh difficult because really we have a standard deterministic encoding we have a common idea of a standard gymnastic encoding but we also have the DC numeric reduction so recently I proposed on the mailing list that this should be the the two documents we get the first one might actually even be informational because the the digitalistic encoding is defined in 8949 so it would just provide a little bit more explanation and maybe Define a profile section 4.2 of RFC 8949 does provide applications"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:22:00",
    "text": "with some lenients here so that would be one document and the other one would pick up this this idea of numeric reduction that is in DC bar um and uh Define that but it probably could be a very short document uh because it's essentially just sits on top of standard deterministic encoding um to to address a specific uh area of application of c-box Christopher and I think this is quite yeah I think this is quite reasonable Oh wrong you were you calling for me or for a Christian Christopher yeah so yeah I like this um seems reasonable um uh you know not quite sure how to get started on the split um but we you know we're glad to work with you on on that um so uh or get advice or however you want to do it um so the I think the the thing that is is uh hardest is on the first one like you know how do we explain the choices how do we explain you know uh you know our particular profile for um uh section 4.2 and the choices that we made uh and you know ideally it should maybe you know have somebody else's profile and maybe anyhow that's the um uh you know my question on that one on the DC board numeric reduction I think uh wolf is uh you know can also pull out uh some of the very specific uh test cases and things of that nature in the three languages that you know we uh implemented DC board in so far to kind of show where all the the"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:24:00",
    "text": "dirty edges are to help people be aware of it if they're implementing it in fourth or something weird um so uh uh all all reasonable yeah so it seems for DC numeric reduction there are some choices that have to be made or have been made um by you there it would be possible to define a different numeric reduction and if you have looked at my proof of concept implementation that works differently from what what you did so we would try to make sure to describe exactly um the the numeric reduction that that we agree is the one everybody should be using in this area of application but of course we have at least one additional case which is people are not using a numeric reduction so we would essentially have two uh widely implemented a widely recognized choices here and I think is it really is it is it just two or do you I mean is this more like the same thing with the uh profiles in one I mean is there I mean I could you know I certainly could see see uh um uh I mean I don't mind profiles I guess is maybe the the the the other side of the equation um I'm not I think we can come up with a really good one that will be hard for somebody to say there's a better numeric reduction out there but there still may be weird edge cases where somebody goes I just can't do this on my you know old 8-bit processor that I'm using in the constrained thing yeah so um I I completely agree but my uh objective here would be to find the"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:26:02",
    "text": "the um two points that have the the largest attractiveness so we get a lot of critical mass on on both those points so so people don't see a need to invent another uh profile but we will will be attracted to one of the existing once so one one additional profile that that you may not be thinking much about um but that I think is also interesting is doing the numeric reduction but then only doing uh preferred encoding and not deterministing encoding so that that's still one useful way of of employing uh this yeah I think we should explain that great so let's try to work on those um yeah and and um the optimistic objective would be to have documents um in individual Dash zero zero stage uh as input for uh 117 so we can discuss the the further so just you know just to be clear we're talking about two new drafts we would basically not we would uh that would that would replace the current uh uh Guardian draft um and uh um move that forward in the Seaboard group yeah not the the guardian from it but the the DC4 yeah right okay and of course well I I can probably throw together something very quickly based on the text that you have already written so if you don't mind please do we did uh that might be the best way or the quickest way to get to a dash zero zero"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:28:01",
    "text": "okay yeah then we have uh some other active uh oh I forgot one thing um so if we do the DC by numeric reduction um we probably also want to think about the best way to support this from cddl um because cddl is is pretty closely wedded to the uh generic data model that is defined in 8949 and if we actually fold some of the parts of that model onto each other then we have to Define how to to write cddl for that and that's something where I don't know yet whether we want to put this in the numeric reduction document or maybe into a separate document I don't even know how to do it so this needs still needs to be invented it's probably not hard but we need to find a way that yeah if she will be easy to use yeah we've implemented CDs in our libraries we've uh actually it's not in our libraries it's in our tools um uh we have uh cddl 1-0 support uh now and you can like point to a dictionary and it'll do more stuff uh but it's you know really one of um you know it's the first time we've we mostly use it for a diagnostic not for for other stuff um but I think as you know the the year advances you know will uh you know move toward the newer cddl and uh you know wolf will be you know be glad to try to try out some ideas with you on you know how do we do how do we represent the choices uh in cdbl um I think the matter is not so much about how to represent the choices but how to"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:30:01",
    "text": "represent that some choice is taken away from the application and is normalized in the model and whether that is whether that will happen through a well-known type or through uh through a CDI control we can still find out over time yeah so you guys feel like it's in a separate document probably because I think we can do the the DC bore numeric reduction fairly quickly um whereas we you know we don't even have an implementation uh yeah for um uh I mean uh on our end at least so yeah I think the the difficult part comes in when you have a cddl model that actually spans components that make use of numeric reductions and components that don't so for instance cozy doesn't do numeric reaction uh but um if you transport something in cozy that does uh then then you have areas of your specifications the new and areas that don't and we need to find a way to to write this down without having tons of of additional uh stuff in the model that is just distracting so I think that that's the hard part okay um so the uh next item here is other active uh work um there is this process document civil draft numbers um that I think has has had a good"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:32:01",
    "text": "um run uh up to its 01 but I think we we probably should be leaning back a little bit and see whether what we have written up actually works for a majority of of cases um and uh well it's informational anyway it's it's just a way for uh people to organize their work with a location of code points uh during developing based format but I think if we we actually agree on on a at least a good current practice might not be the best current practice but a good current practice that that will continue to be a useful document so that that's one thing and the the other are technical documents I've already mentioned DNS sibo which is of Interest by itself um or uh also as a customer of sibo packed so for me this is right now pretty pretty much at the top of the list um then we have the cddl CSV work um that that maybe many of you don't have a lot of interaction with uh but there actually are um areas where where CSV is widely used and that's probably useful to um continue this work and finally the the collection of a corpus of of CDL models that we can refer to using the the cdl2 module mechanism is useful um of course the idea is that many of these Corpus models will come out of"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:34:00",
    "text": "rfcs but then we have found a number of rfcs that have really useful cddl but that needs to be packaged in a slightly different way and it's fixed in some way so it can be usefully referenced from other documents so this is um yeah that's um between informational and standard strike because at some point people will run to reference the the models in there and then it becomes possibly a candidate for being standard strike but that's really mostly just collecting information so I don't know how much time we will have to discuss these things in at 117 but these are things that I think are are active um and um yeah I probably missed something so uh if you think there's something else we we should discuss at 117 I would like to hear about it well one item um that well I actually have a couple items but one in particular so you know we've had some pushback by various communities um by uh that oh you know don't use seaboor because you know you have to register tags with Ayanna and that doesn't really happen it's too hard et cetera Etc um and we said no it shouldn't be too hard the specs says that if you use these different ranges all you need to have is a spec uh you know in a persistent fashion um so we did one not for DC board but for gordian which all needs six tags that are you know where we can't use sub tags and stuff um and uh it's in a Range that uh"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:36:02",
    "text": "um uh that is supposed to be available for you know spec only does not require an hour an RFC uh track document um and you know uh Ayanna kicked it back uh to us a couple of times and I know that it's you know been uh pushed to uh Karsten and and others so we're basically experiencing what other people were warning us about um uh seabor so I'm wondering if there's some way you know I don't know if it's a process document or whatever to either add Clarity like if there is some requirement that you know somebody on the keyboard uh you know one of the keyboard chairs has to check off to say yes there actually is a spec and it's a real spec uh before the you know before Ayanna approves that that isn't what it says in uh in the Seaboard document yeah so we you know we need to clarify that I think I think I can clarify here um as far as I understand that the the the pushback here was because the document because the documents are because there was something that has been this touched into a working group and if the if the intention with the specification was that the process through working group then there would be a different process if you came there with something that is not that that you're not bringing to IDF that process should have been way smoother uh so it's just because there were two documents yeah there are two documents so maybe this there was a confusion there because you know the DC bore is kind of what dispatch you know said hey you know the Seaboard Community ought to consider taking taking this up the gordian uh they basically said uh you know you need to find a customer you need a requirements or whatever they call it uh uh that you need this other the problem"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:38:02",
    "text": "statement document Etc um and was not referred to another working group so um you know we just needed to go ahead and get those uh six tags um in because there are people actively using this we also have more attacks we want to register at an even higher level uh you know at a you know even higher numbers that are very specific to you know uh Industries so for instance um you know we're using seabor for uh you know uh cryptocurrency wallets um that have you know some very specific you know things that are uh you know been in use for two years so uh uh you know we we'd also like Clarity on the the higher tags as well so um uh but you know these quartet you know these core six we feel like you know we we spent some effort to to make it that that they were a small number of tags um we did consider whether or not we could do them as sub tags uh and and uh you know we carefully you know we feel like we did All the Right Stuff uh uh what we don't understand is how we could have let Ayanna know you know not uh to to hold it and so you know again I don't know if that's a a process document or just our misunderstanding and the specific circumstances of our of the fact that we you know came to the community um uh which sort of leads me to my next topic uh uh which is you know is there interest by seaboor Community to have uh you know a seaboor uh RFC on say graph data specifically and in particular graph data that supports Merkel um uh um and I I have not heard that which is"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:40:01",
    "text": "fine I just uh I'm sorry I think this uh this would go into the agenda wise into the block of Guardian so um can we can we can we keep the keep the order we had we had on the agenda sure sorry yeah let me try to to answer the the procedure question um so the the operation of registries is uh generally defined in PCP 26 also known as rc8126 and the the text in in 8949 which ultimately defines how to run these Registries makes use of terms that are defined in in RFC 81 26. and one concept that 8126 uses a lot is that of a designated expert so there is no connection to the working group or the hurts quite likely the the designated experts are somehow active in a working group as well um but that's not officially part of the procedure uh right now the two designated experts for Sea World tricks if I remember correctly are Christian and I yes um so uh when you look into the the section 9.2 of RFC 8949 um this this is uh pretty tough um but it says that the the tanks between uh 24 and 32 76 7. um are assigned by the specification required uh model which is defined in section 4.6 of Roc 81 26 I know these"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:42:03",
    "text": "numbers by by heart because I've been writing a few INR considerations sections in the last couple of weeks anyway um so specification required um is a special case of expert review where the expert is supposed to not only review the registration request itself but also a specification uh that is uh required to come with the registration request and um well I did a first review it's not something that can be done uh just in a snap it does require some some thinking um so we we also made sure that we have uh one plus two numbers available that are first come first served which is another set of rules defined in 8126 that really make sure you get the number right away so if the priority is is on speed uh that's the number range you want to use but of course these are not not the the nice numbers these are the numbers that that cost you three bytes instead of two um so uh it may be desirable to try to get uh numbers in in the 24 to 255 range I regularly um sent an output of of a script that looks at TAG allocation and you have to remember that take a location is a process that has to work for well half a century or so until we"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:44:00",
    "text": "completely are at the new format so we shouldn't be allocating tons of tags in one year so we are we then don't have any free tag numbers in the next year so right now about 30 of the um one plus one space are taken so there is some frugality that the experts will try to exercise in in allocating these numbers it's that doesn't mean that it's hard to get them but it just means uh it will get a second look um which is different for instance for one plus zero which is already defined as standards action in geography because the there are only 11 left um so we we looked at the specification and um there are some questions that that I haven't written up yet um and uh what confused us uh was uh that this specification is is was both presented as a completed specification that is uh uh now trying to get tags and uh a specification that might be input to an ietf process that is likely to to change it um so it is maybe less obvious that we would be allocating one plus one tags to these one plus one numbers to these tags um then if if this was a specification that is completed I mean the mobile driver license stuff or anything like that they may not need"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:46:00",
    "text": "one plus one tags but um so um yes it is harder to get those OnePlus One tags than one plus two tags um so if you you really want to prioritize the the speed of getting the allocation then going into the first come first served uh mechanism would be good okay so let me explain a little so this is where we get into kind of the the question territory actually no Christian uh this is uh Gord now for me to proceed I need to go into the guardian discussion so let's move on to your agenda and then I can bring it back okay and then I'll I'll I'll do that next find very quickly because then we can use I think the rest of the of the time for accordion um we had working group adoption calls for again literals and CDI 2.0 Uh custom already gave away that yes they are now adopted because uh we have good support for the ctdl 2.0 documents um and foreign very comfortable uh accepting this based on the interim input that says um yep it's like look it's looking good and nobody was complaining um so yes um let's go ahead with this um offers which is customer think please submit as ITF documents and with that back to gordian yeah um so let me explain some of our dilemmas that are going on right now with with gordian envelope so um uh right now uh gordians pieces of the gordian envelope have been in use in practice in mostly cryptocurrency communities for the last couple of years um and the guardian envelope kind of pulls it all together it also um is connected Loosely to w3c in the"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:48:01",
    "text": "sense that there have been a number of parties there who are frustrated with a particular graph data format uh Jason LD uh and you know there's been a proposal I think there's an ITF uh uh uh draft uh on taking Jason LD and doing it with with uh with seabor but also loses a lot because it's still tied to its you know Jason LD Roots um that being said there's really not very many people in the ITF community that are are demanding um you know graph Seaboard data we um uh the iso Community also is uh been working on mdl MDOC Etc um and and it's not a very transparent process so I don't really understand all their stuff but they're using seabor and there's been various inquiries from them of maybe you know in future things you know Levering leveraging some of the gordian capabilities to do um uh to do hash based Collision they the current mdl which is being used for mobile driver's licenses in Europe and in the United States with um uh is uh is seabor uh and it has a a very simple um uh uh hash based illusion uh technique in it um uh but it you know it's you know it's ISO uh and others are wanting to do do that stuff with that so you know so our challenge has been you know is the ietf community interested in this and you"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:50:01",
    "text": "know we wrote up some use cases of hey you know rf's you know there are two rfcs that say that you know are you know that ITF standards should uh minimize data and there's the human rights considerations Etc uh which you know makes hash based collision and you know other techniques for minimal disclosure um uh recommended but they're you know no ITF specs that we know of are doing you know this so we may have customers in ITF but we don't know because right now they're not asking for it so that's kind of the root of the problem that we went when we went before dispatch is uh uh you know we have a solution for various parties that just happen to be using keyboard but otherwise ITF so far we've not identified and I ITF group there is some discussion there was at least some discussion in passing that the uh by the supply chain group that you know maybe gordian envelope might you know be something that they would like to use but I don't think they're really you know at all focused at that layer you know the the data layer um at this point and I don't really I think they would rather see somebody else do it and then they could leverage it um I could be wrong there but that's you know my interpretation of uh you know following that discussion um you know separate from you know one of the other issues just to be blunt is uh and I know we're running out of time is that we really want gordian envelope um not to be in the security area um you know we're really only using one um uh cryptographic function which is a hash uh we're using shot 256 it's well understood we're using a hash you know a Merkel hash tree which is well understood yes it ought to get you know additional review but it you know we"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:52:02",
    "text": "really want to focus on it as a data standard because you know you can put cosay into it you can put uh you know other you know all kinds of other cryptographic formats Etc into it similarly you know we have tags for compression um as we have some tags for encryption but those don't are not do not specify which one and in fact are in our example you know we're using ITF standards like uh you know Chacha poly uh stripped to the RFC um and and such so we're really trying to avoid that's another layer you know so we don't want to get bundled into Jose you know 2.0 or or something of that nature either um you know and I I presume there might also be people that maybe don't care about the hash based Collision but would like to have you know um uh we believe uh a seaboor function a seaboor approach that can handle at least three maybe four of the different graph formats that are out there Edge Edge graphs node graphs um you know some you know single one-way graphs Etc so we also feel like there might be some desire to have some standardization around how to put graph data into uh into seabor um that might be valuable to people but but again just just brief note we need to move ahead just a brief note um if you want if you want answers too please come to the point and make it short because we're about to run out of time right so I'm just trying to puzzle you know is is the you know are the chairs of the community and other members who are here today or might be at 117 at all interested in taking some measure of uh Guardian envelope and uh working with us"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:54:01",
    "text": "to you know have it be a seaboar art uh area uh project uh and if not you know we let you know let's uh um uh you know we don't need it to do what we need to do we can you know uh you know but but we have multiple companies that are are using envelope now and you know we've like we would prefer that you know standards first but you know we also have to have implementations um so well the chip the chair position is very simple um my task in in that role is just to assess the the [Music] um the interest within the working group um with my chair head off um I do have some interest in in expressing graph structures um I think I've pointed you to to um to Coral um at an at an early important time um that my personal interest is mainly with using sibo for constrained applications um where that already have something that that already work on minimized data and will not um will probably not work with larger data structures that are inflated by um by the possibility of having Illusions so things will be minimized beforehand specifically for them um but that's more of my my personal um take here so one was money yeah so um I think these are interesting questions on the other hand I'm actually looking at the the document I hope I'm looking at the right document draft McNally envelope O2 um and this is interesting um it's a collection of things that that maybe aren't as closely relate to each"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:56:01",
    "text": "other as you you yes uh I agree try to to make us believe in the document so in particular the the tags 204 205 206 uh interesting in that day um embody the the choice of a specific algorithm uh to do something so true or false digest and and uh it actually is is a digest with sir 256 205 is encrypted but really it is encrypted with uh what was it catcher 20 or something like that unless you do subtax okay and 206 is compressed with deflate and um I think these are all tags which are really likely to to change over time um as people for instance get better compression libraries there are now at least two compression libraries that that are widely used in in certain areas of application that are replacing deflate after it has been kind of the de facto standard for for a quarter of a century um so uh these tags feel quite different to a designated expert on on Tech allocation uh than the other ones so we may have failed one second we I think have failed somehow either in our spec or in our writing or whatever to say that these were very specifically designed so that you could have other choices we just simply said you know uh that the uh we just simply defined a default choice that was a current ITF standard but all of these we know people are going to be doing other forms of compression and encryption and you know"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:58:01",
    "text": "uh etc etc so the design was that these were independent we may have failed in it in in our expression of it in this RFC to to demonstrate that these were independent um but you know we don't really want to Define compression standards we just simply say if it's within this tag it's compressed um you know uh if it's within this tag it's encrypted uh if it's within this Tech you know Etc the only one that's kind of challenging for for us was the the hash algorithm um and and part of that just came out of the you know recognition of you know likely if just because of a variety of different factors uh if we you know because our original version was Blake and we basically retreated to Shaw 256. um was that there was a lot more dependencies there and we kind of felt like well if there needs to be another um uh you know algorithm you know uh you know saw three God forbid um uh you know and there's and that would probably just be a different route envelope tag that would basically say you know use this other half you know it would be you know another one plus one that you know is envelope not using shot 256 um and we don't really want to specify that right now Sean Shaw 256 has a long life so I think we may have failed there um and would love to have guidance in um in um you know expressing that better uh you know and again I think there's a you know really good likelihood that you know unless there are more people in the community that the you know in the Seaboard community that want to tackle this that we just continue uh implementing this have multiple implementers and we come back to the ITF Community later for standardizing seabor I mean uh Guardian on Seaboard um uh and you know right now it feels like to me that's you know uh uh"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:00:03",
    "text": "you know greater than 50 chance um but I at least want to throw it out that you know that it is possible if there's critical mass in the Seaboard Community to to do this that we'd be glad to do that DC board on the other hand we absolutely want to do everything we can to make sure at least DC bore and the numeric reduction things are well defined um and we really appreciate Carson that you've uh um been thinking deeply about this and have uh kind of pulled together you know something that um I think will address you know various people's uh concerns um so what's separate that happens to be that Guardian uses DC board what I would like to point out is that we have a registry for hashtag with us um so have a look at RFC 1954 um and uh I think we really want to make use of that registry in any uh format that is supposed to live uh for for a certain amount of time we have a registry for encryption algorithms and encryption is complicated enough that this requires some some pretty significant thought and that that's uh defined by 1952 and and filled in by 1953. we do not have a c bar registry for compression mechanisms and that's definitely something we would want to fill in but you have one more which is the 202 which I can't wrap my head around um so it seems that the the 202 is essentially a way to exercise a function that that is defined somewhere else um and that just gets a number"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:02:01",
    "text": "um in in the table in in section six of of your document I think we have to discuss this a bit uh because that that's a place where I would say the specification actually has a big hole uh because those functions are not nearly uh defined uh by by the document so okay so um let me uh uh so I guess the question is um um uh you know so I I understand your review as the designated expert um for these numbers and if this is going to be a seabor group item you know these concerns and you know affixing them and addressing them Etc are um you know things that we need to address to uh move toward consensus in the seabor community in ITF um uh but in the meantime uh you know that might be another year to to do to do that and uh if we're not if there isn't going to be you know uh uh you know consideration we need to kind of move ahead if this isn't going to be a you know a uh uh a seaboard work item um uh you know is our only choice to move to the the three bites I I hope not um uh you know we've made some decisions there uh you know you you know the known value thing maybe we could architect a a better version I'm gonna I'll talk with him about it it's mostly because we kept on running into assertions um that were the same and large um and we just wanted to be able to have a very quick way to have a reference look up for things like you know for the"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:04:00",
    "text": "common uh uh you know predicates um uh you know without having to go to an Anna registry and a new you know a new tag and and all of that so maybe we could do it in a better way um but we thought that at least all the other elements um uh were uh you know independent with the exception as I said the hash algorithm um uh you know we have some experience from you know the the you know the people that are trying to you know standardize with file coin uh ipfs Etc uh with their kind of weird tagging um of hashes uh for for con what's it uh in anyhow there's that you know they're also trying to advance another hash table draft and we just wanted to get out of that uh you know we just need a a a hash tree that is relatively safe and consistent um and uh that you know you don't have to do a lot of games to sort of figure out oh well you know do you I I don't support Blake 3 and thus I need to notify the party that I don't support lakefree um I only support nist algorithms and um all of that stuff we were just trying to avoid that by saying this just lists for now use Shaw 256 it's well supported it's well understood it has maybe some potential weaknesses but nobody really knows um you know when those will you know when those will come into play um and you know we have a strategy for doing that so in lieu of the seaboor community tackling this um we're you know we would really like to see these tags um uh uh you know you know accepted soon so without having to go to the three bites"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:06:02",
    "text": "yeah that's probably a place where the designated experts will will have a conversation with you uh why certain things cannot be done in three bytes instead of two um yeah but I think that that we first of all have to understand the specification and uh but the the strategy of the specification is to deal with egg with agility and we also have to understand this there's two or two uh things so I think we should we need to close this meeting um we should continue this discussion offline okay so the question is you know this is you as designated experts not you as Seaboard chairs um going back to our previous item I would love there to be some so this is not what the spec says this is not what you know so uh I'm I'm fine if that is the way it has to be that the you know designated experts have to uh deeply understand the choices that we made and and request changes etc etc but that's not what the spec says the spec says that a DOT you know that the the doc has to have a clear specification so if that is not true we we have a lot of other companies and organizations that want to start using seaboor and are going no we're not going to use seaboor because we have to register these tags and registering a tags is a pain in the ass this is an example of that so yes you know maybe you know we just have to you know Punt and say we're only going to try to register the three byte tags um and do the first use so what ever and tell everybody just don't even bother with anything that isn't a three byte tag I don't think that's a good idea um that you know and again that's not really what the spec says so I would love to have some clarity you know uh from the Seaboard community of what is the designated export"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:08:00",
    "text": "supposed to review or not review in these so let me quickly answer that between the two levels there is a section 4.6 in RFC 8126 that that is probably useful to to read because that's the section that is being referenced by 8949 uh unfortunately it's not being done by an actual exception reference so that that's uh something we didn't quite get right the RFC 8146 I'm sorry all right 8126 it's in the 26. got it sorry got it and there is a section 4.6 and there are things that are required about the specification uh that are written down only there and and maybe you you get a better feeling of what what we are trying to achieve okay I will pass and and maybe as a note on on algorithm agility I think generally um if if something um comes into the designated experts that does not have kind of that says that yeah we're picking one algorithm and that will be good for a long time I think chances are that this will be better off with a three byte type okay okay um I will uh uh you know uh talk with wolf and the rest of the the uh um uh accordion Community about this and move forward I thank you for your time I know we're running late so um uh are is any of this a topic for uh uh the iitf meeting because you know we're hoping to bring some of the Seaboard Community who are not active ITF members uh the DC the the excuse me the gordian community who are not currently ietf participants to the San"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:10:01",
    "text": "Francisco meeting because a lot of them are you know on the West Coast is this worthy of discussion at this at the seaport meaning I would hope that we have completed the discussion by that point but uh okay cool there are things that that we want to discuss uh further from there thing is we we do have a one hour slot so um yeah I I still have to do the scheduling um but uh at tops this I think tops this will get like 15 minutes and um if if you allow me in the personal comment um I think you'll have to to bring things to the point very fast to get also discussion out of those 15 minutes yeah yeah you're right okay well we're hoping to have some side meetings so we'll um that also can be topic for side beams so that is definitely a good idea and something that we'll need to advertise through the sibo channels and before we get kicked out of the room which is probably any second now uh thank you everyone for being here thanks for the discussions and I'll try to um make all of this into a preliminary agenda for ITF 117. thanks everyone see you next see you in two weeks thank you thanks bye-bye foreign"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:13:15",
    "text": "foreign"
  }
]
