[
  {
    "startTime": "00:01:50",
    "text": "good afternoon everyone this is the PC working group meeting we right up to lunch so some people may join us in a minute or two but I\u0027m going to go ahead and get started yes we want to stay on track so my name is John I\u0027m one of the co-chairs we have a co-chair Julian could not make it this time he\u0027s um been unable to travel at the last minute so it\u0027s a shame but maybe he\u0027ll be joining us on the meet echo in fact I see his name down there so so Giuliana\u0027s is with us but not in body I just want to first of all start with the agenda bashing we posted the agenda a couple of weeks ago here it is please look it over have me telling you about working group status first we discuss some input from other working groups after that we\u0027ll talk some about our working group drafts and then a couple of new drafts coming into the working group from Stefan and youngkwang finally we will cover some drafts have been presented before get an update from the authors the only progress has been made and at the end we\u0027ll close with an update on the Sdn discussion that we started on the mailing list last year so does anyone want a bashfully agenda or hearing any problems with it so I\u0027ll proceed to my stutter slides okay before we get started we\u0027re displaying the note well please familiarize yourself with the note well if you haven\u0027t done so already I won\u0027t read out every word of this but gist of it is that by participating in this meeting you are making contributions to the the ITF proceedings and basically than that well tells you about your rights and responsibilities in terms of intellectual property that\u0027s the but may be discussed during the meeting in terms of either ministry BIA please sign the blue sheets I will hand out the blue sheets after I finish talking here just to make sure that everyone has arrived please sign them and pass them on I have a minute taker Dhruv there\u0027s anybody here on Java yung okay thanks if you could keep an eye on "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:04:50",
    "text": "Jabbar and bring any comments to the mic for me thank you we\u0027ll be streaming a session through audio and video and we do have several people here participating on meet echo who are not in the room so it will be really good if you could please speak only using the microphones state your name before you speak so that the people know who who it is at speaking and of presenting if you could try to remain inside this little pink box down here on the floor so that the cameras can pick you up and people watching remotely can see yeah that would be good as I say Julian sends his apologies but but he\u0027s right there on on meet echo so it\u0027ll be chipping in if he needs to usual reminder about the mailing list and we conduct all our business on the mailing list and would like to encourage you all to use it if you have anything you want to discuss about drafts their mailing lists emails are better than private emails for that so that we can see what\u0027s being discussed and what\u0027s be agreed if it\u0027s only issues or on the drafts then please put them on the list any conclusions that you come to and please put that on the list as well please use the list if you have a new draft then the best way to introduce that to the working group is by sending an email to the list saying I have a new draft is a problem that Salt\u0027s because you know the short email to that effect will actually give you a lot of exposure to people who would like to read it and of course we judge all our working group consensus on comments that are made of the list information in this meetings is good and useful for the chairs but final conclusions are always drawn on the list so that\u0027s where we that\u0027s where we want you to put your your information okay so with the improve the agenda no one had any problems quickly talk about the status of the working group internet drugs so first things first we published four new RFC since the last meeting in Singapore we have the extensions for PC initiated LSP setup it\u0027s been a long time in the pipeline and we\u0027re very pleased to see that published complete some of the work on stateful PCE that\u0027s been long overdue we have extensions for in Tulare e 82 82 we have extensions for point-to-multipoint switches biz on RFC 6006 correct some some issues and that RSC and then finally importantly we have a new RFC on experimental code points in peace episode now you there is an official space in the code points for you to use for experiments we have one internet draft currently with the IAS G in IHF last call that\u0027s for the LSP setup type generalization essentially I think completed IETF last call now there were a couple of comments during last call from the ADEs which will be addressed in "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:07:51",
    "text": "that draft but that\u0027s fairly straightforward and it will be progressing to be obviously at it\u0027s assumed address still in the working group then so let\u0027s see if they have people in the room that can can help update the status on these I think I know the status for most of it the first one is applicability for inter area and into a s where I shared a shepherd review a while ago that seems to have gone fairly quiet any authors in the room wanna tell us where that stands dude Dan King has been taking care I\u0027m a quarter I checked with him and we we had the discussion that whether we should talk about stateful BCE now or not I think that still is a bottleneck like young daughters are not able to conclude that should we just publish this as it is or open the discussion and act stateful part as well so that\u0027s the main reason this is so this is kind of an old an old draft is drafts go and it predates or the staple PC work and I guess there\u0027s a concern that it may be a little obsolete if we don\u0027t include staple PCE it\u0027s almost like we\u0027d be publishing something as historical so I would encourage the authors to think carefully about adding a staple PCE to that I personally don\u0027t agree with you okay so we have two gmpls drafts where it\u0027s essentially blocked on the final shepard review I know Julia had some comments which has been trying to share with the the authors and some time on the the gmpls piece of extensions I think he\u0027s close to doing that I haven\u0027t I have another an exact update from him but once he does that then we unblocked that and we also in black the w.zahn RW a draft which is which is sitting in a queue waiting to go to the iesg we have two drafts which recently went through working group last call was a segment writing draft where we had some nice comments from Adrian Thank You Adrian and also from drew I think which I have in my queue towards to address my apologies for being a little slow in getting to those it\u0027s just because of not having enough time to process them but I will get them soon I promise and then we\u0027ve just passed a working group last call for the PC Association group drew vo you\u0027re going to talk about that one later on yeah so in the queue for last call next we have the PC hierarchy extensions which has just been renewed so now that is now a live draft again I think we can proceed the last call there we also have "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:10:52",
    "text": "staple PC auto bandwidth in the queue which is just sitting ready for last call so we\u0027ll get that last call after the meeting various things not on the agenda this time we have two new working group items OSP control request draft and the newly adopted piece up flows back which which was just posted a few days ago we won\u0027t be talking about the the yang draft this time is there any news or change on that regarding the Younger we made an update the main update was only to add some examples and clarify how the yang model would be used so we added some JSON examples in the appendix apart from that I think the document is quite stable and we would think that it\u0027s time for getting the yang doctors review so not something that maybe we could request now I think I was trying to request yeah so recently we have revived the PC and enhanced errors draft I think the second time of reviving hi man you want to tell us I was progressing actually are quite older doctor has been silent for a half years I practiced these slides I\u0027d years ago and I understand what is already no motivation from the office and now I update the tractor to adding those kinds of new error types that has been developed after the previous working officer job and keep the reference updated can we have like to share with working to see whether we are going to the right direction okay thanks any office from remote in this year\u0027s eg MPLS LSP can give us a status I guess not stapled PCL SP scheduling draft or for that mostly editorial and trying to align to the published RFC in the piece working group more or less I think we need a little bit more reviews we have "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:13:53",
    "text": "not seen reviews for this document so that\u0027s something that we would at this moment asked the working group to have a look and provide some more reviews for this the flow thank you and then finally not on the agenda that we have recently been talking to the office of the PCE staple PC point-to-multipoint draft the authors indicate I was ready for last call the chairs note that so we will place it on the queue for the last call the authors have also requested early allocation of Coe points of our draft because implementations of that will be shipping so the chairs are going to take action on that please email the list if you have any objection otherwise we\u0027ll just go ahead and do that a couple of documents are expired we talked about inter reas applicability already and we talked about the GMP LSP piece of extensions simply expired because it\u0027s ready to go but we\u0027re waiting for shepard comments so don\u0027t be concerned that these are expired and it\u0027s kind of expected that we are hoping that they\u0027ll be revived soon so that\u0027s a working group status any questions for me on on any of that I was having some discussion one point the team of course regarding the segment routing draft so we have our piece of segment of India as you know that we are ready to ship to ilg but we also have BGP tea policy and know where the tea policy works in its space and we also have the piece of extensions there but when we talk to the customers there is this confusion that how does these things work together and there is no space where we have actually discussed that ever so just wanted to like to put this out that this is something that we should within the idea or within the routing area have a little bit clarity on when P policy in BGP work hold that place and then the vendor piece of extension for creating s rero is used that\u0027s never been discussed actually so that\u0027s what I want to do bring it out yeah can you give me a reference to the BGP work but yeah I thought that would be helpful thank you okay is Stuart here all right Stuart I think you\u0027re first on the agenda "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:17:03",
    "text": "yeah that\u0027s first you would you only have a one slider there\u0027s only ones like yes yeah you\u0027re gonna call that good right thank you one of the pals chairs and so she\u0027s a heads up to a number of groups LDP uses TCP md5 for authentication and RFC 59 28 says this is not a good idea and we\u0027ve had some some pushback on extension minor extension drafted to to LVP from the security ATS that\u0027s caused us to look at this so what we\u0027re doing is we\u0027re looking at TCP AO is one option or another option to be decided as a mechanism to replace md5 for message authentication the protocols that we\u0027d like to coordinate with a BGP MSD P and P set and the working groups that we think are in the same sort of space in terms of needing to do something new in security or ID rpm PCE BES RT g WG pals and MPLS so what we\u0027re going to do is we\u0027re going to ask the guidance from the security area and so I\u0027m going to SOG later in the week to explain the problem we\u0027ve got and asked for them to help because I think security area has to be very much part of the the solution we\u0027re going to have a discussion from the routing perspective in the MPLS working group on Thursday morning and we are more than we would more than welcome hallway discussions or other discussions to understand whether this is a real problem that we need to solve in which case we need to persuade the security area that it is not a problem that needs solving or to come up with a solution that is credible for those of us who do routing to the plot to implement and deploy thank you thanks Stuart so yeah and anyone who has an interested in security and or experience with securing P sub please if you have time make time to go to the MPLS meeting and carry on my discussion so tell us is next who was at t--\u0027s yesterday just wondering not everybody okay due to time let me just try to quickly you know skip over the background and can you go what would it be open Smee No so basically this was without you know telling "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:20:04",
    "text": "traditional multicast and fear this is basically the way that arte works in beer to eat you\u0027re sending packets which have bits every bit is pretty much an Edwards of one to 256 indicating an adjacency so basically when you want to send a multicast packet from here to these two receivers the red one you basically have to sit bits number two which is this interface tip number three this interface bit four and five and basically every note looks at the bits that are local adjacencies which in this case this note only looks at two there\u0027s not only at three this at four and five and Ebola you\u0027ll basically get the packet routed on your explicit pass through the network and replicated in the points where you know a note has more than one outgoing interface with a bit set so that\u0027s what we\u0027re talking about here so then basically the way on how in the forwarding plane a sender can indicate that it wants to send a packet to a particular set of destinations without having to bother about the path that takes would be that we do provide the source on the left hand side of the picture with an information about which set of bits to set for every receiver and you know if he wants to add and remove receivers he can basically just or the appropriate bit set for each receiver right because that\u0027s just a superset and that\u0027s what forms the tree right so that\u0027s basically I think very crucial because this type of operation providing a source a sender of br-2 e traffic with the list of you know set of bits for every possible receiver that\u0027s one of the core kind of functionalities where that within the framework of the solution we would probably think would be a core feature for PC so here\u0027s the frame the framework that is in the t\u0027s document so basically we have here what we call the sender PFI our via forwarding ingress router midpoint via forwarding router via forwarding egress and so underneath that we have the via forwarding we\u0027re also thinking about IGP extensions for it and we have underlying for example when we tunnel through a unique house we have segment routing potentially underneath it and the normal IGP and then toward the control plane we\u0027re talking about having PCE controller may be a separate provisioning system or integrate into the PCE controller monitoring and we\u0027re basically talking about what are the different type of protocols of interest one obviously primarily for provisioning is yang and through net contrast con the other of course the PCP which could be used for the provisioning I think rooftop view that\u0027s called PC ECC yep okay and then the other you know just for the dynamic action when a sender says ok I want to have the following amount of traffic to the following set of receivers for example it would get exactly what I said to the last slide a set of fit sets back for every receiver "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:23:05",
    "text": "and he could even individually add and remove the receivers within those bandwidth contract constraints and paths he got back so that\u0027s kind of high-level the outline we want to be in the architecture so flexible that different deployments can choose how much they want to rely on a controller versus the IGP to do things right so the opposite of having a controller do this could be done through the IGP having the sender know the path but I think the solution to do bandwidth management in that case is something we haven\u0027t done I think in the ITF at all right now well of course we have the good older see SPF on the ingress LS ours but we all know what the problems of coordination are in that one so that\u0027s why I think that especially for the dynamic allocation of the bandwidth the PCE controller is going to be the most likely preferred first stage for that now I haven\u0027t gotten a lot more slides about the this this type of traffic stuff right in terms of what are the requests you would send in terms of okay here is the type of receivers I want to hear the Q s things I want to have and here is basically you know the bit strings that you get back for the different receivers that\u0027s really something to be worked out from this part but I would like to maybe walk you a little bit through the topology model which would be used for the configuration of the network because that\u0027s the first thing I\u0027d worked out because that\u0027s something that we most likely need to rely on for anything we\u0027re doing within the controller enough to calculate path and that\u0027s also something that would go into the IGP would be used by the PC ECC for provisioning or in the yang model of provisioning so we also skip here the the beard equivalent so this is basically the the overview of how I feel the topology would be good to be handled right so in the first place the topology is every individual node in the network has a basically topology definition that really defines the local adjacencies right for every bit that is adjacent to this node it defines okay here\u0027s the next hop here\u0027s where you send it layer two next hop or it could be a tunnel and then basically we have one of such table for every 256 bits right because a single packet can have a bit string of up to 256 bit so you have multiple of these tables the superset of all these forms the overall beard to e network topology because you can now build yourself in a PC controller representation of the topology know how it maps to the underlying network topology right either it\u0027s exactly the physical hops or it\u0027s some tunnel through the underlying topology and therefore do calculations in the PCE controller about you know the bandwidth available that you have on the virtual topology by deriving it from the underlying topology that you\u0027re doing it across so the forwarding table is really you know the stripping just all the possible metadata that you want to add to the topology to create additional "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:26:06",
    "text": "functions for example consistency checks and the ability to automatically turn off bits in the topology don\u0027t use them for forwarding because you recognize they\u0027re inconsistent or even you know in the non-pc ECC case automatically configuring some consistence some some adjacencies right but in the end the forwarding cable is exactly the same except for not having metadata and here this this is basically if the ingress router of course has the full network topology it could do the same thing as the PC controller calculating path but of course it doesn\u0027t have typically the they aware nosov the bandwidth in the network so the other part was really saying that we have two instances of the topology one is what is configured or what let\u0027s say the PC ECC determines and then when you bring it down into the network each network device may figure out oh okay there is inconsistency here and there is a subset then of what is being configured that is going to be actually operational right so that\u0027s basically the two instances that you want to look into and obviously for for path calculations you want to use the operational topology so that\u0027s basically for us also a question what is the local decision-making in a network device from what\u0027s being configured / - what\u0027s operational or do we also want to stage in the PC ECC case the operation topology make the decision of that on the PC controller itself so that well the network device becomes a full slave of the PC ECC and basically doesn\u0027t do any local decisions right but very clearly the path calculation must be from what we call the operational topology that\u0027s actually what the bits are being forwarded in right so and here is kind of the abstract away to the to define this that needs to be converted into one of the definition languages we have a for that our roof was telling me one of these things that we use that\u0027s different from yang but basically this is just very high-level abstract right so they are two-bit then a tunnel bit on the receiver side there is a bit to basically say here this is for your receiver this is for traffic in the following BRF and then here and I don\u0027t want the core of defining the topology into the different bits that you have and then maybe attributed them with metadata to provide the logic kind of a little bit intent information so that different systems like a monitoring system a graphical display system they can from the topology learn how to represent it how to Auto configure so they\u0027re a bunch of and that\u0027s in the t\u0027s document that\u0027s a bunch of I think very helpful logical metadata associated with the actual adjacencies right so this was the example of how to reduce the amount of bits by for example having here a bunch of nodes in the network and you really don\u0027t care about replicating in this area you\u0027re just interested to select in your pair some pairs that goes "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:29:08",
    "text": "from here to explicitly one of these five nodes and then from there on into it exactly one of these three nodes and so the midpoints are just unicast it through or with tunnels so that was basically the way on how we\u0027re getting I think very likely to overlay topologies when we\u0027re talking about be R to e so that beauty really is a bunch of replication points you\u0027re interested to have bits for so you can replicate through them and the rest is a bunch of you know segments routing path through the network pop by hub right so that\u0027s basically I think already where I was going to so and I think this was obviously coming from questions to tease so the request reply model would really be what I was mentioning with the bit string set you have on the ingress router the need for a particular traffic to have certain amount of QoS guarantees you obviously would want to send the typical RPC request for these resources now with a set of receivers I\u0027m not even sure if we have for example the model for let\u0027s say rsvp-te point-to-multipoint if it goes through a PC CC for a point-to-multipoint I think that same request would be used just the return data model would not be an arrow but just for every receiver a set of bits right so it could be as easy as adopting and extending that core you know maybe possible first thing to do with the PCC right and that was what I was saying right local decision on controller very easy fits into the existing model local decision on BFI are well yeah everything can be done if anybody is interested please jump up I think this is there the wrong working group for that option right so would love to see that we can start discussing this right so as far as beer is concerned we do have virtue as a working group document but now in February the working group was recharged in before it was kind of experimental and the working group could do everything by itself including extensions to IGP and everything and now being a standard strict working group were asked to basically have all the components of a solution be done in the right working groups which basically means T\u0027s for the traffic engineering architecture is our four IGP extension obviously any of at least that the dynamic is signalling even if not the topology things in yang through the PCE working group right so and I\u0027m looking for guidance and help and so it would be very interested to get feedback and you know interested party to join the effort to defining these things for example on you know extending existing PCE protocol signaling to support beauty yep that I think was it any comments any comments for Taurus you are well ahead of time by the way yeah that\u0027s good I mean thank you for bringing this to our attention I think though it does look like there is some some good overlap both in terms of the area of Technology and also some of "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:32:09",
    "text": "the specific things that we have developed for multicast already in PTA I think you definitely would be interesting for for us and you know particularly the people who\u0027ve worked on multicast in here before now to take a closer look at the the BIA te architecture we should follow the progress and T\u0027s as well but it looks like some some good synergy with with technologies we already have so yeah I think I was very worth worth well presentation and thanks for the input whispers read the draft if I\u0027m asked okay all right so please reach out back to me if you have any questions or so right because I mean this also the first time I\u0027ve written something kind of addressing the traffic engineering community so I\u0027m pretty sure that can be well improved on okay thank you very much Yuen Li is next to talk about staple PCE 3G MPLS networks oh hello this is young Lee I\u0027d like to give you some update on stapler PCE for gmpls basically we made some in a large changes from the previous versions this work has been dead for a while but with you we need to move as stay for PCE for a generic one now become RFC so basically our section two we had some context explain this traps relationship with other drafts and we added one measure ppthe for I\u0027ll be able to indicate a bi-directional core out at LSP in SR key object I think this was triggered by Adrian to suggest based on some compensation in the OPC a list and then we added modification for route exclusion replace a pls PID to a symbolic pass name to the emotional general to the to the dependencies and basically our this document is built on RFC a 231 and pizza for gmpls so I think a pizza for Jane fellows "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:35:11",
    "text": "really need to move after ship weddings comment and in staple PC we have a to LSP operation on its active stable PC the other one is passive or stable PC for the active one you see you know PC update messages sent from PC to PC C to update alerts B and passive on wheels or PC reply request message to a converters computation instruction so so basically we just explained a larger context what message of the impacted by the encoding that we are using from exception TLS and so on so this is just a major knowledge of a small change to be able to express bi-directional core out at LSP by adding one bit in the flag and I saw the objects so I think you know we want to really close on this draft as well but we still have dependency as I said before are still as gentle as extension a one spacer for stateless to in policy is updated we believe that the draft will be stable there are some minor editorial and some issues that we need to tell to it but don\u0027t you like to push toward for the which towards the working group last call thank you so as we get ready to deliver working group last call on this draft it would be really good to see some reviews on the list if people haven\u0027t read it yet and I encourage you to go read this draft if you have an interest in gmpls and letters have any comments because if we need to make changes now is the time to do that and then you know hopefully we\u0027ll you last call on this as soon as we come okay I am true I\u0027ll be presenting updates on various piece of association rods and we have a bunch of them this is basically some of the key ones that we have listed what you see in the middle is the our base Association group draft which has "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:38:11",
    "text": "passed the our working group last call we got some comments from Adrian and Sorrell thank you for that so we have made an update based on that as well and we hope the document will see some progress I will discuss those updates as well so that the working group is aware of those changes as well we have two working group drafts the diversity draft and the policy draft I will give a quick update on that and then we have a bunch of still drafts which are not yet adopted we discussed in the last meeting the protection draft and in at that time we did a informal poll of the working group as well and I think there is interest so we we hope to see this work getting adopted apart from that we have a V an association we have a bidirectional which rakesh presented in the last meeting and we also have the resource sharing that Hyman high Buuren has been taken care of and apart from this as well there are a bunch of other Association documents so this topic is quite important for the working group because they are a bunch of documents coming in in this area so let\u0027s start with the base document so we got again thank you for the comments that we got what are the changes that we did we tried to clarify the role of what\u0027s the role of Association source how do we make sure that once when an association group is really unique and just to add more clarity we created terms like what is an association parameter and what is in Association information this is not a technical change just the editorial change to really clean up the document and try to make sure that the readers are aware of what we are talking about so association parameters are the key information association ID Association source Association type etc and then Association information is the extra tlvs that we carry which is dependent on each of the different Association types that are discarded are created in some other documents so by using this terminology we have tried to clean up the document a little bit also what we did was based on the comments we clarified the relationship to the RSVP Association object and also when the aspec is is used versus when Association is useful and as it\u0027s pretty clear that there is a difference but it\u0027s better to document that as it was suggested we also allowed the Association object in a reply message so that if there is a no path possible if no path is found the PC can indicate that it\u0027s because of this association and along with the no path object you can carry the Association object as well to clearly state that that\u0027s the reason for path failure some error handling also got clarified "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:41:13",
    "text": "and we also added an example how the operator configured Association range will be set just to give a very clear idea of how to use this value so this is a quick update on the base drop and we hope to see this document go to the next step which will be maybe the chef but review now let\u0027s talk about the working group documents and we made updates to both of them before this idea the main of changes were earlier we used to have one TLV we made two tlvs one disjoint configuration which is what is being requested and a disjointness status which says what the pc actually sets up so this gives a very clear information the format of the tlvs is exactly the same it\u0027s only two TLB types to clearly save when it is when the bits represent configuration and when the bits represent the actual status we also added the disjoint objective functions we earlier in the document we were referring this from an another document but that another document some of the content we have now merged into the this document itself so that it can go this is the main reason to add those objective functions so it\u0027s better it\u0027s carried within the Association diversity itself so that\u0027s what you see this has been discussed in the in the working group I think couple of couple of meetings ago which was about domain diversity not domain dua diversity just diversity a different objective functions in case when we as we know that we already had a spec which was clearly saying what diversity we need but when you want to maximize the diversity and I put it as an objective functions those are the things that these three objective functions do in the agenda we also have a new a new draft which helps how to relax some of the constraints so that requirement actually came from this document and instead of solving this as a part of this document we have put it as a generic idea and this discussion happened on the mailing list as well aware this idea were generated so now we have removed that information from this drop and anyway we will discuss how to relax constraints further down in the agenda Stephan will take care of that we also clarified the relationship to aspect now this is the right document to really talk about it because that\u0027s where we are talking about diversity so in the base document we just put a reference that the further discussion about aspect is happening in this document and here we clarified when aspect would be used and when Association would be used and what if both exist then how the PC should behave that is PC should try to find parts "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:44:13",
    "text": "meeting both the constraints both what is being said by the aspect which identifies the requests coming in in this path computation request message as well as any other LSPs which are part of the Association so both are handled via so this is the update for the diversity draft now let\u0027s talk about the policy so again a small change we discussed this in the last time when we presented that this was one of the pending items for us to add a policy parameters TLV because when we allow policy policy usually comes with some parameters that needs to be considered when we are applying the policy so we added this opaque container within the PCF protocol to carry this information and the order the meaning the format all of this is not part of the protocol it\u0027s needs to be set on the two participating piece appear out-of-band in the same way how policy is set out of and we we just carry a policy ID basically in form of an association group ID but what does that policy means is not carried inside the piece of protocol similarly what are the parameters that are used for this policy is not carried within the PCF protocol we just give an opaque container to easily carry this information but we need to make sure that they are appropriate error handling cases since we are allowing it to be carried in our our protocol so those are the things that we have done in this document so that\u0027s the only update with policy now I\u0027ll move to the changes in the in the non working group document and let\u0027s starts with pod protection this was discussed in the last meeting so what is this job it\u0027s basically create an association between working and protection LSP in fact this was the one of the first Association type that was clearly described and this in fact gave the idea that maybe we should have a generic Association object rather than coming up with a mechanism for each different type of Association so this has in fact this same timeline as the the base Association base Association the recent changes we talked about how the disjoint Association which talks about how you do diversity what is the diversity requirement between the protection and the working LSP so that needs to be carried in a disjoint Association and this is about marking what is which is a working LSP and we no protection LSB so this needs to work well with both the Association types so that has been clarified and basically other editorial changes to do link it with what are the recent changes that we did in the Association group document so that\u0027s why we made this update so basically we feel that this ID is quite stable it\u0027s needed it\u0027s implemented and it\u0027s ready for adoption and in fact hopefully to move along with the rest of "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:47:13",
    "text": "the already adopted Association documents I think we can talk about it at the next step and move on with the other Association draft so this is just a listing of some of the other Association drafts and what is their status so the first one was in the AC TM context try to link a bunch of LSPs that belong to the same virtual network and it has a V and Association which also identify for which VN this LS fees were created and some of this information is captured in our via a CDN applicability document etc as well so this dot one is about that no major change only alignment with the rest of the changes that has happened then we have some of the documents that I\u0027m not involved but I\u0027m just listing them with the help of the author\u0027s so that it\u0027s the working group is aware of where there are that one is bi-directional which Rakesh presented in the last meetings and it\u0027s pretty stable no big change it\u0027s already aligned to the Association draft and the changes that we have done in the past we have resource sharing that weren\u0027t presented last time he made an update try to clarify the relationship between when and I are o XR o is used and when you would use resource sharing also of course the sharing and disjointness is two different things so it\u0027s also clarified that part clearly that when is this association used versus there is no sharing one apart from that we also have some other association documents one talks about explicit make before break this has not been discussed since long it was earlier published without Association so authors once the association draft has been updated instead of defining new tlvs and new mechanisms they adopted to the Association group so they they are already on the right track then we had ecmp and multi-layer and those have not been updated since the last time so this is just a list of everything that\u0027s been happening within the Association space in BC working group so next step I think Association group based draft is anyway on the right track it\u0027s anyway moving hopefully we will see it published soon we have working group IDs there have been changes as you as I just mentioned in the in the recent one so we would really appreciate more reviews as well as start the process of moving them towards working group last call once our association based draw gets ready then within the other documents we would really want to see the protection association getting adopted I think there is enough support for that it\u0027s just a matter of getting it done and then we decide the order of importance of what\u0027s being implemented versus "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:50:13",
    "text": "what\u0027s being useful etc for the rest of the documents that we see and decide the order in which we want to progress this so that\u0027s just a suggestion from my side and off to chairs and the working group thanks Chris let\u0027s stay on the slide so so update from me I think the Association group draft having passed last call needs a shepherding so I think I\u0027m in rotation next to do the shepherding I look at that it\u0027s ready - I agree it\u0027s ready to move on once we get that moved then we look at the last call for the vehicle working group IDs as you say so I don\u0027t see any any anything blocking those obviously more reviews are always got the more reviews the better the easier it is to Shepherd a draft if you can point to reviews and say I - people have looked at this rather you know it\u0027s just been written and shipped adoption I think I have to apologize for the protection association draft that\u0027s America fallen down the cracks since the last meeting but we should have pulled that for adoption already up and we agreed to do that so I\u0027ll do that as soon as possible after this meeting and then yes I should say for the others I think there\u0027s a process of working out the order I think I think actually the question has already been asked for at least two of these on the the page in terms of what interest there is I think we we saw decent interest in the binder and the resource sharing I don\u0027t remember asking the question about the N Association I\u0027m not sure if now is the right time to do that but this isn\u0027t really a I think we actually have plenty of things of a queue already but yeah I\u0027m happy to discuss with you and the other authors what the right order for asking these questions would be if there\u0027s any dependencies between these drafts it would be good to know that otherwise I think I just take them in the order they arrive is that sound like okay does anyone have any questions - Dhruv comments on any of these drafts observations about this work in general I mean I think this is generally a key piece of protocol for peace app you know the concept of associating paths was fairly loosely defined and this really formalized as that and as soon as we formalized that we find we actually have loads of different applications for it and so we have loads of different drafts making use of it but just underlines the importance of getting my base association group draft absolutely bang-on because we have a lot of work coming on top of it which which relies on it we don\u0027t really need to publish "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:53:13",
    "text": "that and then fighter actually we need to do a change to it you know in a year\u0027s time that would be pretty painful to do so let\u0027s try and put the the working groups focus as much as possible please on that Association group draft I\u0027m getting improved RFC will get the Shepard review done and once that\u0027s done then hopefully we will look everything else alright thank you so you are the next one so I\u0027ll be talking about stateful HPC so just a quick recap this is basically a marriage between HPC framework which was been there and the stateful PC basically haha righty of stateful PC so you have a parent PC and child PC who are both stateful then what will be the interaction between them how the message exchange that already exists between PC and PC works seamlessly between child PC and parent PC so this is basically an informational document we don\u0027t have any extensions here we just kind of note down clearly how these interactions are happening how the report message is the big message initiate message that already exists works between parents parents staple PC as well as the child PC and we also talked about end to end LSPs because anyway that\u0027s has always been the key but in in the context of a CTN the domain LSP and setting up of LSP is in each domain and somehow linking them and stitching them to form n 2 and LSP that\u0027s also being described in this document the actual stitching there are other documents which describes how how to do that some of which were discussed in the past in the working group as well so that\u0027s a quick recap what did we do in all this time basically this work was adopted after Chicago since then we have made sure that the document is well aligned as our other RFC\u0027s got published and whatever the changes that were made there during publications are reflected here we clarified the scope because and clearly said that we support both end-to-end LSP as well as per domain LSP and whether we are setting up into an rsvp-te thing or whether we are doing per domain though this this framework works for both we also added a details regarding how to use the existing path key mechanism to make sure that the confidentiality is taken care as which is already there in other messages like request apply but how what role they play in the report initiate an update message as well and idea being that whether we have ero how "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:56:14",
    "text": "we can hide them using the pathway object so that\u0027s been described as a consideration in the document because that\u0027s something we need to worry about since in the context of into domain things so basically the documents has been stable there are implementations that this had been shown in the past in hackathon and and bits and bytes events as well so basically this document is quite ready to progress as well but we also have this document which is our basic stateless HPC so until we kind of publish this moving directly to stateful HPC would not make sense so we need to work this document as well I\u0027m not an author of this document but we kind of worked with authors to make the changes and so that both of them can be progressed quickly so basically what is this document based on our RFC 66 805 which describes the HPC framework this document provides in extensions describes what changes needs to be made to piece up focusing on the request and reply messages in in scope for HPC if just a reminder that there was a discussion on the mailing list and a request made that this work though it was experimental in the past we moved it to standards track after confirmation on the mailing list so which is very well appreciated and there was a one pending item which was the domain diversity thing which was there in an other individual drought so we kind of Club this in into the HPC context because that\u0027s where it\u0027s useful so a new flag in s Beck which kind of marks that apart from nordlingen SR algae we also are looking for domain diversity and similarly an OS code that maximized the domain diversity so those are the this is the only big technical change and this update apart from that the content has been remain the same but since this document has not been discussed just wanted to give a quick recap what are the basic extensions that this document actually talks about you need capability advertisements talking about whose parent whose child what what role they are playing that\u0027s during the piece of open message exchanges Utah we have extension which talks which carries which domain a particular child PC is serving in form of a domain ID TLV carried in an open message that\u0027s the that\u0027s the one that you are seeing here then a flag in an RP object that says that this request is HPC request if you may remember there are similar flags for VSP T used in B RPC so this is used for HPC so a new flag for that the Oh F courts and SFX Lacs is the changes that I just talked about there were some Oh F quotes which were already existing so we just added one new but there are other other Oh F coats which were already defined there were metric types which were defined in this document errors and "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:59:15",
    "text": "no paths so new error codes and no path conditions that Y path was not fun some new code points for that and it has an implementation status and so this document has been there from within the working group for a while I think it\u0027s stable here as well implementation exists and I think as it was already pointed out in the in the chair status that this document should be moved so if you have not looked at this document in a while please do that and hopefully these two documents can be moved together and they are the basis of a lot of other work within the working group as well so that\u0027s about it from myself thanks true it\u0027s good to see that the base HPC extensions is revived and that you know if some work has been done to you know fix for the pending action item in that draft now I see is revived I think it was already in the queue for last call we were just waiting for a live draft now we\u0027ve got one so we can last call that you\u0027re absolutely right that we can\u0027t really move to last call the this day for version until we\u0027ve until we\u0027ve got through there I won\u0027t suggest we merge the drafts at this point I think we should keep the way they are but it\u0027s but like let\u0027s do them in that order and I want to make sure we flush out any comments or concerns from the iesg on on the base HPC draft before we try and do anything with the staple version yeah alright any comments or questions from the room you\u0027re required today alright thank you drew thank you yeah oh this is um again sorry that I got there too often this is applicability or PCE for a CTN basically it is kind of entity and architecture reference architecture you know some of you have seen many times I like to just highlight that in T\u0027s working group entity and requirement and framework and info model now all of them have as the working group last "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:02:16",
    "text": "current now is in the publication request stage so so that\u0027s basically I sit here and pizza how they are similar in AC T and M DHCP NC relationship is equivalent to parent EC and charity C and hierarchy of controllers basically addressed by HPC and tunnel instantiation by controllers it actually PC initiated methods by PCE and MDS a multi domain coordination stateful HPC so we have quiet resemblance in may not be the same but definitely PC can be applicable for implementing a CT n HT TN has another applicability which is young models which have which has advanced quite a bit at this moment but likewise I think Pizza can be applicable to entity and without changing anything here actually so this is basically a stateful HPC hierarchy Carter pcs with parent PC aware of LSPs and 2n and domain level and and as drew protoman stitch it LSP the solution is actually available already and so if we want to build topology at MDRC or parent pc yeah there\u0027s unless a report message that can carry that information from bottom up to be able for the parent ECE be able to construct topology and the VN instantiation is actually what a parent is he can use pc initiate message to instantiate a multi domain alice piece and and Toto main report also can be facilitated by pc report message and VN modify or pc update message can to update any changes on the other spheres and being delayed like words physician assistant the same thing so basically the point is that this document is useful to understand how PCE architecture and pizza extensions come together to implement a CTN and ICT and "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:05:19",
    "text": "framework is now in RF RFC request stage so i don\u0027t think we have much dependency on other document because this is just informational to describe our pisser can be applied and all those component of pizza is in place already so we\u0027d like to ask if this working group and if this document can move to next stage thank Sean and I\u0027m just interested who here has read the ACC at applicability draft okay that\u0027s a reasonable spread of people I guess there were about ten so so young I I know that the the document is stabilized you\u0027ve been working on it for a while so it\u0027s good to see that I think that we can put it in the queue for last call we can we can talk about we can talk about where it goes in the queue I think that there are a few things maybe coming first but we definitely see that this is probably ready to go forward Thanks and by the way if anyone is interested in shepherding this truck than by all means tell me afterwards be grateful for the help on that step on so I\u0027m Stephan from a range so drew already introduced it this document when talking about the Association diversity when we were walking about on this association diversity draft we had a requirement of being able to relax with diversity constraints in case there is no possibility to find some Dijon pass and when we just absolutely want to other paths so we came with a solution after some discussion on the main image this is the solution that is quite generic so it can work really the Association object or whatever constraints that we have annoyed in Pisa so yeah the idea is to reuse a mechanism which already exists in the stateless PC implementation so we RFC 54:40 which is based on the P and I flag so we have P "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:08:21",
    "text": "flag which can tell that a particular object is optional or not and we have the AI flag which is able to tell that the a particular object has been ignored during the path computation on the in the stateful PC RFC we currently say that these flags are unused so we must be set to zero and ignored on recept so we don\u0027t have this ability to have optional objects today so the idea is to is to reintroduce both flags in those context of the state full PC so one example so we have the one with the diversity when we want to relax a particular Association object so we can set the P flag or unset the PFLAG to said that to say that it is optional and we set it to say that it is mandatory we can also do it for example for other objects like the metric object if we want to for example computer path which is based on the delay metric we can also want to relax this constraint if we are not able to to find the path without the boundary as I have said in the object solve the extension in order to be able to reintroduce both flags in the state whole PC we are proposing to introduce a new capability just to ensure that we are backward compatible with the existing stateful pci RAC so the idea is to have a capability will tell about more about this later and then we are defining out we are ending the P\u0026ID flags in the different messages so what is this capability so we are just adding a new bit in the state for a PC capability glv which we can call the relaxed bit and if both and setting the relaxed bit we can use the new procedures to get the benefit ins of the P\u0026I flags and if someone is not setting via relaxed bit we are falling back to the existing procedures which are to ignore the P\u0026ID flags so in terms of processing room it\u0027s quite simple so regarding the PFLAG in the pc report we can use it to tell the PC that the particular object is optional or mandatory in the path computation and when using it in the PC update and PC initiate message we can modify or tell the TCC that a particular object must be "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:11:23",
    "text": "used during the path the path setup we ignore flag it\u0027s a bit similar so when for example a PCC is setting an object as optional using the PFLAG the PC can reply with a PC update with a flight with a particular path that has been computed telling with the I flag that this particular object has been taken into account or if it has been ignored so we know the PCC will know if a particular object has been used in the pair computation or not in the PC report we can also use the I flag to tell to the PC that a particular object has been used or not to join your path setup and for the PC initiate message it does not have any usage it does not have any good meaning so it\u0027s not just so by reintroducing the P\u0026I flag for the state full PC we are also able to enter unknown object so today if an object is not supported by the PC we may have a new PC or that that will be sent now we can tell that a particular object is optional so we can compute a path without taking every subject into into account so this is our proposal to be able to relax some constraints in the case of stateful PC so the question is is it the right approach to use is it also a good problem to solve based on the description that we are on the mailing list it seems that this was a problem that needs to be solved that then is it the right approach to use Adrian Farrell it\u0027s absolutely a problem to solve yes what you have is a solution and is what\u0027s like a solution and what\u0027s running through my head is whether you end up needing to trade options in a much more flexible and therefore horrible way you know you can write you can rank them you can you can give each option a boolean but then you start to say what these two go against this one hmm this one\u0027s slightly higher priority at this percentage and and I agree but you can you can see that on a GUI but don\u0027t "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:14:24",
    "text": "you have already the same issue is a stateless a PC yes it just gets worse so yeah I think it would be a perfectly reasonable starting point for the working group but we might need to play with it okay thank you for comment are we done sounds like it yeah I agree with you and Adrienne this is a problem we need to solve I personally think that this approach is fine for me I agree but in time there may need to be more flexibility but for now I don\u0027t see an immediate need for that so you know this speaking is not as the chair of this look but just as an individual it seems like the right duration to take this can ask question actually relationship between this and the previous relaxed constraints draft that I think you\u0027ve presented maybe a couple of times ago yes maybe this was not my draft as I don\u0027t remember it we came with a solution in the association diversity draft which was to create a I remember correctly a TLD with the object that had been ignored but this was not really for us this was not good track okay right I think that\u0027s what I was thinking of because yeah we can reuse something that is already existing yeah yeah we are just reviving those cracks okay yeah well I think we keep it simple that\u0027s the best thing from my point of view okay thank you Stefan that explains answer is young John from duty my presentation is about the PSAP extensions for as RTP let works and there as RTP networks is the reason for the requirement is that the insulin working group from way who has described the draft about the spring as segment routine the a trusted name is a spring as the RTP use cases it describes the use case of segmented routine Turner to be destroyed in "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:17:24",
    "text": "amperes transport profile so we there s are defined as RTP networks it means the segmented routine technology in MPLS TP let work so based under as RTP use cases my document if on a general mechanism to create under bidirectional as our turner in SRTP lat works with PC and we propose a set of extensions to be set for SRTP lat works lectures look at their authority scenario with the PC the figures show that the PC with PN calculate calculates the end-to-end as our passes and a dime to order the segment a list and the Alicia\u0027s earth as our paths on a PCC and their PCC as our load um just as everyone know the pizza has and as our a segmented routine extensions with derpy staff protocol but the our network is different with SRTP andr most the most important difference is the SRTP it\u0027s from the MP RTP and you\u0027re it it\u0027s required to create an fie directional LSP so we define the two scenario use case with PC the first one is the cold duty the bidirectional SRTP SOP Esther figures show the PCE will a leisure the bi-directional Astarte PSP from a waster PCE initial message we can see the PC we all send PC leisure message to the ingress and egress separately and to Elisha SRTP else SRT PSP the in the SR lateral interest RTP network the from A to E and H or a tester forward direction under the PC may assign her aside the list like from A to B to C to D to e under the cited list is the PCT e is the fourth "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:20:26",
    "text": "direction and the reverse direction is from the same path but is the reverse and mr. e - t - C - B - a and the SI t lists a 30 CPA touch the tooth Direction no Elsa P we lead our past label to bank and there too directional pass and the solution was defined in green were a working group and today it is called the past segment they say stir call a rooty the bi-directional SRTP approach progress let us look at the associative by directional SRTP LSP and the figure is similar with the before there are not one but it is different the forward direction is the same but the reversed the direction path is different with forward direction matter sico show the fall direction the aside e-list is the piece CTE and the reverse direction is f 2 GH a and we also leader past label to found the two direction but the difference is that the two interaction enthalpy can be created from different piece AP message in this scenario the other piece can be Alicia by PCC all can be assured by PCE the two directional SS are TPS earth peace may be associated by association object as defined in the PC Association piti are the trapped this is this are this pure scenario is other this case with the PC in SRTP networks so the pistas extensions is lead for the bi-directional the first one is the bi-directional XP and third extension has pre has been presented by young Lee just now the leafless of the SRP object lead to defined to indicate a bidirectional SP operation in the occur due to the by rapid bi-directional SP so the last one we define a SRTP er all "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:23:26",
    "text": "extension as we know segment routing extension has been defined in a signal routing pick up extension to threat but we define another bidirectional turner because the SR extension is just in the elite directional scenario so for bi-directional Turner will lead to define the bi-directional terminal information in the ER oh so we extend SR year old to you nectar we go show their st we extend the a society type an ad or a psyche type to indicate the type of information associated with their past label under the we add our feet drop it is reverse flag indicate indicator as our past direction if our when there are is that it means the past label is the reverse direction so this is world us scenarios with TPP and the extensions with the PSF and the last step we will do more research about the srt previous case and more extensions for as our TP else else P so comments and discussion it\u0027s working hi sir agent Farrell I think the this you\u0027ve got something here okay but you have got something good here but I\u0027m getting confused by what SRTP actually is yeah and I wonder whether you you need that name at all I think you just have SR LSP yeah yeah right the s r TP is a Lu Network we defined just means the segment routine technology in MPL TP networks so we call at RTP for shot yeah so I understand that but then I\u0027m gonna have to step back and say what is MPLS TP yeah a thin I think what you\u0027re after is central control yeah yeah central controls yeah management program yeah and that is essentially what the PCE approach to programming the head ends of "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:26:27",
    "text": "yeah SR LSPs is all about so yeah there\u0027s I understand a marketing reason for calling it SRTP but let\u0027s try to not confuse ourselves here with what we\u0027re doing and then I want to ask in the general case does the tunnel in both directions have to be identical technology to your use case you have s are one way s are back again yeah Colby\u0027s draft has got MPLS swapping one way an MPLS swapping the other way now could we have a an employee less environment where we go sr one way and come back on a on a conventional LSP I think we might although I don\u0027t know what the use case is so in doing this work it might be nice just to always have in your head let\u0027s just pointed another Tunnel not worry about what type of channel it is okay thank you I can agree with what Adrienne was saying and the idea being we already have the s bi directional Association you have sr ero even the extensions that are proposed here it\u0027s not really clear of what the what\u0027s the benefit of that and it isn\u0027t this already possible by what we already have if we have an SR ero which carries the path and you can associate it in bi-directional way carrying this path label as a new SR ero sub-object that value is not clear to me but if you have the use case maybe you can explain why this is needed why a new art label thing is needed and wouldn\u0027t the Association itself can correlate the two directions Himanshu from Siena so I have a comment on Adrienne\u0027s tepee usage I think that MPLS TP is well understood mostly means co-wrote I mean not corroded but bi-directional you need to educate yourself i but what drew also said is that you know do we do we really have to do you really need something here additional oil it can be possible with what whatever we have if you are going to configure on both ends the forward and the reverse LSP what ad is no thing you need right do do both ends know that this is a bi-directional LSP and if one "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:29:27",
    "text": "goes down the other goes down and all that stuff the OEM and all that that goes with the transport profiles right so I don\u0027t know but I think I yes I think the requirement may be longer list to craft a stream MPs path segments because the segmented routine has is the newly direction and in MPs TP way lead s are the Phi direction is our so the the SR is is a unique direction or and under the s ID list is the one direction but we lead to founder to direction and there\u0027s the graph to define a path label chip and the direction so the past label is Li it is required in the segment a routine network as well it is not required in piece F but we lead to design it and they\u0027re spent atutor SR load so we extend the path past level and define the the the new macaron I mean question so cough label is that that\u0027s the key thing with this sorry God fighting from and how decorate their outfits and to the pig pig to you - okay - the document very introduced to statements the state the price are a problem and I network architecture using our controller not the heat pads computation elements and your computation computation element and the kissing entities is a cooperation here maybe introduce a lot of difficulties well implementation to the real network what do you think about and so what\u0027s the difference between your computer implement this architecture or PPE be able architecture what\u0027s a reference enter what are the other one hit you send is a lotta juice thank you it\u0027s too fun mostly when you I don\u0027t know what your application that this is but mostly when you\u0027re running "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:32:28",
    "text": "MPLS T thing you\u0027re running a pseudo are over MPLS T carry a little something like that in which case the suitor white label gives you a perfectly by way of binding the two halves together sorry earth clear with your your question why you need a pathway why you need an additional path label I think I think what people are wondering about mostly here is why why the requirement of the additional path label and why do we why do we need to add that when we already have the s rero telling us the path end to end and and it\u0027s after so it\u0027s not quite clear to me it would be a good idea of a draft decks we kind of explained that specific point about why that is needed because you\u0027ve lost we labels by the time this thing has got to the destination because this is SR right so normally you could tell from the LSP label what the LSP was or from the pseudo Isle a blip is there what the context was if they\u0027re just doing it with SL they\u0027ve lost that so they do need something but quite at the time the pseudo why they I was going to say that usually that would be the payload of whatever goes over the LSP so the pseudo I\u0027ll label or the the l3 VPN label maybe tepees changed since I worked on it yeah okay okay thank you very much thank you for the comments and any more detailed discussion with your work on offline thank you so it\u0027s Tonia they arrived yet no he has I was just gonna do it from the agenda you were hoping for hello everyone this is a an update of a draft that we presented a couple of IETF meetings ago with a good content about wrong message so we decided to fine-tune "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:35:30",
    "text": "a little bit let\u0027s start with with the ricotta since you you\u0027ve not heard about it for a while RSC 55:41 define an objective function that is really useful which is maximum residual bandwidth for paths it is very useful because it allows to compute paths maximizing the minimum value of the visible bandwidth and returning the path with the largest bottleneck but what\u0027s the problem this is an objective function not a TI metric so the value cannot be returned in addition to that it only deals with the physically available bandwidth and it doesn\u0027t take into account priorities so all in all it\u0027s not possible to put constraints on the bottleneck of the path proposal the proposal is to define two new metrics to be used in a piece of pottery surveyed bandwidth at a given priority so adding priority to the reservable bandwidth not the physical one and the path residual bandwidth which will be returned as result of the party competition the first one is the minimum value of the eraser and with at death at a given priority among all the links along the path you will need to read the digit 2 or 3 times had to understand what it means the second one is the minimum value of the free physical bandwidth among all the links in in the path so why defining these two new things first of all because T matrix R can be returned as a result of the path computation and answer can be used to know how much traffic can be still routed over that path that was just computed and in addition to that it allows optimizing a path against the are reserved it or residual bandit and last but not least trying to prevent bottlenecks in the network so changes between the first version and this one as I said the focus was was moved this was presented as something that was sort of mandatory in hierarchical PC scenarios and so on they the goal is now not to mandate this anymore in fact that this is defined as in applicability scenario as a use case where potentially these extensions can be can be used again the focused is more is moved from a logical path computation "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:38:31",
    "text": "to the definition of a new met new matrix and particular two sections have been updated we added a section called the mode of operations which describes how these metrics are used within the metric object and procedures are defined as Wella well the only meaningful thing that the section says is that no changes to procedures and use cases a new action on use cases is described with applicability to a CDN and Iraqi capital computation changes to the protocol this is very long and boring I put it as light therefore who as with curious to see how these metrics are defined and used while I would like to spend a few seconds on encoding this is very very simple it\u0027s that geometric types are defined and added to the metric object they are expressed in a bytes per second and actually define the four four PS TSE technologies so in case this is something that is useful and there is the willingness to extend this to layer 0 layer 1 alarm that diiemma whatever it\u0027s it\u0027s very simple to extend it the priority is is not encoded in the in the in the object but it\u0027s inherited from the palace ta object Samiha next steps so with the new modification it is something very simple and the no dependence is at all on any other object or extensions it can be no atomic used to know how much traffic can be still routed on a path that has just been computed and as it\u0027s a helpful to prevent network bottlenecks is there any interest in the working group to work on this oops this is what it was you\u0027re a passionate man thanks Danny and inside whose by show of hands who\u0027s read the latest version of this draft a new one that Daniel it is presented yeah ok so as a half-dozen people read it who is interested in working on this problem in PCE okay yeah four or five four and a half okay so I I\u0027m happier with the new presentation of the requirement I think "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:41:32",
    "text": "it makes more sense to me as a reader I think there\u0027s there\u0027s some my looks like mild interest but interest is there to work on this I guess I\u0027d be interested to to confirm that on the list and see whether you know there is interest in taking this further forward but yeah I think the technical requirement makes more sense now I think it\u0027s clearer so thank you for Reese pinning that next any other I don\u0027t mind haha so this is the the the second front will present a operating for our consideration the PGP equation for native IP network so here I just give a quick look for local bank for a background of the peace education so we held kill the scenario and the solution for the traffic engineering unit white network and the drug had been adopted that he\u0027s working his WJ document so currently we have seen without the help of the PCs new controller it is not easy to meet the co of the end and end request also in our network so we propose the foreign in solution the firstly the deployment the 18 control in our network new IP network the segment the fidelity and contrary we are responsible for the complex the past the character calculus algorithm and after its calculation it will send out the devout hood to Allah to show her we just sent to cooking information the first thing is real popular popular traffic provided by the different PT possessor and secondly the vou the pc is named convert oh man you feel manipulated apart for the pdb next hawk of these critics so here is the properer for the PDP equation we want to use the PCP to do the Fallen c-walk firstly the the beauty and different VDP says a dynamic land directly the secondly the popular "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:44:32",
    "text": "tip when the prefix um so video popular some for example um pieces and pull tow to populate the normal normal traffic terrific\u0027s and you know another BGP session and to transfer the different traffic prefix as I sorry the video manual purely to the Past will be next Hawk to the on-demand based on our networks the Oct Orissa so basically only requirement there are three object it would be transferred here I list the video notifying the PCB object so grant to the defendant PDP object away they also sync the how to Treasuries object there are two abroad to approach approach it is similar with the LSP innocent liquid and equation similarly the PC and it\u0027s the LSP so we do think Gregory the objectivity and LSP in is the request message the secondly the verify my new CD are related until the quest message so if we select the approach grant will finish this work the process will be very similar with that the procedure defined in RFC 82 80 81 so if we if we selected a protocol we must defined the new procedure opportunity also similarly the procedure defining unitarity and approachable it will use the used I\u0027ve I plan to for the capability goes Asia and the operative on to find some new flag for the capability negotiation so considering implementation of what is the object we think every user there we did not focus on mainly the newly defined objectivity not considered the procedure but you create and define the selected or protocol we define the new currency new concept a new procedure but maybe multi-disc increased with ll control a opinion is the RSP currently we are preferred to select approach ba and I single disc in select a compete the escalator with with device vendor for the implementation so so here I just "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:47:33",
    "text": "want to ha it in our to otherwise GG adopt and you if so under which overture which publisher our approach and to treasure a newly defined object is better so we can discuss the online or offline okay okay so first of all if anyone has any comments and then please go to the mic No so I think this is the second time that I John has presented this is that right I was young second time and so the first time this was presented we had a discussion about the overall problem that was being solved here this is effectively um an application of PCA which is a little bit outside of what it\u0027s been used for previously this seems now to be more towards using PCE to take to decisions in an IP only network so we asked about time that the work we discussed also in T\u0027s from an architectural standpoint I think that the t\u0027s has been discussing this and I see some work adopted in T\u0027s now to progress that architecture so so thank you for we got instruction and taking by the way to the tea so I think that the time now is right to ask in PCE whether we we want to consider taking this protocol work on so I think I\u0027ll probably want to ask a few questions here of the audience the first question is who here is aware of this work already and is aware of a work that\u0027s been done in teas around this this space who\u0027s actually been following this in tease anyone in this room yeah all right so this may be 10 people so goodbye gives me some confidence of people are paying attention to this problem the next question is who would like to see us adopt this this draft into the working group and work on this problem on solving this problem in PCA who would like to see this adopted I think I see eight I think I see eight hands also so yeah that\u0027s that\u0027s a good subset I then finally is there anyone here who would not like to see us work on this problem fingers but this is not something we should be working on so I have some criteria can\u0027t discuss "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:50:37",
    "text": "that or offline yeah I don\u0027t see anyone raising their hands not wanting to work on this so so that\u0027s that\u0027s a good start okay so I think the next step is that we we take this to the list and then we we pull the working group to see if if this is something we want to adopt okay thank you we\u0027re of a blue sheets please you wave if you see the blue sheets I hope they\u0027re somewhere come on they must be here someone who has a blue sheets how awesome thanks drew so who needs to does anyone else need to sign the blue shoes please so the less the last thought is me and I want to give an update on what we learned from the the piece of SDN discussion if you remember last year around about after the summer I started the thread on the PC mailing list to ask about basically the the overall scope of the working group the the context of this was that increasingly in PCE people are bringing more work into the working group which take PCE away there\u0027s a protocol away from its original purpose of sort of client-server as for a path get a response and more towards a full-blown control the protocol and there was a sense to which I was worrying about mission creep here and I wanted to get some sort of confirmation and explicit discussion about that this is the direction that we are consciously going in and how far do we go so I want to share what I\u0027ve learned and then I want to sort of take stock of where that leads to various proposals that the people have brought to the working group so I think what we learned from them and "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:53:41",
    "text": "thank you everyone who engaged but I had a real real good feeling from the the responses that I got back people really engage with the question I think I think we did manage to conclude several things although it was a fairly long but open-ended discussion we did conclude that fairly obviously using P sub for Sdn like function is reasonable is happening and has actually already happened I think we can\u0027t say that this is outside the scope of a working group when actually for the years we\u0027ve been working on this so so it was it was a fairly obvious conclusion when we\u0027re going to come to but anyway at least explicitly made it that that is that is what we should be doing in terms of what people\u0027s goals are for this type of extensions of the protocol the goals really I think are that I heard were to offer an alternative to other southbound protocols in banette work like an alternative for a controller to problem at work out a program Network elements versus Netcom or open flow in some environments PCF is a way that people want to do that and that\u0027s and that\u0027s what\u0027s really being motivating the these extensions what it\u0027s not trying to do is replace anyone\u0027s control plane there\u0027s no sense in which we\u0027re saying throw away the control plane image issues PCE what we\u0027re all we\u0027re really saying is it\u0027s an alternative to the SPI protocols so I think those things became clear as the discussion went on what is happening well if both before during and after that discussion some Sdn features have already been adopted published even so the staple PCE is clearly the thing which we\u0027ve started all this us now an RSC PCE initiated LSP is also now an RFC we have drafts in various stages the the LSP control request draft which we adopted into the working group one ITF ago pc flow spec which we\u0027ve only just adopted into the working group the pc ECC work going on in t\u0027s so this is all going ahead so so we are actually making good headway on this there was disagreement quite a large disagreement on the scope of how far we take the Sdn features and and there obviously the the main bone of contention was piece of LS and whether that is something that is good for the working group or not there were several passionate arguments on either side but I think that the situation for that remains unclear so I think we have to tackle that head-on really it\u0027s the next step of this discussion "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:56:42",
    "text": "what about P sub LS so I think we need to clarify the situation and I think we need to put it to bed once through a legal way we need to take a decision about this and we\u0027ve heard a lot of arguments I think that one possible way forward would be most just Paul for adoption and see if people support it but I\u0027m pretty certain that if I did that then we just hear the same arguments but I\u0027ve already heard and I\u0027ll still be just as confused about whether there is consensus or not I don\u0027t think that would represent progress I do think we need to finish the debate on those open points about P sub LS it seems to me that there\u0027s a disconnect that there\u0027s a proponents of saying you know we need this there\u0027s operational requirement we absolutely have to have it and then the people are against it saying just the opposite actually there is no requirement we don\u0027t need it so I want us to finish our debate and I want to understand personally where the disconnect is coming here I want to put some new energy into that as of this meeting I think it kind of they kind of got left on the mailing list and they\u0027re never really closed down I\u0027m going to summarize what I think the key objections to adopting peace FLS were on the next slide I\u0027m also going to send the summary of the whole discussion that we had to the mailing list because clearly the discussion has to happen on the list although I\u0027m also happy for the description to happen right now as long as we have time to have it so I think why peace MLS hasn\u0027t progressed further than it has I think these are the three main things which I which have been raised against it there are some significant doubts raised over the technical requirement people point out there are at least three other ways of getting link states of a controller IG PBG pls Netcom we know this I don\u0027t think this yet being a convincing demonstration that there\u0027s a real operational context in which none of those methods can be used and that PCE has to be used instead and I think that\u0027s really the main thing where they\u0027re still disconnect the second concern is whether we actually need a multi vendor solution here is there actually an interoperability requirement but we need to standardize for is there effectively more than one bender than Easter to have this technology put out there there were many people responding to the threat it wasn\u0027t very clear to me which arguments were academic and who actually has product they want to share but I think that this is actually a relevant question to be asking we do have an RFC now for experimental code points does that solve a problem I "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:59:43",
    "text": "think that\u0027s a question we should ask as well and then finally kind of on a more technical side I think Jeff tonzura raised here today that we haven\u0027t really demonstrated PC has the right scalability properties for this type of application of his concern was BGP LS there\u0027s not an BGP which is shown to scale to large volumes of data is PC the right vehicle for that type of data also we had a similar discussion about the auto bandwidth adjustments and sort of on-the-fly monitoring of bandwidth changes were concerns from JP back in several eyes you have to go now about what the PC is really scalable I think I think that that\u0027s also a something that we should at least have a think about the costs it seems like a you know it\u0027s something we would want to be sure that this is the right protocol to use so for whatever time we have left I\u0027m interested in feedback now and then feedback on the list it\u0027s not a fair summary of where we\u0027ve got to or not if not please come and give me feedback can we this debate now can we progress it on the list is there more information that we can share in order to you know make progress on this disconnect that people have that\u0027s the end of my status but please give me some feedback somebody has to talk so it might as well be me it\u0027s Adrian Farrell I find this really hard okay because I can see I can see the reasons for and against I was an author on BGP LS and that time was not completely convinced that it was the right approach have you talked to anyone in the Operations community about this like for example an ad I have not and that is probably a good idea isn\u0027t it I mean obviously we\u0027ve had input from operators but people from the ops area will you know oddly be wise people to ask I am NOT I\u0027m not sure that they can actually answer the question that they may be able to say well if you\u0027re building an operational protocol for sucking loads of gloop out the network these are things to think about maybe okay thanks go out to the input thank "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "02:02:46",
    "text": "you very much and any anything that helps us move this board is its debate for this is a good thing I real being properly so I think that that\u0027s the reckoning the summary I have some comments so the first one i i i to some extent I don\u0027t have to read that so there\u0027s a matter of choice for macro choice we were regarded the PDP P 17 states because the first the the IDP was an exchange and we wanted to use the IDP we may be the controller under the device so they are smoky hob we want to use the IDP we have to set up a tunnel to direct the connect either the controller under the device yeah I think that they the reasons why I GP might not be suitable are fairly well understood by now and I think it would be good to have a the same level of understanding I\u0027ll be over to why not why not BG pls why don\u0027t that go the second a usual Netcom I sing of the Netcom would have done the same for you sir the the performance of the other note is just not a good enough to satisfy the requirement complete a comparative we will be reinstated ITP under the p17 state so I think that we regarded this one I think that the only the the the candidate we will Ricardo we will be regarded the g17 state you have a trust that he keeps in a state that\u0027s my in my point under the secondary is before the market vendor my question I think that yes because I sing the controller and maybe the sort of heartiest the device the device the user the the device that you were either also you the different of vendor so and also maybe I seem definitely in our the experiments based on our experiments there is not other scenarios the operators you know the pvp for some ifs that we are scared of of GDP that\u0027s my point yeah I think by the way stepping out of this for a moment as chair I think I have to cut the mic after how men so as we were basically out of time here but yeah I\u0027ve heard that operators are scared of BGP and I know BGP scared that BG pls is not quite a full BGP stack I "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "02:05:49",
    "text": "think to ship state from the device up to a controller on bt pls doesn\u0027t mean that you need to have the full-blown BGP policy engine it doesn\u0027t maybe you have to have a Paquette a mash of bgp no to configure them the monitored in your network it\u0027s it\u0027s kind of simpler than that you can actually do it with a fairly small module of code because all you\u0027re really doing is shipping data up to a to a server but I understand the saying BGP to an operator can provoke a a reaction that you did not intend yep okay I mean if you keep it to a minute please because we\u0027re absolutely calm you know probably think of her summarizing the list I think it covers the most awful technical point but to me actually I understand that there are some similar approaches to do the same thing but I\u0027m wondering whether a number of other ways would be a affecting whether we leave this technical or not personally I think people all agree that there is a functionality required for path computation and we will use the PC to do this but actually they are so weak wrestling state actually is a kind of preparation on all contracts with the database and the Enders might make the PCB prepare to to compute the path correctly so absolutely is that proposal of PC PRS is not trying to replacing an existing technologies but so we just don\u0027t want to probe for keep an option that we can\u0027t leave we can do this kind of stuff you know and it means that PC need to work together with other kind of protocols in the literature together to complete the whole selves and actually although we have another Guardian she can work in groups talking about how the different protocol works with each other for different specific scenarios on for example the power connection connection and the service provisioning but I believe PCP is that mainly an important piece of this the whole network you know how do you react with fear and I assess working group clothes at this moment so anything that you want to add on ties with the how-tos that so I think that\u0027s one issue that I\u0027d say yeah I mean yeah okay and the second Ponies you know from optical vendor perspective you know PGP LS is out of the question and you know we don\u0027t implement that and then I\u0027m not sure any other optical vendor implement pls and I did "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "02:08:53",
    "text": "regarding our eyes appear I think it\u0027s ever less what it does is instead of sending to the neighbor it\u0027s a sent to the northbound so it doesn\u0027t change much encoding just a much faster way if you have a lot of linker node conversions time and a lot of optical data being added so there might be some actually there\u0027s a study on that for the logical networks piece MLS is much faster to give the network state so I always show that okay thanks Himanshu is it fast yeah just I\u0027m neutral to this while I don\u0027t have any opinion one way or the other but one can argue and I guess maybe that is what he was saying is that if you already have a PC PC P type connection right why I need to have a passive listening on IGP or have a bgp another thing implemented on that right you can suck that information right using the pizza palace so that that could be in favor of that okay I think we\u0027ll thank you for the feedback so far we\u0027ll continue it on the list as I say we need to put renewed energy into that discussion and try to conclude it one way or the other so thanks for the input and if I was also the last being for the working group so we will see you next time "
  }
]