[
  {
    "startTime": "00:00:38",
    "text": "and good morning idr we'll be kicking start in a few minutes this is a good time for you to test your microphone if you would like to do so right now hey jeff can you hear me we can hear you jordan thanks can you hear me if we could hear you see good thanks and last call you know for microphone check about ready to start oh yes can you hear me we can hear you thank you very much"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:02:02",
    "text": "okay sue kager are we ready to go sorry yes yes good to go okay let us get started good morning everybody or good afternoon where you may be uh welcome to idr for ietf 112. uh before we get ourselves started we see that sri rama's uh showing his hand up in the virtual no hand cue did you have something to add it was by accident it's okay you've proven your microphone works okay so we are working off of the pre-shared slides so hopefully this will be nice and stable a few quick administrative points early this morning uh you know the ietf note well this is something that each of you have agreed to as part of participating in iatf you will see this uh not only as part of your conference materials but ideally as part of every one of our slide decks um if you're looking for you know details about what each of these things mean now here are some links to each of the individual bcps covering these things you are bound by them a specific thing that we are getting a little bit of additional emphasis on as part of this ietf is the iesg has requested that we remind everybody that ietf does have a code of contact and specifically it also has an anti-harassment policy and if you find that for some reason that you are experiencing inappropriate behaviors in ietf uh please contact you know the itf chair or ideally one of the ombudsmans um in general the the things that we emphasize are what a friend of mine used"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:04:00",
    "text": "to call kindergarten skills we expect us to treat everybody with respect ideally speak slowly and limit used to slang we're very international community and english is a terrible language please make sure that you use good logic dispute arguments no with no reason use good engineering judgment and ideally look for solutions that are best for the whole of the internet so quick status for the working group uh since ietf 111 we've received published several rfcs a couple of them on bhp ls specifically the segment routing extensions extension specifically for egress pure engineering and also the extended attribute groups we also published the optimal reflection uh rfc this is a document that has taken a long time for us to get out and you know happy to see it actually hit rfc status and we also published the flowspec guidelines for basically relaxed verification of addresses this is commonly used at service providers and it was a very important thing for us to do a thing that happened outside of idea but very relevant to our work is the routing working group i published the ietf yang policy module this will be heavily used by the bgb yang module that we're working on thank you everyone who actually you know did that work it was a very tricky bit of modeling so specifically adopted recent work we have draftly srv6 this is work that will be getting done under the umbrella of flow spec v2 based on our prior discussions and draft dollar pgp ls service segments has been adopted as well other documents that are of interest is bhp open policy has been submitted isg for publication and is working through iatf last call stuff i do see that we"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:06:02",
    "text": "have some response back and forth that we need to do with the ads on the things um 77-52 you know bhp ls is going through biz and ketan has responded to you know my shepard comments uh we're at the process of quickly iterating as itf week is progressing and hopefully we'll have that resolved by end of week the srte policy module is uh waiting for a shepherd write up and full spec rpd similarly is finished with the least working group last call i was waiting on a consensus call on write up care i think you had that one but what is the status in rpd and here we see your microphone lip at no voice sorry about that can you hear me oh super um having some audio problems at my end um it has finished up the working group last call and it's waiting for the shepherd writer right okay so consensus has been declared then thank you okay and the last of the list here is that the bhp extended community registry has uh you know finished as working through ietf last call and i don't think we're seeing much in the way of comments there hopefully that will be published very quickly so we had a couple of interim meetings uh september 27th we had a intro on flowspec v2 and the pattern of that was we discussed the functional contents for the upcoming flowspec v2 spent some time discussing the problem space for incremental deployment and we also got a presentation on this"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:08:01",
    "text": "or v6 that we were talking about in the prior slide um the next set of actions that we'll have there is to complete a first revision of the flowspec v2 document and resume discussion the mailing list there's also some discussion about uh doing an interim some time later we'll talk about that in a moment we had scheduled a interim specifically for the bhp class will transport and colorware routing proposals this got cancelled due to conflicts by the document authors and we're hoping to reschedule that auto configuration did have a interim and we review the configuration design team requirements uh robert brescia did a presentation on auto discovery when ixp and turned out to not be necessarily appropriate for data center context but it did extend on our work that we know that auto configuration state will pop up in many other contexts as we start pushing it forward as a feature so it was a good presentation to have in the layer two space we had a presentation of the l3dl proposal by randy bush that was a review of the prior proposal we also had an updated proposal from shiva from juniper for draft minto and uh is a non-auto-discovery feature since we had time during the interim aishwaren uh did a review of the current the forum of epnrf and uh company would absolutely uh love to have no feedback on the mailing list about their proposal our next step for auto configuration is that we are probably at the point of beginning protocol selection discussion uh although there's again some discussion about perhaps having additional interims to maybe advance the work a little bit further we currently have a interim scheduled for december 6th and december 13th i believe sue has also recently added a"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:10:00",
    "text": "possible option for november 30th these are dates that are all just getting them into the idea of you know calendaring system uh the topics that we're looking to have interim discussions about to try to advance the work out of the ietf meeting cycle you know specifically the beach bct and car we're definitely in need of working group discussion on these topics since they're going to be no important things for the industry clearly we have the existing work for flowspec v2 and autoconf and no this also gives us opportunity to discuss things uh as part of just simply advancing things outside of ietf meeting cycles we'll be you know doing coordination with the document authors to find acceptable dates uh we do realize that end of year is a challenging time in terms of people's holiday schedules so we'll be doing what we can to you know be most accommodating a uh brief status update uh is on the php yang module uh mahesh did manage to get know some advancement of the work you know since uh the last ietf so please take a look at the diff there um just checking to see if mesh was joined he does not appear to be uh the authors are intending to try to actually push you know for functional completion of the document by your end this has been tricky work just simply getting you know the contents of bgp in there being you know a large protocol with a number of extensions and a lot of need for you know maintainability the work the stuff that's going in the bhp module not only heavily leverages things based on you know as an example the routing configuration module and the policy module that's been recently published but we'll also be providing the fundamentals for things like several of the vpn models to use later on and extend things like maintenance extended communities there is a open github on this uh the authors do welcome you know contribution"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:12:00",
    "text": "towards working on the issues uh and that said we're just hoping to have this done by end of year we are going to need help for impartial reviewers because you know over the lifetime of the document everybody that has been asked to help work on it has become a working chair and we'll need to get other people to take a look at it a topic worth flagging individually is the bgb multicast work we're seeing a number of documents crossing a number of working groups that are overlapping from our perspective at least no bgp and multicast type technologies these you know things are crossing between primarily you know bess and ivr although some of the work now reaches into no beer spring and uh you know motivated in many cases by no work that started the pym group you can see a list of some of the documents on the right hand side there is procedural overlap you did see a recent post from jeffrey jung from juniper no mentioning why his specific document is targeted for its idr versus some of the work that's in best uh the mess and ivr chairs are in communication about this and also with ads and trying to figure out how we best motivate review and coordination on the documents minimally we'll be having cross-working group review you know and exactly which group ends up adopting a specific piece of work is you know the thing that we figure out as we go along one of the things that makes this a little bit challenging is that spring is not chartered to do multicast work really so this is to some extent pushing some of the work outside of spring so that is the cherished content we are currently still on time we'll pause just a moment here to see if we have any agenda bashing before we proceed with our first presentation which will be on sr policy extensions for ifit"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:14:05",
    "text": "and joel points out on chat that spring is not chartered to modify bgp and many of us are thankful for that okay okay so let us move on to our first presentation scheduled for no five minutes hello everybody come here me we can hear you okay good um yeah this is a quick update about the dgps policy extensions for repeat so next slide just just a recap on background and motivation so i think refers to uh data plane on patellar techniques specifically in c2im and alternate martin are the relevant methodologies we are discussing here um you know that anademic informed about candidate part by using bgp there is the relevant document in ibr the segment routing key policy document that you also explained that is in publication phase so it's quite advanced in itf and these documents simply complement the segment routing key policy draft in order to add the extensions to distribute as a nasa policy carrying ifit information this way data plane particularly can be enabled enabled automatically that's why yeah just a few words about the lattice changes we specify the application to control a domain this is a strong requirement that was also discussed"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:16:00",
    "text": "in other working groups like six months about because the data plane documents uh such as the alternate marketing document inversion c2i and document and the this application is done according to rfc8799 that for this kind of application it is suggested it is recommended to limit the application to control a domain and we also improve the security consideration sections based on this kind of requirement of this kind of recognition about the limited administrative domain application so next yeah this is about how dfit attributes are encoding in the sr policy so starting from the segment routing t policy draft we simply add the ifit attribute that that can be attached at the candidate that level as a subtilis and we define uh five subtleties for uh in bandwagon c2im for alternate marking next slide in this slide you have the list of the subtleties for in c20m of course they are done according to the relevant in c2im uh document that is also progressing in ippm next slide and this is about the subtleties for alternate marking this is also done according to the relevant data plane document such as one in six man that is in isg evaluation uh next slide i think is the last one yeah so this as uh as i said this"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:18:00",
    "text": "document simply complements the sr policy operation described in segment rounding key policy draft by adding the effect attributes since the segment routing t policy document got working group consensus and this we're waiting for right up so we can also consider to progress with this document as well since it is strictly related to the other one so that's all welcome question comment thank you okay we're ending on time and have a time for a couple brief questions if there's any okay there appear to be no questions thank you giuseppe oh actually one moment okay i'm sorry guys joining for the next presentation again thank you okay hello can you help me we can hear you okay thank you this is janka from huawei my topic is bgp as a policy extension for template next slide please as we know bgp can be used to propagate the asset policy candidate path to the head and the nodes in the network and the bgpsr policy encoding structure is as follows in in this structure the basic"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:20:01",
    "text": "attributes of the kind of candidate paths are defined in this draft next slide please but in application the head note routers may need to enable many features on the candidate path for example in this scenario there are there are two candidate passes in this sr policy one path is to be used as the primary path pass and with the with the preference 100 the other path is to be used as a backup backup pass and has a preference 200 and the the features for the two parts are different for the primary parts we need a backup backup as needed seamless bad direction or forwarding detector needed and the bfd minimum transport transportation interval is 10 sec 10 milliseconds and also the traffic statistics is needed but for the backup path the bfd minimum transfer transfer interval is 20 milliseconds so it's the tool path has the different features now we can use the template to describe these features so there are this is the benefits to use the template first some features are only meaningful to controller and head and nose bgp protocol known in the two nozom so we used use the template can show the information that bgp no need to know second features maintained if frequently template can be used to avoid the bdp protocol changes too frequently"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:22:00",
    "text": "and so the different as a policies with the same feature can use the same template thus can simplify configuration and improve maintainability next slide please so we use we can use a template for example we can configure two templates on the router and then we can use the controller to download the uh to deliver the b to deliver the sr policy with different template id so template is to be defined as a group of features for as a policy candidate pass and it can use an identifier which is meaningful to the head and the node of sr policy and also template can be configured with template id and the template contents like this so then the bgp protocols can carries the template id in sr policy candidate pass attributes after the hand node of as a policy receives the the bgp protocol candidate pass it can find the contents of the template using template id and then set up paths with the features defined in the template next slide please so in order to uh fulfill fulfill the template we need the two uh site we need some extension for bgp for bgp as a policy protocol uh first we need the two updaters as a policy encoding encoding with updated template idtl variator like this and the format of the template id sub twa is"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:24:02",
    "text": "like this and here the type the type of the template id is to be defender and the length is a fixed value of six we also use a flag flags trv button now are defined at this stage then it it's the value of the template and it is a four percent value next slide please that's all welcome questions and comments thank you thank you for presentation we do have people asking questions srihari you have the mic hello we can hear you okay question so are you proposing this template id to be a globally uh coordinated number how do you how do you coordinate across multiple routers uh okay the the template id can be can be just defined in the device and the the controller can know the template id uh using netconf or yarn also also we can configure a range of a range to be used as the timeline default controller the controller can allocate to the template id so what if you see a template id that conflicts your document doesn't have to work in those scenarios okay if uh if there is i think for the the template id is only to be used in the device and if we we can configure a template with a template id if the controller"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:26:01",
    "text": "downloads the same template id maybe the attributes can be overread by the controller the terminator contents can be overread and updated okay i'm not sure whether this is going to be adding value but i'll let others take over thanks jeff okay essentially we can we can talk later offline so next person for the microphone we have about two minutes left is andrew yeah um i just wanted to ask um in in thinking about this how you see this working in the case of where policy is being sent via reflectors etc because there are cases where policy is being reflected provided that you've got correct communities etc to ensure that it's accepted um when you introduce this templating does that not kind of require that the templates are globally synchronized within the within [Music] you mean the template how to get the template id well i mean if if i'm reflecting policy and it's got a template id then surely the routers that are accepting this all have to have the same id otherwise things are going to get very messy which means that your template id kind of has to be unique um and properly configured across the entire domain otherwise the reflection is going to break surely unless i'm misunderstanding something oh oh oh okay i think the the template id and its content may just may just to be identified in the hard"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:28:02",
    "text": "end of the asa policy and no need no need to be unique in the whole network it is only only used in the in the head and of the sr policy okay we're down to 30 seconds email okay i'm up then um i was just gonna say something from cisco i was just gonna say you know with the policy we already have one level of abstraction and we've been using uh templates and management uh platforms for decades to do variations of a similar similarity you know objects that are similar to the template i see no advantage at all of pushing this into the protocol and and in fact i think uh in this case the the feature is work is much worse than any possible benefit in terms of the problems that people have been bringing up and those are just symptoms of this whole thing this is just a bad idea okay ac i'm going to ask that uh your comment uh shraddha we have time for a very brief comment uh yeah my comment was very similar to what ac was talking about so uh what you could do is uh you can on the router you configure the template and um you can say you can configure another policy to say all sr policies with having read in their name would use a red template and something of that sort and that solves the problem i i i agree with ac that we i don't really see the benefit of advertising it in the protocol thank you thank you charlotte okay thank you"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:30:01",
    "text": "thank you uh please check the chat there's a lot of comments there and it sounds like we have good topics for email list discussion our next presentation thank you you're welcome our next presentation is going to be hp extensions we can hear you okay and this draft is about pgp extension for as i'm pure as entropy label position next slide please ifc8662 proposes to use entropy labels for sr and pos networks as described in it determine the best place for eli and eo label pulse may not be an easy decision multiple criterias may be considered such as the eild of the nodes along the path and the msd of the header node and the bindings in the node and limitations like segment type maximum maximalizing number of lsrs that we already balanced may also be considered next slide this figure shows an inter-demand scenario the end end to end pass from node a to node e is calculated by a centralized controller along this path load balance is required the header node in domain 1 may not be able to get the information of the nodes or c's in command 2 for example the eiod of each node in this case it's difficult for the header node in domain 1 to decide the best place of the entropy labels another choice is to perform the computation of the entropy label position along this path by the controller and after computation the sr path with the entropy label position information"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:32:00",
    "text": "can be learned by the header node via different mechanisms such as pcp or btp and this document proposes extensions for bgp to indicate entropy label position in the segment list when distributing as a policy can either pass using pgp next slide and if lag is introduced in the flag field of segment-less sub-tree to indicate the presence of the eoi ear label pairs which are inserted after this segment it is applicable to srn pos segment types and whether to insert the entropy label pairs is decided by the ingress note next slide and here are the summary of main updates of the draft it has been presented in itf or 110 and comments from the main list are appreciated from jeff and robin and we add more descript and the cloud classification and clarifications in the new version based on the comments the centralized controller would be useful to compute both sr paths and the placement of entropy labels especially in the entertainment scenario and this draft follows the considerations for entropy label position in ifc 8662 the values of entropy labels are still calculated by ingress node as specified in [Music] ifc 6980 and ifc862 other mechanisms are out of scope and more text is added about how the controller get the information needed to calculate the entropy entropy label position validating the existing work next slide"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:34:02",
    "text": "and we request feedback on feedbacks and comments and would like to ask for considering adopting all these drives that's all we have time for a brief question if there any okay i do not see any hands raised in the mic queue i do suggest you take a look at the comment from shihar in the chat asking about how we actually determine this i believe you are also the next presenter yes and okay and this draft is about bgp extensions of sr policy for pass protection next slide it is introduced in the sr policy architecture that kennedy pass may be used for pass protection and the backup kennedy pass provides protection only when all the segment lists in the active candidate pass are invalid and scenarios like load balancing may need the segment lists for protection for example candidate pass one is active can it pass the flows are load balanced between the segment list one and two and cb2 will only take place uh when both at least one and list two are invalid and in some scenario we may want to protect this one so after list 1 fails flows can still be load balanced between list 2 and the backup list of list 1. and the relation and the protection relationship between segment lists"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:36:01",
    "text": "should be flexible and there's already a working group document in pc that proposes extensions to pcp to provide backup segment lists for protection based on the above considerations this document many proposes extensions of bgp in order to provide pass protection using segment lists when delivering sr policy next slide and this slide shows the bgb extensions for sr policy if the b flag in the segment list sub tov is set it indicates that the segment list act as in backup path and this identifier subtree is used to identify the segment list and it contains an optional subject this protection theory it carries the protection relationship of segment lists next slide and this draft also proposes extensions of bgp os the tlsp distribution draft describes a mechanism to collect the hazard policy information that is locally available in the node and advertise it into bgb os updates it includes kennedy parts site tlv and segment list tov the s flag and b flag are originally defined in kennedy past state tlv and two new flags of similar meanings in segment list here we are defined in this draft the s flag indicates the segment list is in administrative short state and the b flag indicates a segment list is a backup password set next slide and this draft has been presented in idr in itf 109 and received suggestions from carton and joe that since this draft is related with high policy it's better to progress work first in spring before bringing up protocol mechanism for adoption"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:38:02",
    "text": "and this draft has been presented in spring in ita 411 next slide considering that we got to know objection about the idea from the spring and similar mechanism in pc has been adopted we would like to ask for considering for working group of doctor that's all okay we do have caitanya in the queue kate any other mic uh thanks for this uh presentation update uh i just wanted to clarify on my comment and the previous idr presentation uh the proposal here is to change the semantics of segment list from a load balancing ecmp construct to a active and backup construct i believe that something that should be kind of reviewed and updated uh in the spring working group before this protocol extension is done so what's this what you're proposing here is a change to the sr policy architecture and you know it's it's fine to do so but i would suggest to do that first in spring uh to i was suggesting that we should first update the hazard policy architecture yes because semantics of load balancing right so segment lists are for load balancing and they do not have the active backup construct okay uh i think that since there are already many draft update adding some attributes and some changes as our policy architecture uh yeah how we will collect more we can"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:40:01",
    "text": "we can discuss on this yeah we can discuss on spring mailer perhaps yeah thank you okay sure thank you and uh thank you we'll make sure to capture that point in the minutes and uh you know coordinate with spring you know and use uh when this work should move forward in bgb our next presentation is point to multi-point policy woman you have to mike thank you very much uh if we can go to the next slide please uh can can you folks hear me hello we can hear you fine oh okay sorry uh i have some audio problems so uh if anywhere i drop my colleague andrew will take over and finish the presentation uh with that said i just wanted to give a little bit of update with regard to all the draft that we are out there for point-to-multipoint policy um as you can see there is two mother and father drafts there is a replication segment and then there is a point to multi-point policy under so we do seem to be experiencing those audio problems and the next hops on the data path the point to multi-point policy uh to make it very short and sweet are the candidate paths there can be two or more candidate paths and the candidate pad with the highest preference is the active and then under those candidate paths we have what we call path instances and the path instances are really used for global optimization of a candidate pad itself uh moving forward obviously for services we need signaling uh via mpbgp which the mvpn evpn sr point to multi-point policy"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:42:03",
    "text": "draft is all about and also there is a yang model and then there is this idr draft which uses the bgp point to multi-point srte policy if you will to download the instructions from controller to each one of the routers or nodes to set up the data path from the root all the way to the leaf which we'll talk about there is a pce draft which accomplishes the same thing through the pce uh there is an adoption call going on and i think the deadline for that is november 25th and last but not least there is the ping draft uh which is really because the point to multiple point policy is all about the controller and the pce uh the ping draft actually provides some oem functionality on the data pad to make sure that the tree is functional from the root to the leaf so it is very important uh one point i want to put on the table here with regard to the ping as of now that ping draft is for mpls only and for srv6 we need to have another draft depending on how the conversation for srv6 oem pans out in the spring uh later next slide please uh so going quickly over i already talked about some of these concepts of the point to multiplying policy so again it's very similar to unicast we are using canada paths you can have many candidate paths with the active canada pad being the being the one with the highest preference you can engineer your candidate paths based on the controller and download them as a sr lg separate from each other you can do all these"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:44:01",
    "text": "tricks with each one of the candidate paths a candidate pat in a multicast domain is really identified via a root and a tree id and there are multiple multiple ways to build these trees and the canada paths if you will uh you know there could be pcc initiated uh where you use the mvpn procedures to discover the leaves throughout your network and uh somehow the controller needs to start listening to this bgp ad routes going back and forth from the leaf and the root and discover these leaves and based on that we can use this srte point to multiply as rte draft to download the instructions to the router with the same token you can go on the controller itself and program the tree manually from the root to the leaves and then the instruction will be downloaded via this draft next slide please so here's a visualization of what i just talked about sometimes you know a picture speaks a thousand words so again at the root you have the canada paths as i said you can have multiple candidate paths uh the one thing i want to stress here is the instance ids or the instance paths uh basically the instance paths are the lsps the point to multi-point lsps itself as i mentioned each canada path can have two at least two uh instance path and the reason for that is because we want to have a global optimization so if for whatever reason the controller decides that it wants to optimize a canada path it downloads a second point to multi-point lsp uh via the instance pad number two and then we do mbb"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:46:01",
    "text": "procedures from one instance pad to another instance pad on the candidate path itself and then you have the replication seats which are the replication points and obviously these replication seats can be steered via unicast sr policy and they can be connected via unicast segment routing throughout the network so it's a very powerful concept you only do the replication at the points that you desire uh anywhere else we can use all the goodies of unicast as our policy that our art out there currently including uh fast reroute ecmp et cetera et cetera next slide please so uh we made some changes uh with regard to the bgp nlri and route type as of now there is a single nlri as you can see in this picture and there are three different route types so one rod type is for the point-to-multipoint policy itself to download the canada paths and then we wanted to make sure that this draft is mimicking the unicast policy as a policy very closely and as such we change the route types for the replication segment which is the the instructions to program the data path on each node so we came up with a route type which is a binding seat the binding stick is really the ingress label coming into the node which identifies the replication segment and on the egress we came up with the outgoing interface route type so that's oif route and basically what it is is it downloads each single outgoing interface as an individual object if you will and doing so it makes it very much in par"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:48:00",
    "text": "with the unicast sr policy draft that is already in the idr so by downloading each oif it's as if like you're downloading a unicast uh for one of the branch of the trees and it really becomes in very nicely with what we already have on the unicast side for the sr policy in in the idea next slide please so i'm not gonna go too much into this this is the point to multiply policy for the candidate path itself as you can see we download each candidate path uh individually and then you have the path instances which i already explained that are used for make for for optimization of each canada path uh there is an optional leaf list that's just for debuggability if it's a control initiated three then you can download this leaflets to the router as well just so that the if you have a show command or if you have a event uh the router can actually say that here are my uh remote uh leaf list uh that's the only reason that we download those leaflets as such their option nexus slide please so here's the the point to multipoint and i think i made a mistake here this is not the policy this is the oif the outgoing uh interface again the point here was we wanted to make this very uniform with the unicast as our policy and as such we are downloading it the uh one outgoing interface at a time rather than downloading the entire replication segment with all the oifs downloading a single oaf at the time will allow us to download a segment list just for that oif and we use the same concepts of"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:50:01",
    "text": "unicast which is the ecmp per weight and we also added the protection in there which was your previous presenter kind of presented the concept of unicast uh sorry for uh the concept of protection for unicast we do have such a concept for multicast as well next slide please so uh obviously as always comments are welcome uh we would like to beef up the draft and we have already done the ipr call that was done on the last uh ietf and uh we are asking for adoption again in this itf uh to go for thank you okay we do have time for some questions we are actually doing very excellent on our scheduling we have jeffrey jung in the microphone queue jeffrey um hi i just want to comment that there are another way to set up the srp20p even using bgp and so and that is not listed in that list of the traps in one of the earlier slides i just want to point out that there is another option and that is actually what uh jeff was talking about earlier that there are uh there are uh discussions ongoing on where the work should take place and things like that um so just want to point out but that there's another option to do it to do the same thank you okay why mo you have the microphone yeah can you hear me we can good and we are no longer hearing you coibo"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:52:01",
    "text": "yeah can you upload the slides ah you're in for next presentation sorry just want to make sure if you're having questions of the current presentation or not okay one moment hello everyone today i'm going to talk about the bgp for bt pass next page so this draft is about a bgp to distribute a ba t pass to the increase of the pass so we know bgp has already been extended to distribute different type of point to multiple intermolecular policies using [Music] pmsi partner attributes for example rfc 6514 defined a new tunnel type a new tunnel type which is called rsppte p2mp tunnel pass to distribute t p to p multiples to [Music] a in the in in the pgp so another example is that rfc 58556 define a new tunnel type for beer so use this tunnel type distribute beard pass in the bgp"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:54:01",
    "text": "so it's very straightforward and easy to extend the bgp to distribute a bte pass so so we define a new tunnel type for brte under pmsi turner attribute to a bat path to the ingredients of the past so in addition we also describe another option which is define a new tunnel type on the tunnel encapsulation attribute to distribute a penalty a distributed batte path to the inverse of the pass so next page so under psmi tunnel attribute which is attribute type 22 so we define a new tunnel type for bht blte so for vit pass it will contain a pass id and the number of subtlety of these the pass id or password identifier consists of sub domain id bfr id of the english node and the panel ids and the past numbers so these four combined will identify or uniquely identify a bft path so the subq will con will include a pass"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:56:00",
    "text": "a a t pass subtle v's so this subtle v will encode the explicit vat path in addition the subtlety of e may contain a b t pass name subtrees which indicates the name of the blte path the next page so this is similar so we extend bgp under terminal income attribute so on this attribute we define new type for bat task so this under this type will include sub as a number of subtitles so subtree will include bat pass subconvey which includes the pass and then the name trv which is indicated the name of the path and then the path id subtrees which i then uniquely identify plt pass so next page so we describe two options to for bgp to distribute the bht plus to ingress of the past so both options are straightforward so uh we would like to ask comments and also we would like to request or drop shares thank you okay we have jeffrey john at the microphone um so why won't you talk about the two options here um it's not clear to me whether you are going to use one of the options or are"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:58:01",
    "text": "the two options going to be used for different purposes and another comment is that here you're just talking about the encodings but exactly how they're going to be used i assume they will be talked about in another working group or is it in best or in or in beer you're referring to the first question uh so two options i think we just because this is uh uh we just proposed two options i think both options uh will be work will be equivalent from my point of view looks like the first option uh is a is preferred i think that in the finally well one option will be will be selected so that's wha we're gonna first of all uh question so the second question is about the application of this one i think in the in the draft or in the first presentation in the nasa master idea i think we describe how to apply these uh extensions basically my understanding is to your question is that how do we distribute the the equal part at the past to the english is that your question so you if that's your question and then we describe the more details um so my comments here is that first we should pick why which way to go and then then we can uh adopt it and i i haven't uh read that draft yet uh so i assume that uh either this draft or another draft that does talk about the use case and typically a that that it will be adopted in a working group that where the use cases for for example"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:00:02",
    "text": "the uh pnz tunnel attributes was initially uh designed for mvpn and that was in the in the best working group and here you are if you are to go in with the uh uh pimzi uh tunnel uh uh attributes uh uh option i assume this is going to be used in in some uh application applications like map or evpn and seems that the best working group would be a better place to adopt yes regarding the application and then we can so this is the multicast tunnels so you can use it in the for mvpn and also it can be used to just uh carry the market traffic right so are you is this not limited to one applications uh or one application scenarios or cases is this useful this this is sue just a minute jeffrey um some of your logic is is not necessarily uh um necessary for where you're going to place the document some of the things have to do with what specifications they modify so don't worry about the working group this is going to be reviewed in in cases where you're changing the tunnel uh encapsulation draft and uh changing multicast functionality odds are this would be one of those drafts which would need to be reviewed by both best and idea where it starts out it would have to be reviewed and"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:02:00",
    "text": "probably approved by both so let's not focus on where the draft ends up and let the chairs deal with that as we're trying to deal with with the other portions of the multicast let's take today's discussion and focus on the questions on the technology would that be okay jeffrey definitely yeah it is okay um but like to go back to my earlier question is this for this setting up a tunnel or to announce how the tunnel is going to be used yeah this is about a distributed tunnel to the ingress so just like those uh for example distributed panel as i mentioned that there are already extensions there to do the similar work to distribute the panel in pgp right this is a straightforward extension the the reason i'm asking is that when we are using the uh pmc timer attribute that is that is to announce what kind of tunnel to use so depending on the on the use case of of your of your draft you will you will have have bearing on which option to go so yeah i think this one uh for blt tunnel looks like a straightforward so we just because uh i just had gum in my mouth and then we just did the tunnel to the ingress so just like for example similar for the sr policy so just they have sr tunnel and then send it to the english node of the timeout and that's all this is very simple straightforward yeah i guess we can take it offline but obviously the first first thing is that to determine which"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:04:01",
    "text": "option to go with yeah that we can discuss in the main list and then just select one options because this is just a start point and also on the there's a starting point and then with a couple of options it's okay and then finally we finalize the to one option right okay uh we also have driven them like thank you yeah thanks jeff uh jeff my comment was not related to the slide per se but since we have little bit time on the agenda i wanted to discuss maybe to the chairs and the ad looking at the agenda today like you know all the six presentations that were presented so far have a similar work happening in pc working group as well and as a pc working group chair i haven't discussed this with my co-chair yet but i just this thought came to my mind i wanted to discuss what could we do better so that the coordination between these drafts happened a little bit better because i've seen like there have been cases where things have been missed a flags have been missed and now we are writing extensions in pc working group to add those flags back and stuff like that so what can we do so that the work which is common don't miss things out there is still coordination between them should we do a wiki should we ask authors to commit that yes they have reviewed the document other draft and made sure that things are aligned so i wanted to check like what thoughts like maybe you have or we can discuss this later but something that i wanted to discuss further thank you okay and before sue speaks uh based on what we have left in the scheduled queue uh if it's okay with sue and k or i'd like to reserve at least 15 minutes for you know this discussion i know it's near and dear to alvaro's"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:06:00",
    "text": "heart as well so please go ahead drew if we should get together as chairs but also put a wiki on the apart on the idea wiki for you to tell me which drafts need to be reviewed so if you look at the idea or uh wiki you'll find a place for it right and adding to sue's comment uh we've had some general discussion as we mentioned at the beginning of the session that uh the best and idr chair is already starting to discuss this and a significant portion of the work you're seeing in the first portion of the presentations was organized because of exactly these sorts of issues we want to be able to have good you know cross-working group coordination for features we know that technologies are reaching across boundaries considerably more these days and bgp is a somewhat generic bit of transport plumbing for some of these mechanisms especially for tunneling is something that we end up rendezvousing at i think you're seeing something very similar in pce that pce has a programming mechanism for ingresses has to coordinate as well so we're looking at it's the usual combination of you know a place of where we want to place state initiated either at the head end transported around the network and routing protocols and result in forwarding behaviors and alvaro has discussed that we do need some level of a coordination mechanism but hasn't given us a specific set of requirements at this point good that we are thinking about it and let's get together and figure out a plan thank you thank you dad roof uh jeffrey you have the cue question for drew um i'm just curious uh the pce working group"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:08:00",
    "text": "is it's uh specifically for the psap protocol or is it for or does it also include the general pcea ae pcc a architecture that when peace peace particle is not used no we are only for extending the psa protocol our architecture belongs in teas the last sentence uh the architecture belongs to what the pc architecture belongs in teas working group and we do the extension work i see the protocol extension okay so when it comes to srp20 tunnel setup there are there is a uh psap extension and then um to to to to set up the tunnel using the pc protocol and then there are two uh uh bgp proposals uh to set up using using bgp so the the presentation that the woman did earlier is specifically about using uh one way of using bgp to set up the the the srp tunnel but indeed when it comes to srp to mp there are uh uh there are different ways uh uh to set up including the psa yeah that's correct yes yeah and that's correct we are only handling the pcp extension part of it the actual sr p2mp policy that all belongs in pim and they have a document there which is adopted yes yeah thank you right that's exactly the points we were talking about earlier at the beginning of the session uh alfredo you have the microphone uh good morning or uh good afternoon whatever you are um"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:10:00",
    "text": "yeah so this keeps happening more and more and and i just posted on the chat um that uh we keep seeing this more uh as you guys have already mentioned you know that that multicast multi-point multipoint work that's coming up in bass idr spring there's some pc work as well pim beer etc we need to find better ways of doing this and uh martin john and i have been you know talking about this and uh we don't have a silver bullet to be honest on how to solve the problem or how to make a cross-working group work better coordinated uh it would be really nice if we could find a consistent way so that we don't have to reinvent the wheel every time something happens or every time something comes up but so that we have as not just working group participants but chairs you know the ability or the tools to to find that better um coordination so i think uh one of the things for example is what you guys mentioned here about you know having a wiki with drafts etc of course we then need to know how to find that wiki and we need all the authors to to know that um we've been talking about uh and jeff mentioned that up in the chat before about some type of review team um to try and coordinate things across working groups uh some of the things that we're seeing is for example based on the point of multi-point architecture and pim there are multiple solutions my opinion personal opinion is that multiple switches around is really bad but we need to coordinate them um and if we're going to have multiple solutions we need to just you know make sure that there are there are properly reviewed across multiple places uh if not if if we're going to make the decision to not then we also need to make that decision somehow so um we need to to figure out um"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:12:02",
    "text": "not just where the drafts are going to be potentially adopted and last called and everything else obviously we're doing bgp extension site dr is the obvious place to do that uh but we would need uh of course review from other places we need some type of coordination um so we've been talking as has been mentioned here to a bunch of the chairs to try and gather ideas and try to figure out what is the the best way uh going forward uh this point one point thing is you want the one that is i guess the front right now for us and we'll probably try something i don't know exactly what yet um and and maybe that will become the consistent way uh in the meantime if you have ideas uh thoughts you know what would work better would be easier not just for the chairs but for the participants in general to to have a way to know that something else is going on um besides waiting for the chance that it might come up at the routing area open meeting for example um and and find out about other things please let us know uh talk to me or martin or or john um or all of us at the same time whatever you want to do and i will be happy to listen to that we're still looking for for what is the best way um but yes we don't we don't have a silver bullet i just want as i said to find a consistent way so that uh we don't have to reinvent the wheel every time so um thank you okay uh before we move on to human uh waymo you have your audio open were you wanting to speak uh yeah yes [Music] okay you're done thank thank you"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:14:02",
    "text": "human uh yeah so just to comment on that until now what i've been doing at least uh for the point to multiply policy absolutely i i have a slide that i try to update every single working group with regard to where the drafts are uh with regard to at least this technology um but the way i was seeing it until now again my two cents you know obviously open for uh conversations and comments uh the way i was seeing it right now is that this piece is exactly like uh unicast and it it has worked been working to some extent uh that you know pim is taking the uh the lead in in the multicast technology itself uh and when it comes to all these other uh bits and pieces for downloading the policies uh we've been just going to the appropriate working group and explaining the multicast technology with the multicast experts that are already within those groups and from tracking purposes we've just been using that first slide uh not ideal but i just wanted to make sure that you know uh everybody knows you know how we've been tracking this work at least for the point to multiply points and i agree and just sort of adding in you know sort of a high level discussion as alvaro saying there's nothing in current ietf process that really governs how we should be doing this sort of thing so this will be partially making it up as we go along certainly if people have other experience in other standards organizations about how such larger work gets coordinated we'd be happy to take it probably the best thing that we could do is much like you're talking about and pick up uh some level of interested parties that are doing this cross-area work and to simply make sure"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:16:01",
    "text": "that they're all talking to each other find a common place to write it down certainly the wikis are a place that we can do so uh but you know figuring out where is mostly a matter of preference rather than of technology and you'll pass that point uh as we get the people talking to each other and get all the stuff coordinated maybe some sort of organization will produce itself from that okay so you had your hand up as soon as you removed your hand okay uh thank you for this useful diversion we'll make sure this gets captured in the minutes and i'm sure that part of this topic will pop up but as part of the routing area general meeting is alvaro saying our going back to our next presentation item number seven uh jordan talking about the bgb ls extensions for flood reflectors can you still hear me there we go sorry about that we can hear you okay um so first off thanks for that time to speak today um so while the giraffe that we're proposing is a pretty simple vgpls extension for isis flight reflectors i just wanted to spend a few minutes kind of driving some context behind it next slide please um so the problem we're trying to solve um i think we all know that you know flat single area igps come with some pitfalls you know lots of flooding every node needs to know it lots of state every node has to remember and maintain it and then you know convergence right every node has to do the computation and this just gets worse as the network scale but there are some you know desirable properties for that you know especially with deployments things like sr"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:18:06",
    "text": "so just trying to visualize it a little bit um just a you know example topology relatively small flat level two isis network you know stable flooding domain um but as the network grows and grows scale becomes more of a concern so you know again just kind of driving some more specificity to what was mentioned you know lots of state you know have to maintain adjacencies i have to maintain a larger lsdb lots of flooding to distribute uh all that link state information and then convergence right more runs longer run times and that just gets compounded by the higher resource utilization required for that and next slide and what's the solution isis flood reflection of course um so there is this is based on existing work in lsr it's been adopted um but basically photograph yeah sorry flood reflectors are a little bit like bgp route reflectors and that we you know we choose a cluster id we designate one or more flood reflectors and then we designate one or more flood reflector clients um next slide okay so let's kind of visualize and put everything together so uh we basically split the level two into multiple flooding domains and that basically just means we take level one and level two um and we establish flood reflector adjacencies in level two so we have the flood reflectors at the top flood reflector clients at the bottom and we use that level one in the middle for transit one way to do this is leaking the l2 routes from tier one into level one but there's some other methods to finding the draft but the overall result is that level one and level two can now converge independently uh next slide just a quick kind of before and after i just think it helps show you know if you consider larger topologies how this could you know"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:20:00",
    "text": "how this uh sort of work is beneficial uh next slide and just a real quick thing here um did we actually improve all the scaling considerations uh yeah definitely so you know if we consider just a simple topology of six level one level two nodes without flood reflection we would need you know 15 adjacencies and level two but with the flood reflection we uh two flood reflectors to the top four clients at the bottom we only need eight and that gets us out of redundancy two next slide and while the uh the other factors you know vary per implementation you know uh hardware network size etc um we do know that you know less links and adjacencies mean less lspdues less lspd using less flooding and therefore less spf computation and next slide and finally this point so thanks for bearing with me um basically we're just asking for um some bgpl sclvs from the node link and prefix and attribute descriptor registry just so we can kind of convey that information about flood reflection topologies to the controllers um it's pretty straightforward there and last slide uh so what's next so with the existing uh the existing flood reflection work already being adopted we are asking for adoption here for this draft and while the specific definitions of how the tlbs are used are already identified there we'll do a little bit of supplemental additions to kind of describe how it's used for bgpls and as always comments are welcome that's it okay thank you for the presentation we have plenty of time in the queues do we have any questions and while we're waiting for any hands to go up this is a place where i'll note that uh you know we have had discussions with lsr and you know it's perfectly fine to"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:22:00",
    "text": "have a separate bgp document you know we could also have unified you know bgp ls extensions and lsr documents and it's non-controversial to have no feature pop up in bgp after it's already been through lsr we still have no questions so thank you for the presentation well you're welcome thanks this moves us to our last presentation and since we are remarkably on time this session we have room for further discussion afterwards if that is people's desire next presentation is going to be on extensions for link band with extended communities hi can you hear me we can hear you uh okay uh here we go my topic is the intention of the living department-wise method studies please okay there there are some problems in using pgp link button wise one os is now uh encoded again uh you you attended the community attribute using uh c2 bits of rhodium phonotype here we have a brief introduction to data type of conversion as shown in in the figure in protein point numbers fraction determines the precision the size of a number depends on exponents so when the value you see the"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:24:02",
    "text": "the uh 24 21st part of two it can uh it may no longer be accurate after conversion to full of loading points from format another place okay the implementation of the floating component conversion makers some problem and the way how we had a problem earlier i'll show you in the figure establish a bgp share relationship between rotary and router b router uh configure a uh export policy for bgp pl the policy contains said link upon wise 6566 k bps and uh straight converts the bandwidth to a floating point number and advertise the gene updates uh the bundle has value six five five six six uh kpps is converted to eight one nine four seven five zero bits encoder and encoded as for five five a or one d for c in for information from the formation on rotary the expected the bandwidth value converted back up from lincoln boundaries utensils community energy will receive the bgp opportunity should be six five five six six gps however in some intro probability tests some device converted youtube back as the 65560"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:26:04",
    "text": "kpbs differs differs by six for our military necessary please okay proposal is used to use the convenience of units and unsigned integers to accurately represent the banana wise value such as a link compound wise you see in bts units and so on uh here we have some simple usage and should as shown in the figure routine configure x configure access policy for pgpr the policy contains a set of uh incompanies the 1 500 microbial bits per second on rotary b the link of analyze value is obtained directly avoids the problems with the floating points of it necessary please okay uh welcome convenience and the discussion that's all thank you ac you have to make fun systems uh i um i've never really liked the floating point but i'm wondering if changing it now be i know it was the you know the integrated services guys who decided it would be a good idea to put floating point in an rsvp and we've been stuck with it ever since but i'm wondering if it'd be a good idea now to change it you"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:28:01",
    "text": "know it's so we've had it for decades and this looks really good for like link bandwidth but once you start using it for re you know things other things like unreserved or reserved or wherever you you know the units you're gonna you're gonna need uh fractions you know even if you have a if you have 400 gig to start you know the pieces of it are going to be different units and having all handling all these units i think i think it could get unwieldy i don't like like i said i haven't thought about it too much and i don't really like the floating point but i don't know if now is the time to change it so i would actually like to add to and add additional things for what ac has just said floating point as a representation has been problematic for a lot of reasons uh i think my favorite one is that we'll often get people writing naive implementations for simple software-based controllers and they'll stick in something that is basically a decimal value so they keep on trying to use it is something that is not floating point uh second problem that i agree with that ac is brought up the floating points that we're using are low precision floating points and as a consequence sometimes you simply can't get a value that correctly represents what you're trying to do and it makes comparisons of things and elements like policy very difficult to use so there's a lot of bad things about our current format but the thing i do want to add in is that uh really two details the first one is that in your presentation you're giving you know many different types that overlap in terms of behaviors forget the correct slide here [Music] so as an example uh you know as shikhari is pointing out in"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:30:00",
    "text": "chat you know part of the question is are these powers of 10 or you know these uh you know closer to standard computer based uh you know powers you know 10 24 rather than a thousand as an example but on top of that uh we also have the detail that if you happen to have two bgp communities that have overlapping semantics just because the units can shift around you know the generic community code and most implementations don't know what they do with that and on top of all that there's a class of extended community behaviors that are effectively singletons you're expected to have you know one link bandwidth attached to your community as an example and this sort of metals the semantics so i think there's good discussion to be had here in terms of can we do better for something like link bandwidth uh we have to figure out how to answer that question as well hey see did you have a follow-up yeah just one more comment one thing i've always i've thought many times and this reminded me of it is i think it i think if we're gonna switch to something it'd be good to switch it across all the places at least in the routing area where uh where link bandwidth is uh encoded in protocols and what i what i would use if i were gonna if i were if i had the power to just you know have a flag day i would use a 64-bit number that was just bits per second rather than having all these different units that i think that that this is this is this is this is not something that people are gonna wanna this wasn't this isn't something that programmers are gonna like i'll put let me put it that way to have all the different uh expression of all these different units look andre"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:32:03",
    "text": "that this actually came up in bess with when we considered reusing this extended community and we ran into very quickly the issue of you know specifying one gigabit per second or you know unit gigabit one and then uh unit megabit 1000 and uh so in in the the best equivalent of this actually just normalized to one unit i think it was megabit per second if i'm not mistaken so the the overlap can actually be problematic right so if the if the byte value is the same but or the byte per second value is the same but can be expressed in two different type comma values then you know what do you have to define whether that is a match or not a match be a good argument for the 64-bit number of bits per second consistent units i think our primary consideration from not moving to 64 bits at this current time is that people were trying to embed these things in extended communities and had limited space to do so so this perhaps moves a different direction about how do we encode this on the wire okay we can discuss overland as a mail i agree and as was pointed out about the best comment we have multiple things that are looking at this there's a discussion about transitive versus non-transitive as well"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:34:00",
    "text": "so certainly thank you for bringing this draft to idr uh i think it's a good conversation to start we're seeing this again across more than one working group and perhaps you know this could be part of our motivation to do you know better about linked bandwidth okay thank you okay we currently have 25 minutes left in our time slot this is the end of our presentation materials before i open up in general care so did you want to add anything set a specific no thing of topic for discussion i'm good to go jeff thanks okay and sue seems to be having some difficulties with her microphone we'll give her one more moment i have nothing to add thank you thank you okay uh so that being said uh we do have open floor time for general discussion is there a topic that people would like to raise to the working group that they would like a broader plenary discussion on okay well it appears that we have been efficient and given that we have people"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:36:00",
    "text": "in many places around the planet that would be happier for a little bit of extra time off i move that uh via adjourn our next scheduled session is for tomorrow and it is uh for i believe the third session of the day jeff one other option just in case since alvaro's here did alvaro want to go with his presentation for tuesday early alvaro did you want to have a little bit more time no i'm we're we're fine with going we're doing that on thursday and actually uh yingsan is going to do the presentation on thursday okay so we'll then let go i want to i i just know sometimes you have a busy schedule thank you very much i'll be here thank you okay and our time on thursdays also not fully scheduled so we should have know some freedom for discussion as well so in that case thank you everyone for joining us you'll pick up again tomorrow have a good rest of your day for ietf you"
  }
]
