[
  {
    "startTime": "00:00:35",
    "text": "[Music] [Music] [Music] it\u0027s Canadian every time he makes a contribution to BSD he apologizes no more jokes about our hey welcome to the University for working group we have a slightly updated Genda but let\u0027s just start here Spencer on by the way yeah we are anybody you want to try to get on Jabbar yeah we\u0027re there Wow then text me Spencer if you have anything to say so uh welcome then of us be working group had 150 F it means the nfsv4 working group has been going on since the early 60s now we have an agenda here let me go through it first topic is with Dave Novick on minor protocol updates that your document is called update stan FS right or something like that RPC over TLS the Chuck Lieber integrity "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:03:35",
    "text": "measurement Chuck leave are already ma Chuck Lieber milestone of you web which will have to be done a lot I was looking at Dave slides there they\u0027re good to get our discussion going on our milestone we have we\u0027d you have to update the milestones and and Magnus will be paying attention to that section definitely the five sixty six five six six one this Dave Novak and then no and then saurons up with saurons up with a discussion on data reduction extended attributes I thought that\u0027s discussions been going on since we got in the room so let\u0027s uh let\u0027s let\u0027s let\u0027s just reach closure on that and then we added a delegation of state IDs of Tom Haines that was added just now so as there any other changes to the agenda anybody care okay now you want to do it you want to do that after that right that\u0027s funny yeah you want to have tomorrow something okay okay it I did it if anybody is online they have they have at least put the NFS before working group at the farthest possible conference room from the center of the IETF as possible this is no tomatoes okay the and then you every time you come in here you sign when you register and you get your little agenda you have a note well on it it\u0027s a continuously evolving small note by the way but it basically the more important things are you you\u0027re participating it\u0027s me recording perhaps or taking minutes and you\u0027re allowing a lot to take place and the other thing is that if you wear of any IETF contribution is covered by patents or patent applications that are owned or controlled by you your sponsor you must disclose that fact or not participate in the discussion so I guess that means bolt from the room which would be a very telling movement during a discussion I guess but huh okay "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:06:37",
    "text": "okay Oh welcome Rainier welcome to renzo so you know I actually do look at the note well every time I come to an IETF BT because it does change meeting to meeting to take a look at it but the core of it is the same all right let\u0027s start so we decided to keep the agenda in the order it is I believe overriding Chuck\u0027s suggestion that\u0027s okay so let\u0027s do it Dave and then you\u0027ll be able to see the slides on the TV right here well it\u0027s okay sure oh okay so I want to talk about on the X all right yeah okay so anyway talk we\u0027ve made some updates some of that should have gone through and some of them in the process of going through I want to talk about both the updates to both be for dotto and before that one yeah I\u0027m almost working almost yeah all right yeah I\u0027m gonna you\u0027re gonna hit the thing and I\u0027m gonna just adjusted what\u0027d she look like a little go back sure all right all right okay so the before the no changes are limited to truckin we had a trunking discovery and that it actually has been published I don\u0027t know what you know Chuck did he got it oh he got it through the icy ice yes she did not stop him before that one a tougher story and I\u0027m going to talk about my travails about that so we had a trunking discovery and transparent state migration to be 4.1 we transparent state migration had been done for data and X number of people bothered me about making sure that 4.1 was at the same level so this was not published yet as an RFC and that\u0027s a long story and that\u0027s most of this talk and it\u0027s kind of sad but then we I think we need to have an implementation discussion about what\u0027s happening with prototyping and getting these stuff to actually actually in the field alright so before to know we ended trunking we\u0027re more trunking to be for to know it the history of is that "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:09:39",
    "text": "originally in RFC 35 30 and sent festered a trunking was the sort of bad thing to avoid and with RFC 7931 we loud you haven\u0027t rung people if we got to say well you can if you have two addresses you can figure out whether they\u0027re trunked or not but there was no way I said oh I haven\u0027t addressed what other dress is trunk with that so that was that was trunking discovery in addition to trucking detection so in in the v4 know Chuck\u0027s document defined the interaction of trunking migration even support you know trunking discovery in trunking you can have two things that work trunk also become not trunk you can have things migrant didn\u0027t wedding things in my grade you can migrate from from from two trunk things to one to one pattern on the other thing or the vice versus and that\u0027s all support this was published as propose sandal it actually happened by the milestone date although i don\u0027t know what the definition of final submission is but anyway it\u0027s publicist RFC anyway now for beef one we had more to do we had to add trunking discovery just as we did in before to also discover trunky migration that\u0027s that\u0027s physical parallels what\u0027s in for dodo and also transparent and had they had transparent state migration so that was a bigger job that made that document kind of enormous and because some things we asked gene well it was 600 pages yes that\u0027s right all right so we had and at session migration and the fact that I have because you have migration you can have migration of PN FS metadata server migration of possibility of migrating from P n FS turn on pain of ascend and back in okay so that\u0027s those things and also because of the need to do these things there\u0027s unnecessary cleanup first of all the way the term replica was used in in RFC 56 61 B basically they said if you have two different addresses they were treated as as well as two different replicas even though there really were actually two paths to one replica so because that there\u0027s some terminological cleanup that had to be done and also the head event handling because I think truck Chuck pointed out that you know we weren\u0027t very clear about the alternative you don\u0027t support transparent state penetration there are there are the vague references to Pro FS / FS grace periods but the lot of a lot of the code a lot of the text did not really feel that a lot of gaps there had to be at so I revised the description of to ops exchange ID the free exchange I think but not was consistent with state migration and reclaimed complete wasn\u0027t clear about the / f / FS grace period case so also there was cleanup of the "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:12:40",
    "text": "era decision to accommodate those things anyway that was that was the package of things I had to do in before that one what useless well I\u0027ll go through that all that sad story okay the first thing is I produced this document that was basically it was called draft ITF and if it\u0027s before M v1 m SS m s NS update and the paradigm we filed was here the updates replace this by this replaced that by something else and I thought it was clear or as well as I could be and I was ok during the working group last call I attempt last call and then the ad review and that and but when the is G took a look at that number of people said oh we don\u0027t like this this sucks and so I well I think they had a point but anyway that wasn\u0027t the Exide we decided that wasn\u0027t named we couldn\u0027t there\u0027s no way that we\u0027d get them to accept that yes so Chuck leaver Oracle I think the gist was with my document it was short enough that the the diff I loved that we used to update the document was brief enough that it wasn\u0027t bothersome and the problem was this document was like three times longer than mine and I got three I think we crossed a line here it wasn\u0027t the it wasn\u0027t the problem that you know we don\u0027t like to hear the updates to apply at the spec paradigm I think they didn\u0027t like the size of it okay sure that that yeah the they hear the updates paradigm combine with you know you know eighty pages of it that I think that\u0027s what I see that\u0027s alright so anyway so he needed more bits like document but I started looking for the focuses and where we were and Tom sort of indicate oh gee you\u0027re crazy to do that basically something that words that of the nines of those exact words but that was the idea so I settled on something that would be closer to a BIST document it basically replaced section 11 and just add a few other updates I thought that would be okay the is you still did not like that they want an even more bits like document but a focus you have 8178 you had issues with eighty-four RFC 84 34 ending nationalisation security I\u0027ll talk about that in the later talk so finally settled on a partial miss document that will be a bit in the sense that will obsolete RFC 56 61 but it won\u0027t be the best that address every progresses every problem in RFC 56 61 and I so no other "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:15:43",
    "text": "changes other than the namespace changes so I have that document that vacuum is called draft ifgf NF is before our RFC 51 Cecily MS NS it submitted I hope people will read it comment on that and I think it needs to go through we\u0027re grew last call and then we can get considered by the ASG I\u0027d like people to look at it you could it\u0027s 600 pages but I don\u0027t think if you should be read 600 pages you can it\u0027s it\u0027s it\u0027s close enough to RFC 5060 one that you can dip the 50 things and there\u0027s some bugs in in RFC DIF that try to get the the author RFC DIF to fix but somehow we had some email problems communicating now I have a few things changes I also have a aquaria been katak about what he wants to see as the reference VFS hopefully hear from him the list any changes I get in probably in the next week week or so I\u0027ll submit it don\u0027t one and then we\u0027ll see whether we can go to the working group last call on that after that I hope to move the document forward and that\u0027s the only path eyes I see on that document all right that\u0027s it all right okay implementation issues now particularly with regard to trunking we would like to get started an implication implementation now I think the work on before now is published and 400 and 1 and for the one handling of of trunking is pretty much the same so I think the work that you do on one would carry over to the others but I find that some of the people in this group are right now said Oh before those all you don\u0027t want to bother with it but give it the same in both maybe the same work would do I\u0027d like to have that discussion if you have some feelings about when they would be doing the drunken politician so the question is if it\u0027s as big do you think that this time will pass or maybe you should have a small document to give to ig so they see the differences maybe I don\u0027t know because it seems to me that the same society pages could be still a problem well I wasn\u0027t I asked that question but Magnusson he said don\u0027t bother you though but I know what they\u0027re not so - Aslam yeah I mean we have discussed it I have notified them and I even talked to you around this about the some of the implications I think what they should I mean I this image or that is D that seems to be liking this own a video updates you should see so you can just "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:18:45",
    "text": "if it etc I may be not as convinced as the others but now I mean this is the plan we go forward with this as full-out basically implementing the full updates in in in the full quarters document and that becomes the next then reference and then of if you\u0027re gonna do a four point one piece forward if that would happen yeah I know what I would like to see but that\u0027s yeah it\u0027s coming o matic so but we\u0027ll discuss that later that\u0027s a separate topic but for for this implement is I think we take it one step its timing dementing I think I mean clear smaller updates or the saying this is an extension to something which isn\u0027t existing that you can do still do a system alone so yeah if you have new functionality yes do that\u0027s a separate talk no saying this extends the the 56 61 biz what is it now and the other namespaces but what really kind of a core reference in the next steps okay so my so we\u0027ll just see what happens yeah all right all right as far as implementation I think I\u0027d like like to know what people are doing as far as implementation of trunking Chuck do Univ it no I have any on the client-side or what your plans are or do you have plans Chuck leaverton Oracle I I don\u0027t know of anything in specific I\u0027m just trying to collect my thoughts about this I think one problem is that nobody has implemented at this locations info which is a good chunk of the appending document that we were just discussing ash isn\u0027t that big you could although that is supported and there was it\u0027s supported and there should be supported if you even if you do FS the locations right well there are some things in the new document that talk about you know combining the use of TCP and RDA and yes the use of the our team a flag and things like that that\u0027s all I meant about office locations info the Linux client doesn\u0027t support trunking right now at all so you have net F has some resources that could implement there I\u0027m not really planning to do any implementation there Solaris doesn\u0027t have any resources that I know of to to to try this out I mean they were the the main drivers of the transparent state migration work in both Solaris and Linux "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:21:47",
    "text": "okay all right so as far as the trunk anything it sounds like we net have made may be working on both in parallel and I think my smile would be to try to do as much as the for Daddo and for one to work together I\u0027m not sure how that works and the cause exists as far as transparent state migration the only server implementation was on Solaris and that\u0027s not gonna go into for that one the Solaris server does support for point one it does yeah even before even though before was it was an RFC okay right and they prototype most of the stuff that you\u0027ve done up to about 18 months ago in that document so I think that\u0027s pretty well okay the Linux client does support transports transparent sync migration in both for oh and for one okay alright well that\u0027s good to know so that means that if the clients there then I could think about this is what I really should mention I don\u0027t know the state of it because I asked them to come here VMware is implement implemented finally their four point one support so I don\u0027t know where they I could ask them after this not implemented because they asked some questions but that for that one in general are about this reason or specific for the trunking okay because they have the demand called migrations in okay if there is no migrations well then I should you know I should be in contact okay sure alright so that I think ends that okay alright my next story I think that\u0027s you you Jenna oh alright I give one with slide oh all right sorry Trombley okay Trump trunk and rehabilitation well this is irrelevant but just told me that basically it appears that except for people who are not in this room or on Meetup even me that go it\u0027s probably nap who\u0027s gonna do doing the starting work on both the client and the server and transparent state migration Chuck tells me that for no one support isn\u0027t the client there\u0027s essentially prototype unofficial but pretty close to the document support from fee 4.1 in the server and I don\u0027t know what my plans are but I I will think about what what plans I have for state migration in my server okay all right and I think that is the end of it finally okay that is now it\u0027s you Chuck servant seemly power next "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:25:01",
    "text": "presentations by Chuck Lieber RPC on TLS there\u0027s a conversation going on in the room Chuck\u0027s work Chuck\u0027s waiting for with the undivided attention of the yeah yeah all right so this is work that\u0027s happened since the last time we met which was here a year ago I proposed that we enter the 21st century that NFS enters of 21st century and support encryption by default in other words when you install client it could have some facility for using on the spot created a certificate material to encrypt its transmission to a server in just the same way that web server could web browser on a web server can do it and this slide sort of enumerates the things that we\u0027re really looking looking for in this in this feature we spent we want to protect the use of assist because that\u0027s still widely deployed a lot of people depend on it it\u0027s very simple to deploy you just used UID numbers and make sure that they match up on the client server and you\u0027re all done it\u0027s a lot simpler than GSS which is why GSS is not more widely deployed I think I was also interested in taking advantage of the kind of hardware implementations of encryption offload that are available for TLS and unfortunately most operating systems that are widely deployed like Linux and Windows have support already software support already for TLS and support for an it for such Nix that allow Hardware offload so these are the two main benefits that we\u0027re hoping to get and I mentioned privacy already I\u0027ve had actual user requests for this Oracle many people don\u0027t know this but Oracle does have a have a cloud just like azure and Google and Amazon the Oracle cloud infrastructure OCI folks came to me and asked for support for NFS with encryption so that when anybody brings up a tenant with a bunch of Linux clients that they they can get they can get privacy on the wire it turns out that Amazon already has this feature they have a tunneling feature that they\u0027ve got built-in that got a sub command a mount sub command that allows them to create an SSH tunnel on the client that connects to the server and then they they tunnel NFS over it there "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:28:03",
    "text": "was an interesting article and I think lwn or was it a linux journal about it nine months ago where a guy outlined it exactly how I did this thing provide scripts and it looked like something you tear your hair out to implement I mean there\u0027s just huge number of little tweaky things to do and I thought why can\u0027t we do this in the protocol and just you know not not require any kind of SSH tunnel at all so privacy was the first important most important goal the second one was we want to be able to provide a degree of machine authentication in other words the clients should be able to authenticate the server make sure they\u0027re connecting to the right machine and the server\u0027s should be able to defend any chthonic a the clients and when they do that then they can use the authentication material as part of an authorization of the client to make sure that this is a client that is allowed to talk to me and they\u0027re sure because there\u0027s cryptographic authentication going on there are some secondary benefits I don\u0027t have to go through those most of the stuff is listed in is already discussed in the introduction of the RPC on TLS draft the third bullet usually trips some people up but the idea there is that we want the ability to provide an authentication mechanism for the machines that is completely independent of the fennec ation mechanism that\u0027s used for users so for example a client can use lots sis and it can use TLS on the wire to authenticate the who the client is but it doesn\u0027t use TLS to use to authenticate users unlike GSS when you use GSS you\u0027re stuck with GSS and authentication of both users and the clients and machines so we are already working on prototypes tigran merck Chen has been working on prototypes of client and server in user space for the German research firm Daisy he brought it to a big phone in May and demonstrated it links Linux is also getting a kernel implementation prototype implementation that Trond is working on my co-author that is still in progress there are I had a couple more listed here on this slide but you know they\u0027re there folks who probably don\u0027t need a public mention of prototyping efforts in case they decide to scrap so need let\u0027s just say there are some other interests okay that might even be mentioned in the implementation status section of the document anything from AWS because I know they\u0027re working you also have something so we\u0027ve you\u0027re asking about Amazon yeah "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:31:05",
    "text": "we\u0027ve had some in-person communication with the Amazon NFS team they have their their elastic file system is nfsv4 : based on to mention that if somebody\u0027s using them yeah there there are there are tenets of the Amazon zone that there are ten tenants of the Amazon Cloud that are using their encryption technique and they they met with us recently trying to die with them to discuss how stable the document is and what the Linux prototype would look like and how key material would be managed and things like that so they\u0027re they\u0027re looking very closely at this and I I have a sense that they\u0027re interested in implement implementing something that will be interoperable with Linux we\u0027ve also talked about some future works that the future work that\u0027s going to be needed for NFS support for TOS it\u0027s probably a bunch of little details but probably the most important thing is is tying together the lease management credential the thing that\u0027s used for authenticating a client ID and exchange ID with the transport credentials so that the clients are fully authenticated there are some other details which I\u0027m not remembering at the moment but we\u0027ll need a document to write this stuff down I don\u0027t think I\u0027ll be a long one we\u0027ve also been thinking about in the longer term creating a an RPC on quick transport large tells me that quick is probably not quite mature enough to begin actual work on this but it\u0027s coming close and I think it would be good for us if we started looking closely quick to understand what we need to do to build such a transport and what capabilities that would give us I don\u0027t have to go into that right now unless people would like to but you know you all know me so come talk if you have opinions about this now this slide is next steps for the document itself that the RPC on TLS document we\u0027re wondering if she had a charter milestone for this document because there isn\u0027t one right now and it as I began this presentation just reiterate that this work disk is sort of blossomed over the last nine months to a year since we last talked about the Charter so now is a good time for us to consider that we\u0027ve had one sector review already that was a more nascent version of the document maybe we want another one now that we\u0027ve added a lot more detail to it especially around authentication we\u0027ve had some comments from implementers requesting more detail "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:34:06",
    "text": "regarding the Machine authentication and what the requirements are there I\u0027m not sure we need to put those in I know that my co-author is not interested in nailing that down firmly right now we want to give implementations some freedom to experiment in that regard so I\u0027m kind of open to either approach I like to your opinions about that I think Dave is interested in seeing some more text focusing on the weaknesses of auth Sisson and how in transit encryption will will help close some of those exposures I think that will feed into this improvements to the security considerations sections for Ana fests in in later documents and obviously we need to refine the threat model and security analysis presented in the security consideration section because this is certainly all about security and we need to we need to make sure that is tight I think this is last slide yes it is questions discussion the action regarding for the working group I here is to add a milestone basically Magnus no no no no that that one action is adding a milestone for this work to the Charter because it does its work going on that\u0027s not even covered on our stuff and I need you to think about that okay I mean besides all the work that has to be done from my perspective the milestone update okay thank you any other observations comments questions lars do you think we should take this through sector review again or should we just put it in from the isg in and see if they have any opinion about it I think you should probably get some different sector to look at it again from TLS guy I don\u0027t expect any problems because it got better right but you know why not make them work a little bit well I\u0027m wondering if they\u0027re gonna find a detail that they might be able to argue with now yes I mean the more of you you get now the more power you have later on to say hey you like looking at this before why do you come at this stage okay do I need an ad to press that button that you press to get the sector review or is there something I can do I he can the chair can okay this is not an official request to press that button right now but but be on the ready okay any more comments or questions okay next "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:37:14",
    "text": "yeah is this one or is it the other one I think it\u0027s the RDMA one first it\u0027s your it does come into the party oh I don\u0027t feel like crying to thank the party sorry that\u0027s all these buttons to make sure that you have control look at that okay thank you so this is kind of the work that you know there\u0027s an opportunity cost to working on on exciting new technology like RPC and TLS this is the work that got back Bernhard when we discovered that we had some excitement around our PC on TLS last year we were talking about RPC over our DMA version 2 and so I thought I would sort of discuss this document that is still a personal draft and see if we can move this forward a little bit originally when this was proposed several years ago we had some issues in version RPC over already may version one that we thought were kind of important to address immediately one was the ability to integrate well to support transport properties and because we wanted to support remote invalidation and a larger in line threshold because the default inline threshold for a version 1 is a kilobyte which is too small for NFS before so our goals were to try to get those transport properties supported and enabling sensibility so we could so it was easier for us to build on the transport because version 1 had a lot of restrictions in it that that kind of prevented us from doing that and then later it we we added I in my opinion I thought we needed a little more actual we need some protocol changes to support remote invalidation fully especially for implementations like the Solaris client because it uses a mix of our keys that are able to be remotely invalidated and some that aren\u0027t in each RPC and on each connection we also found the need to add some better error reporting to to the transport so these are the before soft sub bullets on this slide are the ones that we\u0027re most interested in so I thought I\u0027d list some potential extensions that we could do if we had extensibility in the transport Dave I think the first one that was proposed was Dave\u0027s idea to use send and receive for some in-place data transfer instead "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:40:18",
    "text": "of our DMA another one was eliminating the use of reply chunks and the reason why we\u0027d want to do that is because they are needed you have to pre provision those on the client and sometimes the client guesses wrong protocols can\u0027t always tell like protocols like an abbess can\u0027t always tell how big they need and Dave has also suggested that we probably want to add some machine authentication to the transport protocol in the same way that we were doing with TLS I\u0027m TCP that actually has not been proposed yet but I thought I\u0027d put it on here just as a example potential extension and then last summer a year ago I came here and talked about a problem I noticed with credit accounting in our PC I\u0027ve already maybe v1 there are a number of shortcomings there and my specials especially concerned about [Music] transport control plane messages in other words the credit accounting mechanism in version 1 is tied to RPC messages and if we want to use if we want to send messages over the transport that are not RPC messages will somehow account for that in our credit and our flow control especially if we want to add such control plane messages in extensions so that is the last proposed change to the original set of goals around this version to proposal they can just mention some prototyping that\u0027s been done a document that is currently waiting for isg review is our pcr team a the CM private data that handles transport properties for a version one i built a prototype for that in linux you have a server and client and that has demonstrated the need for and the benefits of both support for remote and validation and larger in line sizes and it\u0027s also identified one or two shortcomings or weaknesses I guess for example that stuff has to be set up before the the transport is fully instantiate \u0027add and the receive buffers and then send buffers are created even though to make the connection you have to create some of that infrastructure so there\u0027s a there\u0027s a chicken-and-egg problem there that we didn\u0027t foresee but in the prototyping we\u0027ve managed to work with that and demonstrate that it\u0027s still beneficial on the area that we haven\u0027t really prototype is the extensibility features in version 2 so we have to think about that carefully [Music] Dave suggested I had this slide I think there\u0027s some information on here that we might need to make a decision about whether we want to adopt this as work in rip document now before we\u0027ve actually before the product the proposals feature "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:43:19",
    "text": "complete um so questions in discussion I mean here\u0027s some ball points that I thought you know we probably ought to talk about a little bit before we proceed with adoption ah I don\u0027t think the working group document has to have a bow on it to go in to the discussion and that\u0027ll start locking it into completion milestone dates and everything I if there\u0027s Lara\u0027s Magnus you uh any feedback here the comment was that is that the document is not feature complete however and he was working towards that for the working group official working group document submission we\u0027re moving into working group document I don\u0027t think that\u0027s a requirement for the working group document to bring it to work group tacky work on the document alright so let\u0027s just move forward on that and update the milestone on this thing to get that get that locked and loaded for completion is that okay yes Dave one we asked if there\u0027s if we got to include one of these extensions that I put the slide up about as an example or make it part of a document or should we just sort of set that aside and say yeah that\u0027s future work I don\u0027t know yeah maybe we don\u0027t have the right people in the room to talk about that the one I should get closer okay sure well you have a long list but there\u0027s actually three oh the one that I proposed is not as definitely if it goes in future work so I wouldn\u0027t think that that one certainly should be in the document as the other ones I don\u0027t know how the people might have odds of doing this but I don\u0027t I don\u0027t feel there\u0027s any strongly region the one that I think is most necessary is you know things set but that also could be future work because we\u0027ll figure that out we make progress on as we make progress on the authentication on the RPC TLS side we\u0027ll need something matching it for the things where you all are agree with that the Machine authentication stuff seems a little more critical and and would make I think this version of more appealing both through the IHG and to potential implementers so it might be something we actually do want to consider putting into the into the document I know it\u0027s a it\u0027s a it\u0027s a heavy lift I agree with that okay so can I ask you a big favor yes yeah sure can you start what let\u0027s "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:46:22",
    "text": "one move the document to work in group document but let\u0027s work on that but then also can you start a thread on the alias about the document document content and this issue so we can bounce it back and forth okay yes so the next the next revision of this document will be working group 0-0 yes okay next now I go back to the agenda order I originally had okay most of you are probably rolling your eyes and saying not this again I\u0027m hoping that we can make enough forward progress on this that there will be some agreement on what needs to be done to make this document move forward or decide that it\u0027s just not going to work so the document now contains an introduction section that I have tried to keep a pretty high level and as such it\u0027s probably not touching your hearts so today I want to compliment that architectural description of the purpose and design of integrity measurement with a use case and then I\u0027ve also been asked for interoperability analysis and I think I have enough here that I can share that with you and provide some operational examples and hopefully that will be enough that by the end of the talk we can actually talk about the remaining controversies that erupted on the mailing lists and maybe we can get through them and make some progress so the purpose of integrity measurement I mean Tegrity measurement is kind of this highfalutin term that maybe doesn\u0027t mean anything to people but the whole idea here is that we want to have some way of protecting file content from when it\u0027s created all the way to when a user runs it to the point where you do an exec ve on it my sponsor Oracle is mostly interested in the content of executable files not like and maybe configuration files not necessarily the files that a user creates so that sort of narrows the the scope of the of the use case a little bit the idea here is that we have a protection envelope that\u0027s continuous from the point when someone creates the executable say MV or a or a database application to the point where it\u0027s where it\u0027s actually used and it\u0027s "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:49:23",
    "text": "protected at rest on the disk or whatever storage medium it\u0027s on it\u0027s protected in backups it\u0027s protected in transit when it\u0027s being installed everything so the extension that I\u0027m proposing the NFS enables this protection envelope to stretch from and then if I server to an NFS client so the idea is that you\u0027d be able to install one of these protected binaries on an NFS server and when someone doesn\u0027t exactly e on a client that has mounted that server that protection extends from the servers disks through the network all the way to the client so now a little mind numbing mathematics I\u0027m just gonna state some terminological definitions here so that we can talk about this quickly suppose we have a software vendor I\u0027m gonna call the software vendor v this vendor has a public key pair or has a key pair a public key and a private key and the software vendor publishes a public key to its customers via the normal mechanisms of that kind of thing so V as a stream of versions of an application a it publishes a finalized version of this application say a version 1.0 it generates a checksum in a trusted environment and it signs it with a sprite key so now to distribute this software the vendor publishes both the application file content and the signed checksum so taking out of this out of the picture for a moment we can say okay what does a what does a local system need to do after its installed one of these things it\u0027s got to have a place for storing these keys the public keys at least for the from various vendors it has to have a security module and that runs in a privileged mode and that can generate the the check sums and verify the signature of the private assigned check sums that it gets and it has to have a policy for handling the times when if the appraisal fails that policy might be you\u0027re not allowed to access the executable it might be I\u0027m going to report you in an audit log it might be do nothing but it\u0027s gonna have a policy so just on a local file system the customer might install the application in a local file and it stores the checks on the sign checksum as an extended attribute and whatever this application is run then the the local security module computes the checksum of it and it verifies that the "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:52:24",
    "text": "the stored sign checksum matches the the checksum that it computed oops I\u0027m sorry I\u0027m backing up there we go and as I said the local policy then determines exactly what happens if the scenes your verification fails or the checksum verification fails so what about what is this looks like when NFS is in the picture today what happens is this the the server has the the policy engine and the private the the privilege module and when it reads the file off the disk it does all the checking and when the checking fails it it reports that there\u0027s an access error and the the client can\u0027t get access it so it looks like someone just changed the Akal on the file with the NFS extension NFS would exposed the extended attribute that\u0027s stored on the server to the client so the client can make its own decisions about this and in fact keep its own audit log you can have its own policy about whether to fail access to the file report the prominent log but most importantly it protects that the data in transit between the server and the client so here\u0027s one of the pieces that people have been asking me for a while about and that is how how to deal with interoperability in other words when client a writes some of this metadata into a file how does client B read it how is it guaranteed to be able to read it well the local modules have been haven\u0027t had have had to deal with this problem forever I have to handle backwards compatibility as the operating system is upgraded obviously they don\u0027t have to reinstall applications or regenerate the the check sums or resign them so the security module has to understand how to read old versions of it and obviously it\u0027s for offenders will as I said before release a sequence of application versions and they may change the way they they sign and generate the checksums over time so the the security module has to be responsible for reading this data understanding it and/or applying a policy to it if it can\u0027t if it can\u0027t read it it will just say I can\u0027t confirm that this this checksum is valid or not and in that case it can either decide that it\u0027s a checksum failure or just let the application access it and say it\u0027s unverified so I think it\u0027s time for a little discussion do we think the introduction to the document now is adequate or does it need some of the information I presented today included "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:55:25",
    "text": "in it do you think my discussion of the interoperability concerns I just presented is good enough to put in the document or do we need more than that [Music] one of the questions that I have not been able to get a good answer on is what\u0027s the level of permission that\u0027s needed for a client to modify the extended attributes on the server and do we need to add a new error code to the end of his protocol that says there\u0027s an integrity failure on the server I can stop here for a moment any any opinions comments certainly we\u0027ve had some of this discussion on the mailing list already and we haven\u0027t been able to reach any kind of opinion about it so I\u0027m bringing up here now in person so I just one question because I was thinking going philosophy chair I have a question you are your name sorry sorry so affiliation what\u0027s your company doll I said sorry in there I said he\u0027s not my name down so the only question abroad I was trying to think about it is when the file is local and because it\u0027s the attribute and is moved to the NFS would that impact the Europe because you only move it you may lose some of the characteristics so the question is is this going to address that because I think that\u0027s a use case that could happen the sign checksum is moved with the file content so it\u0027s from from the whatever file system when it moved its gets his own yes the it\u0027s an extended attribute and the tools the standard file system tools like tar and CP and MB all have two so not MV reserves in fact if you may well will they will preserve that extended attribute Tom Haines hammer space just a comment I would give an error code that\u0027s specific so we don\u0027t have to guess okay I\u0027ve created one the latest version of this called NFS for air integrity do people feel that\u0027s adequate or would like to rename it I\u0027m fine with it okay it\u0027s a generic error code it could be used for other purposes for example as long as the client says I support integrity checking then the server is allowed to return that code and I could return it for other reasons like oh yeah I couldn\u0027t read that because the parity is bad on the raid or something like that maybe David Park don\u0027t make sure that you also cover the legacy client that\u0027s doing with servers doing the what "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:58:26",
    "text": "you scribes current behavior to protect the client that doesn\u0027t understand what his signature is or how to check it yeah that\u0027s discussed in the document you refer to the client to the case of fire closer ok yes Dave Novick you referred to the case of the client not supporting the attribute right now the server says what actually supports there\u0027s no way that I know for a client\u0027s say I do or don\u0027t support that\u0027s right that\u0027s part of the extension that I\u0027m proposing so if this if the client if there\u0027s a legacy client it doesn\u0027t it doesn\u0027t ask if the server supports this feature and the server\u0027s not allowed to root to return the new error code it would return e access instead which is what that\u0027s the day so can I assess the general comfort level of people in this room for moving forward with this document or do we need to take another approach nobody is proposing another approach so there\u0027s only one question on the table well I can if if people are not comfortable with this approach I would propose something else that\u0027s what I meant sorry nobody nobody in the front of the room sitting at the chairs table is asking for that oh great generally okay okay should we hum yes so I would rather take this to working group discussion then to document which which basically kicks the process in of us deciding whether or not we want to actually ship this thing okay so instead of talking about chipping it we\u0027ll talk about whether we like we\u0027ve had some procedural issues on the list when I publish news versions of the document there is one person on the list who is who is not here who objects every time okay but let\u0027s discuss that later all right yeah all right if I wanted everybody to agree with me I would no I\u0027m just asking for what is the process for helping this document move forward despite the objection it is working her apartment today after after confirming a decision did the sense of the room here on the list that should be working group doctor then thence measures workgroup "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:01:27",
    "text": "doc I wanna make sure I understand the maintainability this it sounds like from an NFS protocol point of view the new attributes contents are opaque because the IMA and the software vendor are in cahoots if and NFS doesn\u0027t understand what\u0027s going on and doesn\u0027t need to okay the very last prepositional phrase you used is exactly the point it doesn\u0027t need to yes and it\u0027s not trying to in particular try and particulars this is not headed down a rat hole of the finding of the funding signature format so signature algorithms that\u0027s not in a Vestas problem it doesn\u0027t care that has been my position since day one and there are some people in the list who feel that it really needs to be done by us by somebody it\u0027s not like there is someone else closer was it\u0027s not only some other authority will write this down that\u0027s that doesn\u0027t want to that\u0027s the problem yes it\u0027s go ahead let\u0027s see it\u0027s gonna have to be left to somebody else because when the works the way it does in the local case I think is the crucial to me is it reaches a crucial argument that takes this out of the scope of what NFS cares about the other thing I\u0027ll note is yeah that proper level permission question is a biggie keep asking because there\u0027s a denial service attack there okay there\u0027s one more slide but yeah the pointers not responding anymore two more voids this is not in the Charter should we add a charge milestone yes we have to add a milestone for this okay yes sorry I know Dave\u0027s gonna have a discussion later about milestones we need to right right but but we need to clean up the milestones it\u0027s a its Santa sanitation work ok so yes milestone all along here notes what else is there what\u0027s the criterion before that I need to meet defer we can do a last call do we think is that not something we want "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:04:27",
    "text": "to decide here that\u0027s fine but again I asked Brian plus key again I asked you to take the to restart conversation on the work of group Elias please okay and with anything with an update of what we would you cover today and then let\u0027s let\u0027s drive okay all right well most like and by the way Spencer\u0027s on to he\u0027s taking lots of notes I\u0027m sure end it one more slide yeah I\u0027m not sure this is really super interesting probably the rest of the talk wasn\u0027t really super interesting but there\u0027s a lot more to ima than just file content and there\u0027s a whole section of it that I did not try to propose or implement around protecting the attributes file attributes and that would include Ackles and access control likes mac attributes file capabilities and a few other things i\u0027ve i\u0027ve asked the question in the linux integrity community whether that feature that part of the IMA is necessary before we can demonstrate whether NFS with IMA is useful or effective and they seem to think that we don\u0027t need EVM for that so we can skip the attribute verification for now and there\u0027s a lot of problems around that of course because every operating system has a different way of representing these these attributes and there\u0027s no standard implementation of file capabilities either so there are a lot of there\u0027s a whole rat\u0027s nest of stuff there that that I\u0027m avoiding by not attempting that the other thing that I am leaving for future work is dealing with the performance implications of changing one of these files and resigning it or changing a large file and having to checksum it repeatedly and and the draft is agnostic on how this data is cache because the security module at the private the privilege module is supposed to cash the check sums they they\u0027re supposed to compute the checksum once when it\u0027s read in and then cache that so there it\u0027s supposed to handle secure performance reasonably well but anyway that I\u0027m punting on that so that\u0027s that\u0027s it for this talk okay and um I I would prefer not expanding the work now okay yeah that definitely we\u0027re going to wrap it okay Bryan plus key are you the next talk - "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:07:27",
    "text": "no all right and that\u0027s we got that okay then this one thanks and and enjoy the veal the meal veal veal okay doesn\u0027t work okay so this is try okay yeah all right all right - what do that now the clicker worked without fullscreen before it just didn\u0027t work well well anyway it doesn\u0027t work yeah anyway regardless that this is a review of the my system a year makes sense to review the milestones and where we are aren\u0027t all right oh I\u0027m doing it okay go ahead and do it all right so if it doesn\u0027t work it\u0027s all your fault yeah all right all right this is the mouth the two-mile sense of the action we\u0027ve actually achieved what does the migration is just document that was the goal was wooden glass it\u0027s call and we decide after working class last called there\u0027s no point in publishing that as an RFC so it is done there\u0027s no RFC the other one that was achieved is before to know trunking discovery with Chuck got through the RFC that has done through ask G as that is RFC 85-87 and his posted frozenness so I two other very eight milestones are done now on the next slide yeah somebody turned it off was you right anyway all right so now the remaining ones we have these are the four where we haven\u0027t achieved them and the target state is in the past so that is a total of four milestones so nvme for PN FS which is still interested in within the working group but it\u0027s that I\u0027ll talk about later but it\u0027s the target was a long time ago let\u0027s say over a year ago and it\u0027s clear that\u0027s not going to done we don\u0027t know who we want to figure out what do about that now trunking discovery and transparent state migration sort of all and talked about in previous talk those two milestones are one document and the target was March 2019 we had to always go around to the ISD and I\u0027m hoping that we\u0027ll go go to work and grew last call and get the hope I hope since I\u0027ve given "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:10:29",
    "text": "the III as chief what they\u0027re asking for I hope that we\u0027ll be okay with that and I\u0027m hoping for October 2000 and that has been discussed elsewhere and see a private date that original target was was June of this year but there were some issues with with again the document think and started with the with the write-up and I think it\u0027s Chuck said it was now an iced tea I think it does have to go to an air-to-air agent review but in any case um I think I expected to be done by to be reached by September 2019 so Chuck Lieber you\u0027re right it\u0027s waiting for consensus right up in the ad review I think that\u0027s it I think I think oh all righty all right Spencer did move it too but he did not actually produce the consensus so it\u0027s waiting for consensus that needs consensus right right up ad review and then go to the s G and we\u0027re hope that all gets done by by September okay that\u0027s the end of those slides then we also have a few slides which all right I already made layout for being a mess I have separate slides for that that is that we have a target date of September that\u0027s probably not not achievable and this will discuss that later and the RPC over are debating Chuck\u0027s already talked about that the target date is December I think Chuck has to make a decision whether that\u0027s that\u0027s achievable or it needs to be adjusted I don\u0027t know what probably all right I think that\u0027s a good guess but we need a new guest from you whenever I can get it if you have it now you can give it to me now okay we\u0027ll talk okay now now we have to think about any miles those we had we had we had initial set of milestones for two years and that two years is over but all the milestones are not gone we have to be thinking about replaced with milestones now replacement of not reached a new milestone we need an owner who\u0027s gonna drive it a target date a preliminary document which could be an individual draft but has to be an individual draft where we think it\u0027s conceivable that will become a working group draft and it has to be working and part of that is important group interest and we should this is a two year go to your window let\u0027s have a target date before hours of 2021 way off then okay anyway some possibilities well we\u0027re "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:13:29",
    "text": "both some men mentioned integrity measurement is one thing might get an RPC TLS some future working group the mate may may may get milestones like RFC fifty sixty one this which I\u0027m going to talk about may be Chuck\u0027s men mentioned the NFS focus security related document but that is not it\u0027s not far enough along that would that might be a milestone but that might in the future its nebulous RPC over already made version to I guess that also actually is the current milestone I make a lot made a last past this is said oh gee I\u0027d missed slides two weeks ago and I\u0027d look at them and that\u0027s wrong so that\u0027s already in last master so possibilities I think draft CEO and efficient for SEC level extensions okay no no there\u0027s a sense Tom\u0027s dead end okay all right Tom\u0027s document meant they might eventually turn into something that might have a Tata box yes yes it should okay fine then we\u0027ll talk about that\u0027s my daughter okay right is it will be we\u0027ve been talking about Flint\u0027s of files b2b no because the the flexibility to will only come out when we Kerber eyes it and someone\u0027s got to be interested in doing this okay so that\u0027s probably not likely no all right all right now envy me for PMF s now it\u0027s a spar a long time ago the current target is gone a year ago it\u0027s we\u0027ve been just keeping on hoping that that somehow this would be revived but it hasn\u0027t been it can\u0027t be revived in its current form basically we have to declare it dead and reincarnate if now you mention the possibility of working on that so depending on how my presentation goes I have the intention to take over that and finished I know there is a cap I have to figure out the gap but I don\u0027t know if I can count on Christophe but I intend to pick it up so if as a condition for my deduction something without Christopher [Music] wait I need that at the mic what are you saying Chuck Weaver Urkel so in order for someone to take over this document they\u0027ll need permission of Christophe why it\u0027s a document for the work that I definitely do the next version when I do "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:16:32",
    "text": "a new document that this copies it when I when I was working on the first on the base our teammate drafts Spencer insisted that I get permission from Tom palpated to do this work wait hold up wait the area directors are leaving the room no I figured out that Magnus is trying is trying to reach some step goal today because the longest path to the microphone - so I mean if this document I\u0027ve been submitted right there founder the PCP is 78 copyright etc we have anyone has right to do derivative work based on that text so that\u0027s the formality of it at least so but yeah I mean we it\u0027s it\u0027s nice to ask this or at least informed that we intend to make it go forward yeah and that\u0027s that\u0027s my I think that\u0027s what Spencer probably meant Spencer text me if you disagree hey um no so let me reach out to Kristoff if you don\u0027t mind and find out what what he what he\u0027s doing here I\u0027m wondering if he just basically that the people that he was working with is are no longer interested in those parts that means that we can ask his permission maybe you can know reach to him touch my stuff yeah we wanna help him that\u0027s what we wanna do on the other hand look I don\u0027t to take over his work I just want to the question is certified by the with that the question is was how do we go around is expired or a year ago so did not continue fortunately they don\u0027t keep statistics about that so unique is my proposal is to sorry again my proposal is to revive it and I don\u0027t know do I need the agreement here or I just do it and then because it\u0027s a it will become a working group document I don\u0027t to take it only as private I think those private let me talk to Chris Alvin action here I\u0027m talk to Christophe and let me take it to the alias with the plan for the stock okay lots of you you shouldn\u0027t submit a stracciatella week out of my city you could write this system but you can take the content and if you want to you can you know acknowledge a media clansmen section and say that the original version was written by him so if you get his permission if he doesn\u0027t have the time I "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:19:32",
    "text": "wouldn\u0027t keep him as a co-author because it\u0027s going to bite you at all 48 at the latest all right so as possibility of going forward that all right so then we had another similar situation although it\u0027s farther long it hasn\u0027t expired yet the the target is still in the future but it\u0027s clearly unrealizable there\u0027s no active document that\u0027s expired there\u0027s been some prototyping work based on the original expired document the problem I think we discussed this a couple of months ago the problem is it\u0027s hard to do basically for the metadata server has to assign has to do things relate to another connection I\u0027m not sure how you know I don\u0027t know enough about how our teammate works to see if that\u0027s valid so we need someone take this over if Christophe is not prepared to who is real our DMA expert truck Libre Oracle I think where we left this technically is that there\u0027s an architectural problem that needs to be resolved at the transport level and perhaps machine authentication in in the RPC or our team a transport may resolve it but the issue is that when the client reaches out to an RDM a data server there\u0027s no authentication that that client has permission to get to those to get to the to the layouts and and it\u0027s it\u0027s accessing those layouts via raw RDMA and there\u0027s no authentication in that so that\u0027s the problem that we need to solve we need we need active our DMA savvy engineers working on this I\u0027m not trying to be negative I\u0027m just saying that\u0027s what it\u0027s gonna take so it seems that there sorry Nadal it seems that both are related in my planning my planning was to use both PMF s RDMA because I wanted to work on any vmu over fabric yes which kinda I don\u0027t know what was the intention of Christophe but it makes sense now that well I want to point out that the thing that that\u0027s that\u0027s that\u0027s different with others is a pure Rd made layout rather than a PMF SR camellia yeah because I think your work would curve would Kerr the envy me over fabric case would not have the Oh I was just wondering though if he didn\u0027t think about this being related that so I was I didn\u0027t really considered two separate things and this was a surf father motivated losing I think but it never was followed up on and shuts identified this problem and I don\u0027t know "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:22:33",
    "text": "how we\u0027re gonna go forward with that right now it is where it is it\u0027s late you have to figure out what what to do about it again he\u0027s interested in working on this area but we may not have time okay so now we have to do is it is this so far along that we should removed from milestone list because it is not expect it\u0027s not December yet but looking at it it\u0027s unrealistic to believe that will be completed by December you thought working document sorry this is not working group canceled but it\u0027s something I think the working group is interested in but I know what we can do but given the the problem that shirts mentioned we don\u0027t really have anyone who can take this over so there\u0027s no there\u0027s no downside this just to make not making a decision for another few months but cleaver Oracle drop it I think we strongly okay I\u0027m okay with that I mean there\u0027s there\u0027s no I think you\u0027ve told me this before there\u0027s no way of recording working group interests other than here\u0027s an active document and we don\u0027t have an active document all right fine good point if not so good to hear but you\u0027re right okay all right all right in any case my point your point you\u0027re right here we are I think that\u0027s it oh well there are some other possibilities could we look at could look at the general architecture Chuck doesn\u0027t have any time to write it up but may some maybe we discuss this maybe there is a way around this architecture problem but it is something it seems like something we\u0027ll wanted to address in the future given that we have you know given if there\u0027s more interest in our to made the idea of to an argument lie it was always a good one it\u0027s just we have this big solid authentic problem and your point maybe once we get more complicated more more more comfortable with the idea of machine authentication maybe there\u0027s some in there but I guess how you get to from there to Road to game or are you me I don\u0027t know how we\u0027re gonna make that transition all right I think that\u0027s it for me I think actually on the next one I\u0027m not sure you are this document right all right yes so we finally got a BIST document for before that oh and I think now for reasons I\u0027m Greta we reaching "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:25:34",
    "text": "the question of why I want one for before that one despite the fact that Tom thinks I\u0027m crazy even though he\u0027s not licensed to practice medicine anywhere all right as a doctor though you got but he\u0027s never served a psych your psychiatric residency anywhere anyway right it\u0027s a gerald idea as I found dealing with the ICG one document describing a minor version the real problem for readers there are multiple documents on the same subject which might or might not contradict one another the eyes genes made it clear to me they see the in various ways not only to me but there are some issues with lots of not only this group but other groups updating documents and G where the hell are we which is the document that describes this so RFC 5061 is building up a set of updates of which I\u0027ve contributed to other people have and but there\u0027s other ones there needed that have been deferred for for a while so I think that I think the work group needs to address the situation group for that one I have a proposal how I might go about doing so and the work group has to decide one first day and had an end whether it do this so I\u0027ll be talking about all right so the we have some update updates there are in the process proving 4.11 is the Tom amazing updated RFC v 61 with RFC 84 34 with some changes that he said needed made to section 12 and I have I previously talked about the large set of updates in draft I ATF NFS before RFC physicist says sweet so those two are may just enough to make a Mista but then we have some other things in 5061 internationalization is wrong yes we have it was when they wrote through this is the one they took the in nationalism was RC 35 30 which was wrong nobody ever implemented that and so we needed a new internationalisation and needs a new security consideration section of the work the chuck has talked about gives us a possibility of having reasonable security that people will actually be able to implement and I think we needed put that to reference that work in an RFC 5061 Biss and having new security considerations section right now let\u0027s talk about the existing security considerations section well there\u0027s no threat analysis and some people in the eyes do you have and the security director have commented on what a mess that is it should have been a required but it wasn\u0027t we got by luckily well "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:28:37",
    "text": "it\u0027s luckily because if we\u0027ve been assisted on it at that time there would be no NFS before if they said yeah you must do a secure I think I don\u0027t think we were up to it and beyond them guess we didn\u0027t have that made it was made as to easiest for hand wave away serious serious issue since general general field we had oh yeah well most time it\u0027s used in fact it\u0027s true it\u0027s used on local networks and people who some assuming that that fact mean meant that you didn\u0027t have to really worry about Sookie but you do and as well we have poor security rayne edifice before Austin use was optional and some hand waving about about that but really it\u0027s used it\u0027s not only optional it\u0027s used in the clear without clarification there\u0027s no security it\u0027s really totally unsecured also even if you\u0027ve not using Austin you have privacy integrity one way is basic model is that you do some initial things presumably without all that without integrity privacy and then you find out as you cross into various various facets you find out whether that fastest in group was but that means it\u0027s that means that certain things are done in the clear and you can\u0027t get rid of them in the protocol and also with Chuck reference this is difficult and offloading that that security work because different keys keys I used a different route and I think in the architecture checks working on you have the same you the same key on each session it\u0027s easier to offload and the other important thing because the for those problems the actual use of integrity of prophecy is very very small very few people not many people to use associate uses RPC sexy SS and the amount of use of integrity of prophecy is bouncing and small so in terms of whatever the spec says fact the matter is lots of people use AUSA\u0027s and that security sucks and the ones that use RBC to set GSS do not you do interrogator privacy routinely and if they did their performance would be impossible so we have a problem so I think we need to when as when Chuck view gives me a target date I\u0027ll have it I\u0027ll be able to think about a target date beyond that because I think they\u0027ll say later that you have to reference that work to make it a major advance in NFS security so the important things are things that you are had "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:31:37",
    "text": "mentioned the Crimson support I added all the messages it\u0027s not a I think in your document talk about pieces of the header is not being predicted but it\u0027s also there are messages that not protected at all and they\u0027re they\u0027re significant and the other thing is even though people might wish that some people might wish it off this is not going away and we have to make we have to do something as Chuck did to make that use of our system and that gives us the opportunity right an honest security consider it which does not say gee this is too insecure to use on the Internet and lots of other places I don\u0027t want to say that I don\u0027t want to one be around the bush we want to write a reasonable security consider session which says this is secure and that means we have to make the check the changes that checklist are talked about it\u0027s good that he\u0027s gone through security directed through the security director review and I think the mess to say well now is this good but is this good press basis for an official for security going forward sister we can be more relaxed about about this that yes we do not have a security nightmare in the offing now how would I get this document first of all assuming that RFC physicists who assess cui I\u0027m hoping get through the that we have will have a this document that have a large set of changes in it but then we have some updates that one is the new ended nationalization section and then one is revising I\u0027ve looked at what\u0027s necessary to revise the back document so that does not assume that\u0027s make than every when a 50 system one was written it was assumed that every version would make its own set of versioning rules and that\u0027s no longer the case that that one has to be update at that point I would have enough to produce an in an in an individual draft at that point and at that point who the were true consider whether to adapt that as a workgroup document and if there were did was available to do that then we need a few things one is revised section 12 because he did 84 34 and he would produce basically a section 12 that would incorporate the work is done in 84 34 and then the Security Rule end up debts and that I\u0027m gonna I\u0027ll do a lot of the work in 56 but I need to normative reference Chuck\u0027s document and they have to be they don\u0027t have to be they have to be at least there\u0027s probably the time to do this is probably at least have been working group does not have to be published as an RFC but we have to be they have to have assumed "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:34:38",
    "text": "their final four and then in the working group will have to look at about errata issues but at that point I think we have so I think oh no that\u0027s at least you\u0027re out but that depends on but I think that\u0027s something that\u0027s doable we\u0027re group s to decide whether it do this all right now let\u0027s think about the fourth of the documents one is number of cases we just contradict the base say hey this document updates RFC fifty sixty one because it says something different and let the reader figured it out that\u0027s not good but we\u0027ve done that wait for 34 it not did not get any pushback we\u0027re done with 8178 did not get any pushback but no one was paying attention to that but basically we\u0027re saying that hey we just said this is wrong and the implication was everyone was clear that this was contrary RFC fifty to sixty one and before the to document and peeler Center that had to be done the other thing was that we tried to do is explicitly tell users what has changed that we did in 85 87 Chuck cut got by with that and at the conclusion that we reached is that crude done for small updates and and we\u0027ve also done a BIST document lee 75 31 so we have to consider the eyes team tolerance for style to updates has become more limited and it has as we said limited to smaller updates and we hope that the review of style 3 updates will be will be easier the work that camera who\u0027s whose camera the name of the person who is just doing that hour is doing that document uh how do you mean I don\u0027t know how there\u0027s a lot of discussions that doesn\u0027t see me going anywhere but I think generally the is G is looking in that direction yes - wisdom yeah I I mean to clarify something and and it\u0027s is that I mean what I think is you sees is that when you do these updates or lift the protocol to division something that you should create sets of documents that\u0027s this is all the same maturity level together they fit together and that defines the protocol that doesn\u0027t need to be one document and I think there\u0027s actually stuff you need to think about this actually can you split this six seven hundred monster you have into a set of modules which is the whole set of documents is the 4.1 specification because that will make it easy for everyone to review etcetera and actually if you continue working future it might "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:37:39",
    "text": "be just okay this is because you may be only touching one module you can update one particular part of it so Magnus this is something we had thought about trying to do in the past that was my recommendation after doing the the the for Dobis you you do not want to do a six under page document this because for one thing the previous changes were made by Gareth G after you\u0027ve done with your edits so you have to go track those down and that took me like six months to go find a be ethical place had been changed yeah so please yeah I would do the modules yeah they\u0027re dark I think you need to do some version of three trying to do incremental updates works when you\u0027re dealing with contained feature function I see a plan here to completely replace internationalization and completely replace a security consideration section along with a pile of security functionality and incrementally is not gonna work well for those I think I think you need need to plan on all sales placement modular if possible so David timings again one of the things we found with that was when we updated the security module or the internationalization for the 4.1 I mean for the 4.0 and we\u0027d already come out with a 4.1 we had to go update them both right and so they they they even though they were major versions it turned out we always wanted the security considerations to be in sync and we always wanted the internationalization to be in sync yeah I think I think I\u0027m basically with you that those that those are sufficiently fundamental and pervasive in their effects and the rest of the protocol that you you want to just do a completely consistent set of new Docs because those two have to be changed yes okay right so the problem is when you point out we have a number we have before now is one product before the one is a different protocol but there are two pieces like internationalization security considerations which you set and we would have to really revise the whole philosophy say that be some before no that are not version specific but that\u0027s very difficult to do wait a minute say that say that again slowly I think I lost you about both about three words before the end well okay well we have a number of pieces of ana 54 that we want to be the same between v4 dot o and B 4.1 and if we followed the philosophy of documented things once they would have to completely revised the suggestion here is that 75 30 is the "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:40:41",
    "text": "current for one this it this I I thought was a discussion about revving for dot o because in part the I eighteen and insecurity in Rev in in for dot or a problem no one for that o was fixed by RFC 7532 I\u0027m sorry I\u0027ve got my versions backwards seven five thirty fixes fixed for oh now you want to apply the same that the same the same fix it same fixes to for the 4.1 no you\u0027re still saying it wrong so so we did so 75 30 is the best for for dot o and it it actually fixes the internationalization and the security and those we said those are also applied to the 4.1 we just never put it into a document so so we needed and the we need the RFC the the 44.1 bits whatever the monster looks like to say that the security and the internationalization out of 75 30 is what\u0027s current that\u0027s actually fairly short text which would be good well yeah but would wouldn\u0027t better do that they say hey just take through that one and just put it in there rather than across a restless David I would say we we have two new documents one says internationalization in nfsv4 and one says security considerations in NFS P P dot for and it applies to 4.0 4.1 and 4.2 and I\u0027m actually willing to go do that work because it makes my life easier okay well let\u0027s think about it that\u0027s an alternative all right I am going to second Tom\u0027s thing I I\u0027d rather have if it applies to all versions of NFS I\u0027d rather never have the conversation of propagating and cut and pasting documents to four point two and and just I\u0027d rather I\u0027d rather have it separate and canonical by itself and applying to all fine for that too so where we do have things we\u0027ve designed for low and quarter one is separate protocols so this would be just a one-time thing then we get through that okay so so we have a proposal I\u0027ve been to write it down I do want to talk to Tom about this and also talk to Magnus about this also sure on our pro before we before we start doing anything to clean this up I want to make sure we do something that will pass muster through the ietf okay but I also want to "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:43:42",
    "text": "also very much want to minimize work at this point on this on this stuff I I don\u0027t want to create the problem that Tom identified of updating a gigantic document and then have everybody try to figure out what just changed okay okay we\u0027ll take this off we\u0027ll take this after the meeting on mail yeah sure Oh chuckling Oracle this is slightly different topic but one item I didn\u0027t see on the previous slides about what needs to go in Stockman is I think we need to consider what has not been implemented in the end of us before point one implementations today and look at ways that that can be those items can be excised from the new specification you\u0027re thinking about things like director delegations and our team a step up and things like that ssv ssv I believe has been implemented I thought Lennox does no okay okay well I so we I think that needs to be in a bullet point included in this conversation that\u0027s that was my only comment okay sure - Kristen yeah I I think it\u0027s good that you do spend the time to consider what you can remove so to say which isn\u0027t used or or not necessary cetera to streamline the protocol a bit that\u0027s not bad exercise and yeah as long as you not overdo it but so I can eyes Brian plus key here I we removing unused features from a document is what we spend on the document but is a it is a how do I say this it\u0027s a it\u0027s a it\u0027s a simple edit I if if we like what I think I\u0027m I don\u0027t want to open up a removal use features to the document and then adding new text creating a gigantic editing review cycle okay okay yeah that\u0027s I mean yeah and I like nothing like I\u0027d rather I\u0027d rather not touch a document okay but still I mean yeah but I mean if you if you haven\u0027t use non implemented features and which you know it\u0027s not going crazy I mean kind of interoperability you anything issues by removing I think that\u0027s gonna clear-cut you just remove those features right but that\u0027s that\u0027s but that\u0027s yes I just want to make sure that we don\u0027t take a clean-up exercise and convert it into a let\u0027s rewrite the rest of the document "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:46:44",
    "text": "this it\u0027s just that I don\u0027t think we can go forward monster but that\u0027s finding the right places and expect to say okay these two these section or sections are describing this we take that as well I think if we delete it every other page no one but where is references change that\u0027s where it\u0027s I don\u0027t know I guess we\u0027ll need to do it that\u0027s not as tripoli as you as you as you think but anyway I think that\u0027s that\u0027s that I think it\u0027s pretty clear here we are gonna do this we could do something with abyss document and so I think we\u0027ll follow I\u0027ll come out with you know assuming that sets Creek good slow gets done then I will come out and come out with the the individual draft and then we\u0027ll figure out at that point a decision about what what tech steps okay um is there another slide sorry this I see next slide how maybe oh yes oh yes we are out of time so yeah okay we\u0027d oh yeah because you mentioned the idea of security about and the tons of yeah maybe we should do that from before doubt at same time so that\u0027s good maybe we\u0027ll discuss I think I summarized this this discard make an alternate proposal because the proposal I made here is probably not valid because of what time so our awesome is available list okay okay yeah if you could do this in five tom has a quick one too oh you meant what were you you were just at you right no this fall hold on hold on - where were you integrity right data reduction very - you got a second second okay good you\u0027re on okay so I can do works okay just what do you want to do okay so I\u0027m trying to add some new stuff in the NFS protocol related to the current state of the storage where everybody\u0027s running around in circles to increase data reduction in order to make storage cheaper because the media is "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:49:46",
    "text": "very expensive the flash media that it\u0027s used and also the new media can use memory so it can change the entire mechanics of the server doing data reduction so I you I\u0027m gonna look at two use cases one use the normal scales with nfsv4 to which assume that there is access to the external attributes of the file if the goods are still supported and then the back end identified the file system block which is part of the specific file and then it applies data reduction according to that that\u0027s the simpler case the second case would be also interested because we nvme is big is also very important media and there is a Gaussian via me protocol that Christoph introduced and I think it\u0027s it has value if he has merit and I ever surprised that it was for he was busy because otherwise so in this case there is some communication on the in the block level the motivation is that you know the external attribute if they would be possible to be used it would be a easy way to add new function and also we can add in principally two parameters so it could be little bit more than you can use on a park but it could be easier if you can enlist and attributes now what\u0027s missing is the user information little data reduction that arrays cannot now and to explain attributes we can come communicate to the engine that does the data reduction the idea that we are promoting in our draft is to enable a way to communicate between the file layer on the client to the block layer that does data reduction in the backend there is a lot of data from analysts regarding typical data reduction for typical types of file and objects and that\u0027s in its good because it can be really known to the application to the user and application so user can add these attributes or by just by the extension that data that explains the quality of data reduction for different compression duplication for different types of file like you know JPEG files and all kind of files that they through the extension there is a list of potential data reduction so this will help that you know in a sense that for example if the "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:52:46",
    "text": "data is not compressible not in the pool at all because it\u0027s already very much compressed it will increase the to improve the performance of the server because it won\u0027t do work that it\u0027s a throw away so and we are thinking the most important case will be the nvme case because the media is expensive and the result or already a lot of servers NFS server simile that have support and GME and they sell in here me so I think that\u0027s that\u0027s why I went back to the protocol that Christophe started and I think it has value it has married again I cannot ask her stuff to continue so as I said I am interested to take over whatever find a way to use it and I hope that the fact that it was expired doesn\u0027t make a difference and again I would like to see if we can approach Christophe at least to ask to see if he is interested or not but if not I am interested so what we need we need a way to communicate data reduction characteristics for a client to server either because the extension of the file will tell us what type of file is all by there is a way because files that are impact for example other videos they have some metadata in the file itself which the user can read and transfer to the as an attribute and by that enable the all the types the files are same type to have a specific type of data reduction again these are something samples from analysts now I understand the problem with the extent attribute I thought that maybe it could be acceptable but I in light of what we discussed before I think that\u0027s a problem because if people if it\u0027s there\u0027s no implementation why should they be a new implementation for the reduction attributes it\u0027s questionable what I would follow the consensus and I think that that\u0027s something that there are ways for example for a simplified model using just normal attributes but I\u0027m you know I\u0027m not sure that is enough because if you don\u0027t achieve much people don\u0027t use it so you need to get in important improvement otherwise so again I\u0027m I\u0027m just saying major points so this is some proposal in principle I didn\u0027t I strategy to write the protocol but I stopped because David was he\u0027s right he "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:55:46",
    "text": "was right first let\u0027s see if it\u0027s interest and if we want to move on with this either as a private or working group I don\u0027t know but those are some ideas it\u0027s not necessarily a solution so what I would like to ask first of all the the major question should the data reduction attributes extend or others Eddie to nfsv4 protocol first question so Tom Hanks hammer specs so I think some things you need to pull out here one that I heard here that I didn\u0027t hear in reading the draft or earlier is that you are saying the TR attributes are user-defined right yes so you need to make that point because that points out why you need extended attributes and not satyrs yeah okay okay so I leave it to us because he was the huh no I\u0027m just I\u0027m just trying to say that\u0027s an in consideration for why you do not want patters is because you have to let the users define them yeah and but even if you sixth at Exeter so you have to define how the the server and the client understand that this X adder you call alpha means the same thing for both of them yes okay and then the you know the final thing is if you do want X adders of course the X headers that marked but the protocol never got implemented endless we won\u0027t let them go forward this go forward if you don\u0027t do the X hat or stuff right there has been a permutation so yeah so that\u0027s one thing that I consider by the way but I needed some consensus because that you know there\u0027s a certain point where I want to be sure that I\u0027m going the right task so it can be becoming a work a good proper document that\u0027s all that\u0027s my goal currently I can keep it private for a while let\u0027s say one two revisions but if there\u0027s no interest then I will you know it\u0027s from my perspective it\u0027s kind of I want to make a you know promote promotion of this data reduction area so I have out the others ideas also related to this the fact that currently the host could be the client could be like a client that could be in the cloud so that\u0027s another thing that okay so the question you should become a working group my question is simpler first of all do you think it has any value should I continue or maybe is a private until I fix all the things that you asked or you want me to drop it that\u0027s alright I think you should go ahead with it you you you have an interesting use case you just have to develop yeah why why you should go with X adders or white go F adders yeah you have to understand I wasn\u0027t active for about eight years and this groups I forgot so I had to bring "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:58:48",
    "text": "something at least to know that it\u0027s it\u0027s of interest you know I I\u0027m busy let\u0027s say I\u0027m not I don\u0027t have spare time not to do it but I think it\u0027s important so especially that the media is getting it\u0027s expensive and it\u0027s not gonna get so cheap ever so and uh sure yeah okay one thing I think you should be careful clear about is you\u0027re working on two things yeah I\u0027m working possibly reviving them via me and this thing they may have interactions but there have to be done separately because yes yes PMS thing is before that one and this thing is for that too yes I agree with that in fact in fact the use case first use case is the most important that I want to address but you know it\u0027s because the the PMF s could have a value also for nvme I thought to mention this so I will do this I will move that one further maybe independently of this and then when it\u0027s yeah so lucky so when it\u0027s ready maybe you will match both and will make them I don\u0027t know that\u0027s something that I check labor work on so are you using these extended attributes they give commands to the underlying block storage no no I\u0027m using this for the it\u0027s okay like a lot back so I have I can say if it\u0027s compressible the Dibble and say you are communicating with the underlying yeah yeah yeah that\u0027s a user way too that\u0027s that\u0027s something that we expressly forbid with musics extended attributes I believe they\u0027re they\u0027re meant to be a big storage but they\u0027re not meant to be used as an i/o cuddle as a side channel yeah yeah I understand that so that\u0027s one reason why we might really need to go with a fatter and not with an extended attribute yeah I look I I I thought it\u0027s the easiest way for for me to work on both cases the nvme and P NFS normal so that was my thinking but I didn\u0027t have a concrete conclusion so that\u0027s why I came and yeah and it\u0027s easier for us to extend the protocol if you\u0027re defining new patters rather than defining new operations yeah well I\u0027m not defined operation of defining parameters of the data so in a sense the list said get me a turn oh yeah I know I we are officially over our working group slot do you yes we continue it but let\u0027s take "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "02:01:53",
    "text": "this on this is a quickie yeah that\u0027s when he said I\u0027m getting you there all right so I\u0027ve extended my delegation state ID paper the major difference from last time is the layout wait we cache consistency operation so it\u0027s just cool whoops so what my model is when we have for example Echo food a bar we have an open layout get it goes to the MDS we have to get device info goes the MDS we have a right of three bytes which goes to the DF and then when we start to close the file with a layout return set at or deleg return and get adder well in order to check the consistency of the file to the client we have to also send a get out or two from the MDS to the DES in order to determine that the RAI succeeded and this is adds to the round-trip time of the application and you can see with an echo I don\u0027t want to have to take 30 seconds in order to do the operation and so the adder caching that we introduced in the earlier version doesn\u0027t help us because it only provides the end time in the a time of the metadata file not of the data file and we still have to go compare what the instance file has and so we notice that the right has week cache consistency when it\u0027s b3 and what we would do is introduce a new operation layout we cache consistency which sends that information back to the MDS and it removes the need for the get adder the other operations layout return layout commit don\u0027t provide this ability to do week cache consistency and also it\u0027s the quickest way I know to get this new operation in I\u0027m being honest I\u0027m being bluntly honest it\u0027s really fast for me to get draft you know what the we agreed for the previous draft to be a working group item I added something major so I didn\u0027t make it a working group item I want to make it a working group item after this drop and there\u0027s my three minutes questions I went really fast so now I can tell my boss I present it he wants to know that you get that I\u0027m recording okay so that\u0027s it there\u0027s no opportunity for wrap-up I AB the minutes I\u0027ll be posting those through our website if you haven\u0027t signed the blue sheet sign it if you just walked in the room for some other "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "02:04:53",
    "text": "meeting feel free to sign the blue sheet anyway thanks guys have a great conference "
  }
]