[
  {
    "startTime": "00:00:04",
    "text": "what it\u0027s for 12 so it\u0027s 10 18 thanks miss all your name know a lot of people quota in implemented last time I into my last name no I go right yeah and okay they rate ten I wrote ten [Music] - Mentos well we have to wait for those we\u0027re gonna know [Music] "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:03:39",
    "text": "I wonder if you you have to clear the cache or something I don\u0027t know I don\u0027t know I did a refresh it\u0027s not a are we had an upload of a new thing and it\u0027s not refreshing this different way I can get to the meat [Music] well at least we have some actually work better okay so this is the Ellis our working group did you include a note well on this I did not [Music] [Music] do you know where to find it no I mean I I usually do not well yeah I\u0027m not well there we are alright so here we go they\u0027re required "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:06:39",
    "text": "well that puts on a slide still yeah so read all of this I think there\u0027s a short version we could sing along okay as everyone noted well just keep in mind that if you know of any IPR that applies to any of these drafts even if you\u0027re not the offer or a contributor if you\u0027re obliged by participating in the meeting to let it be known yeah I\u0027ll be good okay you\u0027re good okay and I\u0027ll be able to do it yeah okay okay welcome to Singapore everybody I\u0027m gonna go through the status here we don\u0027t have any RFC\u0027s since Montreal but we have a lot we have a lot of stuff there\u0027s the Sigma grouting drafts are coming all is part of a cluster so a lot of these are already done are almost done the top two are already approved in the bottom one it is is is almost approved as well it\u0027s in sewing off 48 state now these are ones these are grafts that are on the RFC queues with miss references the tunnel end cap graph I mean the OSPF tunnel aincrad graft it shares in I Anna registry with the IDR tunnel red end cap draft and that draft is finally moving along and it\u0027s gotten through the working group and it\u0027s and the chair the Shepherd in the chairs I guess it\u0027s waiting with Alvaro we got both two yang models OSPF and is is are waiting on the Miss reference to be a fee which is waiting on the misstep referenced a ETF MPLS now here we go we\u0027re almost done with all these the bottom one is already an IH bit is in the is iesg review that\u0027s coming up on the 12:5 and OSPF routing with cross address cross address "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:09:42",
    "text": "families traffic engineering tunnels that is it\u0027s already an off 48 isn\u0027t it yes so that\u0027s almost done as well and then the other two are just waiting on the RFC queue for the RFC editors to get to it I\u0027m sure they will soon after this large cluster of segments routing drafts these two drafts the two multi-attribute OSPF and is is encoding the two graphs for handling application specific attributes those are both in ad review and we have publication I think we yeah we broke I just requested publication on these so we had one problem here that\u0027d be when we simplified these drafts and went to prefix level entropy level capability encoding we negated the need for the bgp LS because we just used the existing encodings from a different draft so we sort of consolidated the bgp LS in both of those and that\u0027s a good thing saves work for the for all of us by having it the bgp LS included in ihe p drafts and we\u0027re gonna try it if it\u0027s simple you know it\u0027s a straightforward change we\u0027re gonna do that with future LS our drafts as well include the bgp LS in the draft and this is pretty much both these are pretty much ready for a working group last call I think the invalid TLB handling I guess there was one comment on the prefix originator we got since I put the status together that we need to handle and I mean we\u0027re gonna I\u0027m an offer on this one as well and we\u0027ll talk about that offline get get it in and have the working group review it and then go into last call the invalid TLB handling in is is this is pretty much something that people had discussed between vendors and it was needed for a long time thanks to les for putting it together this should probably even though it was it\u0027s only been a working group dog come in for one ietf I think this should go to a working group last call ASAP now that we\u0027ve got a good review from a number of vendors and here flexible algorithms we covered today all these yang models are going to be is covered covered on Friday and update on the SRP six is AI extensions today dynamic flooding is covered today hierarchy "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:12:44",
    "text": "let\u0027s see Friday we\u0027re gonna have yang model updates and then we have these two I don\u0027t I know that they recently covered I believe it was less less his comments on IGP extensions for PC EP security capability discovery using HP\u0027s and the last one has been pretty quiet I\u0027m gonna have to check to see what offers to see what their intention is and if anybody\u0027s gonna implement it and here\u0027s a number of non-working group documents that the authors have asked in various and sundry matters to have adoption calls on you probably saw those of you phone lists that we did start some discussions on the third one SRV six enhancements to SPF they correspond you can map them directly to the is is ones that it\u0027s already a working group document but the rest of these we\u0027re gonna kind of take them and what I\u0027d like people to do is the offers to initiate just send the request to the list Chris and I discussed these we think this is the best way for it send the request for an adoption call to the list and then we\u0027ll take a look at it and do them in that order one thing we don\u0027t get enough of is we don\u0027t get enough discussion on the list you know it seems like one week after the ietf and the two weeks leading up to the next IETF is when we get you know 90% of the scut discussion so it\u0027d be good to get more discussion on these drafts and do it on LSR list that\u0027s it anything dad Alvaro okay from your most productive working group from like most productive working I\u0027ll order that around eighty I just want to ask the work who for a favor many of these especially this slide is about like ISS Perry so it\u0027ll raise it in one protocol I\u0027m gonna do it in the other profile that\u0027s great I\u0027m really happy about that if the functionality is different so you\u0027re doing I don\u0027t know just to pick on the first one reversed metric for SPF because we\u0027ll reassess functionality is different please highlight it somewhere send an email to the list and and say that so that when I review the draft I don\u0027t have to ask you later why is this "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:15:45",
    "text": "different or why didn\u0027t you cover that other functionality we\u0027re trying to do parity you know it\u0027s nice that maybe the same for Charlotte is there maybe it\u0027s not possible maybe it\u0027s not needed whatever please please do that and and to everyone in the working group please read everything all the documents just because we\u0027re doing parity doesn\u0027t mean that it\u0027s the same thing doesn\u0027t mean that if you read the other document that one that we do it now is the same or better thank you okay so we were busy with the laptops and stuff didn\u0027t give anyone a chance to bash the agenda so I\u0027m gonna put that up on the screen for a minute or not okay so I were basically split into two sessions we we organized it was we left a little time in each day because lately we\u0027ve you know had a few different contentious things we thought we were done with that but which appear to be back in that area with different area abstraction TCB so we\u0027ve got some padding in this in this session and then Friday we consolidated all the yang models together and a few other presentations if we have time we could consider moving some of the Nanyang presentations if people if the people are here and ready if anybody has an objection to that you know please speak up you can do it at the time we try to move it to other than that I don\u0027t I don\u0027t have any other does anybody have any agenda bashing well to do okay well then Tony [Music] [Music] however they get back to me that you there was a different screen that actually had good afternoon so update on dynamic flooding next slide please the clicker go here all right no changes since last IETF part that I did want to "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:18:47",
    "text": "talk about is something of an implementation report the Arista networks implementation is now complete this is shipped shipping gonna ship real real soon now 4.20 3.1 F it was supposed to ship November 8th we\u0027re slipping oops all of our testing is complete all of our bugs are known bugs are fixed we have simulated up to 5,000 nodes and it\u0027s tedious and it works quick static demo for you this is a cut and paste off of a working implementation basically we have a CLI command that shows you all of the nodes in the network and their index assignment and then it shows you the paths that the area leader has distributed in debugging this is very very tedious to work with so we added another command that translates it and host names for you so you can see all the paths in the topology and that\u0027s about it it just works any questions okay and you can see all the stuff in the link state database - alright turning now to hierarchical I have a question yes sir have you found anybody to do interrupt testing with I have no interrupts testing yet Chloe is a seal and Emma Ellis our chair but you are doing your implementation is the centralized model right correct so you have a proprietary algorithm so be hard to do Interop testing with somebody else not at all remember that the sense that the algorithm is only implemented by the area leader and all the other to me all of the other routers just follow so if someone else has implemented even the following portion we could interoperate if they\u0027ve also implemented the leader we could just follow so so I was very hopeful but I have not heard from anyone yet all right call me maybe turning now to hierarchical is is changes since last IETF we last time we adopted so thank you very much and we have changed the name of the draft accordingly we\u0027ve added a few little things nothing too major we changed the area identifier TLV we wanted to be sure to allow people to specify multiple identifiers for a particular area and this is important because sometimes you need multiple identifiers if you are "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:21:47",
    "text": "like changing your area assignments around and such so you want to be able to enumerate multiple synonymous area identifiers and we also changed it so that we described the entire set of areas that a particular router is is implementing in a single TLV so this compresses TLV space just a bit we clarified the adjacency formation rules this was just trying to make things that we all thought were motherhood and apple pie very explicit known significant changes there we observed that for land PDUs we act we need more MAC addresses and so we added an eye on a request for more MAC addresses we and that is all of the changes for hierarchical is is any comments or questions sure I\u0027ve got yes sir so when I when I sort of thought about this I figured you would do one net as it were and then like a you know longest prefix match right so in other words that you divide the area you would determine the levels area by each level would have a shorter number of bits you were one of the old timers who believes in hierarchical SNMP a allocation yeah or in cept by location and I came from that school too however as of the last IETF we took a poll of the working group and we came to the conclusion that we are now in the minority that\u0027s that\u0027s unfortunate well I mean the main reason I thought that it was more natural was for just for debugging right I mean it when you when you\u0027re trying to operate this in a network and you just have you know I mean a tag for every level and then how do you know what\u0027s related to what well that\u0027s why we made it very very clear we now have a tag for level and we have to be very careful about saying what the identifier means at each level yes the hierarchy is more explicit if you do it via n PSAPs but again people don\u0027t want to do hierarchical n SAP allocation so could I throw a comment in as well he\u0027s less Ginsburg I don\u0027t know any deployment that I\u0027ve ever seen where people define their nets in that manner and in fact I you know I there are some well-known mechanisms of assigning Nets that don\u0027t follow hierarchy there\u0027s but there\u0027s no hierarchy in them at all right now right there isn\u0027t they never system IDs and the rest of it is an area level one area and if your level two there is no area right that\u0027s not strictly true there was "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:24:47",
    "text": "supposed to be hierarchy in the enzyme allocation it just never ever got deployed if you know 1p no longer really matters so I mean I this is reminiscing a bit but I mean I first got involved with ISS and in the OSI space and when I read the addressing document I\u0027ve forgotten the the ISO number at the moment but it it hurt my head so I don\u0027t blame people for not heading in that direction well I mean I guess I kind of assumed that we wouldn\u0027t actually need to adhere necessarily to like the ends apt allocations that were created way back when but there\u0027s there was be nothing wrong with actually using the hierarchy of the bits right some things hung together a little bit cleaner you know I I\u0027m I\u0027m supporting what Tony is saying I just because there was something that we did discuss and I just didn\u0027t think that based on practical experience that from a deployment standpoint that that would appeal to customers again we took a poll in Montreal and in saps lost so Tony yes I mean from someone who has never implemented is ice from scratch the reason you\u0027re debugging using mac address is which seems kind of expensive is because level and one and level to do units you\u0027re just following the same mechanism for D maxing yes exactly I don\u0027t know how I missed that poll but did we get a feel for how many people hold where operators that said they wanted that I don\u0027t recall us getting into details in Montreal okay there were a handful of hands for doing explicit areas and like two hands for doing n saps and I think it was you and me so sorry AC was your question related to the new Mac addresses for the for the land videos yes yes okay so I think you could just use the the packet to do it but so I think the other reason for that is for legacy routers they\u0027re going to receive you use the existing multicast MAC addresses they\u0027re going to receive these PDS and they\u0027re going to look at them and who knows what they\u0027re going to do this was the same thing that happened when we did the multi instance draft we had that discussion we eventually decided to use a separate Mac multicast address so we followed the same thing here any other comments very good thank you moving on next talk is about area abstraction now renamed to area proxy so "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:27:48",
    "text": "we\u0027ve had several changes the first and most significant we\u0027ve had a layer eight interrupts non-maskable unreturnable not discussable we\u0027re not allowed to collaborate sorry about that it\u0027s not my choice but it is what it is we\u0027ve made further simplifications to the draft you may recall that one of the things we were doing was we doing a heck of a lot of tunneling we were tunneling all of the the transit traffic we were tying tunneling LSPs to get around having layer two holes in on the inside area we decided that that was just way messy and it would be much simpler and more straightforward if we simply said all of the inside area routers ran l1 l2 and all of the tunneling needs go away so this simplifies everything now the entire area collapses to one layer two node 1 level 2 node and everything becomes very straightforward we did add a router capability for area proxy this turns out to be very useful to ensure that everybody inside the area is synchronized we then advertise the area proxy system ID to indicate that the area proxy function should be active within the area we did a bunch of work to expand the details of the text and we are still seeking working group adoption so and that\u0027s all the changes any comments or questions alyssaginsburg I so I have one comment I guess and one question I find this and I say this with all due respect I find this to be someone hacky solution in terms of the protocol it\u0027s it doesn\u0027t seem to me to be very clean it I find it as conceptually you\u0027re trying to run another instance of the protocol inside an existing instance in a way and it it it depends upon defining this this proxy system ID and making it consistent so I\u0027m not very comfortable with the draft as is I\u0027d like to see us have more discussion about whether this is a good solution to the problem space before we just ask the question about working group adoption that said I have one mechanical question which is are you I don\u0027t believe you said anything in the draft about consistency in other words you you could have you\u0027ve got a set of l1 l2 notes that are going to participate in this proxy area and they "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:30:50",
    "text": "all have to agree upon the the proxy ID for the area you didn\u0027t say anything about how each of the notes decides what they\u0027re going to propose as the proxy ID and so I\u0027m wondering what happens when the area leader goes down does everything flap so when the area leader goes down presumably we have multiple area leaders enabled and the multiple area leaders should all be configured with the same proxy system my D anything else is a miss configuration in our implementation it already calls this out okay I I could be wrong but I don\u0027t think that is pointed out in the draft that you act that everybody has to in order for this to work without flapping that everybody has to pick the same proxy ID I would if it is missing I would be more than happy to add that okay please send mail yeah by the way I appreciate you calling it a hack that\u0027s fine the question only question in my mind is is it the right hack yeah there that\u0027s very so yeah we\u0027ve got a couple things but I just had some comments on this in particular I\u0027m still trying to understand why we\u0027re not just using bgp between is is instances in the data center like i mean i think that that\u0027s just a more sane way to do this right okay well mmm so the reason we didn\u0027t go down that path is that we didn\u0027t want bgp involved this is supposed to be a simple being based in network and not trying to get autonomous systems involved in this we just are trying to make the IGP more scalable that is the entire goal here so in that light you why not run to iose I see instances with redistribution so in other words what I mean by that is instead of using bgp use a second i sized instance to reduce derby between data set or eyesight\u0027s instances you very much could again you get into some danger with mutual redistribution there there are some concerns with many people had about that well I mean yeah I can see that but I mean if I like thinking about it as an operator I\u0027ve got to get my policies right so that I don\u0027t blow things up or I have to try to debug this new protocol thing which makes it kind of hard if there are problems right there there\u0027s and it\u0027s trying to make it easy because configuration wise this is actually easier than multi-instance okay well those are my thoughts okay appreciate it so we have it we have sort "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:33:53",
    "text": "of this very similar work well let any other questions on this all right thank you okay so you want to wait on the one we want to present first okay [Music] you need to record that will pop up in the second tab any one thing there you go okay yeah hello everyone I\u0027m Martin from future so today I\u0027m going to talk about a tpz which is sort of for a college joined parent zone you can see that you have a cool for Eagle group of people working on this DDT for quite a few years I think maybe we can see that 80 years so we work on tdz starting from 2011 so TDC basically we focus on a tune zone is a blocker for area so in special case is a entire area so in the beginning we proposed solutions to virtualize zoom to as a single pursuit of note so you can see that in this picture there\u0027s only just the any block of area so this area is AB just abstracted into a single note so during the process of this ietf with we can see from 2011 until now eight years has gone so we proposed different solutions so one solution is we abstract tune into a single note we also proposed a solution to abstract a zoom into is ages fully connection so for these two solutions we also proposed solutions to make a smooth transition or migration from zoom to a single node and also from a zoom to it\u0027s ages for the connection so during this process and we have RFC RFC 2009 so that\u0027s only contain a small pass "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:36:55",
    "text": "which is the solution for abstracting a zoom into the ages for the connection and also smooth transitions between a June and is the food connections so for this in the green in the green hat is what we standardized in us OSPF we can see that this is the only small piece of cake for the whole PDT you walk so we take us seven years from start 2011 through 2017 so we achieve RFC 2009 but we have a big chunk of cake so do there it\u0027s right on there but it\u0027s eight zero nine nine yeah and then we have a Gaza a piece of works for example our solutions which is we abstract a zoom into a single node in OSPF and the USS and also we the solution for smooth smooth decoration from a zoom to a single node in ISS OCF and also smooth transitions from resume to its age it\u0027s for the convention in in ISS so that\u0027s it in the blue part those part is in the current draft which is sse3 busy so here we just put a little focus on the Somoza migration between a zoom and a single node so we can see that so originally we have a flight network so we have a jungle in the cloud side which is backed as cloud so we need to transfer that is oom2 a single note so when we do this kind of transfer so normally people like a smooth transfer that means that we don\u0027t have we have a minimum traffic interruptions so here we have a solutions to achieve that because when we do the standardization for us PFT disease so we have implementation and then we can show that we can do the smooth migration between a June and that zones ages for the carnation so King week and I know that we have for been among traffic in the row in the reference for that smooth migration so for those a smooth migration the basic idea can also be applied to the smooth "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:39:55",
    "text": "migration between a tune and a single pursued a note so the PHA is that so we do this smooth migration we can see that for the flight network will have a connections for that June through the outside node which is a connect to the tune so that\u0027s in the in the original book after we migrated to a single note so the connection is different so the single note the big note will connect through that blue line to those ages note so we should have smooth transition between the blue solid line and that data up like fashion line so this is a smooth transition the basic idea we can also poro that one from the smooth transition we already implemented so that\u0027s a roughly the amount of the most boost migration and then because we you see we have a group of people working on the ITF side also in a background we put a lot of effort there and then so here this thing is a present to the those Google people how should we move forward so while my scene is that we have our obstruction or IRA proxy so that\u0027s one piece walk we can I don\u0027t know whether he\u0027s a roof over that with that piece along and then we have this work so the way you move I\u0027ll also separately well so we merge together so that\u0027s the question to all of us here so I wanted to ask before this meeting and before the is Toni pointed out some of the edicts and whatnot were passed down there was a people were working together and we might I think you said that there was a collaboration draft in github yeah Toni for for a long time and then I we have I do the hip hop and then we sailed with Google people and then we have we have a raft verges draft but because we have some for some reason as Tony mentioned that in his presentation there\u0027s eight interruption the cooperation is a is precluded right no so what I\u0027m very curious about is what state that collaboration draft is in because what stops us as a working group I mean first of all assuming we even want to adopt this work right the the abstraction of "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:42:56",
    "text": "the area or zones if we did what stops us from just as a working you\u0027re taking the existing collaboration draft working not as a working group I mean we as a working group we don\u0027t care about edicts right I mean if the work is almost done yeah for me is a little popularizing all sack so is this a public is this a public repo that the working group could take a look at could you send a link to it yeah I think maybe because we walk with Tommy for data in the private shared github there so if we weather move water with Tommy also need the quarry right so Tony Lee arista so Chris I\u0027m sorry to say that I don\u0027t think we made a heck of a lot of progress on the collaboration anyway so well I think you\u0027re welcome to look I don\u0027t have read or write access I think anymore but I don\u0027t think that there\u0027s a whole lot of value there above and beyond the drafts that are already out there okay hey hey I\u0027m Jen and I have two questions first is like if I can work this zone as a known pseudo node then how does this this affect my LFA calculations and can a node like in the diagram between our two can it calculate some PQ node or the other via this zone or are there some restriction that is actually not clear in the draft and my second question is how about P database you know if I have an LS p going across this zone so what is the bandwidth this pseudo node will propagate to the upstream yeah that\u0027s a very good question so here we are working on the on the IP side and the IP layer so provide the abstraction so for those canals else PE course assume that\u0027s at a higher level so during this process you see we work for this one from 2011 to 2013 is a BS so we also proposed our traps to talk about those issues for example how we build LSP costumes and we have some kind of draft proposed it but because this one is autumn you can see that we don\u0027t have much progress on this assumed stuff so that part at the other part for set happens via cross in tune is stopped so after I think after this one standardized we can just make it better draft life again I mean those job before crossing the tomb in a in in the his group or in MPLS group there\u0027s some drop up there and how about my first question "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:45:58",
    "text": "yeah first of those kind is similar so you design a Saturday and then we could work on that one if you are happy interesting and then we can walk it together for resolve those tough issues I think these that one is also the tough is the very tough question sort our problems thank you it\u0027s you know it\u0027s unfortunate to have two solutions I mean the drafts focus on different aspects of the problem but they are very similar yeah a great total degree so it\u0027s it\u0027s uh it\u0027s unfortunate I don\u0027t know precisely how to move forward with this if we can\u0027t merge obviously yeah a simple question because IETF is in public domain right I think maybe those are law years or whatever they proposal we cannot do any corporation but I think from the IETF stem also after decima on the entities entities I think there\u0027s some kind of policies data from Ikea my understanding is that because this is that we can still cooperate in the public domain right then because this is not those kind of on this technology is not long to whatever export whatever imports those stuff yeah the IDF is an open organization yeah so the there I mean I can throw out a few things process wise people don\u0027t always think about this right but when a working group adopts a document right it\u0027s no longer that under it\u0027s technically not really owned by the author anymore it\u0027s owned by the working group typically that\u0027s not an issue the authors are happy and everything but when they you know working group adoption is like the working group is taking over ownership and then the author becomes sort of a shepherd of the doctrine at that point and you generally listen to the author\u0027s direction because they\u0027re the person who made you know created this this work but you know even if and this is totally hypothetical I\u0027m not leaning towards anything but even if we adopted for example to Tony\u0027s Drive right it would no longer be of wristers work it would be if we\u0027ve now become the IDF\u0027s work right that\u0027s outside of like IPR claims I mean IPR claims are different right now Tony might immediately step down as author at that point he\u0027s at the mic let\u0027s see I\u0027m just Tony Lee again so I think I should clarify the layer 8 interrupt context a little bit because I think it will prevent us from causing problems "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:48:58",
    "text": "and I am NOT a lawyer I do not play one on TV I don\u0027t know what I\u0027m talking about ok take it with a grain of salt that said my understanding is that we are not allowed to have a private conversation about technology whatsoever ok we can do anything we want inside this room but we cannot step outside of this room and have a conversation we can have a conversation on the mailing list but we cannot go to lunch together ok it\u0027s that simple that that\u0027s actually a great clarification because I I actually misunderstood when I talked to you I thought it was more restrictive than that so that I yeah so I think there\u0027s more more than just you in this room probably has been given similar instructions I mean it\u0027s it\u0027s weird crazy stuff that I certainly hate but yet really Porsche energy anarchists is the other routing ad in this room they should be no disrespect RL in the room the problem is you\u0027re caught in this conflict because you\u0027re cold yes that\u0027s why I haven\u0027t actually said anything but now that you brought it up I\u0027m going to say two things that I would say often one is that I need to obviously recuse myself from any discussion of this draft or whatever the working was going to do with it because I\u0027m one of the authors with Ranma I\u0027m sure you two can you know deal with whatever and if you need any help Martin or therefore can help you with that there are statements that the LLC put out last last year this year about precisely the open nature of the ATF and you know both what you guys said what 27 is actually what the statement says meaning the ITF is an open organization there\u0027s nothing that according to the IETF legal team precludes communication between participants on mailing lists or an opera forums on all that stuff having said that I\u0027m also not a lawyer and all of you should talk to your own lawyers right about what what you can do or can\u0027t do or what you think you know the other thing that I don\u0027t say too often is that I\u0027m going to agree with less in that I think that before we start adopting stuff now I\u0027m talking as a working member we need to figure out you know what is this something we do we need is this something we want what are the characteristics of what want and then we can go and say well we have these two things this satisfies this or doesn\u0027t satisfy that and and go from there that\u0027s my suggestion as a working group member but yes you\u0027re a "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:52:01",
    "text": "complete way right now we don\u0027t have another arriving ad here but as I said the chairs can get there were important to to help whenever you need to they had all the confidence so I think I got another clarification I think for for all the others for example me and Oprah and a Richard well in future wait so future way is not only a little east so this is a right you join us is not island and it at least brandy again you guys really get a get off layer hate and above the working group should decide whether to move forward in this subject area if not this discussion is useless right if if so then the other routing a Dean needs to give you some guidance on how to move forward - we must point my lawyers were very explicit that they do not understand the difference and I was cautioned and ordered do you not collaborate yeah but from a role whatever future ways a lot on the US and it at least I understand the facts I also understand the lawyers yes who pays my salary so so I think I think you know I I was independently of a Randy said I was thinking about this we should start a discussion of the requirement of this giving the pain it would you know for other documents we\u0027d set a lower bar for adoption but from this one given the pain it\u0027s gonna cost us let\u0027s start a discussion of the requirement and how much this actually saves us yeah III think I\u0027m sure that Tony you\u0027ve got some customer behind this request but I would be very interested in here from operators people that would be deploying this right like yeah it would be nice to know how much want there is out there and again we don\u0027t like the working group doesn\u0027t like spending time on this conflict that\u0027s why we want to make sure that the requirement is strong enough to justify what we\u0027re gonna you know spending a lot of time in discussions that we could be spending on technical solutions thank you Tony P here so just what we\u0027re getting it up I "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:55:20",
    "text": "just want to say this draft isn\u0027t exactly the same as the other ones but it solves a similar problem and it does it without abstracting the area with tunnels so ac said it all but let me fill in the details okay all right so no lowering relative simple stuff so we put that stuff out I\u0027m I try to keep it relatively short people are interesting I\u0027m sure read the draft so I won\u0027t be slaughtering you with details I\u0027ll tell you what the problem is and you know what were the parameters that we were solving and give very rough outline of the solution which is actually you know embarassingly simple and then I hope for some discussion on the mic and depending on that I may call for adoption or not all right so um so what is the problem the problem is that some very big customer smiles right they are mixing in eius eius backbones the number of links and nodes and even when you scale the implementation very very well you start to our heat actually heat basically protocol limitations right in terms of like flooding grades how much can you really put into eius eius and computer over it so you know some possibilities are too forklift the protocol you know there\u0027s some suggestions here and the other limitations that these customers are heating is that i gps are kind is one hall one hop multiple spokesmodel right which limits them so the spokes are good for excess so it\u0027s good to scale an excess network that way but if you really what you have is a backbone that goes really really big then this model is not particularly good for it right because we we did not build areas as transit just like BGP SAS is as transit iGPS were built our heat actually different I\u0027m just describing the problem these people are heating without passing any judgment right I have a tool they try to fit it they try to get something done they go like a ain\u0027t working and the other trend that we observe is that they start I mean traditionally I GPS were built for something which were relatively sparse smashes and that\u0027s why we picked up the Dykstra Dykstra behaved much better on sparse stuff right bellman-ford is much better on dense but you said like who\u0027s gonna get dance yeah well guess what customers are running dense clusters now so they basically going to architecture where things are more what you call cliques or you know and some kind of regular meshes and it is just tons of links which loads computation flooding and so on and so on the other thing when they started to play with areas was what they didn\u0027t like is that if they start to abstract pieces of the topology and hides the topology then they lose path diversity even if they\u0027re doing some kind of hacks trying to transit through these areas right you start to height l1 and then your forwarding starts to "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:58:20",
    "text": "follow strictly just l2 on the back on so now where are all the l1 paths that you have around so that now we did some kind of thing we saw the stuff for the last couple of years did a couple of thinking tossed a lot of things around and then the customer of course will not accept any solution right they have lots of other properties which are anything from technical to political and operational anything in between right so what they basically wanted is scale me the backbone without triggering the control plane scale limitations that\u0027s really what they wanted right somehow remove the control plane scale limitation give me much more scale on the backbone and they want many more smaller boxes which kind of aggravates the problem also leads to the dense masses they go like I don\u0027t want these huge boxes which look like a single box I want more and more like small boxes I\u0027m slapping together but then I need a lot of links in between them so I\u0027m hitting even faster this control plane limitations and then yes seriously no please do not for cliff the protocol we love you all but flag days are something we hate you know from you no longer operational experience they give me something but now have to forklift the protocol Tony yep you mean like grift but see so we I have not here to talk about great but I can tell you how reflux into the stuff actually I won\u0027t tell you you\u0027ll figure out in a couple of years okay I don\u0027t have to be right now I just have to be I have to be able to a couple of years to tell you where beer I told you so ok now alright so but no rift is neither here or there I\u0027m not talking about rift so they also wanted a very simple robust configuration so please do not allowed me with a hugely complicated operational model where I have to provision everything just though okay and then go look for troubles no proprietor solutions okay and and they didn\u0027t want any kind of centralized point of failures right so just do please not build me something where you want something centralized where you store some states and they think and blow up and next thing will be reinventing NSR so okay so it has to be fully distributed solution yeah we like them they extremely robust and then what they also wanted was well but at the end if you scaled it up I still want my optimal traffic engineering like yeah well that\u0027s hard again right you won\u0027t it abstract but then you want the food thing to do all the optimal path selection like okay everything\u0027s impossible so let\u0027s go and graph through a lot of different solutions and the TTC stop was around and so on right all right so what\u0027s the outline of the solution so place somewhere in this directions people were poking around here but basically having look at a lot of things and play it and tossed up flood reflection which is really a knock off of route reflection seems to meet the bill actually surprisingly well with "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:01:20",
    "text": "all these impossible requirements so basically what do you do is you pick three colors right three colors are good so you take a piece of the backbone and you make it in l1 right so this is this red box and outside are the l2 guys so the l2 is blue but now instead of sticking every thing into l1 l2 which blows out your l2 scale again you just pick up a bunch of notes and made them reflectors so they\u0027re in the blue and the thin lines are tunnels because now those l2 nodes are not necessarily directly connected right so you pick up some kind of tunneling who cares and you flood over those tunnels so you\u0027ve L to flooding topology starts to look like multiple stars so that has much better scaling properties that full meshes it gives you see redundancy it doesn\u0027t give you any single point of failures because this is colorful still fully distributed you know is is and I\u0027ll talk about that stuff later now so how do we transition through this thing so the guys on the l2 on the outside they see those two stars so if you kind of naive all the forwarding we go through these tunnels like da so first you like you\u0027re out you go forward tunnels these l2 tunnels could be okay or not but then everything kind of bunches out in those tunnels and these rail reflections become like forwarding choke points like yeah great you scaled up you control blame but you just killed my data plane and if this some of his l1 topology somewhere outside of this l2 path the capacity will never get utilized so you lose all the path diversity of you know underlying Network like now I know that doesn\u0027t help well so you have to change the SPF on the incoming leaves and what they basically do is underneath you don\u0027t have to do that but I described the simplest possible solution the orange colors are or l1 forwarding tunnels which are invisible to the l2 outside so you still have full mesh in the l1 right and the guys on the edges when the l2 traffic comes in they basically shortcut through this l1 tunnels that\u0027s actually fairly simple SPF modification so they look whether the l2 route that they compute goes through a flat repeater what we call we call them reflectors flood flood reflectors which hinge language a couple of times so the flood reflector adjacency if this is so then you don\u0027t use it or you there\u0027s a couple of solutions but basically you don\u0027t use that for forwarding you shortcut to your exit through the l1 and you can also shortcut these things so I\u0027m not showing it here but the blue leaves the client reflects for clients connector also have "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:04:20",
    "text": "a direct link and then you forward along this direct link that works just fine Tony yeah so there\u0027s really two parts to this there\u0027s the flow reflector to reduce the flooding in l2 yeah but you could have done what Tony a bog two and got rid of the tunnels and just made everything in the L 1 and L 1 l 2 no there\u0027s even a clever solution you\u0027re pretty good Ralph I mentioned this stuff but you could have done that without doing the time you can do something even more smarter than that but you have to read and think about it ok so this is the simplest simplest variant it works like a charm for practical purposes ok now the nice thing is that what you\u0027re really lifting are only those leaves and the reflectors and the configuration in most extreme case is just local indoor interface on this tunneling interface right and the people and the l2 people outside are completely oblivious of towards going on and most of these l1 nodes you don\u0027t have to lift them either right so you really have a minimal lift and you can do it partially because that will also work it some of these people are not even even client so that\u0027s the outline of the solution right so what we put on is now you don\u0027t want to miss configure this thing in a sense that you start to build really weird stuff with so that has been done with BGP route reflectors and led to a lot of problems so we stuck this indication which cluster ID are you on the iih and whether you apply on the reflector I have very strict adjacency forming glue rules we killed off route reflex flood reflect or hierarchies route reflect hierarchies are a beautiful thing to behold if you run operational into problems with them we also kill to what people tend to do is in the same cluster to build horizontal link between reflectors but those are relatively simple rules that we can argue about I mean if people want to draw work on the draft and they feel strongly we should have a hierarchy well it can be made to work right what what we had was people asking us for the maximum simplicity like no foolproof almost impossible to me it\u0027s configured that\u0027s where we were leaning towards so I am saying this orange I want tunnel mesh is optional that\u0027s more advanced discussion so what\u0027s the big deal well you only have to lift the flood reflectors and the clients okay and they actually only need local configuration knobs because you don\u0027t really even well so we also put the discovery the cluster discovery not only know ia cheese but we also advertise it on the links so you can figure out you know who what is the route reflector topology but you don\u0027t have to look at the stuff and you can actually even implement it without advertising anything so this is a local configuration knob on the router like this goes to my flat reflector the whole thing makes you allows you to scale the "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:07:21",
    "text": "l2 control plane in a row linear fashion right so nothing you don\u0027t have the n square or full L to tunnel meshes which practically speaking gives you a very very long runway for very little work right so what you get out is this l1 but actually the l1 doesn\u0027t have to l be l1 so this leads to further thinking if you abstract these things as l1 you could run out of protocol so you can run OSPF underneath as l1 and you can run l2 with front refraction is is on top which gives you interesting properties in terms of like faith sharing in a protocol don\u0027t you know you can you don\u0027t have to but it gives you this degree of freedom so an l2 runs with these flat reflectors nevertheless it uses all the l1 path diversity in the topology underneath which is really what you what you really want right because that\u0027s how you scale up a bandwidth this is you know they make better and better fools every year that\u0027s which that\u0027s why we still working right but this is as foolproof as fools fools come these days I\u0027m sure they invent better fools that will break the stuff but you know as far as we could we base it to run out anything that can be misconfigure on lead you into interesting you know problems which I think we understood fairly well because we went a whole BGP route reflector curve and it was actually extremely educational all right and so it\u0027s kiss means so yeah sorry he\u0027s all this complicated this thing tends to be these days you know in GP but it seems to have a pretty good run away for what people are looking for a question Tony AC and Irma Cisco Systems so on these tunnels which ones the l2 l1 l1 tunnels yeah you\u0027re not running the Jason sees over there over the or the tunnels as well as you have you are you\u0027re not all right underneath underneath you have two l1 all right so you better do yes you know what I mean I do you know you but the draught says you better do okay for lot of practical purposes we saw in deployment like nothing as ugly as a broken tunnel over which you trying to forward happily right so yeah we suggest people do but yes so this is this degree of flexibility of l1 or you can want the right protocol in l1 right which makes it ztp if you do it correctly GPS PF BGP MPs of obviously we the controller yeah so a lot of these typologies when I when I was thinking about them as presented the data center or whatever sort of you can also start "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:10:21",
    "text": "thinking about it it\u0027s like a partition l2 right and this is right no I so when you\u0027re suggesting level one virtual links right to correct the partition and help you it\u0027s it\u0027s another way of modeling is I think though is that if people are interested in this let\u0027s keep talking about right so yes I mean the nasty way to talk about it say well you\u0027re inventing virtual links again yeah yes with the flavor yeah that\u0027s well I mean look if you if you if you really paranoid you don\u0027t need to tell to tunnels you can put this think one top away or or you can be make them like Tony was make them at all the level one routers l1 l2 yeah but then you lose the l2 scalability then you just just kill the baby that\u0027s the problem well that\u0027s how we started and they say well there\u0027s still all the routers are in l2 like you didn\u0027t serve our scale problem but the most any router has is what you have at the edges which is the subset of one l1 and l2 you don\u0027t have all the other l1 o irrigate them right no no no if you look at the stop because the way people build these meshes there by sectional means that you end up with all the routers in l2 again otherwise the problem wouldn\u0027t exist ok Tony Leoni and the way we are doing things while it puts everything into l2 the l2 information about the inside area does not leave the inside area this is absolutely key because it means that when we actually abstract things we effectively take it out of link level tuning state database for the rest of the network okay so if I\u0027ve got an area I\u0027ve got a thousand routers in it I\u0027ve just taken those thousand routers out of the network it was AC again I was thinking of in the in the OSPF term where you would leak them into the into the area as opposed to into the non backbone area which would have been the maximum you ever have would you\u0027d have one L one area and l2 and the l2 stuff would be aggregated are you saying you couldn\u0027t satisfy the traffic engineering requirements if you don\u0027t if you don\u0027t if you do any aggregation of the l1 areas how do you preserve all the diversity of the traffic look if you have height the problem is that yes obviously you can abstract this l1 and show something on the edges but I know you don\u0027t know how how much diversity you get out of it ok if you want diversity then we\u0027re talking back to traffic engineering and your traffic engineering mechanisms like BG pls yeah are highly applicable ok you cannot have both abstraction and detail at the same time it doesn\u0027t work well and for our purposes right now in "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:13:22",
    "text": "scaling the IGP we need the abstraction we have a low yes and no so this keeps them the abstraction without losing the diversity and with the bgp LS that they take out of l1 and l2 on the controller they can do a full path computation yes I cannot do optimal distribute the TE whatever solution we take I mean that like you say you hide it it\u0027s controlled lying right so what I\u0027m telling people well you need to run BTW pls and take everything from from the l1 and l2 in the controller and you have to do optimal computation that way but at least you don\u0027t forgive if it\u0027s a standard mechanism we have those controllers built they do that actually today already so you know what suppose so why not just abstract everything that\u0027s the answer because then you well you for cliff too much stuff that\u0027s the first thing and second look so simple observation when you run the abstract note you end up basically build a chassis again because this area leader starts to take in a lot of state to synchronize the same way as a routing engine in a router synchronizes line cards and the next thing you build NSR between the two of them and then you just reinvented the shots in a different way and this is there was a big no-no right they don\u0027t want any kind of centralized think when one thing failing can affect it and less gave you the first layer of the onion there\u0027s like twelve underneath but I mean you willing I mean perfectly fine you build it and then we talk and maybe I\u0027m wrong and we see code in progress so what we\u0027ve seen is that when we do this it\u0027s relatively straightforward to create the abstraction that forklifting everything is not necessary just the things that are going to use this new hack and it\u0027s relatively straightforward what I mean we agree that this is forklifting less or maybe not okay so back to my comment about the redistributing routes Tony you mentioned that it\u0027s it could be dangerous I\u0027d be interested I mean maybe we can mitigate that danger like if maybe you know maybe it\u0027s worth exploring a small protocol extension that allows otherwise using normal already deployed things like multi instance with redistribution with a little bit of extra information there to keep us from you know like the down bit when we went you know there could be a way that we could look at this and just keep the danger from redistribution from all right unless Ginsburg so we I mean we do have the are bits no as far as you know signaling that a route has been redistributed in some way plus we have the X bit to indicate that it\u0027s external "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:16:23",
    "text": "came from another protocol which could be another ISS protocol instance that said I don\u0027t think the big danger with you know widespread redistribution has to do with you know the protocol itself not figuring out that this this particular route was redistributed it\u0027s that well you got redistribution on router a and you got redistribution on router in at the other end of the network and they get misconfigured and and yep go alright so I mean since there seems to be a particular area of interest let me lose a sentence or two with the up-down beat we have everything that is enough to make that stuff work without Tom\u0027s point we know it yeah and then what more do you want this is like Goldilocks right I keep scratching my head but you\u0027re just admitting you\u0027re just admitting that you can make it work for the tunnels at the only expense you may not take the optimal entry point into yeah well yes I that is a caveat which I mean we can argue now the paint off the wall in graph theory if you start to abstract in any way there is no bloody way and that\u0027s what I tell people when they want te with absolute optimal they have to take the full topology into the controller flat make it flat and run the computation flat and that works as well but it has a cost right i I\u0027m not a magician that cannot abstract apology and expose all the topology again right without actually even forklifting the protocol on top right yes so absolutely I mean there there we heated just hard boundary transcoder brief follow-up to Chris\u0027s point about redistricting redistributing yeah you can have everything you want all you have to do is reinvent EGP please don\u0027t reinvent GC we\u0027ve already got one don\u0027t count them they made they don\u0027t like BGP I already that at the very beginning yet so I don\u0027t think this is as simple as you make it sound well that\u0027s a feeling by yours I\u0027m here to talk technical reality so give you technical arguments please so what simple is the protocol extensions which are very minimal yeah okay I think what gets to be complex is is the implementation of the changes and the deployment well you haven\u0027t talked at all and I don\u0027t I don\u0027t think you\u0027ve talked at all in the draft and granted its v-0 so you know there may be more coming but you haven\u0027t talked at all about the draft about the population of the route reflectors and the distribution of the information to the clients and you just said well in which sense you mean because we don\u0027t modify flooding procedures at all there is nothing there to mention it just slots like L to flats "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:19:24",
    "text": "there is no modification slotting procedures who what so ever so again I think you\u0027re talking about as far as protocol extensions but that doesn\u0027t mean that the code that\u0027s running inside the boxes is the same I so what argument are you making that you want the solution without any implementation no I\u0027m just saying you know it\u0027s a little bit of false advertising to say look I just all I did was to find a tiny little TV so that they less you are slandering right now I don\u0027t hear a technical argument sorry bring me a hard technical argument which is no disk right I\u0027m just saying putting kiss up there isn\u0027t a technical argument either yeah okay I take that all right so that\u0027s advertisement I take the keys yeah that\u0027s that\u0027s absolutely valid so let\u0027s drop the kiss but I think the draft tells you everything that is necessary to implement that stuff yes SPF is modified we describe it okay there\u0027s multiple solution actually to implement it so you can modify SPF in three or four different way so we just outlined one way how we can implement it flooding procedures is zero modification literally otherwise you know we would be forklifting the tlvs can be ignored on the outside safely actually even inside of you you implement local configuration knobs if you find holes more than happy you more you more than you know I have more than happy to invite you to participate on the draft and then iron this stuff out or roll me the technical arguments because I\u0027m not foolproof we may have missed land hold that size we very confident we did but hey we know this is arcane and very difficult art right so technical arguments more than welcome thank you was lively enough so yeah I think at this point in time it wasn\u0027t hostile enough I think I\u0027ll call for adoption how many have read the draft how many people understood the draft nine offers yeah I read but you didn\u0027t unsigned it I\u0027m appreciated more of it after I\u0027ve seen the present every time I appreciate a little more you know and you thought I was just repeating what you were saying I was making sure I understood it yeah I mean people accuse me that I\u0027ve write too much so I\u0027ve wrote less so now they accused me they didn\u0027t like so as AC mentioned a minute ago this is also working on the same sort of problem so I like yeah I like the energy now can we take this energy to the list I don\u0027t think we should be calling for adoption on any these drafts yet but if we could keep this energy going and maybe argue about the "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:22:26",
    "text": "solutions on the list maybe we can read relook at the adoption idea next name what do you think yeah I think that I think that\u0027s a good thing hopefully we\u0027ll hear from like you had said the operators on the requirement to do this there\u0027s also going at the same time if we can get the flooding reduction if that\u0027s you know you know it\u0027s really mitigate mitigates the problem and I actually think that\u0027s less complex than these area abstractions for my money the abstraction and the flooding reduction are orthogonal and both are necessary that\u0027s why they both use the same leader election no that\u0027s a common useful mechanism I should have been probably been in I was I I agree they\u0027re orthogonal I was just saying whether or not we need the area abstraction giving the complexity and yours is you did drop the kiss for the flood reflectors too I actually I actually think it would be good for your graph if you put the different you said there\u0027s four or five ways if you put those alternatives and how to do without the tunnels the tunnels yeah okay keen as a working relation and then well you know I get to stuff adopted where I run all this stuff out if I don\u0027t get it adopted like I may as well just let it sit and expire thank you very much right so yeah I mean if that gets adopted yes that\u0027s perfect the other very very valid discussion is should we build hierarchies right which I killed but if well there\u0027s a certain runway that you get with this right if you build hierarchy of road reflectors it\u0027s pretty much in finite size but there\u0027s a certain size you can go with that we think the practical runways from what we saw is about you can 5x the scale though they already are insane scale so they get like 5x insane with something very simple without forklifting so that\u0027s pretty cool and what we saw with that is that if you do this you put it on you pretty much need flood reduction right because that kills all this highly dense things right into relatively simple stars like current flooding is good enough as far as we saw so yeah so absolutely we can work all this stuff out but you know there\u0027s only interest from our society we get the stuff adopted and you know we get enough people to work on the stuff and chew through the details because you know we know we know this stuff we don\u0027t have to write it down right and then who cares if you don\u0027t care well then why should we put to work but that\u0027s neither here there so I think I\u0027m pretty much at the end of my spiel everybody woke up and now they can go back to snooze more "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:25:29",
    "text": "questions uncertainties doubts flowers no chocolate nothing the way this yeah all right good thanks Tony here are we clubbing cuz he sat down just such an odd reaction update the else are v6 in okay so I\u0027m beer I\u0027m going to change the subject a little bit and I\u0027m not going to talk about any tunnels or transit areas anymore so I\u0027m going to give a quick update on the SR e6 the only change that happened to the draft from the from the last version is that we move the a flag from the locator options or flags and we added it to the prefix attribute Flags because the prefix attribute TLV or subtly supported in inside the locator so there\u0027s no functional change we only moved it and we said I\u0027ll use the prefix attribute like something away to advertise the a bit we also specify what they beat should do we say that they should be preserved been leaked we said that when the a flag is said the influx should not be said on must not be said and what what to do if it is said basically we ignore the inflate dates like he said and we also said that if there are multiple routers advertising the prefix or locator and one advertising the I flag the other one doesn\u0027t we should consider the prefix or locator to be any caste anyway so that\u0027s the only change in the draft from the previous version the document has been pretty stable there are multiple implementations question is is this ready for Alaska so that\u0027s something the outers believe could be at that state at the moment I think we will I think a good thing to do would be to start a dialogue just ask if everybody\u0027s read this something already for last call I\u0027d like I\u0027d like you\u0027d be good to - you "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:28:30",
    "text": "could have to be removed at publication at this implementation status - the draft yeah yeah me just say just to get an idea okay a people who are willing to let it know that they\u0027ve implemented okay and I haven\u0027t read the recent version I don\u0027t think I\u0027ve read it for about a year so I wonder I think and Chris you read it recently I did read the Deaf yeah okay yeah I want to read it from start describe the only thing between it was the structure sub TLV analysis so we\u0027ll have a ready for working class or a class call call [Music] sounds good yeah so why don\u0027t you put the why don\u0027t you put the implementation status in and then like we\u0027re like a t mentioned earlier just send it a public thing requesting last call and then we\u0027ll do it okay will do okay so you\u0027re next [Applause] okay so the next is Theodore the flags all go draft so there are two changes in the draft from the previous version first days more mechanical change where previously in the eye size and OSPF application Ling attributes draft there was an axpy which means the application is flex I\u0027ll go we basically took that bit out of that draft and moved it and define the bit with the exactly same semantics in the Flex I\u0027ll go draft there\u0027s no functional change the reason we did this is because we didn\u0027t want to have the dependency of the Oslo drafts the the the application link attribute drafts on the Flex Haggadah itself so that\u0027s why we moved a bit to the Flex of the raft and we discovered one one problem in the in the Flex algo specification which we are now trying to fix in the Indus revision of the draft so here I give you an example where we have two two areas or domains and if you have the right one in the left one so we have the prefix 1/1 1/32 and here are the links with the metric IGP metric of 10 and flexible metric which could be delay or anything else being hungry and the definition of the alga says remove any languages which is red so what would happen and there\u0027s no link between the "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:31:32",
    "text": "r2 and r3 in any of those domains or areas so what P r2 and r3 routers would do they would advertise the prefix and without so in the previous version of the draft we define what we call a flag a specific metric of Luxardo prefix metric even without this basically what happens is that the r1 will still believe he can reach the the prefix 1 1 1 1 in a flex I\u0027ll go hundred 28 yr - but r2 because the link he has in the right area it\u0027s not participating or he\u0027s excluded from the from the calculation he would actually calculate the past via the left area and there we have a loop so we defined as I said the Flex I\u0027ll go specific metric previously but even that doesn\u0027t solve the problem because the previous version of the graph says if you if the advertisement of the prefix doesn\u0027t have the Flex all got specific metric fall back to the IGP metric so the r1 would still believe that there is actually even a better pass why r2 because the IGP metric is lower and would cause a loop again the problem really is we have no way of saying or we had no way of saying don\u0027t use me for flex I\u0027ll go under 28 pass but you can use me for alga zero pass because the reach ability is basically taken from the algal zero and that\u0027s why the prefix is advertised so to fix that problem what we say is that when the ABR or SBR advertises or redistribute or leaks the prefix between the areas or levels it must set the Flex August Pacific metric and then anyone computing the destination for flex I\u0027ll go for the prefix must use this flex all go specific metric and if the prefix doesn\u0027t have it is basically unreachable so this way we kind of make the announcement of the reachability parallel go well obviously this only works if the algo has the plugs algo prefix metric as it\u0027s one of its part of the flags algo definition so that way we fix the problem the question is what do we do if we don\u0027t use the Flex algo prefix metric as a flexible definition attribute in that way it what the draft says is it\u0027s not recommended to use it for inter area inter domain switch ability because it can actually cause loops or like holes if people feel this is not strong enough language we can even say we are not allowed to compute the inter domain or inter area pass if if we don\u0027t use the Flex soccer-specific metric it\u0027s up to the you know the discussion I\u0027m open for the suggestion which which way people want to go but basically we have to somehow let people know that without these mechanism it makes really cause some of these issues just a second here let me "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:34:37",
    "text": "restate that so the advantage of not doing a hard prohibition of this is you could use flex algorithm within one area but still forward the prefix through other areas using the default right that\u0027s the advantage and but but the problem is in certain topology somewhat pathological with this kind of configuration you could have loosed yes that\u0027s the issue is you don\u0027t know whether the ABR is being has the reach ability for the prefix for that algorithm itself okay so those are the two changes we made implementations are already available we are continue to enhance them so I\u0027m not asking for last call yet so Tony P juniper hey Peter so I think even if you forward between the the inter area default you may still end up looping because you cannot mix and match right if before default between inter area it realized that it brings it on you know some exit which is based on shortest metrics when it brings in to funny you know out which uses default again you may end up in a loop but I need a napkin to go and draw her a draw around the stuff it\u0027s just you know you can\u0027t take shortest path and start to mix it you know which what you choose in which part of topology and hope that this thing somehow connects at the end it\u0027s very pathological right of\u0027 OSPF you always use the intra area route over inter area route always yes and this is also yes I see okay yeah sorry you said yeah any other questions okay thank you remember we said we have some Nanyang presentations we have both lesses and our dunes that are Nanyang I see less is here and I see Bruna\u0027s here isn\u0027t he that\u0027s here too so I kind of want to leave that one on Friday oh you do okay okay yeah so and we already had one plate today all right yeah yeah it\u0027s not a fight one contentious well should should we just believe in both dinner okay I don\u0027t know we just yeah I don\u0027t strong feeling but if we people might have scared that "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:37:40",
    "text": "that was my worry about moving it was that people might have been targeting a specific session to come to you okay then I think we\u0027re done today all right thanks everybody see you Friday we\u0027re clapping we are we gonna become a clapping working yeah there\u0027s the homework to reading nothing Oh Stewart made dark enough time I tried to take some Oh might not during the presentation but hopefully we get a recording to "
  }
]