[
  {
    "startTime": "00:00:14",
    "text": "so did you have a chance to attend the road meeting i did not see you in the room but just in case because there was bob there saying interesting things about shake yes we were there and there is bob actually so do we have an attacker already is there somebody in the room who's willing to help like because i see somebody's touching it's moving by itself is not you okay you can if you want um everything is fine yes since i'm connecting to sleep right now"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:02:06",
    "text": "okay so i'm in the sleep just testing that it works as well and we will start or we can start okay [Music] so the let me do the introduction okay all right so there we go so welcome in the room this is uh the itf meeting uh lp1 workout meeting if that's not what you came in for then you're in the wrong room we have just one hour on the packed agenda so i'll start without waiting more and and move forward in slide please [Music] so are you moving the slides or do you want to give me the up to you well please move it just next slide so as usual um we have the traditional ietf network so be aware that we have a code of conduct that's bcp154 and entire harassment rules now if you feel that you're a victim of anything related to harassment or bad conduct please contact the ombuds team and you can see the link of this page and you will see the exact same slide on every other meeting and obviously as usual we've got rules about ipr so if you're aware of ipr a new ipr undisclosed ipr that is being discussed today please mention it to the the mic or to the chairs or on the mailing list or refrain from talking about that ipr at all next slide so we have um two types of participants in scavid as you know some will be in person in the"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:04:00",
    "text": "room some will be remote if you're in the room please join the mythical light application that you can download from data tracker on your phone so you can join the mcq the chairs will be handling the mcq um in the as a single queue from for remote and local participants for remote participants please keep your audio and video off unless the chairs are giving you the the right to speak and yes if you can uh use the net set to avoid decode next slide please and so there are these are the resources that you already have seen number of times for for this particular meeting next slide okay so as i said we have a pact agenda so we'll be going through the agenda bashing and it's going to be me i guess then anna will pass the status of the shakeover mbiot um lauren the sheikh little model and both of them are you know at the latest stage for this working group so we ask we've been asking the document publication then there will be the compound ack and two slots one for company one for chicago six fox uh with sergio then uh we have an interesting new proposal by robert bob muskravich about um having a shake ip number note that this work is not currently chartered but who would like to to test interest in this room then i'll be talking about the architecture draft that has evolved and we'll be discussing about opportunities to recharter based on the recent evolution of what people want to do with sheikh next slide please show up"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:06:00",
    "text": "is there any anything people want to change add modifying this this agenda before we move on silence is concerned okay so one group status we basically had a number of milestones which are uh passed and for the chicago six fox and and chicago and the iot we are not that bad for the chic over at the iot and the chicago kind of was kind of delayed because of the need to to generate the compound act separately but uh we're getting there for for all our documents so we are not that bad actually being on new year off is not that bad now we still have sorry no we still have an item for the uh um oam and well we pushed it to the end of the year but we will see if there is still interest in this group to produce it next slide so document advancement as i already said the we have uh great progress for the nba utn young data model for which the publication request method was pushed and the early iatf uh let's go reviews started fighting uh for the young data but also i hope lauren gives us the status on that in particular are the young reviews uh the i don't think anything has yet started for the nba team and there is the cubes are actually loaded for many of our id's um so new as you can see there are new version for uh all of the documents uh either in june or in july so we we are working and progressing very well in this group so thank you all for this next line and yes as i said at the end of the the meeting we'll be discuss discussing rechartering and basically the main reason for that is"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:08:01",
    "text": "on the one hand we want to extend to new technologies and and bob is discussing uh the some basically flying object networks uh we have uh ppp over ethernet so we can do ppp so we can do ppp over anything including ethernet and wi-fi uh we've got the work that kelly's has started for 15 15-4 15-4 was initially chartered but mostly as a wide area uh low-power wide area network like 15-4 in g basically in this type of networks using subject but now we are looking at 15 4 uh 2.4 gig you know for for we pan or even body area network 56 etc so so basically doing what six low has done with six four six lowpan generalizing to other technology see what we can do and then look at other things we could be doing with shakes so chic at the moment does compression it also that's fragmentation uh it has reliable fragmentation but as bob hinted it doesn't affect for instance to do reliable uh reliability but not with arq really forward reliability which would save the return channel so looking at things like that could be of interest um and then there is bob's proposal for the chic next header which is also not in the charter so basically looking at how we expand chic for other spaces larger spaces could be of interest for this group and they would like to take the sense of the room and then sense of the working group if people are interested in pursuing the work in those direct directions and with this we'll move with the first edge of the item and i think that's anna"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:10:02",
    "text": "hello do you hear me yes i hear you uh thank you very much so i will present the the last version of the cheek of our nbiot draft we published on july next slide please you can i give you the control okay sorry okay so we we have made in this version 10 the the inputs from the review of pascal thank you pascal principally the references were arranged informative and normative we also updated the cross-reference with the sections most of needs about [Music] the reference because it was very difficult to design it with the new xml version 3 the 3gpp references it was a little bit complicated so one one thing that we can we can say of this draft is that more of the features are recommendations for 3gpp in order to use chic for for the nba ut network so one of the comment of pascal was if we need to uh define an mtu size of 1358 bytes so um the thing is that we are recommended to use this mtu even if the 3gpp networks accept larger larger sizes of 1 1600 so it's enough for a normal ip packet but in this case you will have a"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:12:01",
    "text": "segmentation in layer two so the to avoid that we recommend to use a smaller mtu for for nb iot in order to avoid using the rlc segmentation but that doesn't limit the use of bigger mtu in the network so the other comment was about the different stack we have in the in the draft so again we we have divided the draft in three users cases the first one is the use of cheek in the radio link where we have the ip pdc plc mac stack chic is included in the pdcp layer and in this stack you have a segmentation in rlc so most of the fragmentation we decide not to use it we only use the the compression of chic except for the transparent mode where there is no uh segmentation in rsc and then we decide to recommend the use of chick fragmentation the other use is in the north access stratum in donas where you have the ip packet over the rrc rlc mac so there chic will be using the error c layer and again you have the segmentation in rlc so we are using only compression but not fragmentation and in the last case you have an end-to-end connection you have ip over cheek over mac and and that's in that case we recommend to use chic compression and fragmentation so that was the two more elevated technical point of the"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:14:02",
    "text": "review the last review so if you have questions this draft has been sent to the isg for publication many thanks anna uh do we have any question in the room i'm not trying to jump into the queue sorry just to tell you that next step is an idea review by myself but i'm buzzing this week as you can guess right so don't expect anything moving before mid august most roughly okay thank you eric thank you okay pascal can you take control during my presentation okay i will do that if i can okay so i took the control away from you now i need to share this slide [Music] okay yes go ahead okay so this is the 14th version of the young data model so i think we are converging right now and we have something that is quite quite nice so next slide please so i just remember what is what covers this young data model so the the version currently is the 11 of july and it covers only what is"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:16:01",
    "text": "defined in published rfcs it's 87 24 and 88 24 so it cover compression fragmentation and no compression for ipv6 to dp and co-op underscore so it defines the rules and also the parameters that we use in for these actions so what we have done and what is one of the main change since the previous version is that the timer values and i will explain in the next slide so next slide please so we we are here all the modification we have done in in the model until this version 14. so the first one was to clarify the old one because it could have an ambiguity because you have a l on the one that are very similar and of course we cannot change the standard so we put a dash between all and one and we also change in for the value for the target value and parameters we change the name position that could be ambiguous with the field position we have in other places and we call it an index now and the main change is in the way we manage timer before it was uh you win uint 64 and which engine is something that is more flexible and if you can go to the next slide we we use so a thick duration and a tick number so the tick duration is a formula where you have two power arctic duration divided by 10 power six that give us when the fix duration is zero a unit of one microsecond and if you increase the tick duration you increase this unit and for example when you put the value 20 then you have about one second for extinct duration so then to set up a timer we just give the number of ticks we we want or six"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:18:01",
    "text": "number and this way we can cover different range and different usage for chic one can be up to the micro second so it could be useful for real time and we can go if we increase the the tigration to several years a lot of years even to uh for for the timer so what we choose to use as a default value is 20 because we have a tick of about one second and the maximum timer is 19 hours and the row one recommendation is about 12 hours so we have something that fits well the needs for lc1 so next slide please so we got also a review at a young doctor's review of the model so thank you for martin thompson and john clark we got a very very nice review that makes improving the document so i will not go into all the details if i have done that on on the mailing list but if there is a major issue on the nature of the road so right now in the model we are just a choice for fragmentation compression and low compression and this choice is not exclusive it means that the device can with a young model you can select both compression and fragmentation so that's not what we need because in the in a chic a rule can be ever fragmentation or compression but not at the same time both so that's why i i propose a change so we have to discuss uh on that on on the mailing list so let's next slide please is to add a new leaf that is a rule nature and this rule nature will tell if is a compression or a fragmentation rule and inside each definition of the compression content"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:20:02",
    "text": "and the fragmentation content we make a test to see if we follow we are on the right nature and we don't need anymore no cooperation as a choice because it was ineffective and it will not have been rich at any at any time so that's a significant modification we made from the model and it will be published in with the new version of the of the drive so next time so just to to conclude on it something that came when we had to write the security review or security chapter is that uh right now the young data model we are using is just respecting what is saying the rfc and it's a way to have something a command between a device a core or a chic upper chick and maybe your repository when we will have the roof but until now we don't you we don't identify the device and it's something that is very important and we need to have this in the architecture graph so next slide this to identify the the device so we we have i think to work on that part so how we do the uh notification for example in openshift we have two kind of devices we have the ones that are directly connected to internet just for tests where we have an ipr ip address in the device and we have the lower one where we have the dev ui at vm so this is one way to represent it in openshift we have also other documents like the rfc 1999 39 that define a url for this device so we have to see if it's convenient with a compact representation because"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:22:01",
    "text": "this is urn and they are in a ski so there is other work at the atf to to compress url and urn so maybe we can use it or maybe also use the arcade a compact notification in the young model so that's one thing that would be important to to define and the last point is that when we will have these ids then we can add this id to the young model with young data model we have defined and for example if we don't put ids it could be it could fit a point-to-point model if we just put the device id we are in as we are right now in the star topology and if we put the device on the core then we can reach the constraints from mesh network so that's some evolution we will have to to discuss and we need also some words for the security section about these things because of course if we don't have identification that anybody can modify a young data model and it's something that could be insecure so i think it's my last slide if you have questions thank you very much loho and we'll be moving to um sergio so sergio can you jump to the mic yes hello can you hear me yes this is great so please go ahead hello i will present a compound graph in this case the path to publication uh can you put the next slide please i give you the control if you how do i"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:24:04",
    "text": "there you go well one of the biggest changes that we did on version five uh was that we changed the the way padding bits are handled before we said that padding bits must be zero according to the the review with dominique and the spirit of the rfc 8724 that it has no padding bits defined the idea was to to not specifically define the padding bits but we needed a way to actually differentiate the the last window from from extra bits so we decided that we will use m bits as zero that can be used when you need to add more than inputting bits to the message this way you this mbit signal the end of the compound other changes were more specifically format we remove any reference to the receiver award we also re remove any bound of that qi compound act to hack on error this was removed in introduction and in many other areas and also we provided compressed bitmap examples on how to use a compound with with compressed bitmap another big change that we did actually was that we added the complete section of the rfc 8724 section eight four three the aqua nero mode with all the changes on how to use the compound knack actually it was difficult to to read where the specific changes had to be done so in this case we added a new text all text to the complete section and these ways we believe it's more clear to to read and actually know where the differences between the compound and the rfc 8724 also the we define the the compound as compatible in this sense we we specified that the rfc that jack on the rfc8724 is a"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:26:02",
    "text": "special case of the of the compound in the case with one window of tiles and finally well we need to define the next steps on on this draft and we would like to thank also dominique for all the uh for the review and all the on all the work that he has done thank you very much any questions in the room nobody jumps so yeah let's move on if you don't mind putting the other slides let's move on to the to move on to the shake classic fox okay okay you how many controls are you okay well this is the status of the cheek over over sick fox draft in this case we would like to thank anna for the schaefer review and these are the main changes in version 11. we did some changes in the introduction in abstract we did some changes regarding the the acronyms we also changed some terms about the predictability of data flows to traffic flows to be more according to to rxc8724 we added some legends in figure one to to actually understand what what its symbol stands for uh also we stated that confirmed that we confirmed with appendix f we added some new text that is actually well in this case that we recommend a message to be sent it's 24 hours to enable the downlink transmission uh also well we changed some terminology of how we we it was written the draft uh also well we added some information about the ups and down link messages how the downlink is enabled in sigfox"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:28:00",
    "text": "and well this is a topic that maybe we can discuss at the end uh regarding the detect and the rule id we added the information regarding the the that we believe that with this amount of rules like this is enough for for the purpose of identifying different flows in the in the transmission uh also we added some recommended values for inactivity timer and retransmission timers and fine this is yes and another question was regarding the rcs in this case this was also presented in that ietf we changed how the rfc is calculated actually what we send is just the number of of tiles of the last window and and that way we are able to recover to know how many fragments are lost in the last window and we are able to reconstruct that the message as the crc is already checking layer two of the sig folks fragment so i think this is the the final one thank you very much if anyone has any questions this was great sergio thank you very much very informative and and you you maintained within the window shop window that you had so just one last comment i have the a new version of both drafts to be uploaded uh with the needs both i i correct the needs in both and i fixed the last email of anna from the mailing list thanks to anna again so we did that last changes so the drafts are all really really ready i would say at this point yes so the the shepherd as people guessed the shepherd for the first document is uh i likes actually and the second is anna so that's why you got the the reviews for now and i guess you will"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:30:00",
    "text": "get the review from alex the shepherd review from alex very soon uh that mentioned in but alexander could not be with us today so it's very sad but um yes we will do without him um and now yes please move and now yes i have a question about do we need to to wait on the compound act has been uh published to publish six folks or we are going to send it both at the same time oh because you can press the button maybe eric wants to speak but you can press the button eric will know that he gets he expects both documents and anyway the ietf will publish them at the same time because of the dependency so even if the the shakeover sick fox progresses faster since it has this normative dependency it will have to to wait uh in miss raf at the rfc did our queue but it won't be long because the two of them will be posted you know almost simultaneously okay so just to be clear i will be publishing new versions of the draft today or tomorrow to to be considered in any further review okay well expect the shepherd review by alexander very soon and once anna is ready and you have answered all the questions you know about ipr etc i will press the button requesting for publication so eric knows that something is coming thank you very much we need to move to bob otherwise we would start being late which would be which would be very bad after the excellent timing you made sergio so bob yes and bob is in the room i guess [Music] bob i will ask you to speak near the mic"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:32:00",
    "text": "and and stay very young and hold the mic and let me go okay this presentation is of i as ip pro card number for sheik and this did not come out of my work on forward error correction which i did in in raw so please go to the next slide i'll say why i'm doing this and networks are complex and one of constrain links is within the path there's end points no know the constraint but have no control over it this is an avionics on an ethernet on the plane and knows it's got a control link going to a data center somewhere in the on on on the internet and and those that definitely gets there but cannot interact with it directly all ip content is with a non-compressed security wrapper there's that as well example this guide esp wants to compress a security wrapper but how to flag this i'll then do a special spy which is how the draft is right now um dtls much of the udp can be derived from dtls why do i have to carry udp when i compress that down as well so these are two examples of how if i had sheet as my header i can do things so if ipv6 next header worksheet the rules can't compress the transport and all up to the security envelope can even indicate what rules for within the security envelope um can also as also end to end so i gained some additional controls in an antenna environment if i were to have sheik saying that this payload is to shake apply the rules can you effectively when you do this sheet becomes the transport layer to transmit the original um transport layer compress"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:34:00",
    "text": "no why have udp crc when i have the the icv in uh in dtls or esp why do i have to also carry the crc as well squeeze it out and then rebuild it um provide new and then provide new and valuable transfer functions like an end to end forward error correction which i presented earlier uh presentation so can so this is the the how here's my technical slide have to have one technical slide um it review the current protocol numbers i went through them there's nothing that i could camp on to do this now is there any protocol number i can use no i can't i need one so we have a chic protocol payload a rule id could be zero bytes so basically you have your your rule i you have the the chic is your your your protocol id you have the rule id the compression residue and then whatever payload you have it standard stuff you people have been created as you know okay but can we really introduce a new ipv6 next better value will it just work or do we need router upgrades um what would happen will the routers be dropping oh i don't know this this uh ip uh protocol number drop it that that's a six-man question um what might i p fragmentation resulted um do we need to force don't fragment because with what what is being done you no longer have a transport blank and now you have that so these are questions need to be answered what else could go wrong happen existing not fused value really bad idea quickly bob clarification questions the idea for this one happy fragmentation there is no don't fragment bit in ipv6 there's the source"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:36:01",
    "text": "doing it so by default all the pv6 packets safe do not fragment just there good i've not been paying close enough attention thank you for that clarification eric go on um is this a field of dreams isn't what the internet is about though let's just do it adopt it as a work group item get this additional functionality for those of us who want to use it and to end take advantage of all the good work you have done one of the other things i realize again looking at diet esp and i'm doing a tunnel inside so once i have chic as iv protocol number i have seek and and the secret says this is esp here's our process header and in the esp the next header is chic again for how long press that that uh esp payload inside of there so actually i end up then using sheet twice in that case and it just flows in the stack and we don't have and we limit how much special stuff we have to do so it's a way in my opinion and i ask that this be adopted by the work of this idea and uh i don't think we need much of a document to accomplish it any questions effectively there are no there are two people in the queue i happen to be first so if you don't mind uh can you go back a few slides when you talk about uh the transport and and the discussion about fragmentation not fragmentation but fact basically so you you mentioned that you presented that at the raw working group and effectively that's something which relates to to the potential need for uh rechartering which will come later my question to you is as you know we have a reactive arq type of reliability for the fragment in check what we don't have is a"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:38:01",
    "text": "fak variation for the fragment reliability and as you know the lp1 networks are usually very asymmetrical like the device can sound but the gateway don't have much bandwidth back so having to send the axe is the pain and it could be envisioned that effectively fake uh for chic fragments could be a a new possibility for a sheikh right an alternate fragmentation technique which seems to fit exactly what the kind of thing that you've been discussing so please consider that and and come back to us you know if you want some work to to start here knowing that the transport guys will have to tell you how you do the um the the coding or something it cannot come from us but maybe the fact that we are using the coding the recommend could be a work here if we were shouted for it sorry for the loan i'm a little bit too old and i dealt too much with ipv4 uh ip level fragmentation starts with oh my god i'm doing this and here comes ipv6 breaks my packet up and then things don't working and eric just correct we know ipv6 does not fragment and we're okay there so my concern was not what would we do inside of secret fragmentation but what happened below us and it's clarified i don't have to worry about that so so yes if we need the fragment case for whatever and we have it now so we can use the sheet fragmentation appropriately yeah because we we fragment so you can we can take your packet cut it into call that two fragment and then sell two tiles and send the third tile as being the fact and it's all within our global design and then if you have raw something that can be distributed over multiple paths and you don't even have to know about that so so there's a way to build something really nice very good okay thank you pascal eric so eric link the entity"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:40:01",
    "text": "gaston has posed a couple of comments into the chat so bob i really advise you to read them that's about other compression techniques that could be used now regarding this i agree with the idea right don't take me wrong i think it would be better to pause this draft in interior because for this here you'll need recharging you're asking for an ip protocol number i need to reread the chart of interior but i think it fits much better and it's like what's the hope for this and so forth and and and they said the effects should be in transport but i just quickly during the lunch i reviewed the traffic framework and that's all really in in streaming of applications and not what i wanted to do it so it's interesting work that can be applied but what i'm trying to do it has really nothing to do with what they did so i can leverage off what they did so um it's uh looking for no where does this property belong i strongly believe it's worth doing and i do need it so let's get it moving in and get it going that's what i'd like to see so in area eric still working with you yes at least we can express support and i would be the first one to express support because i really like the opportunities that you're creating doing this but yes we'll see what interior says um and then again you might think that instead of producing the ipe thing in here you could produce an ergonomic fragmentation which is effectively within quarter for us but we we could maybe extend i don't know maybe to change a little bit the charter for different things but this is there any other question any kind of feeling about the idea whether it's a good idea about idea in the room head nods going on i'll just say one of the things that you know what i will i will use the uns"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:42:01",
    "text": "tool [Music] so really clean up dot dye and esp as well make the ideas be much easier so we're going to do a hand raise or i think something real cool so i've started a session asking whether you you think it's a good idea please go to your application the light weight in the room and the normal you should see the the polls starting and i'll give you a few more okay so in a very quick time we got 10 positive zero negative so at least you can go to the interior saying that the lp1 working group in the room was very positive with the idea that you're proposing okay i guess that's it thank you for your time and thank you for your backing and and i will be working on this because i do need it neat thanks so much bob and thanks think about the other part how it could be accommodated within the shake fragmentation framework so that i mean i'm sure people in this room would would be glad to to chat with you on this uh oh no i already loaded them because i could have done that so now you need to hand me the [Music] please hand me the ball okay well just let me let let me know damn this could be faster so chic architecture okay so"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:44:02",
    "text": "pushing us to to update the chic architecture and we we basically were like hey um chicken architecture kind of documents steps that the the working group is taking and and the agreements that we are reaching the mailing list and since you know there was nothing much new to to be discussed the architecture was not progressing but then thanks to carlos for a large part we we realized number of gaps that needed to be discussed in particular as you extend help everyone shake to other areas than the traditional looper device to gateway type then a number of things which are like kind of implicit or obvious in sick fox or laura became unknown when you are doing peer-to-peer we we we need a role of a device we need the role of a application and we need we need a direction uplink downlink uh and you know from from uplink from the device to the app basically because the compression depends on those information and guess what uh when you're going peer-to-peer or forwarding on a more symmetrical network then the implicit once the app on the device goes away and we have to define that and the other thing and that's one thing that that bob has to think about was my comment in his initial discussion for the ip next header that was the the fact that chic lives on a point to point connection of some form a session i mean the way you want but for for lauren sickfox there's just one communication between the app and the gateway so there are not two so implicitly the sheik instance is known"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:46:00",
    "text": "but if you talk over ip i mean this device could have multiple sessions with that other device and so finding which check instance you know this packet is for becomes harder and we need to we need to signal it some way now we realize that most use cases that we have um the sheik instance lives on a connection or a session of some sort you could establish a tcp session you could establish a udp session like in the ppp draft but there is something underneath there is a peer-to-peer security tunnel and there is something and so basically if the rule is when you open a communication pipe between two devices and well there can be only one shake instance over that particular type and so you don't have to modify shake to signal the instance it's basically because it's it's derived from the pipe that supports that particular communication so with this we can leave shake as it is and basically derive the instance from the lower layer from from the the communication pipe that contains this this instance once we have this instance we can say hey well if it's unclear who should be app who should be device then the device is the one that started the connection for instance if it's about tcp then the device that send the tcp scene would be would be the the the the device and you know the synap comes from the the server so our playing case is along the path of the tcp scene basically just to give you an example we don't have shake about tcp as far as i know but it could it could happen so with this we've sorted out you know the unknown that garland has raised in his 82.15 for work and actually uh he is updating his documents to reflect this so all these were architecture considerations and then we have produced new text to document this there are there are cases like bluetooth energy"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:48:02",
    "text": "where there is a hub and spokes and so for those ones we do just like we do with gateway and devices i mean the hub is cotton called the gateway and the spoke is is the device side so for those ones it's kind of easy but for really peer-to-peer like i over ip something it we have to have a session of some sort a connection of some sort so we can identify the instance now what's next well there are number of things that have been tried outside could have been done here uh and an example of that is chicago we have fun since the draft for chicago ppp we propose to the interior and i don't want to to send bad waves you know in bob's direction but we we held that draft for a number of iatfs with no review no commands no interest from interior and so the only way to progress that document is probably to bring it back to sheikh but we are not chartered for 221 but we are not chartered for shikkov fool when foo is not one of the technologies so extending to new technologies could be one thing that we could consider as a recharger and that would enable us to effectively discuss scala's case with 15 4 uh that would enable to discuss ppp and any other type of link um now there was that the the chic n the next letter for sheikh that bob has been talking about so i understand that uh eric suggests to move it to to interior at the same time today bob proposed a throw uh nigeria to do network coding between fragments i mean that idea is not new right but doing it inside chick would be quite nice because even for traditional lp ones i mean you would save the uh the retries that we have for the for the fragments because we have some homophobia"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:50:01",
    "text": "in the reliable fragments that we could make fragments not fully reliable but a lot more reliable by doing fake the way bob presented it i not sure this requires a recharge ring that's something we can check but basically this kind of fighters also something that could impact our charter so uh what i wanted to do today is not really propose your chart of text or what but uh basically figure if you know the usual suspects in the room um are willing to to look at more things which we could do in these groups which are not the current charter and discuss that about the mailing list and just to sense interest i will um i will send a poll to the main two to the group [Music] so are you interested in taking new work slash rechartering and i'm starting the [Music] session one yes one no oh that doesn't help two yes fistping please say something new work being possibly cheek over fool right shakeover non classical lp1 technologies so i'm okay now so the yes is growing okay i give you a few more seconds so please please go to them to the bowl okay and with this i will end the session last chance ending the session so for this one we got 11 to 2 so yes i think that that there are people in the room willing to take more work and now i'm seeing questions more and then careless"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:52:01",
    "text": "yes i think it's a good idea to reshutter but can we i don't know the difficulty but to change the working group name because if we say we are in lp1 and we don't do lp1 it's quite strange so well named slow so i mean eric was that a very difficult thing to do well it was chartering and working yeah what's in your name right so explain speaking what's in a name i would assume changing the name is kind of a useless fight change the charter simply okay we can have fun in getting the the name and you know seek over for doesn't call it seek rook whose name is seek but if it takes you know for me a new working group to call it shake and then i agree it's it's wasted time so carlos yes so regarding the lp1 architecture draft first things for the updates including these extended scenarios beyond the original lp1 architecture i hope that perhaps in future updates the mesh topology might also be explicitly mentioned and then on the point of check over foo perhaps we might also consider uh chic parts over full for example at the moment in the 1504 draft that we have at six load what we are using is only the header compression part of chic and we are sticking to fragmentation based on six lowpan or six low fragmentation so that's perhaps something else to to discuss as"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:54:01",
    "text": "well yes basically we could we could have text like saying the sh shake fragmentation was designed to work over a single hop or a single compute or a point-to-point communication basically it's not meant to be forwarded to be relayed if you want to afford fragments then all the iraq your system goes away because you don't know how to route the air q back and probably you'd better do something like the lp one which which was i'm sorry the sixth open fragmentation which was redesigned for this and and you kind of hint that in your document already talking about the the the buffer that we use in the intermediate nodes etcetera so basically we're talking about rfc 8930s 8931 so yes i mean all this can be discussed just just a reminder that we put in the architecture of things which are kind of agreed inside the working group things which are stabilizing now the discussion over the mesh you've just started it it's very important and very interesting but we need more inter meetings to agree on what goes you know cast in stone in the architecture and so there's no text because we just started that discussion i was not ready i did not have a feel that i could write something that we agreed about because as you know there is the outcase and the easy case right the easy case mean when you have repo and then non-storing model and ingress replication that's the easy case and the hard case is going over multiple harp with shake without expanding the packet at every help that's hard yeah that's fair enough yeah thank you okay do we have any other discussion on either the architecture of rechartering we have we we are now in the richard trains discussion and there's no slide"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:56:01",
    "text": "beyond the fact that you know the new things that we could discuss in the architecture really you know she cover mesh or um even talking about the next header all this is is uh uncharted for us so we cannot really go too deep into those things in the architecture we already have the point-to-point discussion there so anything else so it is known then we go to the aob so do we have any other business want to thank lauren for his hard work on the young data model so that's my other business and also thankful for sitting you know for for alexander and myself since we could not be with you and we feel bad about this but that's life and with this will give you back four minutes of your life so thank you all for attending this meeting and we'll be restarting uh interim meetings after the summer break so somewhere in september i guess thank you all so much i would like to see discussions on the mailing list and on bob's ideas to to fragment with like etc that would be nice bye bye thank you all hi thank you my mommy"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:58:01",
    "text": "[Music] [Music]"
  }
]
