[
  {
    "startTime": "00:00:10",
    "text": "given that wolf has all also um edited the notes um I hope that he will join so let's wait uh two or three minutes until we see who is actually coming for for hello ARA hello wolf hello"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:02:04",
    "text": "okay um let's get started um if someone joins in the next few minutes um they they'll only be missing the in anyway hello this is a me meeting of the working of the C working group U my name is KR am Barry labor is also chairing but not with us today um you all know this uh not well um topic um it's about uh Behavior it's about um various legal aspects if you don't know what that if you don't if you're unsure about anything in there um feel free to uh contact me and yeah um most of what we're doing today especially on the agenda is going to happen in the minutes um so I would encourage everyone to just open open up the minutes if you don't have the if you don't find the button I'm also placing the link in the chat again um apparently uh yeah thanks Marco for helping out with taking the notes but this is an open editing field so everyone please contribute we have an agenda that is part U that is shown in uh that is listed in the in the notes already um I'll go through very brief updates on where documents are that have left the working group or that are about to leave the working group um then we can discuss a bit where what next steps are on CDE and on DC war and few other points have been added on uh the status of time teag which is an O 48 um on edn literas which is also already part of the of the um status update so I'll keep that short given that will come back and on see we'll use another working groups um I'll hand slide control um is is there anything that I'm missing that we should talk about today my slides"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:04:00",
    "text": "uh yes your slides are what I'll hand over to as soon as um as soon as I'm through the brief uh document status update the document status update right um so slide control is with you already thank you um few words for me just on on the topic um edn literal and grammar are both um outside of the working groups have received comments um where but um like um ready or ready with nits or has nits that level of things um Ayan has checked through them so um I expect a few reactions on the um on the comments that we've received with otherwise smooth sailing uh the other documents that I wanted to talk about just briefly is um uh more controls um is a bit um has has received updates Uh custom has a on his slides too so I will come back to that or is it sorry that's Edan literals cust there anything you want to add there otherwise I'll just yeah sorry I have prepared this in in my sequence so I'm I'm really confused now okay then I'll then I'll just um um not say much more than that other than that I'll have to get back to AJ uh who volunteered to um do this as his first sheering job and so far I haven't been very supportive here that's some I'll still have to take up um that was what I wanted to say um given that the documents are in your sequence Carson please uh go ahead um we'll up we'll update bit here and um then come back to the items that are not on your slides yeah I was hoping we could do this in this sequence because there is a certain sequence to this and still take notes over in in the notes um so um I I was just going through all"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:06:00",
    "text": "documents that are on our plate uh and of course for most of them I want to do this really quickly um so the the one document that is um uh actually in RFC editor processing or was in RS editor processing until yesterday and is now in isg processing again um that's uh see what time Tak and I see in the chat that Fran Franchesca is available to say something about this uh so Ju Just to to give the uh context um this has been in the RFC editor que for half a year now um and uh uh came out and while we were waiting for that uh there was a pretty good review from Rohan Mahi who was trying to use SEO for his uh standardization activity and had a few observations uh and some of these observations uh came into the time tag and he found a bug uh so we we Define one key for the map uh that uh we forgot to put into the uh ayna registry uh of course this bug could just have been fixed but then ran also mentioned that he really needed a critical version of this key there are um elective and critical versions of some keys some keys always are critical because they are kind of the core content some are always elective because they really only submit additional uh uh information and some give uh the the sender a choice andan said that maybe we should do this with a time scale um key which is the the minus one in the um approved internet draft um so we came up with a solution to add the"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:08:00",
    "text": "numbers minus 13 and 13 for um uh elective and critical uh so they are nicely paired like all the others that have both uh choices and call minus one uh Legacy and this is I think the point where Franchesca can come in yes thanks Carson I hope you can hear me I'm on the move yes so yes I wanted to uh first of all thank you for bringing this to the working group uh at the time that was uh uh very good and skipped a couple of steps now um but I thought you know just to repeat what I said in the off 48 thread the rest of the the changes of course are approved now but for this specific change I think to follow process is is um to actually do another last call I don't expect any objection this is pretty straightforward and yes it will add a couple of weeks delay but um I think that unfortunately it's it's necessary in this case but it's just a couple of weeks and then you know the isg is already uh aware and and uh this does not need to go back on Tel chat it will just be like a an objection sort of um heads up to the ASG so yeah I already have initiated the last call like you should see an email uh at least I requested it you should see an email starting a last call soon and um so that's it for my side thank you um so um I don't want to justify what I did because Franchesca is right uh so uh let's have that itive last call but just to point out why I didn't think"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:10:01",
    "text": "this was necessary um these new numbers for essentially the same information are entirely what the registry is about so I could have put a file somewhere on GitHub and said oh by the way minus 13 and 13 mean this and then uh have asked a to register these and that would have gone through um and it just seemed to me that that maybe it's better to have that fire not somewhere on GitHub but maybe in the document itself uh so this is where we how we came to uh this uh Point uh and now we'll have the another I FL call and probably only get this published in in July okay so that's um unless somebody completely adding minus 13 and 13 um I think that's all we need to say about this um brief question J had of um how Legacy will minus one be I mean does that is is that the cool Point that's completely wasted has this been used so much um given that the document is still in is still not published can we just like ear mark this for like use this as last of the of the easy points and if and and then like 10 10 years down the road we can still use this I don't think we can do that um so this draft has been out seven years and uh we have only added time scale relatively recently uh but uh much of this draft has been picked up in various places that we don't even necessarily know about um so um I think I would be very careful with reusing uh anything uh here and given that we we want to keep the backwards compatibility with people who are using"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:12:00",
    "text": "minus one now uh I think essentially we need to to uh provide that forever okay thank you good um the the other uh document that is in isg uh processing and and doesn't require working group action is the update grammar uh document so we had a um um ITF last call uh and uh there were some some uh observations from the reviewers but nothing that I think uh requires a new draft uh so uh I think we are waiting for uh aie to actually determine the same and uh initiate the isg balloting process or maybe there is something that that we might be learning uh right now so Ari can I put you on the spot sure um I think last I recall updates to this were made and this is uh ready to go ahead so I'm I'm not sure why it still says uh waiting for ad go ahead it it it's I I recall that this item should have progressed so I'll have to get back to you on that but I I do I I I have confirmed that you did address comments that that I gave for this piece okay thank you so I just want to make sure there there are no surprises that require working group action at this point so the the other um document that completed I of last call is edn literals and um which has morphed into essentially defining edn in in a complete document at this point uh and uh we got lot soft good input I think there are seven uh issues"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:14:03",
    "text": "open in GitHub right now uh and uh I think we should spend the the better half of this meeting going through these uh pointsan hey there uh just a general comment here that um you know there were some there were some updates to cddl which which just um but basically rather than rather than say we're going to completely replace cddl these were done as like here's a list of Arata to cddl yes and there was a comment which I quite agreed with which was uh you know it would have been easier for implementor shed if we had just replaced the old you know if we done like abyss and just replaced the CDL RFC with a new one that that incorporated those in the same way I'm just going to say like uh you know I I have no objection to moving forward with this document at the way in the the style that it is but I think it is far it would be far cleaner and far easier for implementers if you know edn was defined in its own its own RFC um and and the title and the you know the the way that it is titled it just said this is seor extended diagnostic notation um and whether and then the working group would decide what liter rals to go in it U so um yeah okay so you can take it take it or leave it it's not a big it's not a big deal thank you uh so basically um the the update grammar on the the previous slide um that is one of a set of of maybe three or four updates you want to do to cddl and uh when we have done all these updates then might be a good time time to actually pull these all together into"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:16:01",
    "text": "a new version of their document but doing this in the middle of of the updating process doesn't sound particularly efficient to me so so much on on the update grammar thing otherwise I do agree and we spent a lot of time doing 8949 based on 7049 and uh this was time absolutely well spent um but I think we have to get those those updates through first so on edn literals this is has been a little bit of an unexpected development because the document really started out as just application oriented liters and then people said oh can't we have abnf with that and of course we can have abnf with it uh and can't we have media types and so on and so on um so the the document has expanded a little bit uh Beyond its original remit and U maybe it's actually time to to change the title um but uh we didn't do this so far and of course given that we went through one ITF last call already this is a heavier change than it would have been uh half year ago okay so we will get back to that uh uh in a couple of minutes um then we have the uh m control uh document uh where we had uh two recent observations uh I don't remember whether it was before or after the official end of the Bing Rass call but they are still valid observations one was that the definition of dot join was was pretty bad actually the definition was fine but the the the um expl ation of our"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:18:00",
    "text": "expectations of what an implementation actually can do um was was uh pretty sloppy so uh PR number five which I emerged today is trying to address that and then there was the observation that the the text about the base 64 uh operators um wasn't entirely clear um about the strictness and uh it was kind of implied but it's now explicit in PR number six so based on that I submitted a-05 and um I don't think we can really discuss this now unless somebody already has read this um but in in the next uh few days I think the working group should decide whether this is uh actually ready for submission or we need a second work plus call or how we actually are going forward uh with this so I mostly so the I've had a brief look at the pool request it looks to me like those are small enough that we don't have to go through another working group last call um let's wait until say end of the week and if if someone speaks up to that but other than that um should be fine sounds good good by the way you your Note is echoing um don't know if you're aware of that um I'm us I'm soft muting myself when I'm not talking if I do Echo then please yeah that that works but when when you're not muted you're echoing which usually Echo supression is supposed to handle or Echo compensation actually good so we have a document that completed working adoption call uh in May and uh I think we could put this we could make this a draft now"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:20:02",
    "text": "I I I haven't seen the completion conclusion excuse me of this adoption call yeah that's um that that is that is not um that's on me I'll have to check I'll have to check whether there was anything I missed and then take the box thank you um we have a document that is in post work plus call exploration I I'm trying to phrase it we have a completed work last call uh but some of us still don't quite feel comfortable with the level of implementation uh we are working with so so this is kind of done in the working group but it might need a little bit more feedback from implementations that's why it's in this weird limbo uh State and we probably should uh uh dedicate um an Tri to that and probably together with a p by reference uh draft which is uh supplying additional components that will be of interest to people who want to use SEO P so this is just um c one one thing that like I'd like to ask you is that could you um could you update the list of uh could you update the additional resources or in or the repository um make links to existing implementations that would help um help get this on smoother can I do this in a working group document I always thought this was chairs only um I think that you can do this as an author but if you cannot um please then please just send me through any channel what I should put in there thank you okay then uh can I jump Q for a second on"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:22:02",
    "text": "that sure um yeah so you you as an author you should be able to update the additional references piece you can also add to the draft uh itself uh pointers to uh implementations and a comment about their status and RFC editor will remove it I have a com a question about the draft um cabore pack by reference versus the uh cabore pack which you're you're saying cabor Pack 12 is waiting for implementation feedback but this new draft pack by reference has additional functionality and I wonder if the working group considers that additional functionality to be like ready to be tested in implementation like perhaps these drafts don't need to be separate if there is implementation uh requirements for both I guess I I don't have enough context on packed by reference and it's relative maturity but if you're waiting for implementation feedback on Cabo packed like maybe you consider waiting until you have implementation feedback for pack by reference has it been discussed previously sorry if I missed it um merging as far as I know has not been discussed generally pack by reference is exercising an extension point so there's no technically reason to to merge that to merge that in um I can't I can't um say anything as a work group chair on the document because I'm the author but um from from from from an author's point of view I'd be happy to merge it in if that helps um yeah Caston any opinions from you yeah so the the the uh observation from from the architecture of this uh draft we try to make sure that we have two separate areas the table setup and the table reference referencing the table referencing seems to be stable at this"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:24:02",
    "text": "point in time um and uh it it actually would make sense to push this through except that this doesn't make a lot of sense without batteries included so we have one uh actually two uh very simple forms of table set up that go into this SEO p uh draft as well now packed by reference is another table setup mechanism it's not not changing the reference set it's changing or adding the table setup mechanism and I expect applications to actually go ahead and also add um table setup mechanisms so DNS sibo uh which we're not going to talk about today um that uh might want to set up a reference excuse me a table setup mechanism that is uh optimized for for DNS um so we expect the reference mechanism to be part of the core seore Machinery that you implement uh in in all situations where you need packed uh we expect the table set up to be a little bit more application specific so I'm I'm not that uh Wild on on putting additional batteries in into the seall pack um document uh but I mean if this is a good battery let's let's put it in okay but maybe we should have implementation feedback on on that one as well okay I think it's clear what we want to do there um then uh documents ready for working with us call we uh have a few issues open on uh CDE but these seem to be editorial tweaks and I'd like to know"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:26:02",
    "text": "whether the the document itself uh now is ready so uh do we just fill in those those editorial nits and then go to work R call or is there any major discussion that we still have to have about CDE so that's one question I have and of course the other question I think has already been pretty much answered on um the uh mailing list uh so how are we going to to process uh DC B and I I pointed to the no response uh specification that we once worked on in the core workking group which became an ISE draft um an is document at the end uh but is still in active use by the working group um so that that's essentially what what I see as the The Way Forward because the the consensus consensus of the working group appears to me to be uh pretty rough speaking as an author so I I I like the thing particularly because it demonstrates the concept of a SEO application uh profile and it is also providing an answer to to the people who are really struggling with this integer float um issue in their environments um but it may not be the main line of development uh of of cbar which is okay for an application profile two questions w we are not hearing you"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:28:08",
    "text": "okay wolf is trying to fix his audio Yeah we can go to the first question quickly um so uh on the first question my impression is that it's um that it's rather ready um I'll just um open a quick show of hands tool here um that you can fill out while I'm preparing and you can fill out while I'm um while we're discussing the other thing hey um so just one of the one of the observations I have about store CDE is that um there is you know the the main section section two it basically has a bunch of history and then it and then it describes what the actual normative requirements are and splitting those up you know like being kind to implementers by saying okay this is the se you jump to this place this is where you actually go and need to read what you need to go and you know what you need to go do that that's uh that that that's a nice structure to have um so that it's really obvious like what does this really do well I'm happy to make a little a short PR for that so what moving the the history to an appendix solve that problem but even just adding a single section you know like adding a new section header at the at the beginning of where you actually talk about okay do this okay so what I'm looking forward to you here can you hear me now yes yes okay great um yeah so Carson I I was"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:30:01",
    "text": "just curious um obviously not everybody not all voices the working group say that you know agree that DC boore should move forward in any sense but that and I agree that means rough consensus but um that is I'm not sure how that's dispositive in terms of how the ID should move forward uh given that there is a consensus that seems to be you know uh uh certainly a plurality in other words how do we dispose of of which track it moves forward on based on the fact that you know um at least one person continues to raise objections to it but that person has you know had their concerns addressed multiple times by multiple people yeah there is more than one person un know this is probably the the loudest um person and his objections might drawn out the the other feedback which was uh yeah sure that works but I don't need it um and for instance Lawrence seems to have that position uh and um well I mean obviously since I've joined the WG there's a number of things discussed that I don't need but that doesn't mean I object to them moving forward um let let me jump in here with with like another with one more voice of of um of soft objection here with obviously my chair head off um I'm I'm in a similar position there that like um it's okay if people use it um it's something one can do um but uh taking it up as a working group item to me would be endorsement of doing it this way and it is something that I would not recommend people to do unless they have very strict requirements that P force them into that"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:32:00",
    "text": "Direction one effect this could have if it is taken up as a working group um item and I've something similar has happened in in core with um with Q block is that as part of the of the joint of the um working group opinion finding there um a lot of caveats on the applicability of the document um get pushed in um so that might weaken the document as a whole um for those users whereas the independent track um enables the authors to focus more on their use case and what it can do without having to satisfy all the tick marks that would lead to working group endorsement okay I definitely appreciate that point of view I I would only request and hope that people who do have objections or other wise raise them in the list so I can you know document them and uh if necessary you know um uh respond to directly rather than um hear about them you know through uh this isn't exactly a back Channel but you know what I mean um I would prefer these things be openly discussed in the list by those who have these objections that may um determine how this ID moves forward that that that that is some that is something that I that I can start a short thread of that just kind of flush basically flushes out those points I would definitely appreciate that okay R asked whether uh sort order of maps was explicitly removed and it certainly wasn't we have an issue on the CDE document uh that uh this is currently maybe a bit too implicit and"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:34:01",
    "text": "needs to be made more explicit so that would be one of the the remaining edits that we do to the CDE document before going for work plus call um um just briefly coming back to the show of hands that is still running has everyone had a chance to um file to file their points on c um noting that um this is a show of hands there is no need to kind of excuse kind of not vote just because you're an author or something yeah so if you look into the top menu on your uh web page uh there is the two speaking Bubbles and the bar graph and the bar graph is what you need to click to get uh to the pole I think it's no longer moving oh I think I've soft muted myself once more sorry um speaking of the Q um wolf are you still is is there something you would like to add because you're still in the queue no I apologize that's a mistake no problem thank you so why we maybe wait for a few more seconds there is a last line on that slide um that's of course not a question for the working group but a question for the designated expert uh I'm not a designated expert on this document because I Rec so yeah yeah I sorry I I saw that there"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:36:03",
    "text": "was a mail that you said basically 2011 is now in a shape where you where the authors agree that um this has some meaning with that I'll I'll revisit this sorry for the delay thanks for the pointer thank you for that okay so do you want to close the poll yes um so that's that's that's that's not yeah okay thanks marus for for taking that down in the minutes um three uh three raised one not raised five no opinion not to not to not not too strong a point if there are concrete objections to to to raise to doing a working group last call like please um please let me know otherwise I think it's like it's not strong but it's strong enough that a working group last call would deal kind of should should flash out the rest so I'll start one yeah and one one implementor who has had strong positions on this is not here today um so maybe we can in our heads add him to probably ready for working BL call um but the working BL call of course is the the decision Point here and this is just finding out whether we should go to it okay if we are done with deterministic I have four more slides on uh things we need to work on uh the modules document is pretty stable with the exception of the uh treatment of sockets and we haven't managed to actually do a prototype of that yet uh so it's not yet in the document"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:38:01",
    "text": "uh but it's definitely uh on on the set of things that we want to do um then we have um documents that aren't really meant to be published uh and uh the the draft numbers uh document how to handle numbers in uh numbers in drafts that use c um that has received a number of revisions and I think at some point we should decide whether we can adopt this as a working group document um just to indicate that that we care about this document and it's not not a completely individual uh submission but again that's not something we have to do now but uh the next time you use this document maybe spend a couple of minutes thinking about whether this could be a work gr document then we have a number of documents that are in a formative phase I already mentioned DNS CA which uses c p uh for for or other approaches for DNS messages uh the Yang standin document which will solve a lot of problems that we still have with textual information in Yang siba and the Yang metadata proposal which just makes Yang SEO cover a little bit more of of Yang the Yang SEO work has been in core before uh it's now here in seore for for several reasons one is that I'm not a working group chair so it's easier to work on here and um the other is that really uh this is no longer about the request response aspect which has still worked on in the core workking group but this is about the way we use Yang uh in"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:40:01",
    "text": "there and finally there are six more uh documents in in various uh stages the notable tags document that just uh collects information about tags and actually registers a few um the deistic encoding explainer that requires some some tender love and care uh but that might as well go the I track I I don't know let's see how this document develops um CDD CSV I don't know if anybody here cares again this might also go the IC track um and then we have three documents about future work on on cddl uh and U these are also kind of living documents which get get uh uh pluged uh for pieces that go into the actual uh drafts uh and uh probably will vanish at at some point in time okay that was this part um then I would propose that we go into the issues of ID and literus yep let's do that and we lost our Ed he'll come back um for the issues do you want to screen share or do we just do this orally and by by adding notes uh or and with the notes uh I was hoping somebody could screen share because my my Mac simply overheats if I do that um I okay I'll I'll I'll give it a try I have one more browse I have one more screen to do this on um so share screen ah got to"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:42:02",
    "text": "revoke take that back share screen yes and that would be yep does does this does this look good for you yes so edn literal has a few open issues right and I suppose that should be a size that works for you yes so let's start at the bottom because that that's the the old one um that is of course a a good observation I mean making this change actually has no consequence whatsoever uh but it's confusing to have the Superfluous production in there because it never can be reached uh so this is removing dead code uh and uh you can now play with the version without the dead code uh the edn abnf uh prototype is now using the revised uh grammar so um given that this is a technical change why we are in isg handling uh AI probably has to say something about that and that's why he probably why he stepped out oh he's back Ari is this okay sorry I literally just got back to my desk apologies I had to step out for a brief moment so chrisan found some dead code in the abnf this S at the end is never reached because the spaces are already goed up earlier than that can we make this change if it helps um my implementation that is based on that very grammar has an assert in that this s will always be empty and I haven't yet managed to trigger that so if it's if it's a bug and it's confirmed in multiple implementations and there's some evidence of that being confirmed on the list I think it's potentially okay um I I need to unpack a bit more what being proposed here but uh my gut"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:44:00",
    "text": "feeling is that if if implementations have confirmed this is not an issue and that's documented well it' be okay but again I would want to confirm all that on the list good Next Issue yeah again Christian who's implementing this notice that we haven't said what encoding indicators uh say for long numbers so long numbers have always been a part of of diagnostic notation uh so we don't need an extra notation for take two three um big integers uh but it never has been clear what kind of encoding indicator we might want on that and actually turns out we might might want three encoding indicators one for the tag encoding one for the encoding of of the head of the bite string and uh one to count the the uh overall size of that bite string and or any leading zeros leading zeros are not in the preferred representation but the encoding indicator is exactly there to handle non-preferred uh representations and uh so that that's maybe something we could be doing but we don't probably don't need to do this now so I have uh labeled this as possi leave to extension and I would uh prefer to uh capture this here and and maybe once we we do a set of extensions like the EF stuff which is already in the pipeline um we we do this kind of extension here this is the W defied extension Point um in the document and if by then we know what we want to do here uh it would be easy to add this as"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:46:01",
    "text": "an extension so from from my reporter point of view um that sounds fun with me like the one thing that I really needed and that I didn't get out out of your response is that long integers were are supposed to be um to to just be go to tag uh to tag two um if we don't have any encoding indicators for that and encoding indicators are left for like the fully diagnostic notation that's fine with me good yeah they they are meant to go to take two and three so this is uh one thing we actually may want to clarify in in the document okay so that was that um then uh in in rohan's uh review there was a a proposal to uh change the approach of handling the appst string construct um so the the abst string construct is an extension of the existing by string notations and um the existing by string notations um have some internal syntax um and uh the the current document essentially treats all those constructs the Same by saying we pass this as as a uh utf8 uh by string and then hand the PA result uh to the specific application extension and we treat H and b64 and so on exactly the same way as everything else um and uh Ron wanted to to integrate"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:48:02",
    "text": "this into uh the main syntax and um I'm not surprised that he found that this is a bit complicated so I would not have recommended um this approach and no actually I found the approach in the draft complicated having to run abnf twice I think it's actually like if rewriting the BNF so that there is a single abnf for all the appst strings and an extensibility point that allows you to create a new apping and integrate that that seems more straightforward but so my my exper my experience um implementing this was that the the nested part Works quite well um for what it's r yeah it's about two lines of code for me so U it of course any every platform is different um so I think this is good feedback about other platforms but uh given that it has turned out to be not that hard to handle it uh the way it is now um and and the the risk we get from trying to integrate the the abfs um I would prefer if we stuck to the two layer model so it in other words uh you're saying you're afraid that that doing it with a single layer of abnf is is going to be hard no you told us that it's hard and uh what I'm saying I'm saying that it's it's but conceptually trying to figure out what the heck is happening when they two layers of abnf is it first of all it was it was uh you"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:50:01",
    "text": "know I I didn't I did not find it clear so if we're going to stick with two layers of abnf there should the text should be more more clear that you run the abnf once and then you run it a second time for appst Strings um so that was that was not clear to me when I read through the document but my but my My overall view was well you know I had already gone and written my own abnf for the uh based on the you know based on the uh the original non-normative description um that was a single integrated abnf and why we need a second layer of abnf when we could you know from my perspective it's just as easy actually easier to go and write it a single time and have a single abnf and just add an extensibility point that seems perfect straightforward so if what you're saying is the reason that you want to stick with two layers of abnf is that it is that it was hard then I'd be happy to go and write up an abnf in a single layer that I think is you know arguably G to be shorter or at least you know is no worse than what you've got now what I what I what I would find confusing about two layers is that could could could two layers not um alter the way the parsing happens so right now um even if I don't understand what AG or any of the extension points mean I can PA them I can process them to the point where I say okay this is something I don't precisely understand worst case I can turn it into tag 999 um but it doesn't upset like my comment recognition if the age and other application oriented literal had their own abnf um I'd have to if I were using a tool that processed them all the same in the first pass um I think it would be hard"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:52:01",
    "text": "to prove that those are you misunderstand me it's this is not about the same this is all the abnf that you know is integrated in one abnf not in abfs so if you know about if you know about single quoted strings without an appst string you know about you know about uh H and you know about uh b64 then you parse the abnf for all of those and if you encounter a string that you don't know you imp parse it you parse it in the same way that you do any other generic appst string if you know more then you parse them with the abnf that you do know so that that said you know basically the output of the algorithm is the same you just run your abnf once instead of twice but would then that uh so I mean it's not an issue for hent b64 but would then the the abnf for all other application strings also need to um describe escaping and and Es and line breaks and and unicode escapes and stuff so for I for IP for example that's new that's new appst string right so you would just describe it using the using the abnf production that are that are already provided and when you do that it just works right you don't it's not like like if you use if you're using only existing Productions and all of the Productions are there all the the pieces are there then you don't need to go like off you know wandering off in the wilderness on your own the tools are all there you just you just use the existing Productions the the problem we run into is that abnf doesn't really have a plug-in concept uh so you you would need"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:54:00",
    "text": "to Define how does an extension Point how does an abst string a prefix extension uh actually Define the abnf and and how is it integrated into the existing uh abnf and the two- layer concept abstracts this out nicely I I I mean I disagree that it provides you with any with any actual abstraction it just means you need to run code twice uh but you know because because either way the list of abfs that you need to run when you run the second pass you need to run a list of abnf and you need to integrate the new a the new appst string into that second list instead of just integrating it into the first list so for me it's no the work is no different and you know we it's not like this hasn't been a you know this is a known problem with abnf but it's one that we have lived with for sip for for mail you know for a bunch of other applications use adnf and you know lo and behold we keep using those protocols and they keep working and we keep extending them and keep adding things to the adfs and it still works that's maybe related to the fact that that those extensions are all official extensions but the no in sip extensions most most extensions are not official extensions and yet they continue to work and you have to to touch the over overall abnf each time you do such an extension it's true yes well my my soft engineering hat is is just starting to burn and and and I will point out that touching the second layer abnf in those production environments is no is no better than touching the first level abnf okay that that is experience I don't"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:56:01",
    "text": "have uh so uh um maybe we should cut this short or probably either saying the same or otherwise I'd like to ask him to like still um go ahead so um as an individual I I find it difficult to uh have to look in multiple places to understand these things so I I have a slight individual preference for a single abnf for this revision if it's possible to achieve it I think the discussion that was just had on you know what's the impact on multiple ABN app when you have to look at layer one or Layer Two is exactly the kind of thing that we need to see discussion on the list regarding so um I'm it feels to me like there's more to discuss here on this point um but again all of this is a comment as an individual that's it okay so let's take to the list yeah that's another big K of just just just brief we are like we have like three or four minutes left so yeah sorry yeah I think this is interesting because it's a really the significant change that is being proposed here um in in uh when we updated um edn uh while writing up cddl uh we added a way to concatenate strings and this way is getting in the way of other grammar changes we might want to do uh so one question that came up was uh do we maybe actually resign that"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:58:02",
    "text": "feature and uh used the New Freedom to do a few things that that people have explicitly requested uh but we had to turn them down because the concent strings are in the way so that's a pretty big change pretty late in in the process uh but it also might be a liberating one for for further developing this syntax unless someone has like immediate comments um let's look briefly at the rest of the issues because that's probably something people need to think about if they haven't seen the issue absolutely yeah so this is just uh u a question whether tags like 888 and 999 introduced here maybe need uh a different processing from other uh tags so this is not a giant technical change or actually it's not a technical change at all because it just gives guidance for uh implementers but guidance for implementers of course always important okay Ruan is one of the users of of this uh um concatenation thing or would like to be one of the users of this conc thing and points out that that using plus would work for him but it would be like as also as a user it would be a big change but it would be a welcome one whether it's Plus or dot or anything like yeah it open it opens up other things so if it's not too late why not okay yeah Ori points out that we want to have all these issues closed including the"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:00:00",
    "text": "directorate reviews can can you go back to the list of issues um so uh there's an obser Seer and genard review that I'm aware of the Gen art appears to be a purely editorial thing and the others the other ones um I have a little bit of technical content security considerations of course always have technical uh content uh so some writing is needed there but that is probably not going to change the technical content but just provide additional guidance so these are the top three of of the four issues so if you have uh uh suggestions for for how to do these These are of course welcome as comments in the GitHub or comments on the in this or PRS that we could use okay thank you as I don't see anyone running up to the queue um there's one pointer that I'd like to share here still that custom provider does uh that uh Mimi content document on instant messaging is using cabore so there's a m threat on the on the list you might want to have a look at it other than that uh we are already a bit over time so as car said please have a look at the issues on on edn literals provide your input there um chair head on I don't like I I don't have a good um idea yet of of what it would precisely entail to go the the concatenation route so it probably set us back a bit might be worth it that's especially something we I'd like to have input one yeah um I post on the list about um the the Mimi content format and I just"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:02:00",
    "text": "wanted to encourage um anyone who has you know some spare Cycles to just have a glance at it and post comments on the Mimi list yeah and as with my author head on I would like to thank one for bringing all these observations to the uh working group this is really good that somebody comes from outside and STS the pot a little bit uh and we will certainly have a better specification because of that okay good um with that thanks everyone who contributed to this meeting thanks Marco for taking note um see you all on the mailing list or in two weeks thank you bye bye"
  }
]
