[
  {
    "startTime": "00:00:21",
    "text": "let\u0027s give it 30 seconds to give 12 to the dangerous and if applicable to the topic okay we could swap at any time good afternoon everyone this is dots I\u0027m glad you\u0027re here to join us my name is remington a do I not co-chairing with to buy his gun room so let\u0027s get started so you\u0027ve seen this I\u0027m sure in previous previous sessions the note well of course applies to this meeting we have the blue sheets passed around please please do make sure that you sign it so we can provision the room in future meetings and wanted to thank our jabber scribes in turn takers Frank and Bob very much appreciated agenda wise we have a full deck ahead of us what you see there is not that different that what was on the mailing list I think only one implementation report was added would anyone like to bash this agenda ok I take that as no let\u0027s proceed forward before we do that just wanted to give you a quick status update on where we stand in the working group since we got together last in IDF 97 we had a virtual interim in February we also had a design team meeting earlier this week on Monday to working group documents have been updated and earlier this week we started a pole for adoption on the gated channel document there\u0027s been some traffic on that please do respond and we have at some time on the agenda to talk about that later there are also a couple updates in the individual drafts we\u0027re going to get into a lot of these documents during our time here we have an updated use case a show for new movement since we last got together in terms of published documents on the IM DM with regards to the status of the solutions it\u0027s actually hard to see there in the graphic but we\u0027ve we\u0027ve had a couple of updates that you see reflected there in green but in the case of the bottom three documents the authors on that draft have said for the time being they\u0027re going to pause progress on these drafts and put their energy into those top two drafts and we can further this conversation when we talk about the solutions we\u0027ll talk a little bit more about milestones after we wrap up on the drafts but I throw this up to point out that we are behind we need to revise those milestones to reflect reality and we need to start really pressing forward with ours with our solutions kind of drafts and we can talk about how to do that specifically again after we hear the presentations so to the agenda first up for us is Roland "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:03:21",
    "text": "who\u0027s going to be talking about our use cases so we have a clicking in one moment hi I\u0027m Roland Evans over networks okay the cliff he is not working I\u0027m not smart enough to unit here we go okay here we go so um first of all thanks very much to Daniel will go on in Frank John who pushed this update out with the 04 draft of use cases the structure has been simplified so a lot of the stuff that was in the appendices um leading unnecessary and has been dropped we\u0027ve added an orchestration section not because dots is vital to the operation of orchestrators but to provide use cases a use case at least one escapes that shows how a denouncement agaciro frustration system would interact with external entities via dots and what effect different dots messages you would have on the the actions of your frustration system takes in order to successfully mitigate DDoS attacks so that\u0027s actually a pretty lengthy section that is an added there\u0027s also a new intra-organizational use case this is actually I\u0027m having to do with a broadband access ISP who are protecting their customers against ddos attack scene and and how the use of dots would take place between their customers in their actual orchestration system and detox communication systems even though the end customers themselves are actually you know what are there individuals their small home offices what have you there different entities this is actually considered an intra organizational use case because the broadband access ISP operate the entire network infrastructure here it\u0027s not as if this is in like an enterprise who operate their own network infrastructure and have their own distinct transit edge or their purchasing transit from one or more multiple providers so it\u0027s a little different that\u0027s pretty intense extent exhibit a pretty extensive section and the pro style is a bit more accessible as well so that\u0027s really Oh war in a nutshell 405 we have eight or nine proposed additional use cases that we want to put before the group to take a look at these are dealing with issues like multihoming in a scenario where all the different upstream transit providers support dots but they don\u0027t speak to one another or situation in which they do speak to another or a situation in which an endpoint network has multiple upstream providers but only one of them actually supports Dawson has yes mitigation service capability we also have provider requesting assistance from "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:06:23",
    "text": "a provider so an overload senere an overflow scenario where where a DDoS mitigation service provider is actively mitigating attacks and they\u0027re reaching of their capacity in terms of transit and mitigation faster so they signal to other operators for assistance using dots and then we also have another use case in that group which is where there\u0027s a federation of networks who have joined together for mutual DDoS mitigation assistance and in this particular case and a hosting colocation operator are getting pummeled by a lot of traffic coming originating from a broadband access provider network and so they actually signal the broadband access provider network to suppress the outbound you ask traffic in donating clear network so those kinds of use cases will be in 05 there\u0027s a grammatical things and stylistic things that we want to improve from from 04 and they\u0027re the same thing in the orchestration section it\u0027s not really changing the meaning of the content in a significant way it should stylistic with anything else we want to continue to harmonize our terminology look at their graphs we have two additional terms and acronyms that we need to define as well and one of our authors has changed affiliation so we need to update the document vo5 to reflect his new village so that\u0027s all I have questions comments so rolling win when when money you expect that though 5 i\u0027m relatively soon um seven of the nine additional use cases argue written have to get the additional ones out there and then get them out you know for comments before we look at incorporating so not long can I quantify this with the date okay I expected date because not long its relative term let let\u0027s say roughly three weeks we can we can try to target that but it\u0027s going to be dependent on how much feedback you know we get right back thunderbolts and half the clue get we can get you for that kind of time frame but not not very long ok can I suggest with working group hit first you can actually if you have already seven you can close to seven and second a feedback that comes I actually want to encourage that this feedback is given up on the mailing oh we love young not off channel and then it will be again helpful if you just make an update and you know don\u0027t don\u0027t be shy version numbers are cheap we have plenty of them so thank you okay I Andrew Mortensen arbor networks you have the multihoming use case there with some dot servers that were not capable or was that where we have an ongoing area where they\u0027re all dots capable and I\u0027m a looming area where there\u0027s multiples but only one of them is dots capable can we talk about the operational impact that will have on the organization that is request you "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:09:24",
    "text": "know the things they need to take into account when they have to under it when you\u0027re under do not stab and then they end up going from you know three upstream providers want right what kinds of things they have to take into account that\u0027s actually a big part of dots that I think a lot of folks don\u0027t realize is that the technology itself is not magic great oh it\u0027s simply a lingua franca and in the use cases we hope to give the flavor of the other out-of-band things that have to be done in order to make dots work good because one of the outstanding issues on the architecture draft is the multi-homing case so hopefully the use cases yes we also on to our last architecture call in in one of the use cases its broadband access network where there are multiple dots clients that are all signaling for mitigation systems because it\u0027s a very broad-based hat and we talked about on whether or not it should be considered in scope for dots the dots servers themselves to try to consolidate alerting or whether that should be a meal up to the orchestration system what have you so we then that the three cases included thanks so what did I ask if there are new additional questions I don\u0027t see how I come in Mike are there more use cases out there that you don\u0027t see documented in any of the existing individual drafts or in the current working group document well when we can get a discussion going I\u0027ll go ahead this evening and send out the seven that are already written down written out now to help facilitate to get people comment on them hopefully we\u0027ll disruption humans I\u0027m wondering whether we should probe the room for who has read 04 because that is just recently released so did who has read 04 yet okay well that\u0027s 76 a few people a handful yeah potentially was too short notice before the meeting so okay then I think we need some more review and well if you can shoot out some parts early then maybe the reviewers will be more motivated it\u0027s always a little bit people would be hesitated to review a draft if they know all the next one is coming in a week yeah okay cool then yeah I encourage that actually I think from a chair perspective in a couple of weeks or months we need to go to last call so I think this is the right time to start to do reviews more thank you Thanks a room thanks Roland next up is a discussion about requirements Andrew "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:12:27",
    "text": "it also occurred to me yesterday we discussed getting the use cases draft up into the dots wgf depository so you can track the shoes there as well so hopefully we want an update on that soon all right so this is an update on the dots requirements largely this is going to cover the issues that we\u0027ve been going through and our tracking on github so let\u0027s start with the status we do have a lot of issues a lot but we have the via known issues on github in the github Tretton issue tracker the open issues right now are the blockers to work in your glass call so you can actually monitor our progress toward working group last call by tracking the open issues just because that\u0027s the case doesn\u0027t mean we\u0027re not accepting new issues if you have concerns about the existing draft please feel free to add issues you can do this on the github site or if you don\u0027t feel comfortable that bring them up on the mailing list and we can make sure that they get tracked on github and pull requests are welcome to so if you have changes suggested changes you don\u0027t need to wait you can go ahead and forth the repository right now make changes to the markdown and then set up a pull request and we can just pull it right in so we\u0027ve closed about half of the known issues since the interim meeting any feedback that we get on the pull request has been very helpful there hasn\u0027t been a whole lot of interaction there but what we\u0027ve gotten so far has been very good and you should look for an 05 update very short they probably this week I\u0027ve got another poll request or two and we\u0027ll continue working toward the work of your last call I\u0027m not going to go into too much detail here on the recently closed issues you can you can find them on the issue tracker and I\u0027ve also sent out I think a couple updates to the working for failing list on this but I will touch on a couple of the more significant ones issue number nine pulled in some language from tears signal channel draft about the path MTU where the dots agents themselves are asked to try to discover the path MTU if they can\u0027t they fall back to some reasonable defaults I think it\u0027s 1284 default case and if legacy ipv4 networks are a consideration to fall back to 576 really necessary issue 11 covers what sort of security state that dots client can assume on redirection we currently have some language there that says the dots client cannot assume that the security state is going to be the same on the redirection target but it\u0027s free to try to do a session presumption using something like you do a session presumption I think probably of the other coast issues number 12 is the most significant this is trying to establish the responsibilities of both parties when it comes to mitigation requests and the status feedback you get from the server this goes into some details as well about the details that you\u0027re going "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:15:29",
    "text": "to come back so packets per second dropped on behalf of the client at twice per second total total ice drop total package dropped there\u0027s some additional things there but they\u0027re less less important I think one of the major concerns that that big Dolson whose feedback kind of drove a bunch of these issues had was about some of the indistinct language for things like mitigation termination headline so we\u0027ve tried to clarify that and the responsibilities of both parties when mitigation is actually considered to be totally terminated this has an aspect where to try to prevent route or DNS flapping dots client is it can make a request terminate mitigation but the server has a small window to leave the mitigation running so if the client decides to reenable mitigation rapidly the dots client the dot server is not announcing routes again rapidly I don\u0027t know if this is actually concerned for people a sort of an informal survey that I\u0027ve done with some operators it seems to be this is relatively important but others and also said we can just do Ralph lap dampening so I would be interested in some feedback if anybody hasn\u0027t well our networks so um yes I mean you don\u0027t in general it want to have to be changing your network network state constantly on however you know from my perspective and maybe this is how it\u0027s been discuss I don\u0027t know this is not really something that should be built into dots itself necessarily but it\u0027s an implementation not you know some of some kind of timer and I think we actually talked about that in the 00 use cases draft and you know when we\u0027re talking about the very basic case um we\u0027re not ems requests negation and then turnings terminates in mitigation that term is an optional you know there could be an optional timer where the mitigator keep some negation active so I don\u0027t think that that\u0027s necessarily something that should be built into dots itself but it is certainly something that I would believe an implementer would maybe want to put that knob on here so one of the considerations here is we\u0027re trying not to encode financial relationships right but one of the considerations here is to try to figure out at what point the dots clients responsibility and ownership of the mitigation is actually over while retaining that flexibility that you\u0027re talking about so the dots server operators can leave the mitigation for some small period but at some point the dots client knows that after that timer expires it\u0027s no longer responsible for the mitigation can just assume that since it\u0027s asking the mitigation determinated the dot server operators are free to let that continue running maybe they\u0027ve got the attack has continued to impact the Oscar server operators network but not the clients and the dots client wants it over for the responsibility yeah roll it over to our networks um so in that scenario yeah we probably engineer this in the meeting but you know the idea is you have the dots client makes mitigation request dot server accepts that mitigation started mitigation status messages are exchanged "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:18:29",
    "text": "then the dots clients is ok I\u0027m going to issue a negation termination request great and then you know my assumption would be that the dot server would basically say no and then sighting in litigation is still running and continue to provide status updates you know until it based on whatever timers are configured it decides that that will indeed close the negation down yeah so I hear I mean this could be a configuration thing I think I want to make sure that the dots I operators retain the operational control but I hear what you\u0027re saying yeah is it control control is wrong word because this is a communications medium rain and as you said we\u0027re not trying to enforce you know the contractual relationship which are trying to facilitate the communication so you know whatever on you know timers or whatever you know special rules that allow for you know a force mitigation termination from a doc\u0027s client to a got server that\u0027s almost really almost outside the scope of dots oh my thanks so I guess the the last one that\u0027s really worthy of discussion here on this this slide is the required an optional mitigation scope types so previous revisions had listed some example scope tights but they were examples they were not required or optional so the required scope types now are the obvious ones ipv4 got a quad ipv4 prefixes ipv6 addresses and prefixes and fully qualified domain names the optional type right now there\u0027s only one of them so feel free to suggest others is a URI and we previously also had listed in the examples e 1 64 telephone numbers but you can actually encode those as a URI so that\u0027s I think that covers it and you are I covers lots of different schemes as well so we have I think eight or nine remaining open issues one of them that we discussed a bit yesterday during design team meetings is the definition of what a session is if you look through previous revisions of the signal channel if I of the requirements draft there\u0027s this kind of loose use of the term session more or less interchangeable with this the channel itself so I\u0027ve just gone through I have a quarter quest now that replaces session the channel and that made us revolve both of these things getting Dave\u0027s input on this would probably let us know if we\u0027re moving the right direction the issue number six is something I think is probably just a deletion we already have in front of the security requirements a requirement from usual off I think this is just left over I\u0027m going to skip 16 for the moment and then we have some not considerations right now but they are implicitly client only so we need to have some serving that considerations and whether upnp is something we need to to add to the requirements or after a reference to anyway um so issue 16 is how overlapping requests should be should be handled let\u0027s say you have multiple dots clients "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:21:29",
    "text": "they detect the same tack separately there\u0027s no acquittal coordination between them they both asked for mitigation for the same attack how does the dot server resolve that I\u0027ve become less enamored of the idea that the dot start would be responsible for resolving that I feel like this might have to be an implementation specific thing the dot server turns a mitigator or whatever is responsible for installing filters were doing the putting the appropriate countermeasures in place and depending on what a mitigator says is okay the dot server either rejects or adds the mitigation it\u0027s about a quote on azure networks as far as I know there\u0027s no concept of mitigation scope within Don\u0027s right again as you indicate that\u0027s something that is really outside I mean outside the boundaries of the DA system now you know that the client say okay I I\u0027m requesting negation you know for this particular slide your block right or for this particular you know you are I or what have you but in the actual configuration of the mitigation scope within the dr orchestration system that\u0027s operated by the des integration service provider is we need we don\u0027t want to get into that because then we\u0027re going to start constricting guys to a particular paradigm of des mitigation that relies on a specific technology path we don\u0027t want to do that um could you go back one slide please or more one where\u0027s the part about the fqdn it\u0027s under the issue phenomenal okay sorry it was in this light so do you really mean fqdn or do you mean like the zone cut because fqdn has a very specific meaning it is it is a very specific meaning and the I initially just had domain names as the initial language yeah and some add some input from another one of the editors who suggested replacing with fully qualified domain have so that\u0027s what\u0027s there yeah i think we probably replace fqdn with something else because I\u0027d always that implies that we\u0027re only able to put a an fqdn na dots mitigation request in April client reality we might want to say like you know star dot you know example that a tu been something like that every subdomain addressed okay sorry Nikki Fleming and raising the overlapping request handling I understand why you know you prefer on a service I\u0027m not having to deal with it I\u0027m not convinced that\u0027s right answer my concern is that I don\u0027t want to get into a scenario where requests are essentially client specifics right and a giving client that asks something would have to be the one that gets rid of it as well and if there are any kind of conflicts right somehow the clients have to coordinate amongst themselves right I I don\u0027t think that\u0027s going to be workable so I totally agree on that yeah that\u0027s soap so I think there\u0027s an issue in terms of when you specify a neat mitigation for a certain scope right how does that get reconciled between multiple clients that are not necessarily coordinated and I don\u0027t know how you would do that without having the servers and she\u0027d be dealing with that overlapped and you\u0027re solving it on the "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:24:29",
    "text": "back end so the one thing that that\u0027s been in the back of my mind right is this is might be an appropriate place for the relay where we have that that the aggregation of the signaling and the relay is responsible for doing that I don\u0027t know that that\u0027s any different than just having a serger do it I\u0027m figuring out where the overlap is and merging them what what really did I say oh yes what wait way what gateway so what I\u0027m saying is no I\u0027m being serious right because when I understand yeah the in one of our in the architecture we have this diagram right where there\u0027s this aggregated signal i\u0027m right at multiple downstream then the gateway is responsible for a sort of merging into a single channel up to a dot server and that that aggregation sort of implies the merging of these signal channels and the scopes but that\u0027s since a gateway is just a back-to-back server and client I don\u0027t think that\u0027s only different than having a server do it let me rephrase my question okay I you suggesting that we formally define what a gateway is and the responsibilities that it has because currently we don\u0027t open spot with that one I\u0027m not not right now yeah I would agree with them oh I think we got a chip away at this one you know I agree all right i think the remaining open issues none of these are particularly contentious in a way that the overlapping one is i think there is some ambiguity about what ownership and protected resources are so we need to tighten the language there and get some consensus on that and adding a couple requirements for authentication and authorization this can just be put into the security requirements section there\u0027s a lot of implicit understanding of what authentication and authorization is required we just need to make that explicit and finally did brought this up before the last in your meeting about the need for replay protection my sense is that we need to be very careful here because any ability to replay might have an impact on the server operators network so we should be we should have full of retha protections in place there aren\u0027t too many other upcoming changes I think the the one notable one is that the operational requirements section has really evolved into the signal channel requirements I believe there\u0027s one remaining operational requirement in there that we can just go to the general requirements that\u0027s relating to the not finding stuff and then the remaining requirements under the current operational requirements section will just be retitled signal channel requirements any corporation of any minor Corrections typos and so on please submit new issues as soon as you can we are working toward working group last call as I mentioned at the beginning of this is the queue of issues open issues are the obstacle that is the obstacle to "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:27:29",
    "text": "work your glass call so this we know we can get through that the sooner we get to upper he professed call thanks I economy car without to the heartbeat discussion do you think there could be a zero heartbeat mode that\u0027d be difficult there could be your fabulous of any caste equal game of Tata Tata ah could be easy could exist that so in the architecture draft we have the anycast consideration section where I think maybe we should make this clear we talked mostly about using it as a method for service discovery right it\u0027s a way to this you use a any cast at service address and then you get directed to the unicast server that you should be using I i think i think the yeah okay papi do you think that uh math regular i said how to eat though yeah right in that case with any cashier you can send a number change in there yeah yeah I think we should discuss that offline i\u0027m not sure that i have a good answer for you right off the top of my head okay amite eek i\u0027m just a economies point they\u0027re only a zero heartbeat idea i think that might have value i mean that\u0027s the odd implement eight implement potential implementer go spoken to who wants to spin things up on an ad hoc basis you know because they don\u0027t want to be maintained multiple sessions from multiple customers potentially tomorrow and so that that could have some value their initiative with that could be handled maybe via the data channel i guess which could be just navigating across sensational but if the signal channel had a zero hardly function right and so then they figure just set it up sells out of the channel user palace or event ID yeah buying such an exit area down do the same thing reason the session use get ego sessions yes okay okay other questions and comments okay in that case we\u0027ll move on to the next draft which is the architecture and andrew you still have the floor alright so this is this is going to be quite brief and we have a lot of other things to discuss a while keep us moving like the dots requirements we are tracking open issues long if you could have issue tracker under the dots WG group we only have a couple remaining issues right now the document itself is kind of paused while we\u0027re waiting on changes to the use cases and requirements I think the the recent movement on both of those graphs is is getting us into position where we can make the tweaks that are necessary and we can get ourselves working group last call soon the issues that we have closed "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:30:31",
    "text": "recently do cover things like service discovery anycast and the the need for redirection in the dots of architecture these have been closed for quite a while but and all of those changes are in the existing drafts so if you have issues or concerns about the the current discussion of any of these topics please take another look and bring it up on the work of your mailing list of or simply open an issue we only have a couple remaining issues as I mentioned in the question for the use cases multihomed dots clients are still something that we need to sort out I would like to talk more with the use cases offers on this so we can try to coordinate come to something that\u0027s mutually agreeable and then finally things like privacy and visibility for a Christmas signaling this has been a concern about the if you need to have let\u0027s say a mitigator wants TP I into encrypted traffic are there concerns about sharing private keys and if you\u0027re using this sort of backstock recursive signaling but that really covers it on the architecture draft right now largely it\u0027s going to be some coordination with the requirements and use cases drafts and then if we can knock out the remaining two issues I think we\u0027re ready for working group last call again submit any issues you have with the current draft as soon as you can so we can keep track of what actually is remaining before last call I kaplan-meier DAV um sorry I hadn\u0027t read that part and just hearing you say DPI mandame el traffic that\u0027s gonna hit a bleep storm yeah and I\u0027m not advocating for it it\u0027s just a concern about do we need to mention the perfect concern about privacy and security if somebody is advocating for this in the architecture draft we\u0027re not necessarily advocating for the sharing of these might accuse why wouldn\u0027t you just have a requirement that are that\u0027s it I\u0027m sorry I think a requirement that prohibits it we want to impose that on somebody that you can what are you wrapping this in what I\u0027m using TLS that\u0027s that\u0027s likely yeah so when you had a 1.3 that\u0027s already done that the there\u0027s the other static if you hum and stuff that\u0027s going on as well right so I mean there\u0027s yes I agree with you ah yeah not an ietf um you\u0027re not in a working group right not in a working group um it might go through the independent stream editor I haven\u0027t agreed to 80 sponsor it and I\u0027ll meet Becker would okay so we\u0027ll have to see what happens but um right yeah i don\u0027t know i think it\u0027s i\u0027m proud no i think getting for this right this was an issue "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:33:31",
    "text": "brought up by one of the other editors and we\u0027ve been trying to figure out is this something we need to treat the architecture draft all right i\u0027ll well when at least by the time against to my review i\u0027ll look at it and see if it needs to be in the strap that all um if you\u0027re doing a negative statement against it that would probably be fine maybe dropping it completely might be your best bet yeah okay thank you roland ovens are renette works a couple of the issues that are still outstanding for architecture as well as for requirements they require some fairly dense discussions that might I mean we want to keep things on the list as much as possible but that doesn\u0027t preclude having interactive discussions and then summarizing providing the list so maybe we can think about having a actual meaning you know a con call for interested parties to discuss these issues sometime relatively quickly because I think with some interactive discussions we can kind of go through and not some more things down more quickly than we could trying to trade messages on the list I agree I mean I would even settle for any discussion on the mailing list at this point on those issues with their be interest for us to do virtual item around virtual number around this or sorry just one question a timeline for this when do you need it next week two weeks two weeks from you ok so you you come to us and tell us your gonna be doing ok thank you other things related to the architecture documents comments concerns feedback all right thank you and so next up on the agenda we\u0027re gonna pivot to talk about different protocol and solution-oriented drafts first up is draft ready dots data channel that Nick is going to be talking about and for those that did not see the announcement on man was this is the draft we\u0027re talking about to pull for adoption hey i\u0027m nikki i\u0027m here to present on this one Terry could make it and it\u0027s really this is this is really more of a recap of the discussions we\u0027ve had over the last couple of months and also the bits and pieces from the interim meeting the main reason why I want to recap it is because after the last meeting we had a bit number discussions between myself and root area and a couple of others and we decided that the as far as the data trial goes the a lot of the efforts were converging anyway so we decided to just converge onto this one draft so to that end the data challenge using rest conf there were young models in there they\u0027re cooler yang they\u0027re funky the updated draft meets all the requirements as as it has been have been pretty much in line this draft being pretty much in "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:36:32",
    "text": "line with the requirements all the way along still sitting on top of the stack that\u0027s very very familiar at the restaurant TLS tcp/ip with dot sitting on top of it um the rest Kong for suggested and if you seem to make some sense it\u0027s obviously a subset of net can\u0027t it\u0027s not a heavy use net com so we feel that might provide less overhead as far as like implementation goes but then kind of in it allows us to basically use some common app commonality across other efforts were it addresses the needs of what we need as far as like configuration so on you\u0027ve got the general kind of what you would expect post put delete guess to retrieve config data and non config there was a tea lights are people liveliness it\u0027s generally speaking the data channels reasonably connection-oriented anyway so it will be maintaining that it goes along we\u0027ve got a number of young models in there already and then we\u0027ve got the people it exists and the convert as well as we go a couple of our options a couple of examples as identify a model filter model you identify one is it was discussed earlier regarding things like fqdn and this question on that it\u0027d be a the idea is to basically assign an alias at the time with the actual mitigation that instead of having to kind of define every single individual element you just say Oh use alias one and that preferences IP address this work this service of this so it kind of ties in a few of those together and then it can be expanded as we go along maybe we\u0027ve got fqdn I you are IE wants it or in there and stuff so they can just as we as we wish and as we as we see fit weekly pad that out and that\u0027s pretty much it i mean it\u0027s just it i think we\u0027ve we\u0027ve all come along same path of them the type of things you want in this particular draft and how it\u0027s been going in if we\u0027ve all been kind of getting there so that\u0027s me done any questions comments sweet so just agenda wise we built some time here to talk about are we ready for adoption of this as a working group kind of artifact we\u0027re not going to decide today we have a poll out on the mailing list because we travel and everything there\u0027s two more weeks to provide your your thinking on this after ietf finishes but again we have time in the agenda if you like to share your feelings endorsing this or you have some concerns and you\u0027d like them voiced Fleming andreasen I\u0027m supportive as I said on the mailing list I think makes a lot of sense I think the direction that is going as well makes a lot of sense which to me is more of a separation of theta channel NBC Hong satellite is really is operational stuff "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:39:33",
    "text": "I mean configuration related data and a signal channel can then leverage that data later on so I like it by the way it\u0027s not to say that they\u0027re on any it\u0027s that it\u0027s still not being worked on them Dave race and some comments before regarding the eye again comments around the idea session but also the comments around hit the ideas of cuddling and so on that we need to look at absolutely nikka me just to clarify adopting just as a working group document is not accept and and it all suggests that what is in that draft is is concrete it is completely valuable it\u0027s just that we\u0027re accepting the existing text as a working for artifact I mascis HD consulting I\u0027m all for this being a working group document it keeps one aspect simple so we can keep our focus on the the really driving part which is the signal channel OOP okay thank you then that moves us to the next part I\u0027m unhook this one as well yes the signal channel which is more entry more challenging than any of the swings okay so um one of the reasons why I want to present this one in the absence of thiru is because I wanted to get some color around why why would sort of converging around this one the shell even open so there was a protocol document the week before which sported protobuf zamora beaconing type of singling there was this one which was using co-opting see bore and there was some other variations on there again what we had a discussion after the last meeting and we we came to the conclusion that we would like to again try and converge on a single path just to reduce the amount of duplication and so on to that end we\u0027ve kind of decided that in the absence of being able to kind of standardized on protocols at this particular time then what we thought we could do is at a later date may be used as a content type we were using credit buffs in our original draft as an IDL and leveraging that in the new a draft that down in new revision satiric put together and stuff it moved more towards that some boards a similar apps ybor having a similar aspects as its protocol things like the mapping and so on the element mapping be in addition to that also having discussions with Fleming and so on what we saw was we didn\u0027t really want to go through the rigmarole of reinventing tcp or UDP and congestion control and all these type of day to the coop we can handle that for a soak so with this one the highlights is again we have the young in there it\u0027s a mitigation request model configuration model and so on including rules defined in the core young cyborg and it compiles "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:42:35",
    "text": "nicely see poor again is being used or prominent of signal map to see more types we\u0027re using particular types and nothings to ensure that we can just again make it a bit more efficient rather than kind of complete that constantly reiterating through the schemer every time you send a message which was a big big issue I had kind of between Jason and coding versus say something like protocols the mitigation response and the requests are now marked as non confirmable the non confirm will requests ascent at regular intervals until response received that was something else that we kind of were that was that was the way we thought needs shaping in this one and two good job getting it in there channel configuration star flag does confirm also we have sort of have the best of both worlds and we have printable messages when we need them non confirmable than we don\u0027t and we go from there what we\u0027ve decided to do I think as well as tranki so that we have static types we kind of tried to remove some the ambiguity of 0 in peacetime we could have confirmable you know and so on so we\u0027re bhutan is like these ones will always be at this particular characteristic these of 14 bills of that characteristics there\u0027s no ambiguity in figuring out what you know kind of various aspects of what peacetime is versus you know what you know what time is the heartbeat mat mechanism is using the car ping we\u0027re looking TTL is 1.3 their sport never event specific parameters which we feel is important and for extensibility and so on added new mutations those parameters which are somewhat useful for the endpoint to be able to figure out what\u0027s going on it\u0027s like a very basic basic level of telemetry for the the originator to be able to figure out you know what as far as like if the attack on going as you tackle on going what it\u0027s saying it can then try a degree of status yes Larry so with regard to sorry Andrew Mortensen the TLS versions do you think that we are going to be blocked waiting for detail s 1 point 3 this morning I mean it\u0027s there are no competing DTLS drafts right but it\u0027s still individual draft yeah I\u0027m not asking you to choose but none we we need to decide if we\u0027re waiting on it yeah overall detail s has been a bit of it well the dtls has been a bit of a pain in this um not so much because DC less itself but the available libraries out there are painful say the least to try and get to do what we wanted to do there\u0027s either you know they\u0027re just either lacking or they\u0027re just so hard to work with this isn\u0027t that so but that\u0027s pretty much it so deal with this weekend which we\u0027re trying to move towards this to consult wars consolidation I\u0027m not sure whether we\u0027re completely ready to to say that this one\u0027s ready for adoption yet but that doesn\u0027t mean we couldn\u0027t ask the question again comments or questions "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:45:37",
    "text": "welcome maybe it\u0027s a chair quick question why do you say you think it\u0027s not ready yet my personal opinion is we just need to refine it a bit more and that\u0027s maybe just being a bit precious it\u0027s it\u0027s more it\u0027s probably it\u0027s I\u0027ll guess I guess it\u0027s more cosmetic than anything else my opinion is to that but my opinion is that I just feel we need to kind of like maybe just refine it and just have it flow a little better and I think that\u0027s something that\u0027s actually been working to in the most in the most recent variation most recent version and I think it\u0027ll be out in the next version as well and I think we\u0027re very close to it but I just think there\u0027s a few tweaks and everything that just you know just before we go with it having said that like I said let\u0027s not say we could master coach slamming andrea\u0027s so I\u0027ve ever support the notion of trying to converge on a single value yeah I think I mean what this group needs to produce right our protocol specifications in the end um well one of each one for today I don\u0027t yes you\u0027re right not multiple of them and the sooner we can get to that point like the better in terms of you know where do we focus our energy right i mean we had the information model as well the reason that we have that my friend is because we have had competing protocol suggestions in there like the data model is in here already like same thing for the data channel so if we could find a way of converging on a single protocol of a signal channel I think that would be very helpful to the group overall so I would certainly support it from that point of you cook and you know i think it was reasonable right as a starting point oh yeah i mean i mean what\u0027s in there at the minute i don\u0027t really have any issues with the content for this we just need to it\u0027s just flowing likes it cause my dear I mean a plenty of details still right but you don\u0027t get you want to change yes not my skirts I do have two concerns from what you said Nick actually one that the am Angie said TLS dtls 1.3 blocking what\u0027s the consequences of that that no what no what is it that why do we want 1.3 and thus the blocking we may need to call that out the other thing is the comment you mentioned about detail are actual detail ice implementations and issues regard to that is so is their experience which is showing us something that week that will be need to be concerned with or any gave maybe some implementation recommendations which we may need we need to stay say in the as as informational information but something they had to put in the document with regard to actual experience no I think those are both great comments and as far as our invitation goes implementation attempts of gun I think what we found and where we have heartaches is because we\u0027ve been trying to get this working for a little while and now very in our various efforts and it\u0027s like just trying to get the one that\u0027s you know the ticks all the boxes that we feel we "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:48:38",
    "text": "need having said that I think if we if we do start to consolidate on single draught and we\u0027re starting to kind of say well now we can start to talk about the stuff then we can start to them dig deeper figure out what is what we need what\u0027s lacking what we can tolerate you know even yes and so on and then we can figure out well is it is this a blocker or can we go do something else you know is it is the for example I think Andrew used the tiniest cell which had an implementation that might not be great but would it be sufficient you know so there\u0027s those questions to come up but yes I think your comments or well noted thank you I Andrew ones and I think I\u0027m kind of responsible for the question about whether we should adopt now but that was on revision 09 revision 10 has incorporated a bunch of stuff and I would be okay talking about adoption in spike maybe maybe that is indeed than a question to ask maybe before I ask that we should ask who has read documents okay so okay who has read draft ready dot signal channel version eight nine or ten because that makes it cos hid it okay so that\u0027s a couple of roughly 10 12 keep your hands roughly okay just okay that I think that\u0027s a sizable amount of people so um master so actually show me off now okay let\u0027s be let\u0027s be let\u0027s be aggressive and that\u0027s awesome so who would be I\u0027m gonna ask the question who would be comfortable know who\u0027s in favor of adding adopting this is a working draft the answer would be yes no or don\u0027t know so who\u0027s in favor yes crazy or shelby hand hum i think this hummus probably more adequate sorry soham now or the ad has something to say cafe get new book yeah whatever your location oh alright so if you\u0027re in favor of adopting hum now please okay who is against that I\u0027m now please okay i think that is reasonably good abstains you can hum ok i think that is quite good consensus to adopt thank you cool okay so this brings us to to an exciting part of the agenda from a working groups perspective to actually talk about implementations of some of these protocols so we have two up so economy is first talking about the entity implementation hi i\u0027m thomas newcomen "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:51:40",
    "text": "EDT communication they I\u0027d like to show you the demesne tation experience behind in the field short presentation okay now we are developing those diet top of rare fish a domestication from the these drugs which with us nah I just hate working well although if he is not free romantic it will be open sourced with psv see clouds lightning it is re implementation of a very able to invent through those protocol specification he accordance with the curing of da stressful fair and we can show you a table to any time so please contact us I\u0027m available after this meeting us any time in the rest of ikea meeting she\u0027s makin a Meccano stop you which versions of those drafts did you implement okay it is not written very are pitiful this date each other in the video lady trust our signature honor is based on part of city hey thank you okay this figure shows the outline of our application the core of application is the thoughts communications channel between those client and server the thoughts Gaia since those message is not service in court over de ellas as dots sugar the dot server receives the signal and then he validates it to forget a message format as the content itself of the posterior and then determine whether the students should be handed over to further process then adult sabah start mediation by handing over the signal too lovable broadcast a mitigator the chose go bdp are the first the plague of locusts which enables our deviate law stick or Die version in any digital network so we will expand a capable in Tahiti to utilize other devices which really over ssh or other protocols finally the third server will be able to send out message to other dots enabled devices as adults gateway functionality the software is implemented in colon "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:54:42",
    "text": "Adam implementation experience I can assure you that the cost education experience is venture to be implemented however finding good libraries such as God restaurant especially DTLS is rather yada because we are trying federal detest library however we haven\u0027t found any good he can get get it library we work with the specification of God cigna father anam grab it yeah entrance regarding the details libraries are you if there is no native golang dtls library right now right there\u0027s some that implements the go lang dtls which is rapping openssl as i corrected that what you\u0027re using oh yeah yeah no Mickey Cola like I so I you see that I am calling it okay yeah yeah yeah yeah did the one that I have been trying to use is a tiny detail s which implements the sort of their requirements for co-op I don\u0027t know if you take a look at that but it\u0027s it is the best electron hey I use the loose if it\u0027s here how about which is only using a gated 1.2 okay I\u0027d like to show you two issues family if you need to experience but one is about the coupling of data channel on the student other the student center of state deviated what year is this land package gates must be used for mutual authentication under the boat summer couples that dot signal on the data channel system using dust those trans identities so two drafts require that same common name for playa cited in DTLA of signal channel on the theory of each other I think this is strong restrictions for implementation and deployment so if Todd is going to use other beauty authenticity Brody\u0027s it needs generalized conflict of C energy we are we I mothering for the customer organization education ID tip actually included integral data makes it okay oh hi Jeff Hodges if you don\u0027t need to really be using the seein as the subject name you should probably be looking at using the subject alternative name extension and mapping to DNS in that and you don\u0027t need to use a distinguish a next 500 distinguished name in in the subject you can put whatever you want and there but you really should be leveraging subject alternative name okay Fleming andreasen "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:57:50",
    "text": "I agree completely with your observation this is you know what we were alluding to I think before as well with your authentication and authorization model and also the separation of the signal I\u0027m data channel the way it is right now is not right i mean the signal channel and data channel I independent right it\u0027s the data that\u0027s being conveyed over them that you have to reconcile in the back end and we have to have an occasion or authorization model that works for that I think right now it says it\u0027s based on the dots you know client ID or something like that I agree i think is too narrow I think that\u0027s your fear more flexible with me mad so what extent we need to specify that versus that becomes you know a back-end operator issue I\u0027m not sure yeah but separation updates turn around a single time I don\u0027t pick on the issues so I gratitude change the fuckin point ok infinity experience we thought we realized that the Italian Air Force Hospital on see that the only post going to because it is used to sometimes so they are each so the they are separated ok totally obscure channel are separating the thoughts cry out for this channel can be placed in different location there will be less probability of suffering from attacks than the place optional channel only devices so in order to cover those channels from combat grant or then this world and 450 ed hardy however if that is really beautiful I\u0027d like to add some use case to our use extra typing at least one by me and raise nyan absolutely i think there is such a use case good thank you sorry just a just 2 plus 1 Fleming and I graders in this case I can see many occasions when that might be useful for whatever reason I need to have I don\u0027t have separation in the domain or to have clients are again like we said before either single signal only or Dave channel or combined but spread out yeah yeah thank you is that that\u0027s not captured right now in the current text I\u0027m confirming I don\u0027t think it\u0027s captured in that I don\u0027t think some text yeah I think it I think you could imply it but so she touch you I think you can find out by I I apologize just to make it explicit so it\u0027s not in the use case draft clearly enough then that means it needs to be clarified there yeah so thank you yeah sorry for interrupting I "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:00:52",
    "text": "enjoy mortensen I was wondering if you had any if you\u0027ve done anything toward client provisioning at all my bootstrapping or if that\u0027s still coming down the road although yeah their client provisioning yeah so so getting the keying material ok now I\u0027m death using that I am software page only reading that typifies fighting about that equate of the mitigation who hey I\u0027m Amy I\u0027m kind of bomb a squid some this last slide where you had the one data channel with multiple armed signal channels pretty much flies in the face of your previous comment about how to connect the two authentications together to pair them up because you basically have almost like a reverse multicast sort of a situation here or how they didn\u0027t ease are going to done this is going to take some real serious of thought about how to do the the identity control such that you have what linkage you want it\u0027s an interesting use case but it\u0027s going to take some real serious arm thought of how to do it and feel uncomfortable with it hey we can live our party Jefferson organisms you mention I thinking the first or second slide that you\u0027re open source the code right so my question is you have a timeline for that or whenever you play into the never the code to release the code okay uh now I\u0027m trying to talk to our raviga Department oh I don\u0027t know world how I don\u0027t really date so I cannot promise you however it will be between these a big meeting on the next time clementa isn\u0027t just responding to Bob\u0027s comments before I actually don\u0027t see them at us with each other at all i think they\u0027re very well aligned to use case in areas that get there i think it\u0027s very common I it\u0027s not the channels that are being bound together right it\u0027s the data that they\u0027re operating on and controlling access to that data that needs to be sorted out I don\u0027t see anything at all consider okay i love rifle of the last word from me that i read at least that we made a heartbeat but it is not even eight yet "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:03:53",
    "text": "so i will get hot hot with our dogs you know Charlie are falling through the operatives with each other drop and then i will make a father feedback to this body would wake up dead a tragedy not thank you comment as a chair this is awesome so i\u0027ve been long hoping to see the first implementations being presented and this is really very very good thank you very much very yeah thank you Kaname thank you administrative liebe for you to the next presentation where is the blue sheet who needs the blue sheet okay if we could just pass the blue sheets up to whoever needs the blue sheet thank you Fleming Europe if you could tell us about your implementation so uh mm-hmm I can tell you about series implementation it\u0027s uh it\u0027s not mine i will do my best you know all right so if you recall the presentation that we did at the last I ETF there was actually a couple of slides in there about the proof of concept that was done back then and it\u0027s pretty similar actually in terms of the information that\u0027s in here the major difference is that the proof of concept implementation has been updated to reflect the latest draft so in terms of the overall framework here californium especially on the server side that\u0027s the same as for the last time you go online of course and not download yourself if you want to play around with it there are various api\u0027s in here isaac was mentioning right there is these related to congestion control our than I important message transmission parameters heartbeat timeouts which we specifying as part of your ball toss protocol operation and then the new part here about messages being confirmable or non confirmable also that\u0027s being leveraged well now in the end of a concept that\u0027s here has done the client side is browser-based so there is a plug-in copper again there\u0027s a URL here where you can go fits that that will enable you to essentially come up with your own messages and then you can send those to the server and you can play around with those and that\u0027s a sense of what\u0027s been done here is an example of those again you see we have an example here non confirmable message seaboards what we\u0027re using and this is another there is a way of actually decoding some of these messages back and forth if you wanted to see there\u0027s a URL for that as well so this is just basically illustrating you an example message here how it\u0027s been actually encoded and what\u0027s be sent across so that is it for the proof of concept from terror any questions or comments on that okay thank you for "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:06:53",
    "text": "making so we just had two implementations are there is there a third one lurking that anyone wants to bring up or aspiration for implementation Barry green for akamai I think um in hallway conversations leading up to this and and I did last week a read-through of all our docs from the point of view of implement as Russ white and I were talking we don\u0027t want this to go down the path of cider alright so I think we need to instigate implementations all right so I think we\u0027re in a phase where it\u0027s not just asking who\u0027s implementing I think it\u0027s dumb there are there\u0027s um efforts where you can have several companies get the governesses ok we\u0027re going to instigate we\u0027re going to pay some University go do it or you can you got governments who throw money at projects like this you know it\u0027s I think um now\u0027s the time to start you know in several people you know involve of the drafts or say like oh we\u0027re not ready yet this is okay no now\u0027s the time to start to instigate the implementation our roadmap of deployment right because we will we want to make sure that we come to fruition for this work we got to get our roadmap of deployment I mean to get a the co we have a prototype or the ballot make sure it\u0027s done you start that now get the funda now right like I don\u0027t know you know on the you know like for instance of you guys see see if you know right right if if we don\u0027t we don\u0027t if we don\u0027t have vendors starting ACC process it concept commit process these are the sort of things we need to start getting going with it because as you start it now you know we get to more I ETS you know we\u0027re making some good progress on the specifications things will get closed out and as we get more people using the docks you know what we\u0027ll find and discover things in tune the work so if there\u0027s I think if there\u0027s anybody interested in this I think we can get a side little instigation sort of of discussions going on and start rolling this out and then in the next idea report out for the working group is to have a sections of saying okay what\u0027s the result of our efforts of getting things moving on more implementation operational deployment by two cents thank you completely agree any other vendors researchers want to speak up about their plant implementations yeah it so two things that your bison I\u0027ve been talked about it our first now that we\u0027re talking about individual specifications do we want to start doing "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:09:53",
    "text": "this as part of the hackathon that\u0027s held saturday before ITF perhaps in Prague we\u0027re Singapore and given that we have two implementations at one point we start talking about interop between them so things on our minds if you\u0027re interested please do let us know okay so the last item on our agenda is not directly related to some of the specific architectures we\u0027ve been kind of talking about so next up is talking about IP fix usage so Marvin all right this is Marvin don\u0027t play from Huawei and I\u0027m gonna give you a brief update on the interrupt ok this is countin I would go through the background the changes from the last iteration ideas issues in this step the main main purpose of these presentations to do some clarifications so the background as you\u0027ll see why would I be fixed draft appear in adults looking group the first thing is um actually our draft targus same problem space that we want to solve that dots attacks but the approaches we approaches we are taken by taking are given differently as you have learned that dots is more about signaling building the signaling mechanism but our job is more about building a data analysis platform so so that\u0027s the difference and so this is yes as the working group chairs just this is a little bit of the the scope of dots so this the reason why we submit this revised the draft is because it\u0027s a little bit about the history the original draft was here so we want to present the new a PT job here maybe we can hear some opinions from the floor about security issues alright so the nest like ah what we propose in this trap is actually a collection of IP fix information elements as you can see on the left best the original setup I\u0027ve been fixed elements in the last iteration so it is in the new trap that we have armed with in the IP fixed elements and we have actually removed a "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:12:54",
    "text": "lot of IP fix Edmonds because the removed I be fixed elements they can be implemented using the existing animals through some combination or complex structures so this is a maybe a lesson learned for you that if you want to add some new IP fix information elements you should really look at the unique 16 ones alright and so what\u0027s left in the new trap is it\u0027s all about TCP connection tracking that\u0027s a the concept would like to promote so as I said before we like to butte a data analysis platform so uh so we want to collect a certain information from TCP connections and it is is by a by using big data technologies I am using this password because because the information we collected from the typical anxious don\u0027t have to be very accurate actually we just want to monitor the changes that behavioral changes of those characteristics in those TSP connections so so i chose on IP fix because we need some mechanism to export those information from kiss p TCB traffics and as you know that I Vivek see small standard and is widely bought it so we just need to add some new information elements so this is the main idea okay if you look at the diagram what slack what\u0027s what\u0027s lacking the idx information elements is the sum of the some of the information related to TCP that set up all the timing information for example the timing information that is related to this participe three-way handshake which is used to set up a TCP connection some attacks may our result in a very abnormal that changes in those times so we believe collecting of clicking these kind of information is and processes it in arm in a statistical way can help us detect anomaly in TCP traffic\u0027s what so what do you mean by TCP connection tracking as you know that TCP has certain secondly in flex so we "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:15:57",
    "text": "want to have some flax set for all those that is basically in flex if we observe a sink then we observed a sink ACK that\u0027s normal but we said that flex only if those blacks occur in the connection in a normal sequence if it\u0027s not in the normal sequence then we will not set those information we will not not set those flags so by clicking this information we were it would be easier for us to tell apart what the TCP traffic is doing all right we also want to incorporate some of the informations about the the packet and the time intervals between different TCP segments because that might be armed exploited by the attackers so this these are a basic set of information would like to collect around his feet connections and nest which will realize there are certain issues regarding our solution the first one is a sim message asymmetric traffic as we know their internet is more and more is becoming more and more asymmetric so this will limit the applicability of our solution because we need to collect the information from a conversion point that can observe both the uplink and downlink TCP traffic they also they also some concerns about the performance yes um if the traffic is really a stream the bottom of the traffic is really a large that might require a super power device deployed on the conversion point to collect such kind of information so these are major two issues that we we are now are facing and basically so as I said this is just some clarification from the front for this working group so I we appreciate that way to some discussions in the email list and we appreciate the old comments you have given to us thank you very much and so the next step we are we\u0027re going to take might be when I submit our IP fix information elements directory to iono the ANA but the reason "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:18:59",
    "text": "we are doing another reason we\u0027re doing this presentation is because we want to solicit comments for you as much as possible so thank you adding questions or comments no thanks very common um so what I would suggest because this it\u0027s ok that the Vettes to having users as of that mechanism as a working group but this would be an individual submission document correct it currently is non in the working group right so so then you would do an individual submission documents submitted to I Anna diana is going to have a question who\u0027s going to be the technical reviewers right so the question to the working group is we\u0027d be appropriate technical reviews sorted to clarify the IP fix registry is expert review expert review it\u0027s expert review right specification right and and there is a list of names for expert visual voice for IP fixes sensors so I think you just submit and see what they start to getting the feedback from them directly alright thanks yeah Julie egli you\u0027re just going to submit it in there gonna say yay or nay and it\u0027ll be super simple though it should be no big deal right well what can we use the mic if we want to follow up on that Kathleen Moriarty Adia I\u0027ll follow up with Joel I had some thoughts while you\u0027re presenting as well and thinking you know see if the what the chairs had suggestin seeing at the the I can fix doctors they were okay with it another thing and just looking at the what you\u0027re proposing it looks like a lot of the types of things we see that come from the opt area in terms of the types of measurements and you know when we look at scree considerations for them we just couch it and in frame it down to its minimally necessary and and try to do the best we can to protect the data so there\u0027s ways to look at it and there\u0027s probably a way to get the Sun either here or an OP yeah I mean I think those are Jolie egli again I think those are surmountable obstacles right I mean when you\u0027re dealing with proprietary "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:22:00",
    "text": "data in a management system obviously you have to protect it in certain ways and you know in security sensitive environments that requires that you put bumpers around the description in your document but that is actually the normal operational paradigm for this kind of information because you wouldn\u0027t wouldn\u0027t want to leak it even if it didn\u0027t have this stuff on there all right thank you for that perfect thank you so yes so on the agenda we actually have time for open mic so if anyone has any thoughts comments or concerns to share with the working group please please in the queue so with regard to DTLS and the version whether we\u0027re going to be blocked on 13 if you look at the individual submission of the dtls 13 draft right now it says that DTLS one two and three are interoperable and are operable you can clients as long as support both it\u0027s fine I think we just proceed with details 12 for now and when detail s13 is available we can we can deal with it to be as Cano muah be a non working group chahat yes big plus one go for detail s 1 point 2 i\u0027m a i\u0027m robi hamilton I\u0027m with chemical abstracts can\u0027t see but it actually is remember so i have no idea for sure what mitigation means here and if there\u0027s of the implementations that i\u0027ve seen so far is there anything specific in those as far as mitigation goes reason I\u0027m asking is were a DDoS attack target on a regular basis now and every IP address that tries to connect to us is different and so as far as I can tell there could be 500 billion people trying to connect us so I don\u0027t know necessarily even how to tell other than the fact that suddenly we\u0027re out of sockets on a server so anyway that\u0027s question angel roll under you answering this question that question yeah Andrew Mortensen over networks so mitigation is we are attempting to define what mitigation means in the requirements draft there\u0027s some terminology there so please take a look at that specific definition and see if it covers what you\u0027re talking about I don\u0027t think the specific form of mitigation whether using something in a firewall or a DDoS mitigation device or just trying to put out flows back rolls to block is within the scope of dots itself Roland Evans or networks "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:25:01",
    "text": "so if you look at previous iterations in the use cases draft there are some examples that do talk about some mitigation technologies but the purpose of one of the purposes of dots is the big technology independent in terms of the negation technology so we\u0027re not locked into a given paradigm rate on some of the you heard earlier in a meeting we\u0027re talking about some the initial proposed use cases will be coming coming out and those feature different technologies and so forth to provide some I guess color commentary great the help hey just a or color to the discussion as far as the way i see it i think the simplest way it power-crazed andrew in the pastas mean the world idea of dots is to basically say help it hurts here and then as far as the mitigation goes that could be anything I mean it could be unplug it you know it could be anything at the end could too is in scope as far as well I could be but that we don\u0027t want to prescribe that because that people\u0027s ideas are different you know as a people\u0027s definitions are different and it\u0027s that\u0027s just a whole world of pain okay so i think we\u0027re skirting around the questions very green outcome I um because you\u0027re talking about you\u0027re in serious pain right now so here\u0027s my suggestion because the work that we\u0027re going on here in ittf as a you decide this is two years out this is a lot of we\u0027re trying to make ourselves better but what you can do is I\u0027ll point you to a little guy I get people say here\u0027s how you can bring your vendors in to figure out what is right for you but you add one new question all right based off of this with implementations every vendor you pull in to say how can you help me Yusei what\u0027s your deployment planning your roadmap for dots all right these are asking what\u0027s your dutch rome at then you pull all like the vendors in here pull annoyances what\u0027s your dots rome at because you\u0027re in pain now and so the offline i\u0027ll help you out in that part but at the question what do you got is it dots and they\u0027ll look at you go like what\u0027s dots this is don\u0027t get a clue get on board with the future thank you for the question because this is an excellent example about how people read things into our documents or look for things and we need to ensure that the architecture doc which is over people go to first all there\u0027s a dots architecture clearly calls out how know where mitigation fits into this and that week I believe we do we\u0027re mainly to strengthen just a little bit more to clearly point out that this is how we signal for call for help mitigation is over there so that that so people coming to hear saying i\u0027m in pain will know that they have to go over there for that pain addressing for right now that that\u0027s all I\u0027ve been through many of "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:28:02",
    "text": "these before where the documents did not clearly call out what\u0027s in scopus out of scope and where else to look yeah I would plus one that not comment that nabob just made fresh eyes on the document are wonderful and if you don\u0027t feel like you see yourself reflected in the use case please let us know because we want to update the text to do that okay other topics to bring up to the mic okay so catching actions from the discussion so we agree that we\u0027re going to accept the decidua as a working group document so if the authors can resubmit that as a working group document will will will get that approved I would also remind everyone we\u0027re still pulling for adoption on the data channel documents since we started that before the working group so again if you have feelings either way please do drop that on the mailing list there\u0027s time and then with the time we have remaining not that I\u0027ll take that long just wanted to review the proposed milestones and I would reiterate what you\u0027re about to see here only Tobias and I have seen and we\u0027d like to discuss these with you so we of course are behind on everything we have the use case requirements and architecture documents as a straw man to say working group last call after prague in September what is the reaction of the working group to that and all the authors on this draft I enter Mortensen speaking for myself and not necessarily for my co-authors I think we this is even conservative for the requirements in architecture so you mean you could do earlier cool what should we write there sorry for being so specific Saturday ok ok so meaning to its two weeks or something sorry anyone saying not to be clip I think probably buy buy a product ok ok fleming andreas i think you do need to stagger the requirements and the architecture document a little based on the discussion at use cases while i use case and requirements yeah hopefully we can do that a little bit sooner but you need a little space for the architecture to reflect whatever changes go in there and also hopefully reflect that you working with last call comets that come in so if I internalize what you just said use case requirements july ish so august/september architecture so i\u0027m only altered on the architecture document so you know i\u0027m quite happy with September I\u0027m not as ambitious as my co-author but that I will let the authors of the use case and requirements documents for themselves Daniel yeah i "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:31:08",
    "text": "think the use case should be addressed by two month ok so what I\u0027m hearing from the the authors is July use case use case in requirements I\u0027m sorry we\u0027re not editing this live and then architecture document staggered later for September further from the rest of the working group because Kathleen\u0027s not officially listening to any of us yet because will submit this what\u0027s the reaction I mean any comments is everyone comfortable with that okay and then then it comes to the actual protocols and so here we got to do a couple of things so first our official milestones actually say we\u0027re making a data model document and a transport document uh my counterproposal to that is it looks like we\u0027re converging towards a data Channel document and a single channel document so first I would argue that we want to change the nature of the milestone itself and then tossing out a gauge of I\u0027m sorry of December on both votes so does anyone have any feelings on first rebranding what the milestone itself is and then the timing of it um hi nicht ich um no I\u0027m for it I think that um that\u0027s let me mentioned before as far as data model information little goes they were probably more necessary when there was a number of cum dates I think now there\u0027s a degree of conversions then it can be just those particular task me just converged into that that function so yeah other reactions from from the working group on those okay well Kathleen we\u0027re gonna submit mr. you officially for your review so you can stare at them just as we described okay so this actually brings us to the end of the agenda we have time so if anyone wants to come up to the mic going once going twice okay well thank you everyone for participating thank you very much and we will send out the invite for the upcoming virtual interim discussion in a few days and yeah if I close and if I could have the blue sheets whoever has them if you could run them up to the front who has not signed the blue sheets yet and where are the blue sheets good Oh meet you "
  }
]