[
  {
    "startTime": "00:00:12",
    "text": "thank you thank you okay so we are one past the hour uh we can start a meeting and welcome everyone this is the itf-150 meeting for the co-working group I'm Marco my coaches are I'm a humanity and Carson Borman um before starting the actual meeting I quickly share an external slide if I can share my screen all slots are taken good point that's just to convey some good news that most of you probably already had uh huge congratulations to Francesca and Christian uh for newborns and indeed thanks a lot also for providing uh likely future working group chairs and ads and or"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:02:04",
    "text": "minute takers yeah as a fit congratulations indeed foreign right as usual we assume people here especially contributing to discussions to have read the documents in the agenda for today let's try to make good use of our time uh within discussion and as it comes in the next slide not well applies um please even on-site sign in with the meet Echo app to be sure you are uh taking the blue sheet uh the chairs will keep an eye on the chat and we have two volunteers for Undertakers uh Bill and Rickard thank you very much uh anyone else is more than welcome to further out yes and as an official ITF meeting uh the note will apply so nothing well uh be familiar with that if you're not it's not just about uh IPR patterns and so on it's also in the special about our color conduct so be nice and professional to each other uh yeah a few practicalities if you're not used to that already it doesn't really change much from the recent past for uh online attendees but for people on site again be sure to sign in uh the session with the mythical tool and if you want to um go to the mic please be sure to First join the queue and then go to the mic and then leave the queue as well uh you may also have to relay a question uh if it's better for you just type it on the chat with uh Mike prefixed uh this is the agenda for today uh we'll continue this chair slot with the document status update uh then we have updates about the href document uh"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:04:01",
    "text": "conditional attributes and a new document on a potential Target attribute registry uh then we enter into a series of security Works um group of score uh the profiling availability establishment for cop underscore and key update for uh Oscar meaning Kudos and we conclude with uh two slots covered by a single presentation about the DNS of aircraft document in core and the companion document about encoding DNS messages in seabor uh does anyone have any bashing for this agenda heard in Reading none then we can go on with document status and we had uh the problem details document now published as RFC in 9220 that was indeed a big achievement also done in a pretty much record time and I believe Carson can provide a little bit more context also on related work also happening in httpbs yeah just a quick piece of information this draft problem details actually is a knock off from RFC 7807 which is solving the same problem for HTTP and Json so this is the co-op c-bar and energy we didn't copy it wholesale because it constrained systems are a bit different so there were some changes and uh we would have loved to use the new version of 7807 but that is only completing now so this is pretty interesting so uh well the ipf last call just finished uh but I still think if you find something broken in there they still want to know that so if you want to have a look at this uh"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:06:00",
    "text": "this was would be useful and um well one interesting thing is that uh to register these problem types you need identifiers and the question is where do these identifiers come from and we have decided they come from ayenna so if you want to get an edifier you go to Ayana and register it there and this should be sufficiently low overhead that you can do it and in this draft the ideas that uh you essentially can forge your own Ayana your eyes as the referenceable identifiers so we have integers the original or the updated original draft now has INR Uris and this is starting an interesting discussion it's probably more more an aerial General thing about the reference it will identifiers going into um the Ayana Registries uh but uh yeah if you're interested in this kind of thing you may want to have a look yeah the the one thing that that I'm not going to detail is that uh this RFC contains three pieces of Hebrew text which took us about two months to actually publish an energy thank you Carson yeah moving on we have um when documenting isg processing uh course C9 version 19 and it's 4980 follow-up there is plan to have further discussion already during the um ITF week with other people involved in coreconf and and it covered also the later intermediate plan for uh for December but uh I believe this document can be wrapped up pretty soon to take the next step publication uh we have a number of documents that are after The Working of last call"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:08:01",
    "text": "um Library are also part of the corecomm cluster they were put on ice and waiting for um the other two core of documents to be completed first so these are also supposed to be taken up uh soon too um we also have the Groupon score document uh in in shipper right up which is in the agenda for today following an update app and uh before this cutoff uh as to other documents we have two currently in working request call uh conditional attributes that got updated we have in today's agenda and group on this that is waiting for a second wave of comments or confirmation to come uh following the first one uh we have also adopted DNS over cop after summer it's also in the agenda for today and there's a document group comproxy appending a working group adoption call and a number of other individual documents were also resubmitted before the cutoff uh not in the agenda for today uh please have a look at those provide comments on the list and we had also a brand new uh individual document that was uh already resubmitted uh during the academic basically and it's on today's agenda proposing you a new registry for Target attributes yeah so we can start with the first item uh as a recommendation of course please be sure to wear your masks uh possible exception is up to you is if you are at the mic actively speaking and presenting thank you I'll demonstrate the right way to use the microphone with a mask hold it very close and unless you have singers training you cannot do this with a stand just so you always have to take them microphone so uh Sia eyes"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:10:00",
    "text": "the document is called draft IIT iatf called href because we couldn't decide on how to call them but they are not called Cris so Cris are concise equivalent of Uris and URI references as we know them from RFC 39 86 next slide oh I can look there I'm stupid um so the interesting thing is when you take something that has such a long history as a UI and try to come up with a structured representation of that you essentially have to build a data model for what information is in a UI and that's a bit more complicated than maybe meets the eye immediately and there are some dark corners and we don't really care that much about those dark corners but we need to cover them to really make Cris faster citizens so we started to make sure we can do co-op and Co-op s now that's easy but yeah there's some some weird stuff and there are some features in particular the percent encoding mechanism that really is uh at three levels at the same time lexical syntax and semantics so uh Cris are the standard structure are intended as a standard structure for past UI so you don't need a UI browser anymore and of course every one of us has written a URI parser that was about 20 correct and uh yeah this is supposed to be done for you before the CRI hits your constraint device and of course the other attempt is to be concise uh use less bytes than a URI in many cases next"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:12:01",
    "text": "slide um so on this conciseness one contribution to the Consultants is to have uh integer representation for frequently used scheme IDs for instance HTTP https web and so on and uh it's easy to do that for for the maybe 10 or so we actually use a lot in in the core environment but of course you want to do this right to make Cris as universal um as possible and well we started out with the I was the idea that we would simply do the complete set in the RFC and not provide extensions so why why don't you want to provide an extension the problem is if you provide a text encoding for something that can also be encoded as an integer and that integer comes in later implementations need to choose whether they use the text encoding or the integer encoding and they will of course look at the uh deployment situation out there and say only 99.73 actually Implement that yet and I don't want to lose the the other 0.37 so I'm going to use the text encoding so essentially adding something to a registry after the fact will have no effect in in many uh environments um so that that's a problem with just saying oh we drop in a registry here and and that provides the extensibility we need next slide so the idea is that we limit or restrict the point in time when these registrations can happen to a the initial prefill of the registry that"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:14:02",
    "text": "happens when we publish this this drop and B to the point in time when a new URL scheme that we we couldn't know about at the time the draft was was published as an RC um when a new UI scheme is registered so that's uh relatively safe I mean the the UI schemes the new UI scheme is going to be and use in testing and so on uh but uh yeah it kind of only gets official when the URL scheme is registered and we have early allocation and so on so that that should happen early enough so we have a Wiki where we try to connect collect data for an initial preview and actually the dash o1 version of this internet draft has a significantly expanded set of of items to prefill so yeah at some point we will declare Victory on this Gathering activity but really the question is whether this is the right way to do how do we get people who register a UI scheme to actually think about whether they should be registering a number for Cris as well I mean it's not not disaster if they don't would it's just less efficient so next slide during the hackathon uh an idea came up and the reason the idea came up is that the URI scheme registry already had a column added to it in the past so when when on your eyes needed to needed an indication on the UI scheme whether that your ice cream has"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:16:01",
    "text": "um when on your eyes or not a column was added to the your ice cream register which is defined in 7595 that provides the information essentially a Boolean Value Plus a reference to the RFC in which this is described so why don't we just add another column with this number so people who want to add something to the UI registry and look in there and and want to emulate match the existing entries they get kind of uh uh they they get LED nudged to actually register a number if that is Meaningful I mean registering a number too many is using up our space but we we are talking about 100 permanent UI scheme registrations at this point in time so before we even leave the first bite a lot of additional registrations will have to be done so we don't have a problem with that so that's really something that we as a working group try to prevent uh impinging on somebody else's space and meddling with that we don't do that uh but in this case it may be worth it and it's they're pretty innocuous thing so that that's what we are currently thinking about and I would like love to get uh some feedback for that there's a comment in the chat from Francesca or add the note to the Ayana registry and make sure Ayana asks the question with a pointer to the new register yes but yeah I mean why have two tables when the information can go into one so that that's the database person and we're speaking"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:18:01",
    "text": "um yeah but we have to discuss what what what's the best way to do this but the important thing is that the the registry the Ayana page for the registry contains the information that there is the opportunity to get a number uh with the registration of the scheme Market so uh yeah but please look at the Wiki page that was mentioned on the previous slide and to see whether your favorite iot uh UI scheme actually is discovered so that that's the big one well it's not big but the largest one next slide and we have a few more issues uh open that essentially all have a resolution already in the GitHub issue discussion but the resolution needs to be written up we plan to have this done before this IDF but it didn't uh happen so uh the the ideas that we will do this now and use the next uh core interim on November 23rd uh to finish this up and of course they're pretty important issue here is uh having test vectors so how do people know that their CRI implementation is um approximately correct and uh of course we don't want to fill this draft with with uh fill the specification with test vectors but where test vectors actually are illustrating the way Cris work we want them in an appendix so we will uh make one more round on the test vectors and then select a few to add to the appendix next slide so uh yeah the idea is to work a little"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:20:03",
    "text": "bit more on it to the next interim to decide the remaining issues we submit a dash 12. do working plus call and profit any comments on that nothing on General good there's comments for you in the chat that are not requesting to be relayed right now and you can read later the comment said yes there are comments for you in the chat not urgent okay yeah great so Bill I think your next thank you Carson control myself okay I'm left-handed so I'm going to hold the mic the other way hopefully this works hello everybody so uh this is the presentation for um a working group document conditional attributes for uh constrained restful environments so it's a pretty much of a mouthful but anyway it's conditional observed pretty much now um there's not very many slides here the if you can move it to the next page so the current status has been that the document has been in working group last call for a while uh we received one review Thanks Marco for it uh if you're interested in the review you can click on the URL and then you'd see how extensive it was uh myself is the editor I I opened up uh issues for every uh every little part"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:22:03",
    "text": "that uh Marco Marco remarked upon so in total we had about 20 issues that were open on GitHub um 19th are closed one is still open next slide so the full the full list of the working group uh last call review comments are at that URL you can see them all uh like I said 20 issues 19 Clause wants to open um the majority of these issues were editorial in nature so it wasn't very difficult to to correct them um one close issue was just uh referring to RFC 7252 and RFC 7641 for the focal weapon and observe to be normative references and instead of informative and um then one other closed issue was just about a clarification uh to avoid the um draft talking about uh value changes and and transmitting values and instead considering state state representations and state changes so so that was done um there's one open issue still left it requires a minor code review I hope that can be done by this week so that should be closed very soon as well uh next slide so um that's it basically we want to complete the remaining issue um more reviews are always welcome we've only got one so far we had some some others before before we went to a working group last call but obviously uh more reviews are always welcome now a question that came up was uh when I was discussing uh uh a little bit more about um getting more review as was whether we should request an early review from the iot directorate so I'll leave that to the working group to decide in the working group chess if that's a good idea or not and that's the only thing I have um the next slide would say thank you but um it might be premature yet if any questions"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:24:03",
    "text": "yeah thanks Bill I heard of it personally volunteering to review uh already and then I think it's a good idea anyway to request an early review to the IIT directorate but I think we should go ahead thank you yes can you hear me uh yes we can hear you okay yes uh that would be nice to have it at the iot directorate so you basically can click into the button review request and then we take it no problem with that I I can't review it as well thank you yeah thank you thanks okay any other comments anyone so if not I think we move on to the next right presentation thanks a lot thanks oh it's costing again well this is a really short one uh 2000 12. um we invented this link format thing with which became RFC 66 90. and this link format has so-called Target attributes and uh yeah now this is coming up again so about 10 years in the making this draft it's already a dash or one because yeah again it has an initial initial set of registrations and then of course is growing all the time next slide so the the link from a Target attributes are really meant"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:26:00",
    "text": "to to tell you with a link that may be in the resource directory or in the way known call information what kind of Link this is well that's what the relation says but also what you can expect to find at the destination of the link and what that's why these things are called Target attributes so uh we don't we didn't invent this but took this from the web linking RFC uh 59.88 and that has things like media type so for instance for a link you you can get a hint what you're likely to find what kind of media type you are likely to find at the other end so you can decide not to use the link if you don't support the media type and for us in particular the the two target attributes RT and if uh were very important and that's why we put Registries for the values of RT and if into 6690. but we didn't put in a registry for the Target attributes because 5988 said this specification does not attempt to coordinate the names of the target attributes but provides a number of common Target attributes like media type for the link HTTP header which which we just copied so we did not put a registry in 66.90 next slide so uh 5988 is is 10 years old and uh or a bit more than 10 years old and of course has seen a revision and that revision is 82 ath actually now says um those creating and maintaining serializations of web linking and being"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:28:00",
    "text": "format obviously as a serialization of web linking should coordinate their target attributes to avoid conflicts in semantics Authentics and may Define their own Registries because we don't really have a very good way of doing coordination except in a registry that this is kind of an obvious uh thing to do now so uh yeah this we should have done this right at the time of 8288 came out for some reason this didn't happen but we already had a couple of close calls for people registering uh attributes or not registering using attributes describing attributes in an RFC or other document that had the same name and we we want to make this less likely so let's do this now um so the idea is to add a new sub-registry for Target attributes in the core parameters registry so in in the INR document you always have a web page which is the registry and then in this web page you have several Registries which are then called sub Registries the terminology is totally confusing um but anyway so the policy for this sub-registry would be expert review so the isg will select an expert that actually looks at each registration request and maybe helps this request become better by giving some information and at some point it gets accepted and we have some instructions to designated experts and I think these need to eat a little bit more work um so I the idea was uh well if somebody"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:30:00",
    "text": "uh registered type or something um you would look whether this was something that is very specific to one ecosystem one corner of an ecosystem or whether it's widely used so this is the frugal thing and the other thing is what RFC 8126 does not have is specification desired they have a specification required uh policy which says hey you have to put a specification in there and they have expert review which doesn't say anything about that and this is kind of in the middle so we we really expect people to do a specification unless uh there are good arguments not to do that and there is uh somebody in the queue let's go you want to go now or yeah I'm almost done um yeah the the other instruction is to use a lowercase letter followed by lowercase letters digits and minus signs um because they they the the ancestry of these web linking things really are email headers which were defined in the late 1970s they are case insensitive of course no no same person would design something be in case insensitive at this point but because of this this 45-year ancestry um they are they need to be case insensitive and we are just saying you always register the lower case form so people get nudged to using that and reducing for fees next slide so this is the prefill"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:32:03",
    "text": "um as you can see this has been pretty Lively um the href anchor Rel and Rev are essentially things that are not useful as Target attribute names because they have a different meaning in web linking a traveling media and title Rd finders Target attributes by 808 so they they are also gone rtif size are in the link format document content format is in the co-op document Ops is in the observed document JCT um JCP http HTT um it's in the HTTP mapping document um Oscar has a Target attribute okay that's the the published out of season obviously we put the pre-fill in in this document because the rfcs cannot be better actively changed to do the registration and then we have several drafts that are in flight and this has two examples for for drafts one is IDF call Oscar ad hoc which has half a dozen of Target attributes and uh yeah let's see which of the two draft is published first and that actually uh decides where the registration will be made and uh draft you look it's called Discovery has another set of Target issues pretty many actually and uh yeah they they since that document is not in a really in a race to completion with um this uh specification they probably will be"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:34:00",
    "text": "registered there because the target attributes vertices should be in place by the time uh that happens so we have to manage this preview but it's really historical work to make sure we have all of them and again if you have a Target attribute you know that something in the IGA for some other industry organization ocf Oma users we probably would like to know to do this briefly next slide and we should replace the underscores with dashes oh yes also in the referred document yes yeah we always have that problem but it's really really funny so a b and F for instance doesn't allow underscores in identifiers and each time you're reviewing someone who's coming in someone it's ABN F who's coming in you they use underscores and the identifiers because they're programming languages forced them to do that but a b and F was written by people who were programming in list where minus signs are normally identified as anyway uh next slide I have nine seconds let's ask on the Queue and those are Christian so I don't want they want they want to jump in now okay and no need to rush in general because we are minus 10 minutes okay very good yeah so first of all I support this draft and adoption because it's I think we have hit hit this issue a couple of times in the past so that that sounds good to have this uh also pre-filled and yeah make it also available to other standards bodies that want to submit their uh elements with maybe a pointer to their specifications one thing I was just looking at you mentioned expert review and I did see that we have currently the process of expert reviewing someone sends a request I recall the last"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:36:01",
    "text": "request was in August and there was no reply yet to it so it's not particular quick process as far as I can see maybe we did do something but at least it was not visible on the core parameters mailing list yeah do you remember what that request was yeah it was I think for one of the standards organizations like something like old ocf or well I just answer the global platforms one which maybe that one but okay okay well it was not I just checked it was not in the email archive yet uh yeah maybe it's not not answered to the list yeah that's the problem maybe yeah so we we don't really have a good way to get a transparent sequence of messages between the registrant Ayana the experts and the working group that actually may be interested in this subject and right now we usually have bilateral messages and that doesn't make sense but it's currently the way things are being done and I think we need to to at some point need to change this yeah because our request comes in but but you can't see if it was granted or not or if anyone responded for example yes so for instance we we might instruct Ayana to actually send registration requests to the core parameters list and and yeah ask people to actually see that list on on all communities okay but it's something to consider as an improvement then I think and and a couple of things you mentioned like the don't use underscores but but hyphens and only lowercase I think that's also excellent idea for this uh yep thanks Christian uh does this document shoot this document or did you plan to um address the topic of whether the semantics of that attribute pertain to"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:38:01",
    "text": "the link itself or to the link Target because all the examples that I've seen here except for title as defined in a288 um are about the target independently of the link whereas other attributes could be about the target when used through that link or even the link itself as it was in some iterations of dining link will this document make any statement to that or we'll just talk about the formalities of registering and then leave this semantics as they are well that's a really good question I don't think we actually want to change 82 88 or um go ahead um it wouldn't do anything about 8288 it would just be about um which attributes can be registered but yeah but but 8288 doesn't give you a way to add attributes that are not targeted attributes if I remember correctly no the terminology is a bit confusing um they are called Target attributes but they describe a property of quote the linked the link or its Target so especially the one example 8288 gives for title is next chapter which is only a valid name when following this particular link and not a property of of the target your of the target Resource as a whole okay but that's just then my my mistake of putting title in the second line on the of this slide instead of the first line but are people supposed to put in more information that really is about the link and not the target I I don't I didn't read 8288 that way and that's maybe worth examining but the type the title is an example the title is an example of that and the authors"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:40:01",
    "text": "generally and I've I've made back and forth with uh with them um assume that it could also be just um only about this particular way of accessing that resource or possibly even the uh the the link on its own okay I think that that's really interesting uh I I hope this doesn't sort of fall into getting this document out quickly because I think that that's a pretty fundamental question about web linking that we would have to discuss with the HTTP people as well because we we just have copied that part and simplify that a little bit and and either way just one more comment on the document registered for that under the registry as a whole um Coral will very much want to add a column there that says and by the way the mapping is defined like this and that independently of what the answer to my first question is it's just if the answer to the first question is yeah it could be any of those um that second column will be a lot more complex yeah maybe we should get used to the idea of adding adding columns and Registries and in a later document um so that because the we probably know what how the race between the target attribute registry and coral is going to go and so we can't really have a column in there for a document that that isn't done yet uh yeah but let's discuss this good yeah last slide so uh this is still an individual draft we have discussed it I don't know how often uh in the last 10 years but somebody had to sit down and actually write the thing that has now happened and the next step would be to"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:42:00",
    "text": "make this a working group document I think it's pretty clear that this is within our Charter because it's essentially just to maintenance uh housekeeping activity but of course it's always nice to get some confirmation from from the 80s about that and then do some working group work like answer questions uh do a working glass call and finally profit thank you okay great yeah I'd be happy to open for an option called sonish is there any objection I think we can start an adoption call this week great thank you yes thanks yeah very well okay hi everyone this is Marco uh this is an update on the group Oscar document uh next slide please yeah uh before the cutoff we submitted uh version 16 uh essentially merging um a single Consolidated PR uh 98 and covering fundamentally um four things uh number one is the major one and it was about"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:44:02",
    "text": "um improving the handling of some particular responses that can happen during the group of score communication that we noticed was not completely handled uh number two was uh also a little trick to do to downgrade the must to should to not lock down uh possible cases well three and four uh were well extended editorials if you want improving the the presentation of the security properties of group of score to be more aligned with those of Oscar and the way those are presented and improving the presentation of the um the properties of the features that the pairwise mode has uh and inherits actually from the group mode we've had another discussion about this PR with a crystals document Shepard that encouraged us to not wait for his Shepherd review and write up before um going on um with this PR and this merging uh still of course will appreciate follow the comments from him and others and he actually realized that especially point one had a more General applicability in the context of non-traditional responses for which um an issue on the corresponding GitHub wrapper was also opened uh Eric also before emerging very carefully reviewed that VR we're very thankful uh for that So eventually we merged that and I'm mostly going to go through um well basically the content of the pr that was merged in version 16 and and for the end I have um a little open point that came up uh post cut off which is also related to the Target attribute registry discussed in the previous presentation uh by carsten uh so next slide please yeah and I actually start with with easy one uh number two we downgraded um a must to shoot uh about the use of the group mode for protecting a group request intended to multiple recipients uh we actually had uh already an exception uh under our nose uh for a"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:46:02",
    "text": "while there may be probably more that we're not even imagining now but that was enough anyway to to switch um to a should uh next slide please uh right on the main thing uh handling of uh multiple responses uh I need to bring up some some context here why uh we had to to make some fix uh this is text quoted from the group comb base uh document and this text has been around for a couple of years now after changes in this direction that were uh discussed agreed and even confirmed later on at ITF 110 lastly and since then the text never changed um basically a cop client sending a group request to multiple recipients because of that preserves the token beyond the reception of a first response and taking advantage of that in principle a same server can send back multiple responses uh not necessarily uh as of certifications and the idea was to leave the final decision about what to do in that situation to the application at the client and not the stock at the client since the application of the client can have more context to take a better decision for that particular application like considering only the very last response from that server or produce some kind of aggregation of those whatever so this is the context uh we we had and we consistently built on um in group or score um next slide please yeah and considering that context well we had a problem uh most was okay already and basically the handling of a single response uh to a center request or multiple responses if they were observed notifications the problem was if a same server sent multiple non-modification responses to the same group request and then there were two"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:48:01",
    "text": "issues uh due to under specification on the server side that was uh no text mandating the server to include its own sender sequence number as partial ID in the responses following the first one so that of course opened for 80 nouns reuse and on the client side on the other end there was nothing really mandating the client to do any form of um response uh ordering enforcement or replay check and anyway there were no means to do that because there was not necessarily a partial ID um in those responses so those were the issues next slide please yeah we think we fixed that uh basically relying on the same rational and approach used for handling exactly the same kind of problems uh for Observer notifications only separately because we still want observe to be a separate feature optional to support that may not be around or used only by some servers in the group and not all of them so separately we Define the handling of non-modification responses to group requests again using the same rational useful Observer notification we had to introduce a new uh term already in the terminology section we called it non-notification group exchange I stress the word exchange because it's intended to be an environment like an observation is so something tied to uh the group request that the client send and the non-notification responses uh that the server sent to that group request in such a context uh we'll have well on the server side including the sender sequence number is partially V in the responses with the possible let's say exception of the first one which is good and on the client side the client will expect responses to comply with that"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:50:00",
    "text": "and just like a client that sends specifically an observed request considers the partial idea of notifications as a notification number well the client will consider the partial review of non-notification responses as a response number uh trivially and based on that we'll perform Ripley checks and ordering of the responses like it happens for notifications and like it happens for notifications at most one response from the same server is allowed to not have the partial EV and that has to be considered the oldest one um next slide please and those are the main points related to the actual uh message processing uh there's a number of side things that as a side effect had to be said but they are exactly like for the case of notification so um if a client and server would like to have this kind of exchange continuing Beyond a group of King they have to preserve the caddy context meaning the group ID originally used for the original request and use it for the external AED to bind all responses across for Kings to the same request just like we do for observe and similarly if they want to have this exchange surviving beyond the change of clients and their ID they need to store a use for the future external idea of responses the original kid meaning the original Center ID of the client that was used uh for the group request in question I managed on the extended editorial uh revisions in the presentation of the security properties of Grupo score those were of course also extended in order to capture the properties that we now have in addition to version 15 in order to cover also this additional uh new handling I think this is the last leg on this particular topic so if there is any comment or question on this Christian oh yeah I didn't quite get why"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:52:01",
    "text": "notifications would need separate handling from uh other requests with multiple responses so at least in in the correspondence document which I'm working on um they could be unified so why can't they be unified here uh with the with the multiple responses just being a generalization of notifications people the idea was to keep observices separate optional service to support like it has been so far in Oscar already and then in group of score uh so we had to start this from scratch it probably could have taken that path now it means a bigger structure and I'm afraid but but this but this um this feature is not something that is ever negotiated or or kind of being technically exchanged it's just a matter of phrasing right so you're keeping the phrasing of the document so that people can follow the one line of phrasing for for the notifications under different line of phrasing for everything else but then it effectively duplicates text doesn't it partly uh yes it uses a slightly different terminology to emphasize what is about non-notification responses so it does draw a line uh indeed and bottom line to stress that observe is a separate service optional to support so one may not even read anything about observing if not interested in it but but they could but they would still do effectively the same implementation just by doing the different part and not know that the yes I'll have to read the document again but if if it is how I now imagine it is I don't think that's a good idea because okay the document is not set in stone yet and I think it would be better to unify it now even if it's more editorial work than than leave it up to the readers to do the unification mentally okay"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:54:00",
    "text": "um do you have in mind the proposal request yeah I'll I'll have a look at it much appreciated things so yeah I was just wondering uh you mentioned the possibility that the server basically sends multiple responses in this case I think in in group comb this we have written that that can happen because of uh somewhat of a faulty server implementation or something or medicine bug or a malicious server that tries to uh yeah do something to disrupt whatever is ongoing but but are you considering that the server could just uh yeah send two responses basically to request just because she thinks oh I have some yeah updates to send why why not do that is that a that's another case one thing we mentioned already in group of English was the case of a client resending the same request with the same token and same message ID yeah and the server not supporting messages duplication but you've just mentioned yet another case yeah yeah I think the intention was not not to support necessarily that uh okay said that the server start sending multiple responses it's more like saying uh okay it could happen for example due to uh yeah this this uh datagram getting duplicated so the server could just send back two responses but maybe it's different if you consider the the score security on top of that I mean I don't know the details of that but yeah it seems to me that should not be a case that the server would willfully uh send multiple responses because it's supposed to send only one right says depends on the application and the application on the client will figure out"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:56:00",
    "text": "yeah that's right the client will figure it out but the server isn't supposed to do it that's the also the message I think or what we try to say there in the draft because it's not not promoting the server to do that it's just saying that the client should be prepared to handle these kind of cases right so so it the clients could could also say I'm just throwing away any second or third or following response with the same token so and that's the application again yeah so the client must still be ready to to to have this happening and even in the presence of group of score you may have an adversal injecting replayed responses yeah but you could have a client that implements group or score that already decides I'm only going to accept the first response that comes in and then that client doesn't want any code for for example for handling uh future or future responses with the same token so that that means that maybe part of what you're proposing is not relevant for that type of client right sure um so it's more like an option that's how it sounds to me like if if you're a client that wants to process multiple responses then yeah maybe it has to to check certain things but you don't have to do that as a client right group of scholarship working one way let's say in a more secure way regardless of what tolerance the application will have so if the application had not tolerance well okay then group of square can be aligned accordingly but if the application is tolerance group of scores should enforce the best security possible meaning being ready to to have replaced coming and and being able to detect them to stop them for example yeah okay at least deal with duplicates"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:58:01",
    "text": "I agree with that but I don't know if it should be kind of designed for having a server that that necessarily decides to send an updated response later on because hey they're still timing and can send an update that seems to be going a bit out of the co-op specification that they have buttercream yeah I'll think about that thanks thank you and and Christian back also to your comment probably we are already on the site on the right track for that on the server side because it is phrased and Nigeria in a general way to say uh must include a partial V in any response following the first one regardless of being a notification or not so probably that's generally enough the big thing is on the client side then Christian you want to join the queue and mentioned what you're writing on the chat briefly um I can just repeat it quite quick quite briefly yes I agree that um if a client doesn't solicit multiple responses then it can just take a simple processing um with for one response and that's either valid or not but there can be multiple ways in which a client would solicit multiple responses observe being one um group proxy might be another and whatever that is if it solicits then then it there is a way of processing them so that's that's opposed to to the earlier discussion and to esco's question yeah and this problem would come back again the moment you consider proxy supporting groups because they will send back multiple responses to the same request to the client okay so we would expect some more detailed input from you Christian"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:00:11",
    "text": "um I'll bring that in as part of my room yes thanks a lot okay um next slide please and it's a final one in fact um yeah about Target attributes uh when working on that PR we you know that um as cars I mentioned before the Oscar RFC defines an Ask Target attribute to to signal that resource is accessible um using those score and should be accessed using those score of course it didn't mention um group of score that's something that likes like missing so we would propose to Define in a group of score document a new similar Target attribute G osk to indicate that the resource is accessible using Oscar and or Grupo score uh so very similar of course we need to to be supportive of all the implementations that may retrieve a link to such a resource but they don't support a specifically group of score and the target geosc so we could think of these uh rules of use so that if the link specifies geosc uh it must specify also ask and well an all device not understanding group of square geosc would ignore geosc because it doesn't understand it after all and it's not interested in Google score but if it does understand group of score ngos it will focus on it and ignore ask because it's practically overshadowed by the statement um from from geosc any comment or objection on defining a Target attribute like this this way and it can be also one more addition um for the pre-filling of the registry in Carson's draft okay and the next slide should be really"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:02:01",
    "text": "the uh the wrap up we can Surah submit of version 17 anyway adding the new um Target attribute and then we wait for more uh input and review uh from Christians Christian for the shepherding that's it thank you indeed yeah I changed because I think he's going to be okay yes so I will be presenting this draft profiling adult for Coop and oscore and um yep slide changing works so yes that's a recap um what is this about well we have a dog which is a lightweight authenticated key exchange being developed in the lake working group and its main use is basically establishing an Oscar security context um however normally when you run edoc it will take you two round trips and before you can start using oscore so what this document proposes and the main contribution of this document is an optimization to this procedure where when you send your ad book message 3 you actually combine that with an also"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:04:00",
    "text": "protected application request and you can do that because at that point you already have a valid.com context to use um there are other supports also in this document specifying um some other details like oscar-specific processing of messages um consistent extension of the educ application profile you know web linking and some performance considerations on the Block wise and when what updates have been done since itf14 when version zero five has been submitted and there will be no big changes to the fundamental mechanics of this optimized workflow and we did make some modifications Diana considerations regarding um shortening the text and only like narrowing it down to option number 21 previously we consider other numbers too we have renewed the order registration for option number 21 which will now expire the 8th of November 2023 and as far as these performance considerations on blockwise I mentioned basically restructured it a bit so we moved some of that down to an appendix in appendix a um it's now still the same content as used to be in section six and to kind of summarize our conclusions from that is basically that if you have to use block wise specifically because you're using this optimized workflow meaning this combined request becomes so big you have to use clockwise then this optimization has no performance benefit and you might as well use the original normal edoc workflow because it's less complex and um since the optimization doesn't give you any benefit in that case just use the normal Network we also expanded them the security considerations so um basically there are some"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:06:01",
    "text": "considerations now about like access control because you have to consider that you may have access control also involved and the fact that is like just because you completed with another pair that doesn't mean you'll get any specific resource access and that still has to rely on the normal Access Control procedures that you're using um otherwise we have some information now about um that like let's say you have access control information um how and what information may need to be provided before the end of execution um yeah basically no considerations on this watch about access control um now what happened after the cutoff well we actually defined um in section six some Target attributes for added resources and basically so now these attributes can be registered in this upcoming I am a registry and that's defined in this new draft by custom and the thing that was mentioned a little bit but the proposal here is that in these new drafts from Carson we pre-filled the new registry with the target attributes from this document but we still ask for registration also in this actual document and then basically it's like a race between the two documents which get there first and the one that gets there first gets to keep the text the other one the text is removed okay yeah sorry that was opposite yeah the one that the one that yeah um anyway so well regardless we may want to also revise the names of the attributes like starting with some kind of prefix that shows that these are specifically related to our document and yeah and of course any thoughts or"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:08:01",
    "text": "objections or comments on this plan is very welcome and yeah I go to the next one so we had a proposal from David Navarro so this is also being tracked in a pull request at um in the GitHub repository and basically he noted that in one of the figures we have we do not include a response to the edit message tree and then here the answer yesterday okay why don't you add that documents before in that figure just to make it clear that the message before can in fact be used but basically the way the reason we don't have another message further currently is that uh in the text of that doc draft it says that um if add that message was used or if there's an error then edit message for then the response will be sent from the server um as a as a response to message D but basically like this that you may actually it's not mandatory to have another message for and you can in fact omit that okay um so well anyway the proposal is we merge this PR and we add a note to say that okay edit message 4 is best and in this example but in general it is optional and we basically take the same text as he said in the draft itself under equivalent figure and you see the figure there on the right hand side and the red part is traditionally we're planning them yeah just to summarize uh Next Step so the document is quite stable it's aligned also with the latest static version which is version 17. and we have agreed to keep in sync and keep discussions uh and depending on the state of the actual ad book document um just include a working group let's go of that which has actually concluded now on the 4th of November and yeah our proposal basically would be"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:10:00",
    "text": "at this point to start the working world-classical for this document also thank you yeah and that was the last slide so of course any yeah comments your feedback are well welcome or reviews and other input if not I guess I will proceed to the next presentation foreign and this is already a key update for all score and Kudos and we're now up to a draft version number three and yeah again just to recap I mean basically this document has um multiple subsections um one of the main sections and where the document gets its title is the Kudos procedure which is a key update procedure for all score and the whole goal of that of that is to renew your master secret and master salt and you also wish derive when you send the recipient keys because you change the methods you get master result that is the end result so you have a fresh set of keys to continue communication with and you may want to repeat for a variety of reasons um benefits is that you do not change your ID context which is like an internal identifier of telescope context and you also achieve perfect forward secrecy with this procedure it's Loosely inspired by the appendix B2 procedure that also defines for performing the"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:12:00",
    "text": "update but with a number of um benefits over that one the other main part is this thought about aad key usage limits for all score because it was discovered and is also defined in other documents like the c4d draft you see on the bottom right that if you have excessive usage of the same key that may enable breaking some security properties of aad algorithms so what we want to do in this document is to Define appropriate limits when using all score and the limits are really tied to what particular algorithm you're using we also want to Define concrete processing steps for messages like what counters and keys should you use um and what you do when you reach the limits and the final part is basically a section about updating Osco and sending recipient IDs yep next slide so this is normal of the keying procedure it's pretty basic it's a metrics exchange to exchange nonsense N1 and N2 and these are placed in a new field in those called Co-op option then we feed this into this update CTX function that builds a new score security context for the players and and we also see a picture there the way we extend the Oscar option with new fields to hold the nuns and the X byte and the X byte holds the length of the actual nouns and some flag bits yeah and to go into a bit more detail on these flag bits and updates we did so we updated the registrations regarding this bit 15 as before in the case this is a Kudos message and you have the presence of the nuns and the X byte we also defined now that bit 0 instead of it one should Define uh that you have a second flag byte in those core option and it say I really didn't have any concrete use case otherwise so we took itself for the extension"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:14:01",
    "text": "and this is also a point where Kudos will be updating the score FC we also changed the status of bit one from a server to unassigned and we also plan to register with 816 Etc as further extension bits to have a consistent pattern for extension and this was all based on previous discussion on the mailing list and other meetings um we simplify the method for updating context we used to have two internal code paths one relying on the Adobe update one relying on an extract and expand and we discussed this at the Korean stream and we said okay some feedback was was why don't you just have met.2 based on the extract and expand because there's no additional benefits from that docky update so we'll simplify this now so we no longer have two separate code paths we only go for the um extra expand method basically you see in the green box there that's a new style simplifies implementations simplifies for building external values um they're no need for any fallback because previously it may have been the case that the Edo key update was unavailable because the endoc session wasn't valid anymore um so there's no need to signal that or kind of negotiate on that you don't even have to support that dog or be worried or think about if the original keys were established using a doc so this was a simplification without them loss of security properties here we also updated the update CTX function to not only rely on an hkdf and previously we specifically defined it to use the hqdf expand now we analyzed that to say that it should use Kudos expand which is like an interface to the key derivation function used by all score and this ensures flexibility and is also future proof I mean typically our scores today we'll use an hdf algorithm in such case Kudos expand is simply maps to hkdf expand as"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:16:00",
    "text": "you see in them in the text there taken from the draft however a potential future update to Oscar May Define other kdfs in such case that update can also defined on a mapping between Kudos expand and this new kdf so we are future proof in that sense yeah another part that we did was the find ways that you can use end hook to actually signal Kudos support so let's say that you actually do support and you have to be implemented between the pairs then when the pairs run a block they can use this EAD which is basically optional data that can be exchanged during a network execution and we're defined EAD items for pairs to signal each other whether they support Kudos or not and in which mode so basically register an ID label and four possible values of this you can see that on the right hand side on the table what these values are so basically it can be asked meaning you want to ask the other pair if it supports kudos it's none which indicates that me as descending pin doesn't support kulis at all it's full meaning me as the sending pair supports Kudos both in the um forward secrecy mode and the Note 4 secrets mode or let's call it the stateless and stateful modes and you can also indicate Port which means you only support Kudos in the nor forward secrecy mode um and um yeah I see Jordan is in the queue there also but you can also see on the left hand side there's a small example basically um when you indicate ask from the initiator well in edit message too they responder with an indicate full meaning I fully support Kudos and that's saying fully message to you also is an"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:18:00",
    "text": "indication to the initiator to indicate what it supports so it will in turn respond with full so after he said the execution both pairs know that each other supports Kudos in both fs and no FS modes foreign yeah so my question was do we need to Signal this at all or I mean it will be understood by each party that we are if one is proposing to run Kudos or not it would I mean it's I would say that like even if you didn't have this signaling you could always do like a trial and error approach so you try to run Kudos with other player and see if it works um so you would eventually learn you could try and see if it fails or you could try in the fs mode and then the other pyramid indicate no I don't support FS mode please retry in the no FS mode so it's not something that Kudos fundamentally relies on this functionality it's like an extra nice feature that you may have this um pre-established pin knowledge after running a doc so you don't have to go for the trial and error approach but it's not a critical and coolest doesn't rely on this basically okay I think um there's nice features and it's also adding complexity so it's a trade-off there yeah I think that's a text for input yeah I mean definitely if this can be um then there's a trade-off like you said is it worth the add complexity I mean this is again it's if you use if you have Network supported and even if you have support with red doc this is not um mandatory that you use um but yeah thank you for them for input and further updates yeah we now forbid sending Kudos messages during a curious execution um we also indicate clearly that in the client initiated version of Kudos and the server must include a partial AV in"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:20:02",
    "text": "its Kudos response message and I'll come back to that later but basically this prevents are using the same pair of a denouncing key in certain situations and there's a little open point on how to analyze this first score overall and we clarified we have this concept of a capable and non-capable device so a capable device is more like a non-constrained device yeah capabilism non-constraining device and non-capable it's a constrained device and we're not defined clearly what mode of Kudos they must support So if you're capable device you must support forward secrecy mode and you should support the no FS mode but yeah you can see in the draft these these concepts are basically related to if the device can write to persistent memory or not we also a structure the section about reasons for a keying and improved some portrait regarding the retention policies of old contexts now I come to this point about partial living responses so basically if you look on the figure to the right there and the blue arrow you see that in that response one there's a partial ABCO and we'll conclude that the server must in fact include that partial living in response one and the otherwise it's not secure behavior and and why do you need to do this well it's because you don't want to reuse the same adenons and key pair so if you look at the table you see that these are the request one and response one and request two request two from the client and server point of view and you see that okay let's say the user nouns placeholder value a it just stands for a particular nouns but the point here is that request 1 and response one basically the client will use a certain amounts and the typical behavior is that the server mirrors and reuses the nouns from the request so let's say it does that then following that the client sends a request 2 using the same nouns"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:22:00",
    "text": "um and you may I mean the thing is that like the cloud from the client's point of view the client switches context from Context one to context new right so from the client's point of view it's sending two messages with the same numbers but it has different key right so it's completely fine however on the server side server will send response 1 with CTX new and the mirrored nouns from the client and it will also send response to with C takes new and the nearest nodes from the client and okay you may say why is the most the same because the ctx1 has become CTX new for the client and then you reset your partial ID and so fundamentally announced would become the same so essentially to avoid this red line we will see that the same key and the same nonce is used you need the server in response one to actually include a partial ID and now okay the way we fix this now is just an adult fix for Kudos but we want to define a more generalized fix um to say that well this this can also be a general fixed first score itself because anytime you transition between contexts like this you will want to include your partial area so we have a proposal for text there saying that um if an OS corresponds is protected with a different security context then the corresponding response the corresponding request was unprotected with the server must include its sequence numbers partial AV as a Christian in the queue also and an exception is appendix B2 because that is constructed in a way where it also avoids this problem yeah Christian um yeah I think this is a very good thing to do to just send the partial ID again yeah I think yeah yeah I think it makes sense it's an easy way to solve this problem but yeah the problem is really like the the um you will transition between the between contexts in the middle of a message"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:24:01",
    "text": "processing right so you unprotect request one with one context and you protect the response one with a different context and you may run into this problem but including the partial release and easy fix and now I come to another question so we discussed this in multiple earlier meetings about the future structure of this document so as I mentioned we have kind of multiple ports now incense three parts the Kudos procedure the limits and then those scores and their ID recipient ID update section so the question we'd like to bring up here is um should this be split out into a separate working group document meaning the content about the limits so we kind of try to summarize the feeling from the last coin dream where it was people um expressed a strong preference to split this out and the name of it there is that the limits document relies also on the document in c4d and if we split this out it can be updated independently based on what can happen in the cfrd documents and such and so we got that impression that for image poetry was a stronger consensus to split it out um then a similar question comes for the method for updating this under recipient ID and this send me recipient ID procedure it can run either Standalone or embedded in a cureless execution so the question is should we also split this out into a separate working group document the consensus from the internet was well more mild preference or people having no opinion regarding this we still need a bit to work on this section on preserving observations mainly so our proposal here is to keep the part about the center and zip into the update in the current document and when we have"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:26:00",
    "text": "that section more finalized we come back to this um but on the limits I would say we have a our stance is that you can actually be split out today um as a working group document and the benefit of doing this split is basically like well then this document could in the future be focused only on Kudos instead of as it is now having kind of three separate parts yeah that's quickly the main next steps we want to address token points that we discussed um about this restructuring and also about the partiality inclusion more General text on that and yeah we've got some good feedback from ralpha Marine Lopez on soft versus hard limits with kind of references to ipsec and how they have soft limits there we want to expand the example about those score ID updates to provide textual description of the examples and yeah any comments or reviews are very welcome and also feedback on this question about the future structure of the document and if we should split out and let's say the limit spot for now yeah thank you that was the full presentation thanks Richard yeah thank you well I'm just curious because it didn't get it fully was the conclusion about the split thing especially is it about following the plans suggested in that slide as is or is there any you say so it's a hard split of the limits for now and we'll see updates oh yeah since you asked for feedback so I I think it's a good proposal to split out the limits and keep the these and the recipient ID options"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:28:00",
    "text": "in the code AS document yeah I think that makes sense for now like the limits can um more and more freedom to update your Customs coming up also yeah because when I had this experience just just last Friday with the new student group who were looking at various ways to achieve a specific objective and in the end they looked at the two documents one RFC and one internet draft and said one has 70 pages one has 90 Pages let's implement the one with 70 pages and I I suspect that's not happening with students only so I think we need to be a bit careful to not create documents that have the appearance of being complex by by having stuff in there that you actually don't need to to read to implement it I think that's a very good point because if someone comes to this document only interested in the limits or all interesting kudos then they may be misled to think that this is longer and more complex than it is just because it has multiple independent Parts basically so if we could split out the limits it would make the document simpler and make the new ad limits document also simpler definitely so thanks for the feedback yeah [Music] okay next is Martina with one presentation covering the last two slots actually [Music] uh so yeah"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:30:00",
    "text": "um for my talk yeah I will talk about DNS of a co-op in the first part and then about the DNS message format uh using sibo um these are two drafts one is the working group draft for the doc and the other one is currently a person on draft [Music] um yeah first of course I spoke to speak about Dennis over Co-op the motivation behind that for those who still don't know um is that we want to have an iot device that requests a name and we want to protect against uh potential eavesdrivers and a typical countermeasure there is to encrypt the name resolution and oh and yeah uh with DNS over Co-op we would have such encryption and additionally we would also benefit from blockwise message transfer and uh the shared research systems system resources of the co-op application so we can use the same sockets and buffers and reuse also uh The Cooperative transmission mechanism and yeah since the last ITF uh not that much has happened except for of course uh the working group adaption but we added some security considerations on how ID 0 will should be used in an encrypted or how the idea in general should be used when an unencrypted use um then we replace the layer violation where we stated something about con um with a statement of facts that well if you uh use uh con you have you can you don't need a re-transmission mechanism and we removed the doc server considerations which were basically moved to its own draft which a little bit uh I will discuss a little bit in the next steps also uh then there is some open discussion"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:32:02",
    "text": "still on Doc uh we got some feedback from DNS up uh thanks for that by the way um so the first question was basically why there why it isn't just Doh via Co-op Gateway um that the draft should explain that at least um then we uh use the different TTL rewriting proposal that is uh different from the one in Doh that should also be probably explained a little bit more in depth depth was a question if doc lives on a URI path of course it does and uh if there is a default path that we can use as a common practice in Co-op uh so maybe something that uh some more Co-op Pros can answer and uh then that is also something that was brought up by Carson in the GitHub um that we need some uh recommendation how to bootstrap doc with a service B record um where we probably need to allocate some almp n ID for Co-Op or the end or dtls um are there any comments already on that maybe before I proceed okay then I continue um so for the next step um of course addressing the feedback is one big step then we still need to pick an ID for the application DNS message for Content format uh I guess I will just propose one and um yeah for the other draft where that was split out so basically of that um where this you can have a look at that but there was already some comments that it might not be that much of a uh edit value so maybe we can just leave it by the wayside so uh yeah we'll"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:34:01",
    "text": "have to see about that uh so thank you that was basically the first talk uh are there any questions or comments yes question uh just a brief comment on the default path uh while we don't usually do default paths I would recommend that a server that is just a DNS server just place the lookup lookup server resource at the slash resource it's like saving at least two bytes compared to every other message and if it's this piece of software using doing just that and it can easily do that there is nothing special about the slash resource that's available and why not use that uh yeah I I think I agree on that so yeah uh bench watch hi uh so I think that that is a perfectly reasonable recommendation but the the question here is is it possible to bootstrap a DNS over co-app connection without explicitly conveying a path because if it is necessary to it's always necessary to pay a path then that places additional requirements on the bootstrap mechanism that that is used so for example in the context of something like service bindings you need a service bindings parameter that conveys the path and that parameter always has to be present uh you know the client can't probe for the presence of uh of a DNS server co-ops nerver on a or supported for DNS over co-op on a co-op server because it doesn't know what path to look at this is all stuff that has come up with DNS over https and there is no default path in DNS over https we have we have this all working but we've had to plumb"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:36:00",
    "text": "through the path component through all of the bootstrap channels uh I guess Carson has an answer for that yeah I think if we can emulate the HTTP here then that's fine um I think it's important to keep in mind that uh in in the constrained environment the discovery will not necessarily run over DNS that will often be in the resource directory and there of course we can indicate the path because that's just part of the link that the resource directory provides so uh one possible outcome I don't know whether that's necessary but one possible outcome would be to say for um servers that use resource directory discovery uh they can use any path for servers that use a more limited form of Discovery they are stuck with the mg path yeah so that could just one more suggestion on the table yeah you're right see who's next yeah it's me no I I was thinking about uh we could also reserve one of the well-known something resources for that and I've seen this also in other working groups that sometimes that's useful if you have a known resource path because then in that case you can skip Discovery processes and in constrained networks it's often yeah takes time takes network resources to do this whole round trip of this cover and then get a response back so if you can typical situations skip all of that and just make your message a little bit longer it's not not that many bites so it's also useful to have one of these"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:38:00",
    "text": "well-known piles because I'm not sure if we can assume that the server will if you get an IP address and port for example uh through some some way and if you don't get a resource I don't think you can always assume that it's always at the slash root resource or yeah maybe we can actually there's a similar case we are working on right now in the animal working group where we also want to play something at the slash resource and there the ideas what you discover is basically in IP address and a port and and you also know the purpose of that so it's kind of a relay uh Co-op relay function and then you also know by that said oh the default resource is slash so that yeah I mean we also have like the uh content format where we can basically say tell the server hey I actually want this DNS resource but maybe that's not a good idea in our evaluations we use DNS but then again we use four bytes in the header so yeah I guess that we we need to put some thought into that more uh this is the conclusion yeah but at least consider uh like one of those well-known Parts because a server can easily uh support multiple assets could support the well-known one plus discovered one which may be the slash resource so uh so it's fine to have multiple and if you have something to fall back to then if you already have an IP address and ports where to go to or maybe it's a default port then you can just go and do the DNS request without needing to discover anything first that's the idea okay then uh let's continue with the second talk um which is about uh concise binary object representation of DNS messages or sibo in of this DNS messages"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:40:03",
    "text": "um so the uh the motivation is basically that we have a huge drawback of DNS and constraint messages that if we look at the diagrams here we're on the x-axis we see for each name length a pair of queries and quad a responses um and on the y-axis the size of the packet uh with the fragmentation borders marked at uh as a dashed line we see that we quickly even for very short names um can exceed the fragmentation limit so we need some way to compress our DNS messages um and uh yeah that's basically uh the proposal we wrote application DNS placebo [Music] um the idea behind it is that we reduce the packet size by the of DNS queries and replies by encoding them first in seabor and then emitting redundant or unnecessary and DNS fields in the DNS queries and responses and then we also provide address and name compression using packed Sable as a seabor as an optional measure for the DNS responses um for DNS queries you can see the definition of them in in cddl on the left side for those who don't know that much cddl there's also an explanation on the right side so basically a DNS query is a sibo array which at minimum contains the text string of the domain name and it also optionally provides an ID and a record tab specification the ID defaults to zero if it's not present the record type defaults to quote a and the record class to in if they are not present"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:42:00",
    "text": "um the DNS resource record which is then part of the response is defined to also be a sibo array which at minimum contains a TT a TTL and a resource data and it optionally can also contain the name and the record type and if both are not present then they basically defer to the question value and the DNS response is an array of arrays which at minimum contains the answer section which again is an array of DNS resource records um but this basically generally assumes that the transport can map the query to the response which for example for DOA C or Doh is the case but we can also provide the original question and the ID if that is not the case yeah um yeah for a simple example if we want to query the IPv6 address of example.org we have this uh basically in uh sibo diagnostic format represented here um this is then certain bytes compared to the 52 bytes of wire format which is a compression rate of 400 percent and the correspondent corresponding response you can also see on the slide which is only 24 bytes compared to the 68 bytes of the wire format compression um of the wire format which provides us with a compression rate of 284 percent or three percent uh yeah um for a more complex example if we for example want to request the annual record of a example.org domain um like we would do for dnssd then we get a good compression for the wire format still but for the response uh not so much we have then 200 bytes of the sibo format"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:44:00",
    "text": "compared to the 195 price of the wire format um so um we need some address and name compression um which with a little bit of past and help we provided so um yeah for our proposal we provide an optional cboard support for the response which is negotiated by a content type no media type negotiation via this uh packed parameter for the media type uh in as a note in version one of the drafts this is still its own media type um but in the next version it will be a parameter um yeah and then we make a shared value and argument table one list instead of uh compared to the sibo pack draft and uh then basically we the response becomes another area of two arrays which the first parameter is the packing table which is basically a complete combined shared value and argument table and the second element is a compressed DNS response the structure follows of course the uncompressed DNS response button is compressed and if we look at our and the question was that came up in other meetings was why we then don't use for example stuff like Chic there um the problem is there that we basically have this this chick we have this assumed Network structure and somehow the rules for compression are exchanged between the device and the shake compressor decompressor and so that the rule ID can be used for the identification of how this was compressed and uh that basically means there must be an"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:46:01",
    "text": "established connection between the device and the compressor and decompressor um which usually we don't have when we just select the DNS server with a DNS client we can basically just select any DNS server there so uh we don't have any uh agreed upon rules between the server and the client except maybe for a few Global compression contracts that we have in DNS for example the tlds uh so that is why we decided for the pack format um and to give you an example how this then would compress down uh is that we have this table on the in the first array here um which is then referenced in the response itself and even though in diagnostic format it looks much bigger than the original uh if you compile that to actual cboard it's actually only 119 bytes so we have a compression rate of 164 bytes uh percent sorry um yeah um there's also maybe a way to how we can even more optimize it then if we use these Global compression contexts I mentioned before like the tlds to even Elite more stuff but um maybe that's not that much worse of an effort um yeah but for the next steps here we need to Define some more details using packed sibo's for example we didn't Define yet how the packing table is constructured constructed and uh yeah again the global compression context might also be a venue that needs to be discussed and thought upon So yeah thank you and if you have any comments and questions please ask them yeah pin so there have been a few attempts to"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:48:03",
    "text": "re-express DNS uh over the past few years and uh in general I would say dnsop has not been very friendly to these kinds of proposals so I would I would say you should start by by going to DNS knob and seeing what the DNS Community makes of it I think that the biggest concern there has generally been about ossification the concern being that if a new format cannot express not only any DNS message that can be defined today but any DNS message that will ever could ever be defined losslessly uh if it doesn't meet that bar then it is ossifying it's creating devices that appear to do DNS but actually only support a subset you know creating problems for the evolution of DNS in the future so that uh that has been a a concern it's definitely something to think about in general I I have trouble seeing the value here because DNS messages are almost always a tiny fraction of the total bandwidth they're a bootstrap mechanism for something else so saving even 50 percent off of the size of your DNS messages doesn't save you very much it's not really measurable in aggregate um I I tend to disagree with that that it's not that little of traffic but uh yeah we uh we actually of course we want to go with DNS up into that uh so yeah but first I guess we need to uh have the general format uh done before we go further into that uh let's go yeah um yeah I was just considering uh that"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:50:01",
    "text": "the the normal DNS format has basically the packing already integrated there so you can use it or cannot use it but it's all the same format and I think that's General easier uh to to handle that so you don't need to consider oh wait there's two formats or I need to negotiate so somehow I think it would be easy if you just one format where you can with a clients or basically sender of the message can actually compress on things or decide to not compress things and the receiver side will always be able to construct uh yeah back to the uncompressed message so that yeah beautiful the year behind that is that the client might not support Co-op so that's the way the negotiation part is basically a way for the client to say hey I support that and if you're uh yeah the response is quite large then please send it back to me okay yeah you just want to be sure that that you can have clients that that cannot do the decompression okay yeah and then one other just random remark is I have a system on my laptop running simulated uh Wireless nodes that can talk DNS SD so register services and query things like that so just uh just to be aware of okay thanks thank you uh awesome yeah just just a quick answer to Ben uh if you look at the the percentage of the DNS traffic to other traffic then of course the the total gain of a concise representation is pretty limited but I think as Martine had in in her first slides the um the environments that have limited uh pdu sizes um actually have a cost"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:52:01",
    "text": "for for using larger packets that is going Beyond just a few bytes um so the the problem really is that you you're using DNS when when you when you're resetting when when you are uh recovering from from a network failure or something like that and that's exactly when when everybody else does it and uh your network will be impaired a little bit and if then you actually have to do application data fragmentation so this is not IP fragmentation but but the adaptation layer that needs to do the fragmentation um you are further reducing uh your performance so it would be nice if the the actual DNS interchange would be as resilient as possible and that that makes it necessary to stay within about 80 bytes yeah and I mean what you can see also in on the slide is that uh uh larger packages also create more overhead because they also include the link and six Loop and headers and and so we try to want to try to avoid this uh there's yep and again okay yeah so if you're trying to stay under this limit deterministically then I don't think a a concise representation is sufficient right so like the the path that seems more appealing to me is to say we're not providing a general purpose representation of DNS that's more compact which is very difficult because the base representation which is already very compact uh what we're doing is is defining a very simple service like a name to IP service you only get one IP Mac uh you know very simplified uh that could then sort of this use case"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:54:00",
    "text": "without claiming to be a general purpose replacement for DNS no because we of course also want to support stuff like DNS service Discovery where we don't just want to resolve names to addresses but also maybe other records so uh uh I don't think a name to address service would just suffice for that I don't worry over time even in that case I would suggest uh seeing if you could specify an API specifically for service Discovery and think of it as a service Discovery system not a DNS okay foreign I really don't understand your argument um why are you arguing against the compression of the DNS messages I mean that the DNS is a rather tiny part uh also over a traffic okay fine but it's not an argument to not standardize I mean work on the compassion of the messages uh so I do think it is right like complexity has a cost um defining new new things with small benefits is um is not I think a good a good path forward in general we should only take the create all of this documentation and complexity if there's a significant payoff that actually benefits users in a meaningful way but uh but specifically in this case I think"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:56:01",
    "text": "that as I mentioned there are also some systemic concerns about alternative representations of DNS so for example there's been a lot of effort to to try to Define Json representations of DNS that's and there are apis out there that will give you DNS answers in Json format but standardizing that has been very challenging because it's not enough to specify a Json format that represents DNS as it exists today it needs to be able to evolve forward with any future uses of DNS including things like edns options that have yet to be defined so that uh that raises the bar considerably I do think that it's possible to to define a representation of DNS messages that is a little bit smaller on average than uh than the current messages and certainly you can save a lot of space if you're willing to discard some of the information but discarding DNS information is a very sticky area um yeah customer I just want to say we already have a resource Discovery service so we don't need a new one uh this really is about uh enabling uh DNS usage uh as as it is being used uh in other environments in in the constrained environments as well yeah yeah that's good John yeah I just another comment on on this show uh what I work with is actually a constrained Network implementation so it's a threat wireless mesh network based on six low band but it's not the most constrained so it still has the 2.4 gigahertz operation so it can have a relatively large usage of the Bands so no duty cycle limits so so I know there are even far"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:58:02",
    "text": "more constraints types of networks I think than than threats not for threats what we use is just the normal DNS so for doing server lookups but also uh DNS SD so Service registration querying for services so that's all done with uh yeah let's say on my meta devices with with the regular DNS format so in that sense I understand the argument a bit uh yeah why would that yeah why do things differently are we of course we already have the DNS formats and it offers some uh form of compression maybe not the best but uh yeah it's it's uh in terms of traffic it's not uh you know not the main source of traffic you can say for the obligations so I can understand that argument so maybe it's good to think about well maybe they're more construct even more constraint implementations here where you have to be uh like in the single uh radio frame for for common queries like looking up a name to an RP address yeah which is the most common example I'm not sure if those type of systems would actually go into service discovery things like that I don't know but uh yeah it's good good to think about something that might be very compact for for the the bulk of the queries which is like okay give me the IP address of this server and maybe they are slightly more bulkier for for complex things here like if you have a DNS SD maybe that that just uses the existing encoding I can also imagine that so yeah in that case there is no there's no problem that that you hit a limit that your new format cannot do everything that's at Classic DNS can do so that's also something to consider as well so a bit of a hybrid approach in that case yeah so are there I think the queue is closed"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "02:00:01",
    "text": "so so yeah thank you so there's going to be an interview on November 23 already scheduled and it's going to cover most vhrefs and Target attributes uh we can also continue this discussion on dnsc board there's more interim already discovered already till then thanks everyone for attending enjoying the rest of itf-15 thank you uh just one thing I want to do a Terrace and the working group it's Francesca I have been going through the um list of erratas and uh there are currently 10 reports of the router and I will post the remaining list I'm looking for uh agreement that this is the right way to mark them so I will send an email shortly look out for that thank you thanks foreign"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "02:02:05",
    "text": "remember that now that we have a problem"
  }
]
