[
  {
    "startTime": "00:00:58",
    "text": "all right good afternoon good afternoon everyone we\u0027re gonna get started I hope you\u0027re here for dots you may want to step out just for last-minute get your coffee or your cookie we have somewhat full agenda to talk through some things my name is roaming to Nadeau and you know Frank shall but he is now up on the stage here with us as as a co-chair Tobias will be stepping down after this meeting so we\u0027re thrilled to have Franklin on the team here pushing our working group through some progress it\u0027s late in the week will you\u0027ve seen this note well it references a number of policies related to code of conduct copyright patents and privacy policy like things if you do have any questions please don\u0027t hesitate to ask from one group chair or the a did administrative Lea we have the blue sheets getting passed around cristinaw Co is going to be our jabber jabber scribe and taking notes is Jessica and Daniel thank you so much for doing that for us the agenda we have here for you today is slightly tuned from what what was sent on the mailing list we we had some late-breaking ads to talk about implementation experience and then some commentary about some possible mods to the signal Channel we\u0027re gonna have both in-person and remote participants which has historically worked really well for us so before we get into some of the details we have a lot of documents and different different kind of status and we\u0027ve been talking about what next steps were Frank and I wanted to summarize that for the working group and have a conversation about whether this seems right and whether or whether this is the next the best way to proceed so we\u0027ve gone through a working group last call and closed issues related to the requirements document and at this point we have a Shepherd write-up prepared and we\u0027re going to be advancing that document thank you Frank for for doing kind of that write-up so Ben we\u0027re going to be sending that to you with the architecture draft we\u0027re a little late and that\u0027s on on the chairs and we\u0027re gonna start a working group last call starting on Monday as we had planned in previous discussions then as we talked about use case signal and data channel we have time for each one of those drafts on the on the agenda but to kind of lay it out we think from the chairs perspective from at least early conversations with the editor team that the use case is almost ready to for its Shepherd kind of write up it\u0027s going to likely take one more version to process last call then with the signal draft it\u0027s been many months of processing feedback there\u0027s still a little bit more on the mailing list we feel that\u0027s gonna take another working group last fall and we can talk about that and then the data channel is closed there\u0027s one identified issue and we believe that can likely go to work group last call in September so I was going to ask for reactions Fleming thank you yeah Fleming interesting so the architecture dev we have a couple of "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:03:59",
    "text": "pending changes there actually so we might want to just hold off a little bit on the working group last call all right I get those updates in you know okay fair enough so what do you think it oh okay on timewise what are we thinking so frankly staggering dates Andrew Mortensen sorry uh yeah we just need to cover a little bit more on the neck considerations what\u0027s there right now is a little bit shallow okay and we\u0027ve been going back and forth privately but we should have something soon August okay so you prefer to have that as the basis of the working group last call yes okay we can wait again that actually works for a benefit there\u0027s a lot of documents and I don\u0027t think we have the bandwidth to to go through last call so we can talk as we as we cover the use case the signal draft and the data channel we can cover you know we can cover the specifics of what makes most sense we didn\u0027t have an explicit slot for requirements and architecture so thank you for bringing that up to date so let me flash the agenda kind of back up you know would anyone like to bash what we have planned here now that we have some logistics stuff sorted out are we comfortable with what\u0027s planned here okay I\u0027m taking that as you know okay so we\u0027ll proceed so first up as is our tradition let\u0027s talk about the running code we have for all the drafts we\u0027re going to be talking about so first stuff we\u0027re gonna be talking about our hackathons so Konami thanks so much turning you over to you can I give you the quicker please okay I thank you for its reduction I\u0027m Konami she\u0027s come from NTT communications I make a presentation about the repo of the internal testing which was done on the hackathon this time so hey the hackathon so actually we studied the hackathon from IETF 99 and we are positing it constructively so the first hackathon we did only the implementation of implementation implementation of an oasis which is fraud entity then are eating 100 we did first interoperability testing with IDT and in which she group Patrick Farrell far away but it is only limited to this you know each other about this time in ie8 mano to hackathon we did the first data channel intro so I can take both signal channel today each other are covered also checked with the real implementation and also I\u0027d like to mention that actually entity and leadership group the two internal "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:07:00",
    "text": "Interop as a preparation for the IETF 102 hackathon so here the diagram of interrupts testing so um on the website the other it coded from entity which is always implementation running on AWS server then on the other end in the sushi group\u0027s implementation which is in London running on proprietary production mitigation box then we communicated each other both signal channel on the data channel then I\u0027ll start cryin Godspeed education request and sister configuration of a Sunnah channel and also used data each other for the registration of client areas is issues and also data capability discovering then those mushishi groups implementation work as the thought solder them eat eat toady dose mitigation actions also vice versa we did tests within she she groups dot quiet co dot dot servers and we tested the same things in other direction so hey the summary of the internal testing then ok I will dig into the details in the latest life but you may see that the green cells represent tested elements in the eye thick bundle and blue cells represent tested element in this ETA 102 so you may see that the test coverage was enhanced significantly so first I\u0027ll move on to the data channel result so on the data channel here the evaluated features so for the iteration of triads ideas and filtering rules we need a test of these missiles like our post to get theories of these elements and also we did victories of the capabilities we\u0027d get method then here the result then all of the test is checked as green so I checked with this check mat so actually our the result was good then several issues found so those are already reported to the body group "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:10:02",
    "text": "so with the summary so actually our message exchange over risk of over TLS is very stable so I can say that there are no problem with such transport but we fixed several thoughts about message format itself on each side so among them for issues with the data draft child a data channel draft were a race to the party group during the hackathon and all of issues on the repository of get heart of met Dana okay I was also occupied and only minor issues are found except for fragment bits in Asia so I explained the four issues okay family a very tiny issue just a clarification of ambiguity about a text in the 6.1 create aliases so in that take is the ban of these attributes like target prefix target fqdn I\u0027ll get you a light must be present input request but it post progressed but it must be exist existing in post and also put so just updated Atticus and second one second one is about painting lifetime in the response if you are credit you are a query is aliases content config so pending lifetime is defined as a config false so if we wanted coffee it should not be included in the response of gap but so the text was included those life pending lifetime so text was updated to use config all in thought in order to shoot on so that all the variants should be included okay so that\u0027s the fix of the text and so the next one is about so what get we get returns for the context non coffee so in our SG 80 40 which is the rest of our she stated if content parameter is set to non config mode that configuration ancestor at least key leaf are also retard so name of a share areas should be also with ru because it is leaf keys so that is already written in RFC 80 40 so there\u0027s no need to update data data channel drop into service but "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:13:05",
    "text": "I need to ensure that as an invitation guide right we need to see and read our exeat Cody carefully okay then the issue number two fragment bits representation he the most important one then for ipv4 fragmentation the current roster it should be represented as a beach type so it includes the name of Pete like a la morra in the flux leaf then a pizza names should be in the one string with space superlative form 1040 v6 the type is a peaceful it\u0027s 2d representation of this but this is not active if six case is not difficult but for ipv4 there is a problem like this so the current draw stage of K okay that\u0027s all then our decision for the last fragment rats is kind of new shrinks but can it be used for the representation of the last vlog mix so that that yeah intuitively that is not only the more beat is zero but also it says that other bit like reserved the beat don\u0027t fragment beat the be zero because I defined the beat in check if there is a defined beat it should be repeated as zero if in our C seven nine seven nine five round so that is difficult to represent the fragment in this form so question is how best to represent irrelevant futile rules with net misako or each enhancement so for me bgp prospect like representation for her fragment fit for my feelings but we should discuss about this but discussion will be should be in the little the made presentation or not here or whatever Aleutians okay the then the locator let\u0027s move on to the next so we we discussed about these fragmented see "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:16:06",
    "text": "presentation but this is important so I need to make emphasis on this issue so first you know each other we evaluated these features so the category the category of features is myself so if you have some objection to the categorization please let me know but in this category categorization we can say that I can say that these specifications like session configuration which mission request code pink observe of mutation session config Akashi update and the request confliction hungry and confliction not fault is a constitution because without them we can\u0027t do not we can not execute DDoS mitigation of god clients do not stop but further these features like that month trigger it wave function with erection and happy eyeballs we can do the minimum mitigation request without those features so I they all say that those additional specifications so among be call 800 specifications we tested the six specifications in this in testing so this is the summary of the testing of she knows charlie drop so there are several bugs so several dogs are found on both site but those bugs are already fixed during the hackathon even after the hackathon so this summary readout shows some of cells are marked with triangle but this trial robot represents that foggy status authy Pakistan but actually it is now fixed so we tested us we know each other with live based on the latest specification then two issues are raised but these issues are already fixed so the first one is about the missing mandatory lifetime in example figure seven eight so this is just a editorial need so like time is actually mandatory attribute it but it will even not it did not exist in the mediation request figure so it was already added so it already fixed then the second one is about Sri know each other four point "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:19:07",
    "text": "five point three configuration freshness and notification so I explained I explained this shortly the adult server needs to be able to update you know channel configuration parameters so to toad server and postcard need to agree on the funeral channel configuration so it needs to be it need to be able to update it and then dot triad can do the food to refresh the configuration so it overwrite the server\u0027s configuration as you know channel configuration so then that client needed to get to reach the agreed configuration within the max age type so dot signal china draft did mention about these features so the trust is not updated so again this issues issue is already fixed so this is a wrap up of the presentation so as takeaway I can say successful interrupted continuing then Co efficient of dot is now major enough not only for our channel but also the each other then several issues are fund during the hackathon but they are not so significant so they\u0027ve been sorted out on the fixed then we have two implementations one is OSS the reports tree is here at github from ninety T entity named co dot and one proper proprietary from initiative groups which will be the production level then we need my limitation so we say my limitations are welcome then we\u0027d like to do the the kind of exhaustive internal testing name in the next IETF or a Scylla okay we see the report of our hackathons read that Thank You late-night questions for the hackathon team so on behalf of the chairs we want to thank the hackathon team for for doing for do it for doing everything they did this past kind of weekend I know there\u0027s been a lot of focus in previous events on the signal channel giraffe we know has improved the quality of a document now that you the fact that you focused on the Daito channel helped "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:22:07",
    "text": "tremendously we hadn\u0027t previously done that and you\u0027ve clearly found issues so to the editor team of the signal and data channel document thanks again for revving again in preparation for this meeting so all of your work on go dots and I think John you\u0027re listening with NCC Group with your implementation you\u0027re really advancing these drafts and letting us get your closure so thank you again for all your hard work and if you want no questions thank you thank you thank you very much just wait a minute I have a question through the signature now dead to Anna also I have seen that you have very very recent the latest of this to document right in this week yeah yeah so if this updated incorporated enemies ensues yeah exactly who\u0027s affected to the latest document that Konami raised we discussed them and we we fixed the document we update them so that there is no confusion about the some because most of the of the issues are not that that majors only about clarification and and some of them could be just to leave the technologies but as an editor I preferred to to modify it so that there is no someone else can not misinterpret the text and so on so they and so I really appreciate the work which is done by D Beckenham Ian and the team because it\u0027s helped us to assess that what we are putting on the committee\u0027s really can be implemented and the its ability so thank you all for for this work not only I are also a job did much work 15 odd I had generate issues based on the drop we results yes so yeah I have only one confession question one question about the behavior of the implementation given that I have seen one question from Andrew about the mitigation or loss yeah so just to make sure there is no confusion about about about that one how the implementation is behaving right now when you activate the year you have the parameter which is trigger on loss which is enabled how do you accept the mitigation coming from the DES client or you you discard them sorry I I think MIT is referring to the issue around the dead man\u0027s trigger which I\u0027m not sure you guys have actually tested is that correct yeah because it Monster Eagle is okay uh okay for me we need to ask about John but I I\u0027m thinking about which mitigation should be activated of based on the to be thought of that no only an "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:25:09",
    "text": "hour or so for the meeting which I wasn\u0027t fair so I see John as junk in the queue so John yeah can you hear me we can yep okay so you know I have the dead my interpretation was that the dead man trigger was there if there was a loss of signal heartbeats between the server and the client and then the server could then initiate whatever he needed to initiate to start mitigation as a consequence of the dead man\u0027s trigger but following Andrews email that came out about an hour ago I realized that we don\u0027t actually have anything in place for what should happen to start the mitigation dude you just take overall does it have some predefined kind of environmental words it\u0027s nothing as clear as to what actually should happen when the dead man\u0027s trigger kicks in so we\u0027re missing a part on that but certainly it\u0027s not that if that is not set in the signal channel mitigations are held until it is set true in the signal channel it\u0027s that was not my interpretation of the original text yes because what we have done in this signal change that we in avoid to in order to avoid having redundant specification of what we do at authoritative text for us is as we just pointed to this section in the architecture so I don\u0027t know I didn\u0027t read the latest version of the architecture that we have to make sure that whether to import all the text and put it on the signal channel or to leave the text as right now so we can you can see at the point we could I ask a clarifying question because I clearly did not track that change in the signal channel so we are gonna point from the from the standard track back to you and informational for a normative thing I misunderstood what we have what we have say we have the parameter there and what we said the full description of the behavior see section theta then on the detector for me that\u0027s that is fine that sounds fine sorry my question is that if we think that we will avoid confusion perhaps this is an open question we just need to copy the most point from the architecture and put it into the the signal channel even if this is my favorite but it\u0027s - I transfer to your to your to your issued it\u0027s after you to let us know sure yeah that\u0027s that\u0027s really it so for me it\u0027s okay the current the current the current Texas is okay because I am pointing to to to the architecture but if you think that this is not the way to where to go and if you prefer that we do add few sentences there that this is something that can be done sorry inter Mortensen I think the issue for me really is that we don\u0027t have it defined what mitigation is the scope of the mitigation actually is on the dead man\u0027s trigger we can say that it takes place on loss of signal in the architecture graph but them there\u0027s no way to tell the server currently based on the specification in the signal Channel what that scope should be good Thank You Canali okay so next up we were "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:28:10",
    "text": "gonna transition from the implementation work at the hackathon to other implementation work that\u0027s happening so first up youhave Romain Kiki was gonna talk about the particular intradomain orchestration use case with with go dots so you hey we\u0027re pulling up your sides can you hey are you ready we ah there we go ah okay Hayashi wrong entity thank you for choose to give me presentation throat today I want to make a presentation about the POC report of inter-domain so castration use case and I want to discuss what those should be for a journey took providers first of all I will explain brief summary of this presentation annex please at first I willing to reduce our motivation on demonstration well then I will explain our requirement about dose signal at next right I will explain our motivation next please in the future we want to automate a DDoS mitigation in inter domain network with Orchestrator the orchestrator automates like collecting information from full of lectures on DDoS mitigation systems and designing what to do and ordering polluters our DDoS mutation systems to mitigate DDoS attack we also want to use a standardized interface between the orchestrator and the security products in IETF 100 so I went to Singapore and investigated a security automation working group and I got to know about adults working group so we want to try adults as a standardized interface between the orchestrator and throw cricketers or adidas mutation systems from next rice I want to explain about the POC next piece this figure shows a POC overview our left one is our pockets case and light one is adidas orchestration use-case are written in the draft in our pokey use case we assumed that the dots has adult cry and functions a so that it sends dog signal two dots our us overall decreased after that at the orchestrator order to be ruta to carry out a black hole routing next piece this "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:31:10",
    "text": "figure issues our environment at the Polk inter-domain network consists of two types of networks a core network on scrubbing center core network consists of two peer artists the scrubbing center consists overflow corrector Orchestrator a DDoS mitigation system on GRE and point water in this environment we assumed that the flow corrector and the DDoS mitigation systems was a dots client about dot server a we deployed to the Saba VM with goats Abba on the orchestrator on the other hand about touch grant there were no commercial products which implemented to describe function so we deployed dots grant BM for the flow corrector and tedious mutation systems on the orchestrator each dose cry and vm has some functions a friendiy is a pasta fiji transforms sister all of the protractor or DDoS musician system into imp top go Dawgs grant controller the goats current controller controls goats client and the goats crayons st. dot Sigrid suffer from next rise a week\u0027s pray about how it works next please first of all a pirata seems net flow to the flock Richter next please when the protractor detects the polymer dark-eyed sends his dog to the dog client vm other dogs mitigation request after that in dose grinder BM our friend de extracts target IP others from the Cicero makes a JSON file are the input of the gods grant control then the god of grant contour is invoked so that the chords gray and sends the signal to the world server next please the goddess Sabra invokes a go BGP and attack traffic is directed at adidas magician system b.a.p Ruta next please after that event DDoS magician system detects attack in detail it sends syslog to descry and vm has overall request then these systems are act same as before next please finally the goal of server inbox go BGP on a peer outer abroad attack traffic by abraca whole routine that\u0027s all of action our POC a home next race we will explain our requirement so far in our pork we use bracha horrid "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:34:12",
    "text": "thing gossipy ruta fiber I in the future we want to use BGP prospect 2 Broke attack traffic @p Lotus more correctly so we want to just grants to send attacker information like top talker for IDF 103 I I think I want to write draft about expansion of toad signal a that\u0027s all all my questions next please I have a to question first is does our poker use case attract to you second one is if it does what do you think about our requirement I won\u0027t discuss it oh thank you for your attention any question I have not invite folks to the mic I enjoy dancin so is the question whether you can send the information that the top talkers are over the signal Channel or over the data channel uh I think Steve Carrell okay so the the ackles in the data channel are not sufficient or you\u0027re concerned about bandwidth so far I don\u0027t think ah not a data channel but as you know channel okay maybe this is a conversation we can take to the man listen - yeah I think this is a valid question this is a question wishes we received several times to add more information into the signal channel and what we have decided so far is to maintain the signature I would say the monetary information to be included there so once the signal shown is is frozen and sent then we can open the discussion about the new information to be included new section but this will be really extension that optional to have and not as what we have in in the current signal channel imma take know the use case is interesting and this alludes to what I was kind of like thinking earlier when I was reading through the signal channel in the fact that we kind of mentioned vendor extensions twice and then we just gloss over where we see anything else so I think from rather than how it is vendor extensions we might want to change it to extensions of some description or optional extensions or non you know not specify vendor but they might give us the option to them like stuff in here whoever we want to do but at the same time we need to be able to stuff it in without breaking anything else or or or anything like that but then again I think it does say in the single channel know if you should be ignored but I think it\u0027s it\u0027s interesting in that nuts I would agree with method of who frees and signal channel to a certain point and then you build it into other drafts or other functionality within that we\u0027ve already built the extensibility in there and it\u0027s just a case of defining what you want to do and bring that into new "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:37:12",
    "text": "documents but I think it\u0027s really cool Ian Frank\u0027s ah how I sense that you\u0027re here you bring this your your poke and the yard comment - here yes I think that\u0027s real that this you come and make sense and maybe in future we can do some extension to counter protocol to so it so my individual and yet from my my individual comments is that if you want to bring this new work to this working group please write a draft to describe your use case and the requirements so that we can check we can have more discussion more maybe we can be transfer in the next stage but currently stager I think our most important the walking\u0027s is the RAB are our current protocol and the provider are stable and the basic protocol but anyway in the future yeah that\u0027s totally impossible oh sorry possible sorry ah thank you very much hi Nick Teague again now I just wanted to say that um I don\u0027t think you should it\u0027s there\u0027s nothing stopping you from putting this into a draft now though as far as everything goes if you want to do it it\u0027s it we might consider it to be the next consideration or something but while we\u0027re getting everything else sorted out but at the same time would be nice to have stuff sitting there waiting to work on so if you wanted to start rolling it out now as far as getting documents out and done drafts you know why not so I wanted to hold a working group on this thread as Frank could of alluded to this conversation has come up before about wanting to do extensions and you know at the my god I heard something that I guess is a little too vague for me you know we\u0027ve talked about let\u0027s get the core thing done and then we can kind of have extensions but what does that practically mean to folks to folks kind of here in the room I mean is there are we talking about we want to embed an extension hook into the current protocol and then we\u0027re gonna have more drafts that tell us you know how to hook that in or are we gonna release a one-one what\u0027s the feeling in the room here um hey Nick Teague well I think when we when we first started this we always kind of had extensibility is part of the one of the reasons we were doing it or one of the one I\u0027m sorry one of the attributes and I think from every kind of like very variation that we\u0027ve put together of protocol standard you know critical candidates always had some kind of extensibility in there now the one with you have has a bunch of stuff already there we\u0027re just hand waving over it as being there but we\u0027ve made room for it so I don\u0027t think it\u0027s so much a case of one one I think it\u0027s a case of like we\u0027re just defining how you could use those use the stuff that\u0027s there it\u0027s just we don\u0027t really call it out much of the minute you read you did you want to say something I\u0027m sorry Chris were you singing what I said "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:40:12",
    "text": "danyoung me Gary Erickson so I think we well the protocol needs to have some extensions but we should really think about which extension we\u0027re going to go through you can if you see what makes a product all successful is that it\u0027s been extendable but when you see why a protocol is dying is that when you have a bunch of uncontrolled extensions so I think that\u0027s where the discussion has to take place which extension where you\u0027re going through and find the right one that is hitting all the use cases we want to address enter Mortenson again I will say that more implementations would make me feel more comfortable about the possibility of extensions and so I\u0027ll drop this drop us rolling we see in the queue let me finish I mean one of the things that we may want to you a did you want to respond hey hear me yes we can hear you so I want to write that expansion over those signature nails and I will send working group to Mary so well I want to give me I won\u0027t take some comments from you sits at all okay makes sense thank you you know what are we doing this Oh Roland you you\u0027re up Roland if you\u0027re speaking we can\u0027t hear you Roland I may have just booted you out oh never mind got it okay we\u0027ll close the the conversation here but I mean we are having a recurring conversation about extensions and I\u0027ll put something again on the mailings to discuss but I think you\u0027ve us to have some text somewhere or some guidance that we can point you that would govern how we want to handle this in the future but I think we need to flush this out a little more so what we\u0027ll take it to to the male voice okay yoohoo thank you for your presentation we have a little bit of time left just for open mic if folks with implementations that already exist want to talk about progress they\u0027ve made or if someone here in the room or in media Co would like to surface the existence of another implementation that we haven\u0027t previously learned about so hoping my time if you want to talk about running code you have hi we\u0027ve made some progress internally with the coop based "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:43:14",
    "text": "version and we\u0027re also now experimenting with additional languages with the intention of bringing some a variety to the foundations and frameworks that are being used currently I believe it\u0027s all the coop based yes Kaname is nodding so we we\u0027re hoping to at least bring some of that forward as open source and are also potentially looking for some Interop opportunities in other venues in the future so I would be eager to hear of additional implementers aside from John okay so you heard it here that was farmer networks anyone else we\u0027re going to talk about an implementation they have they\u0027re planning or is in flight okay with that move on injurer gender so next up we are going to talk about the signal channel so med the floor is yours okay so this would be a quick update of the signal specification so as you know last so it was in and of naturalism I woke you up last fall that was issues for this for is the document yeah it was very happy for about the outcome that that\u0027s working on glass Scott was this only shown that we have only manner memory issues and all the qualifications to be to be added to a document this so I this is a signal for us that that we are close to to travel version of the of the document so this is only the listen there the some of the main point at Brazil at that time so it is only clarifications there to about the do arise to to be used this is something which is and we had explicit sentences to document to make it sure that people we understand that we are using this your items because we are just in the beginning we are just pointing to the RFC\u0027s in which is defined we enhance the develop behavior in the document so again when there is a loop which has it taken somewhere by the Gateway what now the behavior is that we are asking each gateway to insert its own information and then it will prepend it to add weather gateway so that this will simplify and is a diagnostic if there is any any troubleshooting to to to be done another modification was about the direct signal in there so we the beginning we assume that the the server is know that what it is it is doing that means that if there is an a request to a client or direct to another server we are assuming that there is an some configurations which is done at the server but we figured out that in case there are some misconfigure there we introduce this a guard in order "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:46:15",
    "text": "to avoid us relation between multiple servers for instance if you ever see a signal from a given server to you that you have to go direct to another server and then right after you receive another signal for that server as you go back to the other one so this will be something which is bubi so that\u0027s why we we introduced this guard about the five minutes that we forbid that you can go back to to the previous server unless this lifetimes expired we also clarify the way we are using detail there we have four direction so where direction can be can can last forever or can be limited in time so this is something that we are conveniently parameter and also we have introduced that there are some sentences to say - yeah we are dis recommending against returning short TTL for our direction because it will impact the stability of the service this is happening the outcome for discussion we had with about the phone that economists about the D behavior when there\u0027s a conflict before in the in the previous version that we only returned a conflict there but the Konami R is a valid point is that you cannot send back an update of this situation if you don\u0027t create the resource so that\u0027s why we we updated the behavior - again it is stable policy based but it\u0027s up to the server to decide whether it has to return the decrypted code or the deconflict code this is a the last change that we we have implemented eg and the latest version as an outcome of the of the interrupt meeting this is mainly minor modifications there it\u0027s about the example that we have fixed and also the one word change that we we added in a draft so this is for the chairs yeah so I take full responsibility for this in the handoff with Tobias I was a bubble on this at this point honestly the early registration this is is less germane given that we are about to submit this document but I will nevertheless check the action yeah it\u0027s fine they\u0027re too closely actually to make sure that we make some progress on that one so what next so this slice when I prepare the slides this is before Andrew raise the point about the mitigation or loss so yeah so it\u0027s on draw it sucks you - yeah really so that\u0027s whether we yeah we proceed with with the plan that we we agree so together that means that next week there will be another last fall of the of the document it will one week we\u0027re gonna do cachi weeks one of the things that the core working group has "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:49:15",
    "text": "asked is hey you\u0027re using coop that\u0027s that\u0027s great actually after this meeting I\u0027m gonna go remind everyone and I\u0027m gonna make the work route - in a state you know put eyes on it and I\u0027m hopeful that I\u0027m not necessarily expecting to find anything but if nothing else I\u0027m hoping this will grease the grease the process through through iesg given that we\u0027ve had more eyes to look on it so my hope if that\u0027s okay setting the date we could start the we can start the working group last call starting on Monday and kind of run into kind of a customary to get or two weeks and that way we can you know start from we think we fixed absolutely everything we have a clean document does anyone have any comment last kind of comments on this and then we can move forward okay feedback from Ed on the signal draft all right that\u0027s good news okay because yeah I don\u0027t know if you you have a discussion with the core cheers yeah okay so yeah because we have you have written and in errata because we contacted them multiple times the authors or the the the coop RFC and also for the civil we clarify some of the point with the Carson but there\u0027s one a errata which we opened there and they didn\u0027t heard any feedback from then it\u0027s about the token for the observe case and so on but but anyway it\u0027s to them to manage the errata that\u0027s it\u0027s left to ya to let them know that we already in touch with them for some of the points so you should not be surprised to see this the specification indicates surprise they actually indicated that they wanted to help and they invited us just to come to the working group meeting and just remind everyone then there is a couette another couette protocol that\u0027s in another working group and offer to put some eyes on it so what I\u0027m just gonna do a little advertising at the next session so thank you for okay one question welcome Adam could you return the one-page the fun as well you was a three I mean she\u0027s got from NTT communications so about a faster rate okay I know why these changes and also I know that was read discussed about this issue but I just feel that this updated text is not friendly to the new readers of this draft so I hear some of explanation of the context which was disgusted up eating with us should be included in why the food is replaced with Kate why it is Kate okay so you think that the how it takes the D point yes so for me the top "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:52:16",
    "text": "of refresh is not quite clear for maybe for ya reader yeah in document we don\u0027t remember where in which part that might be explain what we mean by refresh surfaces you updates and something and then so you receive the configuration you have the the max-age option which indicate the lifetime for this configuration and the you have to take contact the server before the expiry of that max option to add to refresh it refresh it does mean that you are sending the you see in a sign of life that\u0027s in it that you are there and you will receive your new configuration from the server so it\u0027s if you think that this is not clear in the in the new text yeah so just let me know which okay wait X part and then we can we can work that as part of the develop last call that we can you can help to provide some texture because actually for this for this change I am personally fine with the previous text that we have but I decided to change it because a for the implementation I received from John that he has some confusion when i read the text i don\u0027t see the the origin of the confusion but even for that with that i decided to modify the text to avoid this capital so if you think that this is still not better if there are a room for enhancement please feel free to propose texts and proposals for that yeah thank you thank you okay thank you so next on the agenda is beau yang from China Mobile is going to be talking about an extension to the signal draft so if you could step into the mic while we switch slides here okay so if you want to step in the queue okay the floor is yours if you\u0027re speaking we can\u0027t hear you though okay the work is very low do you increase one of my men well that\u0027s still very quiet we can\u0027t hear you hello oh that is much better thank you okay okay I must go very near to the mic "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:55:16",
    "text": "in my my book okay so this is a very very short discussion about the intention oh oh this this presentation is not not just introduces some trouble to the group but because we know that we we are almost in the time over the last call over there or the signal but because this is a the this is a requirement from us we want to have a we are going to have a Kuip for that for the toast so that way we can make some changes to that we can make some better performance to the meaty mediations over and there\u0027s a arrangement of the resource so this is a what what we intentioned actually can you please Fred can you please display the slides thank you so wrong a second slide no way can I see this I\u0027m okay now we are in the second is our second page in your agenda page so please continue I cannot see you cannot see this right [Laughter] give me one minute let me come out that serve oh I mean we can see the slides in the room here and other media participants are saying they can see it so if you just can have a local copy of the slides and you sent us the slide so you have the same thing we have and we slide three that reads background right now yes for the background is that him "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:58:16",
    "text": "that way in our in our in our work we do find that if we have some we have some type t finally it will be very paid her for you know for that for the resource arrangement but actually it\u0027s not very easy to give them to a very worried because that there are many those types it\u0027s not very easy to give all the types defined and now because we were how\u0027s a new type of doubts oh oh das excuse me I do not have a slight copy I must have a one minute to get dead if you still is some time to prepare your local copy maybe we can switch the order later okay we go to other topics now and you are the next or next what okay okay okay thank you if you prepare the way you can yeah let me know okay okay thank you thank you for the SWAT man yeah excuse me this is a bit of the channel so the there will be a bit about the the progress status and the dependent issues and then the the next steps so this is just as a reminder of the delusive issue that we have discussed last time in London and also in the mailing list I want to go and to all of them so it\u0027s only two to report that the outcome of the discussion about the resolution that we have for each of these issues have been implemented in the in the 14 version of the of the document yes no no I was just gonna jump in so if you\u0027re seeing mad you could have come up with numbers to things that\u0027s because we have explicitly asked in the case of the various documents just to help us track all the issues and kind of number them so we know when we got closure so we thank you very much for doing that so then the where is the the versions there so the memory finish need that in the in the diversity that we in the discussion I had with Jeremy figured out that in the Danette mode working group access list specification do you have the some "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:01:16",
    "text": "slides there for the AP before I before hand with the fragments but for ipv6 this is not something which is really really clear so we released with the a lot but working up and also the outward of the net word specification to make sure about our interpretation of the order specification so yeah and the outcome of that discussion is that they don\u0027t handle a physics fragment in D in the current net mode eco egg model so the the as an outcome of that we there is no modification that we we include it into a channel specification but we we added an example in an appendix to show to the Raiders how you can use the D our data channel for the the first reign of the ipv6 fragments for the ipv4 we completely relied on the on the net mode specifications so that basically on the flags but later on we figure we found another issue with that that I will explain later and then we where is not another another update of draft mainly it\u0027s about clarifications and to fix to fix some of the of the of the issue that was reported as an by the the implementers mainly adjourned for at version and the the latest version is about the it\u0027s about to fix some of the the point that was raised by Konami as an output of the the interrupt and the hackathon so as you see this is basically some only few very few changes there that are yeah that that are were to be to be to be to be implemented and we have done in the in the 17 version we have one pending issue there\u0027s again it\u0027s about ipv4 fragmentation actually with the example we have in the draft we are just fine - with the with the current use of the the net mode model but the problem is that if you if you want for instance to have a filtering rule in which you want only to apply some of the Yi on the filter and only based for instance on the last fragment you cannot do that with the current net mod specification because it is not a bit a bit mess but it is a set of flags there and for instance if you have if you want that only the last fragments will be dropped and then if you if you set the DD flags to null for instance this will drop also the de packet are not not fragmented this is also the same issue as you have if you have for instance a packet in which which is the dot fragment is set and you in your rule you are just checking that the more bit is set or unset the the packet with the don\u0027t fragment will go through while this is this this is "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:04:17",
    "text": "should not be the the operate behavior so this is this is why we are proposing to to update the data channel specification to have this kind of bit bit bit must be kept a bit rather than the the current flag based behavior that they have in the net mode working group actually this applies not only for the fragment but also for the TCP flags but I am NOT putting it here because we have to decide whether we have to generalize this for the TCP flags and also for the different the ipv4 flags there and the there is a point that was raised to the widow wish that we need to go back to the net mode working group so that they can fix their module there but the issue is that the they are already sent and their document to a to the SG and the discussion I have we with manage that did not want to have this kind of features in their module so I prefer that we fix that in our document rather than just going back to them to have this dependency so that\u0027s that\u0027s the plan for the the proposal for the fragmentation and if he where yeah we would like to hear from the working group with oh you are you agree with that or not so just to make sure everyone understands this is one of the blockers to finish this document so if you have a the authors would very much benefit from it yeah I entered Mortensen I support this proposal if we do ever have this corrected in that mod we can just rather the version of the protocol yeah no I\u0027m not sure the team will accept but I like the representation in the flow of HP from 1855 extreme high because I as a dot server I will convert the dot message into the acrostic message we know that to stop that eatos attack so the digital spec itself has a representation of the fragment of flags with masks so maybe about a hospital okay so that\u0027s yeah that\u0027s that\u0027s the plan that we are proposing for this graph is that we took to prepare an abyss version in which we will fix this fragmentation and for the TCP flanks I don\u0027t know if you want us to cover it in the next version so that we have the same behavior for build TCP flags and also the IP flags or if you want us only to to focus on the ipv4 flags only because this will require two modifications for TCP one is not we don\u0027t have use case for right now but it\u0027s the same problem so I don\u0027t know what if yeah anyone who proposed this "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:07:22",
    "text": "kind of to comment no for for what a filtering drawer or maybe if the earth is not now maybe we can raise some question you can read some question on the main leads them to solicit other people\u0027s opinion if we needed their here or not [Music] ok so we have some folks in the meet echo queue hello sir oh you\u0027re up yes is killing me for that because I do not take my hello can you hear me okay yeah we can hear you now you were breaking up there okay excuse me for that because I did not take my my laptop to my my home so I\u0027d not how all the things is it\u0027s really a mistake for me so so let me have a quick introduction about them with insulation actually the those attacks can be generated in different ways different mechanisms right now we are we are discussing the data China document and you are the next issue or ego yeah any comments you can you can you can you can talk if not all okay okay John okay so just picking up the TCP flag situation we can specify something like the sin and the fin flag in their mosques and we want to drop that type of attack but again the issue is if the attacker then adds in any other bit using the current bits implementation of memo ACL that will bypass that particular ACL and go on to the next ACL so I think I would also like to see the ability to have the bits and the mask capability of the TCP flags okay okay thank you for the feedback okay so kind of rolling things up thank you for for the briefing and I kind of med we have a little bit of an issue still to resolve we\u0027re gonna clear that in - 18 when we have - 18 we\u0027re going to go order last call on this document that\u0027s the plan okay very good thank you okay so let\u0027s loop back though we\u0027re gonna bring your talk back up here if you could re-enter the queue bow we have you on slide three where we left "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:10:23",
    "text": "off on your presentation perfect so you coming in excuse me okay we we have okay actually from from out we can tell area now if the pitch three hello yes we are on slide three Bell so we - things that those attacks can be formed in different ways different mechanisms is required to use a different mutation measured actually from our our information we we do have three types and the definition is that the network layer we have ICMP I for transport alive with having TCP UDP and soul application like we have so many candles different winners have different viewpoint and clarification dos which lead to some in talking issues especially when we want to have a cloud our our resource poor it\u0027s not very easy to do some into working or to to some you know resource a Richmond so this is the issue we want to have a the type either you know in the toast signal channel so next slide please okay so we have what definition according to the some many vendors feedback and our our practice from this we have the three three subsets but the Foster is the about the layer which layer it\u0027s a network transport of application for protocol we were used as a as a seconder information and it\u0027s the third we have attack types and then we have other attacked subtypes this is what we used in our network we we try it we try to how all the vendors to me ranges here the ghost type uses this table next slide please I think we are you in page 3 page 6 way to sing some benefits for those type in in you dos foster is for the toast client it\u0027s very easy to get those type from the attack to tiger target because it\u0027s a it\u0027s very easy to because it how being suffered from the DOS "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:13:23",
    "text": "it\u0027s it aware how very very very detailed information about what kinda with detect protector its suffered and it helps make the decision right which store to send the medications requirement because we have the one client to earn store connections and for the dots gateway it will help to aggregation over the same time attacked so more efficiency communication and it will help the thought did we to have the information come to the native speakers and help to analyze this things and a photo store it will help of two intruders their medication Santa - although it\u0027s for the communication between the dose so under the mitigator is the outer scope but actually it will help for doing that so with the toast type included in single movie share the information between client and the getaway and the store each node should have more information about the attacks the opposite this model can even be set up easily nice slide please actually this is my current consideration about that how can we work with that the signal is that we introduce a post type know the Inza in your model and a nice slide please as I mentioned that because is a that we are used for the single truck that we are almost as elastic on stage we got distracted discuss and if we come alone without this discuss and it refines a current a toast type before it is included into the draft if we note with the knockout comes load movie she that can be included in tonight\u0027s the world that\u0027s almost thank you hello know we\u0027re here thank thanks bro comments from from the floor ok I see Roland in the queue I\u0027m gonna go I\u0027m gonna drop you sir Roland can speak Roland please if you\u0027re speaking we can\u0027t hear you rolling Chris could you put it if it is "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:16:24",
    "text": "if roll ends on Jabbar can you could you proxy rolling since we can\u0027t hear you could you drop your comment on Jabbar and well proxy into the room okay so let me just while we\u0027re waiting for Roland\u0027s conduct come up I mean again to summarize with this draft there\u0027s an introduction of an optional an optional field that does classification of a particular das the denial service type and there\u0027s a desire to drop that into the signal draft now Rowan\u0027s common is dots is not intended to be a full interventive control channel there are in infinitude of possible DDoS attack types different vendors used up different vendors use different paradigms we should stick to signaling for now okay thanks Roland Kaname one last thing is let\u0027s take this up as a possible extension tsunami yeah convenient easy communication maybe are the same common law Alice\u0027s but yep so how to keep young model and simple mapping latest with imagine these are taxis difficult question in my feeling it is nature to be included in the you know each other and also to each other is that kind of get those types yeah okay other comments I\u0027ll intermittent also lend my support for the previous comments from condom and Rowand and also point out that there is a document defining different das types already in the ayat the IETF RFC 4732 okay over the line right now is empty okay did you want to respond hello thanks for the for the feedback III gotta study for missus data will to have that the foundation for the house of typing is a IETF so I will go back to check that I just want to fit back to the low latticed suggests the question that why they need that how you hear that okay yes wrong to comment "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:19:32",
    "text": "at that RFC 4732 obsolete shouldn\u0027t be used yeah okay Andrew right that he\u0027s correct but that is the the most standardized version of the document that we that we have inside to work on so the other thing is that we we have discussed something like this in the past one of the reasons we didn\u0027t do it if I\u0027m recalling correctly is that the signal or the dots client may not actually have the full scope of the attack it\u0027s hard to trust the dots client to actually be reporting accurate information in certain cases certainly even one of the attack types he\u0027s got if there\u0027s a care gem an amplification that\u0027s pretty easily represented in a source port in an Akal UDP 19 so there are other ways to get some of this information across okay actually I just give both back about that yes maybe that client do not have the whole information or even ADA to the information is not fully trusted but it but as we suggested it\u0027s a optional field it can be used as a reference at least the inside the inside a wine domain as it were important hey Mortensen again yes I agree I\u0027m also supporting the the idea of moving this beyond the current signaling draft thank you okay there thanks boo other comments okay so thank you for that I mean what we\u0027re hearing with the multiple kind of presentations we had is we\u0027re gonna have to figure out what to do with extensions and how to talk about them in parallel to advancing the signal draft so that that\u0027s a marker for something we need to resolve as a working group okay so next up on the agenda is the use case conversation so Daniel hi everyone so the use case so actually I in the front page there is 15 version 15 but I think at the time I was writing the presentation testers while I was writing the presentation another version came up yeah 16 so in in the ITF 101 in London we had a commitment from the co-author "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:22:33",
    "text": "to put a version then it\u0027s gonna be wrecking your black hole into a month and I think that\u0027s what we which hit our goal so so that\u0027s fine um we had very few comments from version 12 to the working of last hole but since the version of Lascaux that means started Trey\u0027s a lot of questions a lot of comments and reviews so the latest we had was version 16 just published today I think we are really in this state where we are polishing two drafts now so well I believe from version 10 to 11 we had a major refactoring nothing controversial we most of the tech-savvy net just for youth and this place of different places so the main changes that we\u0027re reduces the number of few spaces from the initial number to three use cases so that\u0027s also I think now it\u0027s almost ready to to be shipped to the IHG or to be sent to the ad and thank you for all the reviews okay so Daniel thank you for all the rapid revisions there we so Frank and I need to kind of take a look at given yet many of these revisions were made this week we have not had a chance to kind of review the things certainly in the last two days it looks like many of the issues kind of are closed it\u0027s likely our feeling that we will not need another worker blast call this is really a matter of kind of closing those issues and we believe it will likely be ready to submit for for shepherding we just want to take one more kind of luck before that yeah yeah but from your perspective there will be you are done there are no more edits to kind of process you believe all feedback has been covered yeah that\u0027s my feeling but if you disagree raised that\u0027s on the milling is okay and so let\u0027s just gonna do a final check everyone feels like there were comments have been addressed anyone descending anyone else have any other comments to add into the use case document there\u0027s been robust discussions yeah okay very good thank you for all data duration and thank you for the mailing list for responding back with all of all of that okay thank you Daniel thanks for preparing that all right so let\u0027s do we have a little shit we had actually quite a lot of time for open mic so if there are things folks would like to raise by all means come come on up while we prepare the wrap-up you know okay then we pull up the "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:25:36",
    "text": "wrap-up slides here I do have to leave fullscreen okay so we did a bunch of discussion about where to take the giraffe so I have updated the the table so on requirements we have the Shepherd right up that\u0027s going to be going to our ad with the architecture draft there\u0027s one more revision to do ready about mid-august and we\u0027re gonna start a working group last call than likely kind of late August I see head nodding from the architecture team so that\u0027s good with use cases that text is actually incorrect the - 15 is the last version it believes we believe that that covers everything that needs to get done the chairs are going to make sure that it looks like everything is closed and if it is we\u0027re gonna go to kind of shit you the Shepherd review if not we may force another Rev we talked about the signal draft there\u0027s going to be one more revision to 22 and then we\u0027re gonna go working a second group a second working group last call or did I not write that down right then do we go work the second working group last call with - 21 yes okay so we go second working group last call with - 21 thank you for that clarification and then with the data channel we we at least know about the fragmentation issues so that\u0027s going to take a revision to - 18 and that\u0027s going to get us to working group last call in this September timeframe and that is our whole stack of documents and then we noted that we need to further a conversation relative to kind of extensions and make sure it\u0027s clearly known how to how to proceed there and we\u0027re gonna take that to the mailing list okay so anything wrong with that voiceover in terms of kind of dates we have some time I see Konami approaching please yeah from NTT communications so I\u0027d like to hear from the room about meetings about the thoughts second step though maybe those vacuum items are of stable and then coming IETF we we do the Hakkasan or internal testing with more implementations then if it not time for thinking about a husband of the kind of dogs stipple and "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:28:39",
    "text": "daddy switch biting teeth those men are then you can proceed to the step - I think so how about what do we think about that okay now it\u0027s a tiring further making you talk about new make new working group I can drop further yeah yes II think that\u0027s it\u0027s time that we think about the at the next estate in Italy charter to see that we we have something which is official in term of the the item of interest the working group we in the past we have presented the the dots discovery discussions with a home in and so on I would like that we revive all this discussion so that he can be considered this is only examples but I think that\u0027s there is a room for reform or enhancement and more work for the if the discussion can happen it would be really great remembering of course that some of this may take reach are during and that\u0027s a conversation can with the eg and the community writ large with that caveat it\u0027s been was giving me that look yeah hi enter Mortensen yeah one of the things that is to mention in the use cases but it\u0027s not necessarily been treated here is is the case where the I think could be ITP is actually signaling downstream to the the enterprise to say you\u0027re the source of an attack you need to block closer to it and we haven\u0027t seen any of that treated other thoughts on what next-gen dots would look like that we want to talk about here going once going twice good oh I see Roland coming into the queue rolling the floor is yours Oh Roland if you\u0027re speaking we don\u0027t hear you I assume you are jabbering and jabber scribe will hopefully bring that up for us we appreciate that and on the screen I just flashed up the edits folks made in our conversation about next steps with the current draft so this one should be correct now if it is not please correct me this is what we\u0027re gonna enter into the minutes and milestones the Roland\u0027s common is more of the extension stuff that\u0027s what I\u0027d really like to see more of the things we talked about as possible extensions then Caidic just noting since you asked for Corrections the - 16 of the use cases document was published earlier today "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:31:39",
    "text": "thank you okay going once going twice thank you for for coming we\u0027ll see you around the man lists continue the conversations and I thank everyone for their hard work to getting us disclose to a lot of work group last calls [Music] "
  }
]