[
  {
    "startTime": "00:00:26",
    "text": "it\u0027s officially 10 a.m. that signed this start is right to the walls I\u0027m not gang members left lompoc LA and we won\u0027t see each other again I need my phone all right now so we have minutes jabber in the upper sky in the neon jammer we do have two people on camera so we\u0027re gonna need chatter start something on somebody [Music] before they come in as well sign it to tell anybody shows up all right everyone read the note well you know your legal obligation when you\u0027re here neither but I never know well so agenda we\u0027re not totally packed but I do want to push some stuff along and make room for things we want us discuss cuz some of the stuff I would say contentious but this is the open issues to talk about and I\u0027d like this dynamic conversation room where it\u0027s much better hey dad\u0027s here I dad we have no idea we heard he\u0027s out there like both of the copy but you make sure you give him a demotion or some sort of like black "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:03:26",
    "text": "star for this one broken yeah so anything missing from this agenda I know I got all the slides in it was kind of fun to me in the end of the week people had other stuff was a higher priority so stuff came in like all the way down to this morning but we\u0027re done anything missing or solid okay anything outstanding like business-wise other than a bunch of documents in the queue we\u0027ve got a bunch of working group last call we have bunch we\u0027re looking for shephard summer sign shepherds and we still have documents that really come hopefully we\u0027ll be adopting adoption calls but the helpless get through that stuff sandy has volunteered to step up as Secretary and jump in and help us push yourself along this is kind of weird from here goes into holiday week I\u0027m sorry we\u0027re full sorry sir sir we\u0027re full one separate is enough no if it were multicast sure won\u0027t Shepherd to be enough it\u0027s not been deployed so over the holiday we\u0027re gonna cue this stuff up I\u0027m liking the dump everything and your email address because no one\u0027s gonna read them anyway but like we did last year come January it\u0027s gonna be flooded we gotta push this up through and so many things are dependent and I feel like we had such great progress and we\u0027re almost the point of being dysfunctional now nothing is no one could worker to people we just soar not you know getting these things removed ones we need so sandy has clearly saw this all our fault she\u0027s going to jump in and help us make this happen all right none of the pseudo adults we\u0027ve had here 300 they\u0027ve always been next I\u0027m going to be here alright Sandy\u0027s first right blue sheets are out you gonna show them and act like nothing\u0027s happened while you were gone so your finger goes in this button right here and when sandy says ding at first I\u0027d like to thank you our chairs give me the great chance to take the secretary job and I\u0027m very glad to work for the working group with our chairs thank you and now let me start my presentation for the beer prefix redistribution tract we have many cold calls are include iced every and many others so at first so let\u0027s see the problem statement we know that it\u0027s a traditional networking our deployment we will deploy and banging ITP errors crossing meaning regions so in "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:06:28",
    "text": "this figure we just missed three errors you will see when two OSPF errors and the one and call errors however but we know some in some situations we will deploy different routing protocol in different regions because some administration requirement so the mistral you will see we may deploy ice ice in the car ever to so we know that the unicast function works well because the ABI reporter brought her well to the redistribution work to redistribute has the prefix across a many errors so the unicast works well but if we\u0027d like to deploy multifaceted English networks we can use PIM protocol to do it and it works well because it\u0027s not a depends on the it only depends on the unicast routing calculation result so and we know that seeing these networks may be in some areas just for example these errors there are not too many routers in the error it just there\u0027s telling rotors in the error so and the same with other errors so if we\u0027d like to deploy pin in this network as no problem but if we\u0027d like to use a beer to replace him in this network we will face some problems and let me expand it because we know that from the existed standard dropped the beer is related to the IGP errors so the so the every IDP ever will become appear domain so then this figure we will have three beard of me it\u0027s just a part of the networks so only we see the ABR the r3 and r4 will do the overlay signaling work and the encapsulation and decapsulation work as well so we will know that many beard encapsulation and decapsulation functions will lead to the efficient forwarding so we\u0027d like to improve the efficiency of the network so we wanted to build a large period of men "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:09:29",
    "text": "throw all these errors so we can remove the state management taking the error borders and we can eliminate the encapsulation and decapsulation functions of Rome\u0027s abs so we will improve the peer forwarding efficiency but the problem is how can we achieved it so just as my side the beer domain is related to the specific ITP error for now so we\u0027d like to deploy the peer across many errors so we know that\u0027s the one the ABR to the prefix distribution work we can also redistribute as a peer info information such as BFF prefix and the PFA ID and the other associated information so the beer know the information can spread in the whole peer domain and across multiple regions errors so at first we can use the advertisement aligned with existed a GP and the BP definition so once the prefix at word highest across IDP error one by one we can also carries the peer information with it and so as well as the employers encapsulation you can also advertise it because though the parent absolution has local significance but we may use it across different errors so I really know the hing the domain can build as a peer forwarding plane and the several IDP errors errors will be merged into one beer domain so you know the one the ABR to the unique host prefix with distribution work some summarized or default route or aggregate function can be used so even when the default route for example vanity for the filter is used only one prefix will be at word highest into another error so in this situation this will high menu we have a prefix so if we like to Edward has the Associated bf IDs with the default route we must need our new extension poet the new extension is that we can carry the associated bf IDs and "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:12:29",
    "text": "all set and Edward has set into the other error so we can achieve the goal that Edward highest VFR prefix and the other pair information associated with any type of prefix so that\u0027s all I want to hear and this job has been present three times if I\u0027m a member right so we\u0027d like to call for working group at option cheerio from Hawaii just one comment I think the scenarios and requirements reached by this document it useful the document under the slides just just before this said that the p r-- p FR t imported from outside the area its advertised with summer youth i think it this should be a host perfect because not only the FC 8401 requires that the PA information is advertised with host prefix but also the architecture FC looking to clear that the bill information should advertise by IP address let\u0027s it\u0027s a hosta pigs let\u0027s have silly mini host picks so I think so my comments is that information post by this document should be advertised with your host perfect so that\u0027s my comment once the host perfect just mention a by genome can be accurate highest across different errors one by one of course the host prefix and is associated at BFI this can be Edward house in the same time so it\u0027s the first the solution for it if you do the prefix advertisement one by one across a GPRS you can do it but if we want to use default or summarized route route to across the meaning errors we must use some other method to do it so we impose there\u0027s a new extension for it these two solution is can be used together you know so you can if you only "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:15:31",
    "text": "advertise prefix one by one you can only use existing advertisement for it but if you like to use the summarized or default route for it you should use the other method otherwise you can\u0027t carry the BFI this right who may be called in nokia yeah this is definitely an interesting problem one thing I can get my head around is that when it comes to the summarize route or even the default route are you proposing that the ABR gonna track all the BFRs or PF ir for that matter on one area and we\u0027re going to create this TLB with all those BF r IDs and shoot it to the second area like I\u0027m not sure if I understand how you are proposing a summary route will advertise all the VFR ids in your core area into area one or into area 2 because you need to advertise an entire list of pfr IDs if it\u0027s a summary route right let me explain it because we like to merge all the errors in one peer domain right so only in this figure just in this figure r1 and r2 and I am an axon ry will pisa PFI are and the BFE are so the r3 and r4 needn\u0027t tupiza BFI are also bf yeah they just appear finds a forwarding plane so we use advertisement for prefix redistribute it\u0027s just work work on this a BIA and redistribute the prefix seeing this error into the core error right so one the as I am and the RSV after we have our prefix is well Edward has by the US we wrote water it can just advertise the summarized route into the core network so it\u0027s just the control plane eunuch has the work in the word husband it\u0027s just an extension to IDP yeah so as long as the the summary and and the PFR ideas in these access areas are flat but so if your OSPF let\u0027s call the the bottom left side or area one so if you have BF our ideas that are very sequential and flat on that area then it will work because you have the VFR ID range but if your PFR IDs are not flat and not sequential "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:18:32",
    "text": "in that case you need to go one by one yes Yogi\u0027s right that\u0027s that would be a large going back and forth it\u0027s and so so I think it\u0027s a challenger for the it\u0027s not actually challenges sorry it\u0027s just our computational and administration requirement so you may configure the BFI this in my area and with not continuous range for it but the it may be the advertisement to complicate in the a3 but it can do right so so if you can configure this with same range or just a little ranging and it can be edward has only a few minutes we only feel sub-ranges so it may works well in the network so it depends on your configuration on the BFI ID so we suggest that you can configure the containers dfid in one error it\u0027s it\u0027s the most efficient way to it but if you don\u0027t it\u0027s a thought man as doesn\u0027t matter the a3 how also invert I said into the other errors so and so it depends on your deployment children from how a continued master question assuming that the body water that are suitable are for in this future it should support appeared already right yes and there are three should advertise its own beer for ID and the its own fear encapsulation letter is there be a label together with the import will appear for IDs you through the area let me clarify it we know that if we build as a home networking into one beer domain there\u0027s no need to assign dfid for r3 and r4 so r3 and r4 just phone flooded the IDP extension in the network but right yeah I\u0027d get cut to your mini I\u0027m sorry and I don\u0027t need to configure and ready to be after I pee but it has to advertise the beer encapsulation is a sabot to me I\u0027m the service of actually it\u0027s under the PL information sabot your way the PL information suffered govt has the tfiid I thought very that the authority or you ready the PF idea of r3 itself doctor "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:21:33",
    "text": "information including the sanitary and the servicer TOB it\u0027s completely there since its FC 8401 a3 I\u0027m not sure I catch you totally but r3 and r4 will play the same role in the area flooding so it\u0027s the same function defining you I\u0027ve seen eight four zero one and eight four four four okay just come back to my comment it\u0027s that the same sub theory I\u0027m same service a govt should use the host prefix Nesmith further comment si side if you have the ABR to the traffic\u0027s redistribution one by one so the a3 will Edward has one prefix of one node it can do the same thing with existing IP extension but air for r3 would like to advertise motive prefix in one advertisement such as summaries summarize the prefix you should carry the Associated VF ideas of Ag rotors so I Cisco make it about clarify so the summarization is it is only an optimization right so you can just plug those things right through then they\u0027re one-to-one and at the end of day it\u0027s not tuning more than 256 updates anyway right so but if you do summarize then that that ABR will put its own a loopback address as to be a Friday mm-hmm right so it\u0027s not that complicated I think yes it\u0027s not a complicated it\u0027s just a smart extension analysis thing synchronous so you\u0027re now sub-sub theories here with the existing beer sub sub TVs also be you know possible to use with this as an example it\u0027s the first half comes to my mind is like empty year for instance you know if you do like this empty u sub sub T a week before a beer prefix they\u0027ve been useful to do that here as well because you can say this is same to you for the entire domain I\u0027m just wondering the existing documents that define a beer sub sub chillies are they strict is saying that it cannot they can only be used with that beer the existing extension anyway though I feel like it might be useful to allow certain sub sub theories that we have for the current ears subtly to be used with this uh no matter that requires some kind of "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:24:33",
    "text": "updates to some documents yes we can do it in a future version thank you one more we get more I\u0027m a comment you know I just following my comments before I think yes the Samuel water may work in some cases but it should be noted that utility to update their be architecture of c2 because that is required in the peoc temperature to use IP address sorry in IDP ah let me select new aside the IDP you already use summarized prefix I can point that out so it\u0027s um let\u0027s move this one the worst was over already I don\u0027t think it\u0027s as complicated forgetting it but I think we\u0027re moving towards you know some commonality let me just address the important part of program progress here who\u0027s read the draft alright who thinks this should be adopted right okay so we\u0027re in that same queue so we\u0027ll load that out in fact I\u0027ll address our secretary and see if we can get this thing moving thank you Thank You sandy apartment sued again oh yeah majority of the room I mean I saw it probably a good forty percent of the room with the hands up of and I don\u0027t see anyone whose hands that led to it again who read it keep your hands up who thinks it should be adopted keep your hands up alright all the readers think it should be adopted there\u0027s a good dozen at least that\u0027s pretty good for a doc all right excellent thanks Mike Thank You sandy all right back to legenda pin signaling and yeah that\u0027s all you\u0027re doing both these you doing pin an ml DP signaling both right okay no I put the name on top packet mister on so pin should be first Tim signaling powered by a v8 so who made call in nokia we uploaded the version 8 or the VA and there were some good comments on the working group with regard to this draft we added three new sections or three new clarifications one is on ecmp basically what we are saying is that on the IBB are when you try to find the ebbr order there are multiple EVP RS you "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:27:35",
    "text": "can actually look at the CSG and try to load balanced Europe in signaling over multiple egress PVR\u0027s so the next one was there was a comment on the join attribute address family we clarified that that address family is actually the team packet address family that is arriving on the ingress bber router and that\u0027s the one that we are actually actually passing through the pin signaling next is like this and last but not least we clarified the PM SM we put a comment in there that it\u0027s gonna work nicely with the static RP or embedded RP for ipv6 but when it comes to them more complicated SM aureus and functionality like PSR or auto-discovery and all these other type of SM mechanism disrupt will not work nicely and we probably need another graph in the future to address these concerns and these challenges so this is the latest version and next slide please so where we are standing now with these comments we\u0027re wondering whether there\u0027s any other cavities in the draft and if there are no comments questions I think we done last call on this graph twice so we\u0027re wondering what\u0027s the next step whose readiness form all right keep your hands up if you think it\u0027s ready for last call keep them up drop them otherwise yeah we\u0027ve addressed those actually so no one doesn\u0027t go back the list is well I think they\u0027re too weak may have come up with you bribed again just for clarity we may be accelerated so we\u0027ll go and drop by drop based on history if you\u0027ve gone through two or three like this we\u0027re a band guys sell a consensus on good to start over again but which way this is Pizza going yep we should probably at least clear with the pin working group as well do you think there\u0027s anything issues in there pin group chair as far as far as I mean I mean I did Estevan also deeply the draft pretty carefully not this person but the previous one and I think it should be pretty good from pin perspective but it\u0027s great to get of course we\u0027re doing a team working group so so I would say we can I can send emails with but we\u0027ll just say there\u0027s the last call and in beer and please go and have a look at the draft synchronize our last call together yeah thanks to Montgomery San Francisco so Jessica stone will it be third full last call or do this out last Cup so this would be third time last call so will it be full full fledge two weeks last caller celebrate celebrate this cut it down I mean if we give more in the Templar but "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:30:36",
    "text": "this is one that has been discussed extensively we\u0027ve edited along the way I think we\u0027ve got this to a roll all the players have been reading and following so it\u0027s not likely to wake people like except maybe those in pin who haven\u0027t seen it so I think accelerated would be fine thanks you\u0027re the next one all right we should do is watch this see that see that it was a pressure part just not to come along Karthi I says what\u0027s magical oh yeah it\u0027s incredible all right yeah so this is a I want to use my words very carefully I was gonna say extending in signaling for EM LDPE but I know there there\u0027s a I\u0027m gonna get a slap on the wrist for that so this is ml DP signaling over a beer core basically it\u0027s the same idea again what we are trying to do here is we are trying to extend any legacy multicast protocol over a beer core without actually affecting the access legacy multicast protocols it should be a very smooth upgrade when you grab a segment of the network and you decide to go to beer we shouldn\u0027t affect any of the software upgrades or any of the functionality on the legacy multicast protocol in this case it\u0027s the NL DP so basically what we are doing is that we are using RFC 70 60 which is TL DP and upstream assign labels to assign a label in the beer core and we stitch that label the upstream assign label which is assigned by the ebbr actually to the ml DP downstream label and that\u0027s how we actually complete the solution of signaling MPLS in this case MLB pitcher of beer core so there has not been many changes in version one there were some comments which were you know asking us clarify some aspects of it in the draft next slide please so one thing I added was that I added ecmp case for for this also so the same thing on the IBB are you can look at the route and and the opaque like the effect that is arriving from downstream and based on based on that fake you can actually load balance your point-to-multipoint tunnels over multiple egress TBR\u0027s next slide so on the ebbr procedure again it\u0027s the same as it was on the previous draft I\u0027m not gonna go over it again for the sake of time next slide please and on the data part we did not do any changes compared to the last time that we presented so again for the sake of time I\u0027m gonna skip over it so where we stand "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:33:39",
    "text": "with this is that I think we have multiple players on this draft and we are asking for working group adaptation to make this draft part of it working with you who\u0027s read the draft keep your hands up the things should be adopted all right you got a solid support I\u0027d say eight and eight thank you number four mr. Stig yeah hi so this is about the beer extension to our champion ml d so as you know we\u0027ve been discussing about an item pure ml d overlay for beer so kind of similar to that pin signaling we just spoke or discussed if you want to use I jump your ml d as an overlay and as to figure out with with PIM is that it\u0027s good to have a way of identifying exactly who the receivers are like who are the Debbie egress routers what I should say basically when you receive a pin joint how do you know exactly the be Friday and so know who the joint came from and also forum p.m. of the overlays we want a way of identifying who who sent that idea P remedy report and who who wants to receive yeah human exactly who is that beer receiver anyway so in order to do this for a GMP remedy we need to extend onion p.m. LD messages and we don\u0027t really want to make any changes to those protocols on a three habitude but i think there\u0027s an easy way of doing this so this draft it does just try to do this in a generic way and by having like a IGMP remedy type extension because it\u0027s generic and it\u0027s kind of a new thing to extend our EMP remedy messages I think this needs to go to that pin working group that is responsible for those protocols let me just address that I think their conclusions need to happen there but in the same way and this is an arrow addressed to you directly the same way with ISS and OSPF those changes need to be made in those groups but the change requests and the information about what needs to go in it came here so we did the work here and then we we\u0027ve brought in the working group to conclude the work you know we basically take it on so I think I mean stay you\u0027re the chair over there I mean do you think there\u0027s enough information there to complete it should we adopt to here first progresses and then move it over all right this right now I\u0027m presenting this "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:36:39",
    "text": "in both working groups and they\u0027ll see what people think but but I would say when it comes to OSPF for instance there\u0027s all you know there already was a well-defined way of extending or defining right right and there but in this case there no no other extensions done for Imperium LD and we also create a new registry and stuff so I feel like it\u0027s more radical okay it\u0027s an architecture ship and some were called shop all right all right let\u0027s go to the next slide so the nice thing is looking at our comparison to your MLD where since you are FCS is that they they all discuss how you can have additional data in in IGMP and all the reports and queries and what they say is basically if an existing implementation receives a message with some additional data they should compute the checksum Oh everything but they must ignore whatever data comes whatever additional data there is so that means that if we somehow put some extension their existing m2 implementations should completely ignore that it was extending the bytes so whatever that might be at the end so if during this of course we don\u0027t expect also like Arjun piano the implementations to be updated overall the key thing though is like in this case you only want this for beer encapsulation so the only devices that would need to be upgraded to support this thing would be beer ingress or egress routers but if somehow those reports are carries would leak you know existing implementation should be more yet extra data but yeah I think the main question and primer tree probably will be is it safe to modify or Jim PRM LD and is this a slippery slope what people want extent are you p.m. only for other purposes as well but we\u0027ll see what happens with that okay next slide so this is what it might look like so you have the existing RMP query format but then at the end there you have an additional data and what I\u0027m trying to define is an extension type and then the actual value so the idea with a type I guess that\u0027s on the next slide let\u0027s go to that the idea with the type is that if this for some reason and up adding extensions for some other purpose as well we can tell them apart so what I want to say is if an implementation supports extension and they supported the specific extension type then they process that according to the specification like like this draft if if an implementation doesn\u0027t support "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:39:40",
    "text": "the specific type or or extension at all they would just ignore that extension and process the the EMP must Emily message just looked at you today but if it didn\u0027t have this extension type and someone also did some extension for another purpose and implementations might accidentally try to parse parse it and you know treat the data in the wrong way okay yeah and apart from this draft I\u0027ve updated the the MLD overlay draft and basically saying that any any iymp MLD messages sent be encapsulated must have this extension we mostly need this for reports so that you know exactly what settle what the beer said should be when you when you forward multicast data but I think it could be useful for like logging or other purposes to that an implementation can know for instance where a query came from and just as an implementation thing is probably easier to just always do this for all messages rather than treating queries and reports differently that\u0027s something that we can discuss here so so what I\u0027m trying to do here is one document maybe in the pin working group that focuses on why do we need to extend a G\u0026P remedy and what\u0027s a generic way of doing it well the actual use of this would be in this working group and for for this overlay draft one thing we could consider for instance two is right now the dicks the exact extension type with a value the TLV canal isn\u0027t this draft but they could potentially you know remove this this tell me to the overlay draft and just have the extension with a registry in token working group but this but I will figure this out I think I hope some of you will be in the pin the pin working group later today it\u0027s actually all here today\u0027s we\u0027re gonna lock the doors and spend the rest evening all right that\u0027s it I think okay yeah so this is this is the actual extension that we are using for beer and maybe could be defined in this working group of sorted out yeah okay gotcha so the bfr appreciate is actually IP address the orange in the message yeah so it\u0027s basically the B originates right what\u0027s the same info that they put in the pin John attributes for the I\u0027m signalling right right or the sub M EPN PTA okay I think that\u0027s it "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:42:45",
    "text": "it is it what\u0027s the status of this we actually mentioned two drops here you get percent yes so the IgM p.m. of the overlay drops I would say that\u0027s that\u0027s basically dumb but we need to conclude them on this though yeah he\u0027s got a point of registration at a point to the extension right yeah and also letter maybe this specific new TL Anika no but it\u0027s called which document that should be in actually this encouraging because for what\u0027s one of our documents is actually being held up by another working group the way around all right excellent yeah are you in the next one too yeah to ask questions yeah yeah so the word pin should you remove kind of from the title right because that\u0027s the only if it\u0027s a pin working group draftin oh that\u0027s why it\u0027s okay yeah so I was just wondering from the deployment thing right so it is it kind of we we still have this with fear because we started with IGMP because if I\u0027m now trying to explain to somebody why he would want to do the IGMP overlay as opposed to using pin you know when when when would this be preferable now that we have the the pin document as well because every every edge router that is doing pin obviously also supports IGMP so hmm I addressed that it seems to me if you\u0027ve got hosts connected networks not jumpy message is basically that message now originated is copied up the state it\u0027s an easy mechanism why would you depend if you had connecting pin damage him message just coming through her propagates that\u0027s not easy to apology answer other than that just religion you know cuz if you\u0027re gonna use that just as membership signaling independent of what your edges are yeah I\u0027m not certain why do you pick one over the other yeah and and well I think it\u0027s a lot more natural in pin to have basically this concept of the RP for ASM or so I mean this one to me would only be good if I really want to try to kill off pin and just simply five just for SSM right so I mean that would be my first thought of what is what makes sense all I\u0027m saying right if there is any chance to give you know guidance you know if people look into we can only implement one of it in or IGMP right so first right so like all I\u0027m saying is we\u0027re giving so many alternatives and we want to make the you know beer successful so how do we kind of what would be our guidance if people come back and say we can\u0027t implement everything at once use BGP yeah so yeah okay two things I would say it this one is yeah if you are running beer like end to end like all the way to the edges you don\u0027t need even "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:45:46",
    "text": "neither PIM implementation on on the routers but also it\u0027s I\u0027ve done it myself it\u0027s quite easy to modify an existing are jumpy I didn\u0027t mean like you need to enter it now all I\u0027m saying is I think ok sure yeah no pointing to the other document and giving go I agree it\u0027s good to have some guidance for people sure yep alright so this other draft so we have a RFC in PIM for this way of flooding source information throughout the PIM domain and the idea is yeah it\u0027s described here the idea is it\u0027s a little bit like PSR but it\u0027s like source information instead of our pian or grid mappings so the idea is when I first a browser learns to a new source instead of sending a pin register to an RP it would originate this PF MSD message and that message is kind of similar to be as far as like forwarded hop-by-hop throughout the ping domain the idea is you don\u0027t need any art piece or anything so Allah stop router router with some it receiver interest can just join desk emoji immediately so we have this four pin today and it would be great if we could work with beer as well basically if you have a beer in the middle of a ping domain like for the pim signaling it would be nice if these messages can make it through the domain and that means that if you have let me go to the next slide yeah so like in this case this this cloud in the middle here is Weller\u0027s the clouds the middle cloud this is a beer domain and then you have pim domains on each side and locked with a pin signaling we would like to some pin joints for the beer domain but if you have but the if you are deployed PF MSD with pim done basically you need somehow to get that source active information to make it through the pin domain through the beer domain through the other side so that you know that you should actually send them a mask emoji join so main purpose of this draft or one of the main purposes is to just make sure that PF MSD messages can make it through the beer domain so you basically are flooded not within just a ping domain on the left here but they make it through to their pin the main across the beer domain next slide please but this this draft has an additional extension it\u0027s not required necessarily just for the bass pfm functionality but one of the issues with a pin overlay is how do we determine where to send a pin joint I know the the pin mobile a draft supreme signaling draft has like four different ways of doing this but I feel "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:48:46",
    "text": "like this is in some ways an easier way of doing it but this the proposal here is when the beer border router between the pin domain and the beer domain passes this TLB into the beer domain it takes the Esk Maji haul time information that is already in pfm but it adds a metric to that so the idea is that these border routers can signal how close am I to the source and then when these messages reaches to the right side they\u0027re to the BF ER that can use this information if it if it wants to join and determine which which router should I join towards so so I think this could be quite useful for the Pima Valley as well by the way in this case there\u0027s no art piece or anything as the part of the use reason to use pfm so to be all Eskimo he joins and the rest here is just defining these new TL amis is basically when a beer router is forwarding pfm message into beer it adds it identifies itself with a subdomain be Freddy and that stuff and then on the next slide there is this other thing where basically you can associate a metric with sourcing group information think that\u0027s it maybe there\u0027s one more slide at the end a lot it\u0027s really really hard to read this main thing is that you associate a metric whether source information yeah presented this here once before and didn\u0027t get much feedback last time we\u0027re hoping to get some comments I have to admit I\u0027m afraid to comment because I\u0027m I\u0027m still trying to get my head around what the intent is I mean you said to make sure that the message got through the domain well that\u0027s part of it it\u0027s not just by getting it out the other side yeah so it\u0027s just something they might do it means doing with it because so to two things one is if you have beer in the middle between two pin domains and you want to make use soapy FM with PIM then you need make use of it where you\u0027re right okay let\u0027s let\u0027s say that someone has deployed pfm fuckin sure and then they decide later oh let\u0027s upgrade part of our network to use beer done for pfm to still work you need a messages to pass through the building and through yeah there any additional information within the beer domain just be extracted from that information in the packet right so for so I would say the minimum I would like the minimum functionality is for those messages to just be encapsulated tunnel free beers yeah that that\u0027s sufficient "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:51:48",
    "text": "for the base functionality but the other part I\u0027m proposing is adding these new TVs could be useful for for you know e routers the inside right where to send the pin joints basically who is closest to the source and and yeah we could come up also with some kind of hashing or whatever if the metrics start the same or something oh Jenny Saeed Abedini it\u0027s works for peer overlay right it\u0027s used to connect to the SG information across the beer no man right yes I would say it\u0027s basically if you are if you have PIM and you have a beer in the middle and you\u0027re deploying PIM signaling the beer then this is this extension can be used for the ping signaling to decide where to send the joints but also it okay so they put it this way yeah if you have deployed pfm in in PIM to begin with and you decide I want to have beer in the middle don\u0027t mean leave this for pfm to function but the second part is if you deploy him signaling overlay then this can help help you with determining where to send the joints what the beer ingress router should be and the second question is about the word Heisman because I think if my understanding is right you should send this message from the BFI I are the egress router which is near to the sauce so yeah so people using egress in different ways but you see on the left side here these two routers are closest to the source yes so we want this router on the receiver side not to determine which so these shouldn\u0027t send the pinyon - yes my question is one\u0027s the BFI are the egress router and what has message which what destination will it be filled at you know it\u0027s it\u0027s it\u0027s sent to all one as father that sent to all be routers similar to IGMP ml the overlay you just set all the bits okay I just come from it okay thank you a Loredana feature a technologies speaking as an individual so I may be completely lost here you getting the metric from the AGP in "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:54:48",
    "text": "the beer domain true so this guy will use the metric in this domain on the left side here whatever our GP metric it has to the source yeah right but as a information goes through the beer domain on the other side the metric is the metric through the beer Duane so the question I really okay so when you receive so the TV\u0027s are not modified as they passed through the beer domain so when this guy on the right receives the message it will contain a metric that was seen by this guy over here so I guess what you want to do is small s maybe look at what is your what is your magic to this guy across the beer domain and add that to the perhaps telemetric if you see what I mean what it says currently I think it\u0027s just useful join whatever is closest to the source here but yeah it makes sense to consider the metric inside the be okay so the real question that I have is before when sandy talked about her multiple the main things you asked if you could pass through their British you should point other tlbs maybe like this one right of course as you pass through the British period when you\u0027re going through multiple areas that have different metrics potentially even different routing protocols right so it sounds that if you were to pass that through that point and you used the metric inside of your domain that it would be kinda weird right because maybe you have OSPF here where the 28 is is was a metrical mm and the other side and then your actual opinion cloud there is I don\u0027t know something else so what do you do and I know that Sandy\u0027s draft is not yeah but from the support earlier it sounds like yeah so there say but they\u0027re saying a functionality in BGP called I think a GP correct which tries to do the same thing and tries to carry a metric across multiple a SS and so it\u0027s called the accumulated geometric or something like that so maybe look at that because that I think they they did it on purpose so that you can have multiplies you peace and calm places and then sort of accumulate the metric because if you want the closest right the closest is not always gonna be whoever gave me the route right it may be yes well said it may be that one goes across never in a criss cross or something so take a look at that okay yeah sure okay thanks just or semi-solid he just four hours question and we think that we will get the metric from many ways as such as ITP opt P or something else and maybe we can configure with the and by the administrator to concur with the metric across I yes "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:57:48",
    "text": "so maybe we have a dissection to explain it in the draft right yeah thank you yeah I would also say one thing to consider is I mean haven\u0027t thought much about this but could potentially you know just have a simple draft that just defines two simp the basic bf mo a beer which is sufficient for just a pimp functionality this stuff for the metrics and stuff that would be you know potentially something additional if we feel feel is useful but need to think more about whether yeah you need to do that or not yeah yeah questions or wish dad we\u0027re dead there all right yeah right alright so I guess I\u0027m just happy you guys want to read the draft and give me feedback get some discussion on the list and I\u0027ll think more about the metrics and yeah as you made you maybe split them right if you need if you need the just the compliance to get the message through the domain I have a film which probably separate those except yeah yeah excellent mixtape we got flex I\u0027ll go you say good morning montgome know from Cisco Systems I will be talking about flex L go for beer and in the current 0th person of the draft Rick is more of problem statement that what we are trying to solve so we have seen many requirement where network has been sliced using IG v flex L go and each of the slice is has different kind of capability it could be maybe high-bandwidth low-latency or anything else and how are we going to use beer or how are we going to use flex l go in the beer domain that is what this document is intended to talk about and right now one of the mechanism I think we can one of the mechanism which we are thinking about is having sub-domain per slice our / I GP algorithm and we will we\u0027ll be using are extending the procedure defined in the beer bar IPA draft and which will handle this mechanism and it is just for example it\u0027s showing that each in case of MPLS data plane you get label for sub domain or per slice and it can be used so IGP extension will be used to distribute these information so "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:00:49",
    "text": "that\u0027s all and the more detail will be added for the next IETF with all the really related extensions going ochio yet this is definitely interesting right something that we need to definitely work on in the field working group and you know as we had conversation previously I can see the sub domain feeling very nicely because it\u0027s just the way that you know beer is design the label I I wasn\u0027t sure if I could get my head around it like to mean like a label is a sub domain concept anyway so with that one I think we need to do a bit more thinking but they are definitely something interesting here yeah Tony King yeah so this is just right coupling the way it\u0027s supposed to be used is how the algorithm done and manage is you know not that important you have this bar and you know the IPA concept to like pick up all over long run a completely different computation yes i cisco made a clarification so the label just describes the best idea right so yes this combination of you know subdomain set missing length right that you sign label to that combination that\u0027s what it is maybe my question has be over the producer a president Eyring because I because we use we know that a beer use ITC as under a protocol so we know that blacks echo has been implemented during the IDP expansion so the secret we just you can I use this ITP extension the underlay to achieve the ago for the leaders changing that include the panelists or something else right so I\u0027m not know I don\u0027t understand much more should be doing in beer itself right we just follow the IDP of college as peer for calculation for the Flex echo so we just give the result under me if we if you really need some extension in beer itself to support edge so I GP your flexible extension is going to give you the slice but how are you going to inject from the ingress at which part it has to go you know there will be are making from the subdomain or something else is talking about okay thank you thank you any other questions so who\u0027s read this rap we had one called mics and this is work should be done who thinks he should be adopted and picked up in the group same hands another six or eight excellent "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:03:49",
    "text": "alright we\u0027re bouncing a little quick which is nice and we are on a VPN [Music] right there oh yeah I think it\u0027s my mistake yeah the trough name is no longer that oh yeah anyway it\u0027s I just pulled my navigator anyway good morning Carolyn presenting this on behalf of my authors Jeffrey has presented this a couple of times already and the idea is to to have beer for evpn services so after RFC 85 56 it feels so many natural to bring together the beauty of Vivi PNM beer so this is about having beer as a provider tunnel for a VPN traffic European not only IP multicast on a VPN but in general bump traffic it\u0027s very similar to a beer for um VPN and actually some of the the text is taken from RFC 85 56 there are some European specific aspects that are described here things like a leaf tracking some you know stuff related to data planes and how you handle multihoming and segmentation stuff so we go to the next slide please yeah the way we encode the beer information there are no surprises here it\u0027s pretty similar to end VPN we we put everything on the on the PTA in the premise I attend a lot to get that we advertise along with I met route and SP MC 80 routes which are they equivalent routes to MVP an IPM CNS pmcid routes so same kind of information from an EVP in perspective PR tunnel is just like you know an aggregate tunnel so we need an extra piece of information for the multiplexing the traffic at the egress that\u0027s a that goes India in the label that\u0027s an upswing assign label by the via fire and it\u0027s identifying what to do a day a day is pretty much the bridge table if you have any VPN service or if you have an ABR a a SBR the dip into the MC you also have some facts that we use for leaf tracking if we go to the next slide so yeah lifter about leaf tracking we use if you have pure lair to bump traffic we you know the I met routes are enough to do the tractor the Leafs "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:06:49",
    "text": "where you need to send an information if you have IP multicast if you are snooping and using proxy and the VPN services you use the esmad routes the EVP and routes type 6 in some cases you do you may want to do some optimizations if you don\u0027t want to send Asma crowds you know for every single flow and in such a case we also have in Indian as BMC routes and leaf routes so that you can do some tracking so you can have some kind of mix between you know an estimate per flow or then you can track you know depending on how much flooding versus control plane routes you want next slide please the other aspect that we are looking at in this trough is because II VPN works for IP overlay talents or MPLS tunnels we also defining how to you know how the data plane works with beer so in the first case if you\u0027re using IP overlay tunnels like the expand and V GRE or genève basically you will have the beer header and immediately after you will have to the exam or NV grea genève header and then you will have the payload which is always an Ethernet frame there is no IP UDP header before the for instance the VX and header and the reason why is because you already have a maybe or Heather you know the information about what the next header is so we we save some overhead with this and when we use this along with all active multihoming there is something called esprit Corizon that you need in elective multikill meaning in order to avoid loops for bump traffic and here because in the beer header you have the V F IR ID so you know what the source of the traffic is you so you can apply a splitter aizen just in the same case you would do with other tunnels in in the case of MPLS we have the beer header and immediately below that you have an MPLS label to identify the bridge table and you may have a know yet another label to identify the source ESI of the of the packet that is also used for a splitter isin with all active multihoming next slide please so the drop also talks about segmentation which may be used in certain situations for instance when you you want to use different tunnel types in different areas or autonomous systems but you can also use this in a larger peer domain to divide it into you know multiples mail and smaller subdomains and when you do this segmentation on the ABR ASPRS as usual you need to change or "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:09:50",
    "text": "to update the PTA on the I met or or this beam surrounds so next slide please whoops sorry about that in the air slides it was looking okay anyway so what the the title of this slide says is what is new in the revision 0-2 so what we added there was a discussion on the mailing list and basically when you are using this along with IP overlay tunnels and and you want to use PHP a couple of slides ago I was saying that for for instance for VX LAN we don\u0027t use an IP UDP header after the beer header however if you do PHP basically you remove the beer Heather as well so you may end up with you know packets without beer header or IP UDP and just with the VX LAN header and getting to the egress note so there is no wouldn\u0027t understand what that is so what we are saying this revision of the draft is if you are gonna use PHP you must add an IP UDP header before the VX on header now once you do that you need an IP DA in that IP header so which one to use is something that you can statically configured at a ingress P so that you you know what to expect or we added this auxilary information on the PTA where you can actually add a tunnel encapsulation TLV defining what their IP das as an IP multicast address so you have both just pretty much next slide please so next steps is to request request for feedback about this version and after that we really believe the document is ready to progress working the classical who\u0027s read the dawkins current form we\u0027ve got keep your hands up not too many all right who thinks just ready for last call based on those who read it you got a comment all right good I\u0027m calm now from Cisco Systems so I\u0027m not sure I followed it in best so by any chance we have presented it our took this document to best as well because it\u0027s more of any pin construct so when we are doing logical it might be good to involve this as some script make sense Thanks prepare slides please enjoy your soil and by Pia ICU fashion is the the eternal encapsulation start here right so what we will do we will inherit all the encapsulation tabs from this structure "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:12:50",
    "text": "or we will define the type 4 for this tunnel because I only see three tunnels are mentioning attractor right now such as the Geneva and the explained and a median but so we know that the as many internal taps are defined you know the tunnel encapsulation charge so if we really expanded this job to include all the tunnels here or just only mentioned we just only use the string types is to heat interaction so the new piece of information we are interested in as it\u0027s really the IP destination address because normally in any VPN you already send the I met routes or the MC routes with PGP encapsulation as extended community that is telling you whether they you know the tunnel is the exam or I\u0027m pls or whatever so I do not think that is necessary so but yeah I mean in theory with any IP overlay tunnel you couldn\u0027t include the the code point and the IP destination address because you know that the idea of encapsulation dropped we will expand all the tunnels information through the community extension right and it will be stagnant by PDP protocol and it can also be used in unity on right now then because of our maybe some we only used some the listed three types for the Edward husband and the use it for the encapsulation that because the the main idea of of you is to use the tunnel encapsulations of all the data packet and right now right you want to use the tunnel encapsulation folder data packet and there\u0027s many tunnel encapsulation function can be used to encapsulate adopt a capacitor right so so so my question is if we only define three kind types panel here so if we only support three types and after is a beer Heather because it\u0027s a community just sitting there next to protocol right this is mainly based on the air they work we\u0027ve done on best basa we\u0027ve defined evpn documents for IP overlay channels and MPLS towns before IP overlay tenants it\u0027s mainly RFC 80 365 and defines VX LAN and the GRE there is also document for Geneva and now we also have a document for us our v6 so those are pretty much the IP encapsulations so that\u0027s why this draft is focusing on on those right ok so if "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:15:50",
    "text": "you\u0027re missing something you\u0027re because the other encapsulation can be inherited from the IP or UDP header every how you get the information from the IP UDP header yeah yeah and this this is only optional you can always yeah of course you need the IP UDP header and then you can always for the IP destination address you can always configure it thank you Thank You Laura Thunder Oh Andy gonna ask after Sandy\u0027s question live away so I think what she means is that the TLV has a bunch of other stuff that you don\u0027t care about so even if it\u0027s optional what happens if the tunnel type is something else so eventually when you specify this please write in the draft what should happen when you if you receive that TLB with some tongs I does not support it mm-hmm what should you do yeah that\u0027s unfair we can we can add more text how about that yeah thank you you\u0027re the questions whose will went through the count already right did account a new read/write sim guys all right all right thank you very much thank you it was like four and four yeah blue shoes are there any blue shoes in the room no blue shoes look at that sandals and socks the German Way thank you to Arles I know you comply okay so we have a working group last called since 104 still looking for you know additional reviews please check at it last time we were at 103 oh sorry zero three now we\u0027re there are five with the review feedback a little bit more from a dirt but already done or three and a great review from Jeffrey so right now I think we\u0027re standing at five approvals to move on Jeffrey hadn\u0027t come back after all five so probably been too busy and missing here in action unfortunately just as chair that land that that thread was just like this week or last week too right was it well not obviously more than two weeks ago before they for us yeah before okay okay next slide okay so so basically in the introduction we so all the changes are non-functional they\u0027re all you know trying to improve the readability and the explanations given "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:18:51",
    "text": "on some of the more complex topics so one of the things we actually been brain some a little bit in role was also using a bloom filter so there is a reference there just to related work that had been starting with bloom filters and you know why we\u0027re not using bloom filters here in Beauty then people didn\u0027t like the the word layers for you know the picture showing so this is not called components you know beauty controller and the routing overlay sorry routing underlay and so on so just you know using term components likewise a reference to this beer multicast HTTP response draft that we have describing you know HTTP and beer te as a use case for the flow overlay signaling mechanisms because that\u0027s what we\u0027re using there there was a section 3.4 with with the initial big purity forwarding example you know two people said that there there was a need earlier in the document to do something so in all three we had added a bigger to new examples and so this old staff stuff is meant to be removed by RFC editor unless you know any other reviewer chimes in and says no I also want to keep this old example next ok so then leave paprs so oh no now I\u0027m going to kill the remote audience by going here so basically edit this picture here to explain better the difference between a normal B fer that can be a transit device so this is basically you\u0027re saying I should try to stay in the cage and okay alright okay so right so so you see this is what you know in service provider terms we call a u-turn attachment where you have the two PE nodes attaching to two P notes to reduce the total number of Link\u0027s we need this is the more traditional more expensive PE attachment in this case this PE can be transit for traffic from that P node all the way to this P node and so that basically means we need to allocate individual bits for these two peas whereas these being leaf nodes we only need to attach Beauty bits for the four links therefore saving bits and so this is now hopefully a lot clearer through the picture and obviously for these nodes never to become transit nodes the routing protocol of course also has to be configured accordingly in case of link failure there can be no transit traffic through the PE also standard way on how in such a network you would do it because obviously these links are not meant to have enough capacity for transit traffic next so then also the the somewhat compressed "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:21:54",
    "text": "form of representing B IFT entries for ecmp what this stuff meant seemed to haven\u0027t been clear enough so through the document where many of these where they\u0027ve been expanded into saying we\u0027re doing an EC and P over you know multiple different direct neighbor ships forward connected layer to adjacency and basically the EC MP is picking based on the seat one of those so hopefully this is a lot better readable now oh yeah and they have been spoke at an explanation how basically there happens book is kind of you know a flood optimization because we\u0027ve seen a lot of you know deployments with multicast you know for TV services where you knew all this program stuff needs to be flooded to all the next a layer in the network let\u0027s say the the next aggregation stuff so you can really assign a single bit to all the spoke links because everything needs to be flooded next slide so then the EC and P stuff obviously you know the whole polarization stuff is always the most complicated thing to to work through so the text is refined in O five now saying that we don\u0027t need to standardize the ecmp algorithm but obviously it needs to be documented so that the the proprietary mechanism needs to be documented so that the controller can calculate the e CMP decision and there is an example of an algorithm given so basically when you have a packet and you have an EC and P for a bunch of adjacencies with a particular seat the most classical algorithms being used in the industry is that you take the entropy from the beer header your XOR that with the seat and then you do a modulo by the number of adjacent seats you have and then you forward it to the resulting adjacency from 0 to n minus 1 right so that\u0027s basically this predictable form of you know modulo ecmp that\u0027s done very often also classical in IP multicast and the whole point here was to have the seed so that in different stages of this forwarding you can configure the ecmp to use a different seat and therefore avoid this typical multistage ecmp polarization problem that for example because everything goes left here in the next stage that also goes left here so nothing ever goes on this link for example okay next one then that was also routed adjacency so in the introduction in the beginning there was an explanation that routed adjacencies are kind of like this you know I\u0027m not using the terminology segments from SR but kind of the the line of thought is the same that you\u0027re kind of jumping over points where you don\u0027t need to do routing and you\u0027re only interested to specify on which kind of note or interface on the next point where you want to continue your traffic steering you want to come out and this whole picture seemed in the review from "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:24:55",
    "text": "Jeffery to be too confusing so I simplified it just having one stage here right you\u0027re on one of these ingress routers you want to get across this and you have these two different cases like I want to get into this next hop across one of these two interfaces so those are two bits or I just want to get into this node so basically my bit is assigned to the node logically and loopback interface so pretty much the same what we\u0027re doing in SR so hopefully this is now clearer by being simplified next slide so then at the end of the whole section for which is all these optimizations for the PC controller and br-2 e to minimize the number of bit positions is this stuff that I was trying to avoid in before because it\u0027s kind of the most complicated one in that\u0027s kind of how can I reuse bps in a peer to e environment in a general fashion and the general fashion of course is I cannot reuse a bit position multiple times along the same path because it have been cleared the first time you use it but you can of course reuse bit positions when you can calculate that they\u0027ll always only happen in parallel across different branches of a tree right so you\u0027re basically saying here I\u0027m setting bit five and then replication happens and somewhere down here you\u0027re always reusing the same five so in structured networks for example at the edge of interfaces toward different areas those are kind of replications where you can save a lot of bits when you when you have it very structured and you\u0027re replicating first and then the same bit will achieve the same kind of traffic engineering further down in each area so that was kind of added because that that seemed to have been a point of confusion before from the review from Jeffrey so and then at 4:10 there is a summary of restating all these nine types of optimization of the bit positions with a simple paragraph each too so kind of to close that section so I overhauled the explanation of the forwarding pseudocode no change in the forwarding pseudocode but the idea was to explain the distinction between beer and beer te with respect to the fact that beer by you know having these few these the most optimized number of bits just for the destination will basically have the dependencies between the different replication that if you\u0027re sending out a packet to the first you know interface for the first bit that you are routing across that interface you\u0027ll be clearing out logically all the other bits that would you would also send to the same outgoing interface right and that creates a dependency between the replication you are doing whereas in beer te well we need to have a bit for the outgoing interface and that triggers to the replication there and the note doesn\u0027t really care whether it\u0027s replicated further down to multiple receivers so more bits needed but for that matter the operation of determining a replication to every individual bit is "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:27:57",
    "text": "independent of any other bits so you could for example allocate a single CPU core for every bloody bit and perform the execution the replication in parallel so that was basically hopefully the the newer text is better expressing that next slide right so then I had something like trying in this section 7 which was more operational stuff to say that the total number of bits we need for the transit hops to specify the path maybe between 20 and 80 percent so then dirt challenged me okay where are the hundred pages of research paper with good combinations so I basically had to admit that we\u0027ve done some you know on whiteboards as some example but we haven\u0027t really published any good you know quantitative analyses so basically now the text is more weak in here and saying that you know the number of bits we need can vary widely based on the topology right I think 20 to 80 percent is good but you know you don\u0027t want to write it down if you don\u0027t have a good reference beauty and segment routing so there was an edit explanation how senders can determine receivers to pen send packets to in a way that relates to the use case from the HTTP side right so in beer the sender just needs to know here my destinations that I know with a name or IP address and I know a bit for each of them so I just or these bits together in Ebola I got my beer packet and the case of beer te we pretty much have the same thing but instead of having just a single bit for every receiver you have a bit string of the path to the receiver and then you\u0027re ordering these together and that gives you the beer tea tree so for the sender the same type of simple operation and in before I had included these type of you know independent branches type of calculations from the controller if you have something like Steiner trees which are more optimized you know the sender has more work to do when he adds or remove the receiver because the whole tree changes but in the normal shortest path type of routing we have this makes it as easy so there was the the missing explanation here next light I think we might be yep and that is the end right so yeah so Jeffrey hadn\u0027t come back but hopefully would be up to six volts in that so any more reviews highly welcome so that we can finish the us call yeah please do I mean we\u0027ve this has been you know this is a part of process I got a bit Jeff read some good feedback great amendments to it I want to make sure that we go from here beyond just the two of you talking right so after he\u0027s got this edited from the last comments that were on the list primarily from Jeffrey\u0027s so to get the conversation going again will restart the last call that rolling all right anyway else having issues about that dock any questions about that dock alright "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:31:00",
    "text": "excellent thanks to Arles okay these six requirements if you need to point to the slide you do but you do that I got to do this okay alright so just a quick recap of the purpose of this draft there were a variety of v6 replication using beer solutions that have been proposed and we decided that it might be best to come up with a problem statement draft which we did and then the chairs suggested as the working group disagreed upon is to have a requirements draft first in this requirements draft we do summarize the different solutions but it\u0027s not a solutions draft petition we will be moving that to the appendix and there are variety of solutions there\u0027s you know we used to provide that be six replication using beer there\u0027s beer Ethernet there\u0027s usually that\u0027s not destination options you can put the bit string in the destination address there\u0027s encapsulation there\u0027s a capsulation encoding there\u0027s a variety of solutions and again we put that in there but we just need to focus right now on the requirements and that\u0027s the the purpose of the draft one thing that we could well one thing that we do have in the draft at the very beginning and this something that we talked about last time and that is using the term native v6 and that was a little bit of a discussion last IETF and we still have it in there that term is also used in the n° bori workgroup charter so maybe we as a working group need to decide what exactly that means in this draft it just means it\u0027s not encapsulated in Ethernet or MPLS if that needs to change then let us know since last IETF we\u0027ve continued to develop the requirements section we\u0027ve created a github repository for updates to this draft because of the weirdness going on between the US and China right now the governments aren\u0027t too good of friends so if we put things in the github just to make sure everything\u0027s in the clear and to cover a basis we have removed some solutions with regards to pros and cons wording we\u0027ve kind of gone back and forth on this as well we first were trying to stay as neutral as possible then it was recommended that we do provide some pros and cons and then in this latest draft we\u0027ve kind of softened that approach and just let the solutions dress do their own justification and just focus on the requirements we provide a little bit of commentary under the requirements and that may still need to be debated debated a bit because the authors are proposed do you have their "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:34:02",
    "text": "names on one of the solutions dress my name is on two of the solutions dress and and Canada to fast forward a year from now really right now we have two drafts that are being actively worked on there\u0027s other surprises as well there right now there\u0027s two correct me if I\u0027m wrong so for the next Rev and thank you Tony for your comments we will remove all references to SRB six in the document we\u0027ve agreed to that because it was not helpful it just complicates the things Rajeev has been telling me any other authors to move this loose and summary to the appendix for some time and I haven\u0027t listened to them and tell me how but now I feel em\u0027ly a believer and we will move those solutions to an appendix they you have told us that those are helpful and so we\u0027ll keep them in there just to give us summary an overview of the different solutions but so for those of you that have solutions documents please review those sections we would welcome you to be authors on this draft it would help make this trap progress better as a few authors wrong that we\u0027re authoring this draft as well so that we\u0027re all in agreement on the requirements and we will further modify the requirements next slide so I\u0027ve already mentioned the the draft purpose really again our goal is to help the working group come to conclusion as outside of this draft on which of these solutions to rally behind and adopt and again my own bias and conclusion is that right now there\u0027s two solutions and I you know I I think eventually you may not want to just we may just want to work on those those two solutions and tell somebody else\u0027s solutions they have interest in working on them next slide so these are the requirements we have 12 today and we will need to further discuss these on the list that\u0027s what\u0027s been most helpful so again thank you Tony and kind of providing some feedback maybe for the once we can just go through them we can just go through a real quick stand up if or speak up yeah if there\u0027s a if you have an issue with one of these requirements one thing that again that we need to be aware of is that we have these requirements but we also have some commentary behind the requirements and the commentary may sometimes be a little biased as I\u0027ve looked at it so that\u0027s where we have to be careful and that\u0027s where having other authors would be helpful so as an example the first requirement it would be helpful to have a solution that\u0027s agnostic to the underlying layer to data link type that doesn\u0027t seem to be too controversial and just as an example and I won\u0027t do this with all the requirements but like the beer Ethernet solution is a very clean solution but it it is not agnostic to the underlying layer to Deerling type so when you\u0027re evaluating that particular solution you can look at all the other requirements "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:37:02",
    "text": "and you can say okay it maybe provides a meets all the other requirements maybe just not once that\u0027s something that they work group will need to evaluate so the other ones and this is the ones some of the ones that Tony had a comment on and support out to may need to be rewarded and may need to be expanded into two requirements and that is that it should not require hop-by-hop modification of the source address field and should use an ipv6 unicast address in the destination address do you are you shaking because you don\u0027t agree that so I send you out comments why the 4 2 4 3 \u0026 4 11 so thank you for decoupling there\u0027s our v6 I mean we may write know the hope I hope loophole that you can change it right on v6 and we may not but it does nothing to do with v6 right therefore 2 3 and 11 dead leads to a very profound discussion on in beer is a 2.5 technology okay it doesn\u0027t go multiple hops it doesn\u0027t do fragmentation this is like MPLS so if we want to change it in architectural level and all of a sudden go like multiple hops right and preserve source addresses that is a fairly substantial discussion with working group because that\u0027s what what is being sneaked with those requirements where I should use words I mean date those requirements kind of imply a multi-home architecture which we don\u0027t have so even the beer in six kind of allows jumping multiple hops which is like a hack you should not use but may be helpful if we go along those requirements basically all of a sudden overview six beer becomes a completely different technology becomes a tunneling technology jumping multiple hops so that\u0027s why but I mean I I spelled it out pretty clearly yeah yeah so I it as a reminder the way that we\u0027ve ordered the requirement says this should be something that as you can see here should be implemented but maybe we need to rethink those that wording and maybe maybe there\u0027s some other options we can do yeah king rama general from highway yes yeah it\u0027s generally a layered 2.50 solution that is it has been medically in there I\u0027ve said eighty to ninety six it is allowed to transport be a in layer three or Lea file or therefore or was so arm and it information that that I just rated the texture from this I\u0027ve said the action can be welcome fragment type here in the packet then the procedures of the sixteen are applied in sequence through each a fragment fragment this assay allows the fragmentation has "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:40:04",
    "text": "considered the fragmentation as additional function to be a true is it from there I\u0027ve seen also I think I want to share some background why we think else resolution is required you know in Heller the activate it\u0027s a basic service for hundreds of millions of subscribers and are running our IP networks using pin they are not intended to use early layer two point five solutions neck amperes and are likely not to use it in the future and the network is already at he basics ready so the required they required the solution for all the benefits of beer so so that\u0027s my comment well the layers three is the fast on you from the video of service providers repayments yeah - synced earlier for a mere BFF may also be useful and may have some advantages in some cases for example may force of the world inflammation using their so socket API but also we realized that it had some limitations as as the least hitter in this requirement draft that it may be difficult to support the fabrication and IPSec that\u0027s not very strong requirement allow maybe but maybe someday they come to repair that kind of support exact kayu support fragmentation then since blocked so that is my comment why we think we need to build the solutions on layer 3 thank you bigoted okay so we probably don\u0027t need to run through these requirements but there\u0027s still much discussion to be had about these requirements we should do so on the list and I continue to request that others join us as authors on this draft so we can make sure our pieces are covered last slide which is the next leg so we originally thought we\u0027d be done by this ITF but it\u0027s apparent to us that there still need to be some work done on these requirements to make everybody happy it is important to realize that our solutions that we rally behind are likely not to satisfy all the requirements but I think that\u0027s ok long as we feel like they\u0027re meeting the "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:43:05",
    "text": "majority of them please continue commenting on the draft are there any other questions or comments thanks for taking the work forward and taking the brunt the conflict no the coffee has to be at yeah because there\u0027s huge implications on it actually right especially on the security models so we have time sliggoo evening cap solution craft learn from Shannon mobile and yeah I\u0027m going to talk about of this draft that this hadn\u0027t a lot of discussion on the list so basically what we\u0027re proposing and is a heuristics encapsulation solution for beer if you go to the next slide so I\u0027ll spend a little bit more time on this one so the basic idea in this draft I\u0027m just in case that someone not reading the draft so I spent some time on this so basically we\u0027re using a n change the source address for the entire flow and and also to change the destination address by using the neighbor beer router so basically the principle complying with the requirements in Mike\u0027s draft and we\u0027re using the standard beer header so that\u0027s a basic encoding thing and we\u0027re using unicast address in sense of multicast solution so that you can basically go through those and end multicast aware note so I\u0027d like to go through this process with the package so if you have a packet sending from a so you use them you can use the look-back source and then you use the destination address of B and and and then for the node between a and B non-beer Walter says oh this is a pack of four B\u0027s unicast and then we fold it to B and then B um catch the pack head and say oh that this is a packet for me and that\u0027s actually beer address beer destination address puppy so this is a this is my beer so I kind of open the can and drink the beer and when I drink the beer extra phone oh I need to share with two other guys named 2 C and D so I basically receive the can and put the bit string a 450 is three so beat three make one and then I actually in calculate the source or destination address of B on the packet as well and then sent to D and then he can drink the payload so that\u0027s basically idea so you will use the extension a header do h4 for beer header or native encoding so it\u0027s "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:46:05",
    "text": "combined with the architecture asari requirements yes so next slide please so the few upcoming slides is really the you know list of the requirements that we think we\u0027re complying with the current requirement Draft so I\u0027m not going through in details just this one you know basic architecture doing the not changing the be your header things like that next one please and so this one there was the discussion of recommendations security so since the requirements are there in the draft so these native native layer three encapsulation of beer header yes it it gave you flexibility or give the support of recommendation and IPSec security because you have the header you have the beer header in in in extension of v6 and stuff in the payload but I mean if it is not compulsory then this is if it is optional then it\u0027s optional and I\u0027m not saying that you we have to do this in some ways just really depend on the requirement how it goes at the end and just to for information this is supported by their solution next one please so yeah so the the the we\u0027re actually changing the destination address have go through the packet flow in the previous slides and the source address is not changed by hop a hop and that\u0027s that\u0027s let\u0027s give you flexibility of also receiving the notice on pain of trades or MTU notice and it makes things a little bit easier if you want to filter the packet using source address because it\u0027s it\u0027s basically the source the real source yes so neck next slide please I think that\u0027s actually oh there\u0027s another one well yeah it\u0027s basically comply with the listed requirements in the draft not going to going through this next one please so to conclude this has been in discussion for for for quite a long time so there are lots of which received a lot of comments and suggestions on the mailing list and offline discussion and we improve the draft quite a lot since the one before last meeting it was not presented in in last meeting I think so yes I think in the current draft the forum in terms of a solution I think while there will be some defect well not be that but the room to be polished but I think there\u0027s no heart defect for the solution so we think in a form of a solution based type of undrafted squat "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:49:08",
    "text": "mature we\u0027d like to you know ask for opinion of calling for a working group adoption thank you I made called Nokia yeah well I think ipv6 is is a hot topic right this it\u0027s the hot potato and I think I think everybody trying to peel it with a different tool whether it\u0027s a fork and knife it doesn\u0027t make it different I guess my comment here is that sooner or later as a working group we need to come up with a with one solution we do not want to make unicast mistakes if I will so what what I\u0027m seeing here is it\u0027s very close to beer in six draft that is that is going on also right so I wonder whatever we can kind of combine these drafts or work to combine them together so that\u0027s the first climate and the second part is what what you brought up here the security aspect IPSec etc that\u0027s very interesting so we mean I think we need to understand whether for beer we want to entertain all these letter ipv6 courts into the beer including security IPSec because I can\u0027t remember free IP v6 if IPSec is a tunnel mode or transport mode so all this stuff will come into play from encryption point of view like the bright future ways so we as a working group need to decide if we want to start entertaining adopting these solutions drafts in correlation with the requirements draft or do we need to wait for the requirements draft to become more mature before we start entertaining solutions drafts that\u0027s the first point second point is as I mentioned there really are two drafts that are being mostly worked on there\u0027s a variety of solutions but they\u0027re just two and it wouldn\u0027t be in my opinion harmful to eventually adopt both of them and then eventually have one draft that we submit to the iesg I Cisco so drunk encapsulating the beer either as is right so I don\u0027t think that doing that in an extension of our adds any value I can agree with Helmand release at right so if the beer in six but just sort of removes the extension header so that I don\u0027t see the benefit of that I had the other thing I think if you ask for adoption because ideally when you want to have one solution going forward so yeah I\u0027m not sure if they wanted up both and then select one they may be very good actually before adopting I think I think Shep just cherrim the examining process it stops us from doing that we\u0027ve done it before and things emerge and go but if "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:52:08",
    "text": "we have some foresight of where we want things to go so yeah I mean yeah we can discuss that offline in more detail and just an emphasis that the destination address playing or a feud it\u0027s actually for beer so you have your unique has normal packet destination for each of the beer wilder anyway so that\u0027s a that\u0027s a a standalone playing address pool for four for beer packet so yes we could discuss that offline for OEM so let me stop in we are dry I don\u0027t see it address that this is being dragged in a completely different or he\u0027ll check are in textual corner of the world okay you\u0027re taking a two point five technology and try to extend it to be a tunneling technology and inventing stuff on the fly if you run beer beer has a full o a.m. layer okay and you carry a PFR ID in the beer frame and you have om beats and we have everything and now you try to replace it with ipv6 OAM right and track a food security modeling because if you run a two point five the new FDI GP you talk to the people and you know you can trust the next guy he\u0027s expected to send you a packet now over losartan you have the whole v6 addressing that starts to come in so anybody can basically shoot the beer "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:55:09",
    "text": "back and in the middle of everything and then a random stuff can start to happen because this guy can shoot it 17 hop away with a completely different thing again this please needs an architectural document with all the secure implications or EMP implications and so on right you\u0027re taking that to a completely different plane though they\u0027re the little details of what this note that if modified source address or not are not that relevant this is shifting it from a 2.5 layer to complete layer 3 tunneling technology hello from Hawaii I think I help gray with the ramen and its main concern maybe like that how is the difference of two solutions and if this two solutions can\u0027t combine or comma G same case it\u0027s possible there is only some differences between the two solutions under some in common also that about the security concerns it is also valid and there are zip eighty to ninety six have been very wise to allow that a over be such such solutions and the mention to that it is desirable to verify the package things from a legal source for layer two layer two point five miss Maine law could be the problem and mayor three or up its have this problem and we have the space using this best special at at he destination address for peer for the only and the don\u0027t open their TCP or UDP probing for this for this address this may be helpful for the security and allowed a lot of why\u0027s that from the activity always supports their artistic meanness may also happen that secretly close on time will take this to threat but I want to encourage constructive comments like when you have an architecture decision you made right there and you said may be helpful may be helpful is not a part of a contributing argument show us how it\u0027s helpful and then we can have a conversation from there right so just kind of look I\u0027m going to sort of focus our conversation around an editorial just because I\u0027m here this first slide this first moment yeah I know what you\u0027re showing here was helpful this is not encapsulation this is the basic 40 model impossible so it\u0027d be nice to start with a cap so we can discuss the in cap so we\u0027re doing in affecting a document that\u0027s describing encapsulation okay and and then we can "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:58:10",
    "text": "understand what we\u0027re trying to do those pins or vice versa so just editorial in the future streamline the conversation just kind who\u0027s got the blue sheets well I do a dilution so one clarification I mean you cannot do it on in this nation here that you have to do we don\u0027t I hope I hope Hatter you can only change the hope I hope have a basics architecture you cannot change this nation header in median helps so that confused me just as no it\u0027s observation all right so we\u0027re wrapping here thank you everybody we\u0027ve got a lot to follow up in the list sandy if you can come up real quick before we roll off any what\u0027s the questions it\u0027s great the rest do you enjoy your lunch thanks everyone [Music] "
  }
]