[
  {
    "startTime": "00:00:07",
    "text": "Hello Thank you very much Thank you our children is amazing. Yes Thank you Thank you We're in the same, we'll think all on Thank you Thank you 22nd, 3rd. Hello, thank you"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:02:02",
    "text": "6-0-0 Thank you Thank you right, good afternoon everybody. We're going to go ahead and get started Welcome to the inaugural meeting of the DNS Delegation Working Group. I'm Brian Hey Haberman, and this is my co-chair, duane wessels We're your host for this festivities And abling assisting us is our work group secretary, Tommy who's hiding over here in the red shirt So anything that gets screwed up is my fault and Dwayne's fault. And anybody who needs something fixed, go talk to Tom Tommy Couple of things moving forward So the all-important note well, everybody should recognize that this is material that they need to understand in order to participate in the high ETF The big things here are to understand what all of those BCPs at the bottom mean. So if you have not read them please do so One of the key things that makes the IETF successful is actually having constructive participation and in engagements amongst all the participants So this is really, you know, my point of making"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:04:02",
    "text": "sure everybody is acting as professionally as possible to make sure that we were as productive as possible. There are pathways to get things rectified if you think that that's not happening I do know that at least one of our Ombuds team people is here IP. So, um, least one of our Ombuds team people is here. IP. So feel free to reach out to them if you think that anybody is acting unprofessionally in this environment A couple of things from just from a operational point of view Everybody should be signed in to Meetecho as a part of the participation in the meeting This allows you to join the Mike Q, participate in any kind of show of hands that we carry out in order to make sure we have a good understanding of what's going on For remote participants, you should have your audio and video off unless you're going to be presented So I know we should have at least one remote presenter today So when Roy slot comes up, you know, he'll pop up here All right, next So this is our agenda and this is your opportunity to tell us whether or not you would like to see any changes to it We did not see a whole lot of discussion on changes to it when we called on the mailing list, but this is your option to it. We did not see a whole lot of discussion on changes to it when we called on the mailing list, but this is your opportunity if you see something you want to change here to bring it up now All right. So we're going to get started. One of the things I wanted to do is make sure everybody was on the same page as far as it goes with the with the charter And what I really want to do here is just capture, you know, two important parts. One is that we buy our charter we're required to actually generate the requirements document before we can start any kind of protocol work"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:06:02",
    "text": "What we see here needs to be a very, a broad general consensus that people agree with what's in those requirements and that we've actually adopted it and taken on as a working group item The other part of this is you know, what we're actually trying to accomplish here. And that is what we do in order to make sure that authoritative servers can signal capabilities to recruit resolvers. So we'll spend most of the meeting today talking about requirements and in that authoritative servers can signal capabilities to recursive resolvers. So we'll spend most of the meeting today talking about requirements and input to those requirements. And hopefully what will come out of the working group today is understanding where we need to go in order to move that document if the one that we have currently as an individual document is worth a worthwhile basis for a working group document or if there are other things that people want to discuss from from that perspective. So any question on the charter sides of things All right, cool. So then the first agenda topic is the actual individual requirements document Tail, are you presenting? All right Okay, that's not really reassuring. I've just been told that the clicker might not work, so we'll see how that goes So hi everybody, it is fantastic to see you here for the start of IETF week So I am representing the team of the initial draft offers, authors of me, Ed Lewis, jim fenton and tim wicinski, which is what made up that wire lila"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:08:02",
    "text": "in the draft name And you're right, it doesn't Okay So the basics are that we did submit our draft early in this month just ahead of the deadline and it is now available on the Datatracker We took the approach that we wanted to make it basic the hard requirements. These are the things that are absolutely required for a new protocol to be successful And then the soft requirements are, well, what are the problems we're actually trying to solve? What, what? the things that are absolutely required for a new protocol to be successful. And then the soft requirements are, well, what are the problems we're actually trying to solve? What features would the protocol have that makes it useful to even be engaging in this? And so, we posted it and asked her some feedback and did get feedback on the Deleg working group list If you are not a member of the Deleg Working Group list, it is DD at IT IETF.org. You can join all the usual ways to join an IETF list And so now we are here seeking adoption for the requirements draft that the group is required to have So our initial set of hard requirements lists these from the draft that the any and one thing that the draft clarifies also is although there was a previous draft for an new RR type in the DNS that was named Deleg in the context of this draft, Delig, just means whatever the new protocol is, whether it uses the Deleg R-R-type, whether it uses a name in a different part of the hierarchy you know, whatever mechanism comes up with in this context Delig means the new thing So whatever the new thing is, it can disrupt any of the existing registration model domains uh because that would be a death knell for getting it anywhere Delig must not change the current name space semantics. This got most of the discussion on the list after it was posted, so I will be talking about this in a future slide It can't negatively impact most DNS software. We don't want to deploy something that makes existing software fall over We didn't set a hard limit on what it means"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:10:02",
    "text": "to say most. Admittedly, that is a little ambiguous with the goal being that with the practical recognition being we can't test 100% of the software that's out there but we can test, test major resolvers, major servers, and observe whether there is any wide scale process that would exist for the deployment of a new method And Deleg should still of course, work with DNSEC. We've designed this thing for authentic names that are served by the DNS and other records, and so we have to be able to secure that using the existing security mechanisms. And then finally, it is a new protocol also should not be measurably harder to use on the existing method of setting up NS records There is one additional hard requirement, by the way that is not in the draft I saw a little bit of feedback that's suggested maybe it shouldn't be but I as an author who have not yet discussed it with my other author agree with erik nygren that one of these specific goals should be explicitly that it supports a multiple operator environment That was something that it should have gone in. It's one of the just, it should have gone in, you know, it's one of those, like many of the other hard requirements, should be obvious kind of thing but we should absolutely make it explicit that we're, in, you know, it's one of those, like many of the other hard requirements, should be obvious kind of things, but we should absolutely make it explicit that we need to support, continue to support as a DNSO always has, multiple operators for his own So our soft requirements are that we are trying to solve the problem of being able to use all these wonderful new DNS transport mechanisms that we've had come out of the IETF, whether it's DNS over TLS or over Quick or over HDPS, we want to have a better way of having resolvers identify when they can be talking one of these protocols. So Dullode shouldn't make clear all the details for connecting what the document calls a service access point. The service access point is the tipple of, you know, the address of the name server you're trying to contact, the port you want to contact it on, what protocol you need"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:12:02",
    "text": "any other parameters you need, for example assert in order to be able to set up your connection with the surface access point We are also trying to minimize transaction costs and usage Transaction cost comes in a number of different ways, whether it's server overhead, packet overhead, and so on we would like this to not be a wonderful new way to create denial of service attacks on the internet DellLeaks should also enable an operator to manage DNS service more completely. This is one of the use cases that we discussed more later, but the requirement here was based around the idea that right now, we've tried to address in multiple ways how a how an operator can manage the the cryptographic DNSC data for on behalf of their customers who might not be know anything at all about how DNS works and so one of the problems we'd like to be able to solve is simplifying that on behalf of operators. And Deleg should allow for mapping to conventional NS-based delegation The idea here is that, you know, the trope of the single source of truth. Like if you're going to set up the NS delegation, information for your name and you want to use the new mechanism, presumably then you can generate the NS records to use the old mechanism just based on your new, your new conf- for how your delegation looks and we'd like delig to be extensible we have these initial use cases that we're trying to solve, but we'd also like to make it so that we can use Deleg in a way to solve additional problems as yet unspecified although some other ideas have been brainstormed, without how to do it through the pain of trying to update as much of the ecosystem as this current effort is going on take. And then finally, one of the things that got mentioned, and we expect it would be a little controversial, is how, but it has been mentioned as a wish list item, that it would be great if since we're trying to, then finally, one of the things that got mentioned, and we expect it would be a little controversial is how, but it has been mentioned as a wish list item that it would be great. If since we're talking about the communication between, um,"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:14:02",
    "text": "a child relates to their parents, that a there should be some way for the child to let the parent know that they um that this can be available. And I think I should have put a more tag on that because I have another slide about that. So the two that we're going to dig in a little bit more are that one and the previous one that I mentioned about what it means about existing namespace semantic should be the next slide, I think. Or maybe, oh, our right style. So in writing the draft, we tried to make it deliberately pithy we want to just focus in on the court design values. Didn't spend a lot of words explaining why each of those requirements was there and so on. Or, you know what the different models could all be. And so it was supposed to be easily digestible, something that was just a few pages to be able to take down and get the core ideas of what the working group is attempting to do And we also didn't want to presuppose a specific solution For example, I am a member of a proposal that was just a few pages to be able to take down and get the core ideas of what the working group is attempting to do. And we also didn't want to presuppose a specific solution. For example, I am a member of one of the co-authors on a proposal that I still think should be the way to go. There are other proposals and we are here to discuss them all. Requirements is not trying to drive the discussion into one particular solution But one of the things that is open to you to either mention at the mic or bring up on the list lately, if you think that we need more verbi around like why each point is there that perhaps it does need additional rationale for it then we can certainly add that to the document. But the initial goal was keep it short simple straight to the point So, this is the biggest thread I think that came up on the mailing list was I had the statement in the draft that said Delitz must not change the current namespace semantics. That first sentence, a few, several people, on understandably read it as saying, well, wait a minute if we're changing the way delegation is done, of course, we're changing current namespace semantics. And if we're not doing that, then there's no reason to even be doing this group So I admit that my wording was on unfortunately a little ambiguous there. The way I meant it to read was"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:16:02",
    "text": "that existing DNS zones whatever, you know, the existing NS delegations all the existing aspects of a zone would continue to work the way that they currently work. So that was the current namespace semantics that wasn't supposed to be changed. It was like if the old stuff should, you know, in completely oblivious to whatever our new method is and it would keep working exactly the same way. So I have a proposed, statement down here that you can read and provide feedback on More wordsmithing is welcome, but hopefully this does address this issue with ambiguity in the wording and what was intended by don't mess with the existing semantics And then that last item about a soft requirement about deliq supporting an embedion means for the child to let its parent know that it has updated delegation information as i said it had been mentioned in brainstorming. It is kind of aligned with this general idea that we're talking about of how the parent-child relationship exists with regard to delegations So it could well be addressed by a document that's currently working its way through DNS this generalized DNS notifications Most of you know the notify op is already used to signal that, oh, you should start his own transfer. Notify could be used to signal up other types of record updates. I personally like that idea. As a soft requirement in this document, it's possible for a new protocol to just say, oh, and yes to get this feature, you will just go ahead and use this thing that got standardized in DNS up So because soft requirements are kind of addressed, just the problems that we'd like to see solved, and it's not required that every soft requirement actually be solved, maybe it should come out of this draft. You know, if you have a strong feeling either way about whether to leave it in and say, oh, yes, we'd still like to see something like this even if it's done via D&S off work. Well, then great But so that's essentially the question on that. Keep it or just dump the item from the draft"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:18:02",
    "text": "And then, okay, Tim is Moonshiner, tim wicinski, who has set up his GitHub for where the draft is. So if you want to open any new issues or send some full requests for text, they will be welcome there currently. However, I anticipate that once the working group, I don't think you already have a repository set up, but you'll probably, you'll be do. Okay, we already have a Git repository So if the draft gets adopted, then the document editing will of course, move to that So per the charter, this draft is expected to be published as an art informational art the document editing will, of course, move to that. So per the charter, this draft is expected to be published as an art informational RFC, and so we are asking you, please adopt the draft Does anybody have any clarifying questions for? this document? Royce online Hi, this is Roy. Can you hear me? Yes. Oh, perfect. What about missing from the requirements, maybe it's not a requirement is the part that allows DS aliasing Thanks. I didn't know perfect. What I'm missing from the requirements, maybe it's not a requirement, is the part that allows DS aliasing. Thanks. I didn't quite yet. Yes Okay, well, is it? or that was the part of, I guess maybe it is I thought there was one that essentially covered that paul hoffman is also shaking his head So that is a puzzle that is a trial Well, it was, what was trying to be addressed was the idea of, operators being able to manage more completely and that's part of where the DSALES it comes in, right? Do you concur with that, Mr. Aaron? The goal, you know with the requirement of trying to make things easier for operators,"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:20:02",
    "text": "that's where DS aliasing was supposed to factor in. Gotcha I'll read it again. Thank you so much Cheers Rick is there, Rick Kent can't hear you Tap, tap, tap tap. And it's hot. Okay, very good. richard wilhelm, P-I-R Thanks for the draft In reading it, I think that one of things is good is that the distinction between hard and soft requirements I thought that was good. Two questions One, and I, this is going to sound flip and glib. I apologize in advance. Was there any anything you left out? I say that with a smile on my face. Second question, I and glib, I apologize in advance. Was there anything you left out? I say there with a smile on my face. Second question, I'm wondering, and it might be an interesting thing to augment the draft with, the rationale of about why some is hard must and why some are soft not taking issue with any of the divisions, right, but just the, that might be a good thing to capture and the draft because some people are gonna to quibble with them wherever you put them. Right Because really there's, there's hard soft and then there's out and it's not clear to me if there was anything that was left out left on the cutting room floor um but so anyway but good draft regardless. Thank you. Thank you I am crushed by your glibness uh no uh so the only thing that i am aware of that was left out was not intentionally left out and will be asked in was this idea that multiple operator environments really you know, need to continue to be supported If somebody is aware of something that got left out, you feel like your pet idea of that was glib, and I don't mean it that way, if you felt like your idea about something that should be required was not included, we are absolutely open"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:22:02",
    "text": "to considering including it. We did not deliberately exclude anything anything Yes. Thanks for putting together This group has come about amazingly quick and you already have a redirements document ready to be adopted on like presentation one of the working group, well done I'm impressed with the already sort of scope creep. So West Hurtigar, US USCIS, and the ICAN board, not speaking for the ICAN board as I'm wonder so the two things sort of that the caught my attention are one, the need to do back parts propagation to the parent which I think is an important problem I sort of question if that is sort of within scope of the working group I could argue it probably both ways, but I think that's something the working group really needs to consider is to some extent, that problem is bigger than Delic, right? So hence DNSOP might be a the more appropriate place to do something like that The other thing I note is that putting in the backwards compatibility issue is a, it's a fact one because to a lot of extent that's an operational consideration sort of specification. We're going to produce something new By the way, everybody must continue to support NSW records. I'm curious at how the working group is going to land with respect to saying this is always backwards compatible without disallowing people to only publish Deleg future zones right? So that's going to be hard to wordsmith. I can give you, you know, not speaking on behalf of all the authors that I personally look forward to a future where you have Deleg only zones. And you might not really care about whether something's reachable by NS And I think that's an acceptable state to be in in the same way we accept websites now that are not reachable under unspeachable HTTP for example. So I think that's a, the goal should be that"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:24:02",
    "text": "NS will continue to work indefinitely, but to the extent that it migrates in the future where NS becomes less and less important I'm perfectly okay with that solution paul hoffman, couple of things to answer Roy, the aliasing, it should, not be in this draft because we have an aliasing draft, and that's in the charter and such like that This draft is about the protocol that other things can use and that include as we know both alicing and transport Um, second issue is talking about child talking to parent. I don't think that's a requirement at all, because there are many people who feel that the child should not talk to the parent, only the operator can. There shouldn't be anything that prevents the protocol from having a child talk to it But I can't imagine that the working group would create a protocol that says, and you cannot listen to this group or this group or whatever. So that to me is not an issue. And also to Wes's last point. I did see anything in the requirements document that said, NS records will always be required I read the current document and I agree with it as to say the current semantics are necessary for now So the day that the delegate RFC comes out, we cannot say an NS records all day But anything beyond that could be future working group or as you say, just operator choice jim reid with a glib answer to the glib question that Rick posed earlier I think really the intention, certainly from my part of you, is one of the co-authors on this document, is to try and get a sense from the working group that the requirements, things that we've thrown together so far are just about right, you know, in terms of where the mix is between options, hard and soft requirements and all to ask everybody else here, is there anything we've missed?"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:26:04",
    "text": "Can I telephone? Oh, you're on? You're number. You're now number one, sir As usual, finally There's some text in there that I think probably covers this but I think it's maybe worth being more explicit I think this mechanism needs to be deployable And backwards compatibility is part of that And compatibility with ancient assumptions about the names as part of that. But I think it makes sense to actually say explicitly, this needs to be incrementally deployable It needs to be useful in a meaningful way without having flag day 100% deployment So I think that would be a good addition. Right, yeah, I'm not sure. I will welcome text, but I'll come up with a draft statement but I think actually the last thing you said there about, um, shouldn't require a flag day is probably gets straight to the heart of the matter so. We're good. We're good. Thanks, yeah Thank you. All right. So next up is Paul to talk about two different ideas thought we were going to do aliasing first aliasing for it. I think people care much more about aliasing as we saw from the mic line Okay, so Tail just covered, next slide Tail just covered the requirements for the protocol. Now we have in the charter two protocol items that we are going to do, and there seems to be plenty of interest We aren't going to start these until the protocol is done, but they do have some requirements So what this presentation is, is the requirement just on what's going to be the aliasing process and not both of the others because there are possibly gonna be ones"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:28:02",
    "text": "after those two. And this presentation is fairly short and I want to emphasize these are just first guesses that I sort of gleaned from the mail list. This is not the beginning of a drawing We don't need this draft for a while, and it might even, we might not even have a requirements draft for aliasing That might just be in the aliasing protocol spec. But what? we do know is there's going to be a protocol for delig and then additions to the protocol for aliasing and transport and maybe other things. So I just want to make that super clear why I'm here and not Tail continuing to talk about requirements. Got it? Great. Next So for aliasing, there's two sides of course, the parent side and then the receiver side One thing that I think, and I didn't say hard and soft, I did must and might, whatever y'all can figure it out. On the parent side, the protocol must be able to specify multiple targets servers for aliasing So that we aren't going to have aliasing only allow you to alias to one. You want to be able to say that there are multiple And it must be able to say what the transport to those will be. That is, it's not just going to be DNS over Port 53. You can say, I am aliasing over here and here are some transports transports Depending on how people in the room feel, and this is why it's a I have put this as a might I know so people are going to feel that this third bullet should be a must, and other people are going to be saying, no, we don't have to, is that in order since this is going to you know as we said from the requirements this is going to be a DNS sex signed response that the resolver is going to get"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:30:02",
    "text": "Maybe you are sending all the keying material with so that you can do authentic in one round. And you're not having to trust the web of trust or whatever. However, that goes. Some people think that this is absolutely needed for creating a correct chain of trust. Other people disagree So that's why I have it as a might. That's going to be you know, when it comes down to coming these requirements, I believe this is going to be a hard issue for us to come to consensus on. And I think it's super important because we all do care about the security of this, at this point And we get another chance to work at it So, and then there's also the question of preventing round trips is that when you're saying, please, alias to these servers you might also give the address records. Why make the go out and do a glue fetch and things like that? Might, might not. Next slide now on the alias side, the place where you're going, the point two server must be able to specify whatever a current name server is going to say for that zone So it can't be that once you've been aliased, that alias to server has some limitations that current servers don't People, you know, like, you don't wanna have to choose oh, I can't use aliasing because then if I go over there, that guy isn't as strong as just using NS records. And the second one is that the aliasing might be able to re-alias somewhere else, you know, to some level Some people want that, some people don't. That, you know, that will be another requirement And the last one is that it might be able to, once you've"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:32:02",
    "text": "been aliased over here, that alias to server might say, by the way I am authoritative for this other zillion thing so you don't have to go through another one you can come straight to me. That one's going to be pretty iffy because now you're you're trusting it for something that you weren't sent to it for that's outside of the DNS the north DNS model, but some people asked for that when we were talking about aliasing. Next slide I think that is the last one on this one. So I can take questions on this, or we can just skip over questions because again, this was very loose, this was not this is not something that's in a document We can wait on this. Up to you all um i don't think we need to be having a heavy discussion on this because it's further down the road. But just to be clear that there are separate requirements on aliasing. So I see Ben and the queue if you want to benjamin schwartz meta the one thing i i want to point out is I'd like to see a requirement related to in in-Baleywick delegations or whatever we're calling it now We're not calling it anything, but I hear what you're saying, right okay because I think that subsumes these questions about whether IP addresses can be conveyed, whether certificates can be conveyed The place where that comes to ahead is when you're in bailiwick, so you have a dependency cycle you can't resolve anything below the zone cut without some help. Okay, sounds good. So when requirements come up for this, we can do that. Okay Warren? Warren, come on Google, I suspect I'm just misunderstanding the last bullet, but that feels very much like the old cash poisoning attack where you'd ask for New York Times Times.com Could be. Absolutely. Yeah. Okay. Yeah. And that's, that's, I mean, I felt that way, so I certainly didn't put it as a must"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:34:02",
    "text": "but somebody asked for it because it could greatly expedite future queries So that's a later discussion. Yep. Matt Matt Pounceett from DNSO work, something that's a common operational problem that maybe it's covered by these, but it doesn't seem explicit to me, is the ability for a point two server to indicate not here You've been delegated to a server, like you've been sent some seem explicit to me, is the ability for a pointed to server to indicate not here. You've been delegated to a server, like you've been sent somewhere that can't answer your question. Okay yep. Yep, that would be good. And I guess now we're into the others, but since they're going so quick, maybe we can do it Yeah. Levan? Hi Lars Lehman from Nethod I do agree with you that we might not need a requirements document for this right now, but if you could please just put the text into a, I wouldn't say document because everyone thinks it's a draft, but you know, I compiled file that we can store in the same Git system as the rest of the stuff. That's a thought. So that we have access to it once we get to the point where we do need this document and we can remember what you all, the job you already done Might do pull requests against it. Does that sound reasonable for you folks? Okay, I will undo this into a text file and throw it that way and then just let you folks as chairs do the access to it stuff Cool. Yep. Thank you And I'll do that for the next one as well So yeah. Hello. Hello. Joe a bit new to this So maybe I'm just a clarifying question. You're talking about servers here, as in the server you're pointing to And I thought this general topic was talking about names, so we're pointing at names, not servers Am I right or am I? Yes but that name is going to be serviced by a server So maybe what we need is term I right or am I? Yes, but that name is going to be serviced by a server. So maybe what we need is terminal, that there's a requirement for terminology ahead of time And in fact, you might be the best"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:36:02",
    "text": "person to do this because what you just said of your coming late to it. No, seriously all of us who are laughing right now have gotten too far into this and we believe we know what we want So if you think you have some terminology in your head, absolutely throw it there and then that would be a good start. Because you notice I made up the the pointed to no one ever said that i just made that up as I was making these slides that might be a crappy term That's fair enough. This will teach me. Yeah, that's good Yeah, yeah, but I think that's a reasonable requirement is agreed on terminology. Okay sorry. Yeah, Andre, sorry Just be very, very careful about aliasing because all the C name and S fan out it still haunts me in the night. Okay. So please be very careful from the very beginning. So that's a must recall to be careful yes it's not on andre don't know if we can really do that but yeah okay so now switching to the last thing that we have in our charter, which is multiple transports, a way of using delegates to say multiple transport. So next slide And so this looks like the first slide of the last presentation because it is And again, the requirements for this will be different than the requirements for aliasing, and both of these are different than the requirements for the overall protocol and again i just i pulled these off of the off of saw in the mailing list and in hallway conversations they might be totally wrong. Go for you So the first is the protocol, must be able to specify multiple types of transaction and this list is explicitly one short. You'll notice that there's no DOH in this That's because this was all heavily discussed in"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:38:02",
    "text": "deprive when we were thinking, what are the transports that deprive and no one came up with a good reason for DOH if DOT was allowed. Someone might come up with it the transports that deprive and no one came up with a good reason for DOH if DOT was allowed. Someone might come up with one and whatever, but for here, I started with the list the deprive had come to after a fairly heavy discussion, which was DO53, DOT, DOQ So the protocol that is specifying transport, must also be able to specify the expected transports for the NS records So, you know, you've got you've got some NS records. Now here are the transports for them Same question as the third bullet on the last one might be able to give you keying in information so that you don't have to do more round trips or believe in the web of traffic That's a might that will be heavily argued there are going to be people for both of these who are very passionate about different trust models I think that there is a meta requirement here, not meta the company, Ben, meta the real meta of do we want, is there a requirement that we handle multiple? trust models? One trust model being DNSSEC, one trust model being P-KIC certificate kind of things I don't know the answer to that I have worked on this stuff since I was, you know, running the P-Kix mailing list, a zillion years ago, and I go back and forth I don't know if there is a requirement that we say there's going to be one or there's going to be multiple but I assure you people in the room have hard opinions already And then the last one is the protocol might be able to specify address records again so going back to the question of in Bailey Wick, not in Bailey Wick and such like"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:40:02",
    "text": "that, can we hand, you know, can the Deleg protocol hand you those address? already so you don't have to do more lookups? Next? Or that might be, yeah, that's right. So this is it for it. So I think this will be easier than ali-sing, but I also think that it's going to tickle the same problems that aliasing tickled Joe Sorry. Oh, well yeah. I can tell the difference between joe mandel Ray Ray Aw. I just want to, you mentioned that you, I understand where you've taken that list of transports from And you said that if somebody has a really good reason to include change the way you've chosen those then I don't know why we need a good reason to include things. If we've got to find transports, don't we need a good reason? to leave them out? The good reason for leaving dough out was that it's actually much more overhead than DOT I mean, it's defined People use it. Yeah, it could be Sure, could be EKG Hi, thanks for writing this stuff down I'm, someone in the chat said I still don't know what this group means by aliasing and I have the sneaking suspicion that I'm also ignorant about that Great. And I am wondering why we think we're going to do aliasing, which seems more ambiguous to me before we do transport, which seems less ambiguous That's the way the charter came out But perfectly good question. Maybe we start them at the same time in one time finishes earlier. Again, I believe that there are many fundamental questions that apply equally to both of them So, yeah Great. Thanks, well. Yeah"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:42:02",
    "text": "ray bellis, I see on the specification of public keys, do we maybe need to be a little bit more explicit? that you're going to need multiple public keys because you need one for each name potentially. It's not going to be one key per zone. It's essentially if you've got three MS names, they potentially all need separate key right and regardless of the transports yep benjamin schwartz sometime dough boy. I, uh sad to see dough not on the list and I'm fine with it And it does have some distinct technical requirement overhead aside, because we never agreed on a standardized path, you need to convey additional metadata if you want to bootstrap a dough connection. I think we may get there both it doesn't have to be in the requirements On aliasing, I think that we are also just kind of going to get there. After all, we do have a aliasing, I think that we are also just kind of going to get there. After all, we, you know, we do have a proposal floating around that fully of going to get there. After all, we, you know, we do have a proposal floating around that... A couple. That fully addresses it, so it will become concrete and then it will become comprehensible. Right. But I do like that requirement of that we actually do terminology and maybe do that really early uh warren so warren kumari, Google, and I suspect that this is a detail or rat hole, but I enjoy always enjoy rat holes We've noticed this about you. Isn't it harder to detect that traffic is DNS traffic? if it's done over Doe than if it's done over dot? And I think that that's a useful feature. That was what we said. Yeah I'm co-author on it and I'm still not con- convinced uh yeah benjamin schwartz Warren, I believe you are correct and that is one good reason why I think we will get there Okay yeah um and jim then you yeah"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:44:02",
    "text": "Jim, just for a quick response to Warren's question I seem to remember there was a discussion in AANRW about some traffic analysis that could detect DNS queries that were going over DOH, just because of the way the traffic was shaped. Well, you know also... Right maybe fake it, it may be erratic on that, but we may want to look up for that. I think it was a meeting in Montreal, actually Yeah, but again, part of it was just that certain addresses only respond for DNA stuff, and therefore you can tell its DNS traffic because that address regardless is only going to respond to DNS traffic Yeah, if I remember for that one, Paul, it wasn't about the actual end points of the addresses, it was actually the packet sizes. Yeah yeah. Yeah, yeah. Okay, very good so again um I will turn this into text. That will just appear as something in the GitHub, in the working groups GitHub repo and I will not be controlling it, and we don't need to work about this until we're done with protocol. Score Thank you Excellent. Thank you. So I'm james galvin. I'm Coach of the REGX extensions registration extension protocols working group. This presentation is really intended to be informative. I don't have any particular ask of the requirements document, but nonetheless, there are some important details here. And you know, others may think that you want to put something in the requirements document or not. That's entirely a are some important details here and, you know, others may think that you want to put something in the requirements document or not. That's entirely up to you. I'm not opposed to it. For identification, purposes, yes, my day job employer is actually a registry service provider We're actually the number two service provider in the world So I come here in two dimensions I have to deal with this kind of stuff on a daily basis And yes, as it turns out, I am"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:46:02",
    "text": "a member of the ICAM board. But as West is so fond of saying, I'm definitely not speaking to the ICAM board So next slide, please This really is about understanding that there is cooperation between communities and ICAN and IETF that does have to happen sometimes I deal with this in spades and the registration extensions working group There's a handful of us in the IETF community who are all active in the ICANN community and stuff just happens because it needs to happen in that way. Reject is really the home for all things EPP and RDAP that way. Rejects is really the home for all things EPP and Ardap and of course you have a couple of documents out there even for this group which makes some suggestions for EPP and RDAP extensions, which is fine But, you know, there's a question here as to why we should care about GTLDs. I really am focused on GTLDs here. I know that the agenda talked about TLD perspectives, but this really, these issues impact GTLDs and they are significant. The work that's going on here which I'm generally supportive of, has the potential to significantly impact my operations, so that's a pretty big deal to me what's going on here. And that's really what I'm trying to call out here. It's important to recognize that GTLDs distinct from CCTVs are really, you know, half of this industry. Okay, we share that So I do think that that kind of makes it important for us to be aware of and think about how these things work And GTLD operations are subject to what are called consensus policies on the ICAN side Now, folks here really don't need to know what that means and how those things come about, but those are mutually agreed requirements So we don't get to just make changes to our registry. We don't get to just make changes to what's in a TLD zone. And that's the message that you need to receive more than anything else. You can think of consensus policies as internet standards in the sense that, you know, this is a significant process by which you get there But consensus policies actually have enforcement"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:48:02",
    "text": "whereas internet standards don't. And you know, really have to understand all of that. That's for people in I can to understand but it's just useful to be aware that these are the kinds of things that we're dealing with as we move forward with us Next slide, please. So what is the particular? issue that I want you to be aware of here? There's this hard requirement is actually the first of the hard requirements about not disrupting existing registration models. Now, depending on how one wants to define model in which you want that to be, um, know, I already said that the work here that's going to proceed has the potential to significantly impact my operations. Okay, so I'm not here to debate whether that's a disruption of the registration model or not i'm actually comfortable with this statement as it's written here. You know, I'm trusting the whole process here to work things out. And like I said, there's a few of us here who work in both places and are familiar with this and we'll be part of this working group So we'll be watching and paying attention to interesting things But it is useful to know that there's a disruption going on here and that we're going to see it. The one thing to things that you need to know is that provisioning of gtl paying attention to interesting things. But it is useful to know that there's a disruption going on here and that we're going to see it. The one thing, two things that you need to know is that provisioning of GTLZ zones is actually controlled It's controlled in EPP. As you well know, there's even a draft out there which already talks about an extension in EPP. Should this group go down the path of their needing to be a new resource record type, well, that needs to be fris provisioned in some way and that'll be provisioned with EPP so you know that's an impact and that impacts registrars as well as registries. If you want that to work in the GTLD industry, there's a change we all have to make And that's a lot of people, and that's a lot of implementations and software I have to say, I didn't put it on the slide here, but I thought it was interesting that there was supposed to be minimal implementations to certain DNS operations, minimal changes to DNS operations, but I noticed that registration systems weren't included in that list although I don't know how you can do that anyway. The second thing to know about"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:50:02",
    "text": "resource record types is if we end up going down the path of a new resource record type, you need to know that those things are restricted We can't just put new resource record type in a TLD zone on the GTLD side. Okay that's absolutely forbidden I mean, there's an explicit list of what's allowed in a GTLD zone file and what can go there. Now, these things are not hard problems okay? Well, let me increase that. These are solvable problems okay? And there are those of us who work on both sides. We'll make sure that the ICAN community, you know, does its part to make sure that these kinds of things are possible But this is more of just being aware that operation as we figure out what we want here, there's some companies work that's going to have to happen in the ICANN world. You don't actually have to do anything This is not me, ICANN, asking you for anything And I don't think the IETF needs to ask ICAN for anything. But as communities, those of us doing all of them work, we need to do our part on both sides And really just here to make sure that everyone is fully aware of this as we think about what we're doing going forward that's it for me Got a question from Jim jim reid, thanks Jim for that very clear explanation of what the potential problems or issues are going to be on ICAN. However, I think there might be some other concerns and I'm glad you're going to have to deal with them so that we don't have to because I suspect as we get further down the path with getting something done with Deleg, we might run into situation which will actually mean that Deleg and whatever our successors might come on through that will complicate some of the problems that people have inside with ICANN with takedowns and other kind of privacy concerns about domain registrations and it might be an idea just to start thinking about this right now even though we still don't have any clear ideas of what Delhi is going to look like when I find the concerns out the door of the IETF. So I agree"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:52:02",
    "text": "you know, like I said, I'm generally supportive of Delag as far as I know, the handful of us who work in both places are supportive and a lot of applications here, a lot of possibilities and look forward to it John I'm john levine and I'm on a few of the same committees you are I guess I be useful if you would sort of comment on what I see is sort of a statement function at ICANN. It's like you can change nothing or as soon as you change anything, there's this process. So like we wanted to put some deep dot bank and that insurance wanted to put some, some demarc records in there TLD zones. And they went through this long, complicated process and they did it And my impression is that the process to do this, even though technically the additions are somewhat more complicated in the DMR records, sort of the ICAN process would be pretty much the same. And again, if you're adding new EPP stuff, you know, you need to define it But I mean, I guess I'm saying that while it makes sense to keep in mind that there are downstream costs, that the difference between making a small change and making a large change in the process is actually not all that much, because as soon as you make any sort of change the whole process fires off Does that sound right? Yeah, although that's true I think that fundamentally don't really want to get in soon as you make any sort of change, the whole process fires off. Does that sound right? Yeah, although that's true. I think that fundamentally don't really want to get into, you know, how, what has to happen on the ICAN side There really fundamentally are two choices, but what one can do on that side of things. You can either do things on an individual registry side, which is essentially what bank and insurance did So they kind of did their own thing. Or if you're looking for something, which is industry-wide, that's a slightly different process But those of us who do these things, we understand the differences We'll sort of figure out as we go along here and deal with those processes as we have to. OK Okay, so it sounds like we agree there Yeah richard wilhelm, PIR, for those that don't know PIR runs.org"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:54:02",
    "text": "The plus one, to everything Jim said agreed with all of his points. The thing I would also say is that in a to everything Jim said, agreed with all of his points. The thing I would also say is that, and I think that Jim and I agree on this, all this stuff notwithstanding one of the reasons that the GTLD registry operators, are here and a number of us are supported this is because it does open up some new and very important options and capabilities for the registry that do interact with the GTLD registries Most notably, it provides some folks that are GTLD registrars a better avenue to offer DNSSEC via DELEG because right now a lot of them don't offer DNSSEC due to the technical complexity that it causes for their front end portals and things like that and so a number of us believe that that having DELEG in place is going to lower the bar for certain registrars to offer DNSSEC another kind of case capabilities because they'll be able to engage with DNS service providers who are quite capable of that sort of thing and then then obviously changes the delegation model will make that more feasible. So but but completely agree with everything Jim said about the complexity of the cyclone Thanks. Yes, thank you And speaking personally, I've always been a strong DNSSEC advocate on the right circumstances. And this is one of those things getting back to what jim reid said in the beginning. One of the potential applications that this is all useful for. So really looking forward to this moving along. paul hoffman actually wearing my ICAN staff hat for two things. In case anyone missed it, this is only about GTLDs as someone just slack to me CCTLD operators are going to talk lead on this and the GTLD folks are going to have some good lessons learned while we're still talking about what we want to do"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:56:02",
    "text": "Second point is to disagree with what john levine just said because in fact, once somebody does it, everyone can mimeograph and do that. And there are processes within that staff can do to help grease this So following what we're doing here in the working group the requirement that we have a protocol first and then we have a extensions to the protocol afterwards is really helpful because that will get us almost all of the way there and once we have individual ones making the in will be potentially much faster That is, we don't have to wait Thank you, Paul Hi So, not at the zone cut. Next slide, please So what's this about? Well, it's the my slide deck is arguing to take into consideration to not put the new delegation information or the extensible delegation information at the parent side of the zone cut and well the reasons for that are in the upcoming slides but i think it's a fundamental design choice which has consequences for which software is affected and how it is affected what the ease of the deployment will be for the extensible delegation of DELAC And it may impact requirements or at least how things are expressed in requirements"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:58:02",
    "text": "and perhaps it should be a consideration which should be taken along in the requirements document Next slide So what design choice am I talking about? well may we think that delegation information or currently in the DNS, is at the legacy delegation point which is the parent side of the zone cut and for the slide deck or I am arguing that it could also be elsewhere in the zone and for the sake of example I reference two protocols proposals, which are already there, but it's not really about a protocol proposals it's only about the general idea of putting it somewhere else. But there's one protocol proposal which puts it at the parent side of the zone cut and there's one proposal which puts it elsewhere Both ideas originate from the IETF 118 hackathon. Both are based on extending SVCB which is completely relevant for this presentation So in the first proposal, on the left, you have a Dalek a new resource record type, which is out authoritative at the parent side of the zone court And in the other protocol proposal it's a SVC resource record set which is elsewhere Authoritative, be present in the parent zone. Next slide, please So a NS resource record set in the parent says that everything at that name"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:00:01",
    "text": "and below that name is not authoritarian in that parent zone That's what the delegation says So even the NSW resource record set it itself is not authoritative in the parent zone So if you take this, example.com and as resource record set in the dot com zone, then everything at or below example.com is not authoritative in the com zone, except for DS and NSEC but new data or new resource record types will not be signed by unmodified signers will not be returned by a modified name servers instead the delegation will be returned or a referral response will be returned and if it is signed by dot com's dns key then unmodified validating resolvers or unmodified validators will not consider it secure because the wrong party is signing for it next slide please thus new authoritative in the parent resource records require modified DNAics signers, modified names search for returning it in refill response and for returning it when queried for, and modified DENASIC filling validators, already apart from a new delegation mechanism implemented in the Resolver Next slide please on the other hand if you put the delegate information elsewhere in the parent zone then semante dangerous word, with respect to what is authoritative, we mean, as"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:02:02",
    "text": "is So it is authoritative in the com zone, the example that I'm giving there Example.org.delec.com It will be signed by unmodified signers. It will be returned by a modified name service unmodified dean and sex validators will validate it and you can do with a implementation in the Vesolver only to make this way of delegation work next slide Also, all the features that we currently have in DNS just keep working as they are working now So the conventional methods to alias remain functional You can outsource a delegation to a single operator, and now one of the requirements is to have its alias to multiple operators. But if it's a single one, you can just use C-name or you could delegate the whole operation of delegations for your zone to a different party with a dename for example. Next slide So um different party with a dename, for example. Next slide. So, new authoritative, in a parent resource records will not be returned by on unmodified name servers, and they cannot be queried for by resolvers So a mechanism that uses new authoritative in the parent resource records will need a signaling mechanism to indicate to the resolve that should have been a new extensible delegation or a new delic and the example project proposal uses a flag and dean as key for that, but it signals"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:04:02",
    "text": "with a flag that all are torted service serving dot com in our example need to support their but it signals with a flag that all authoritative service, serving.com in our example, need to support DELAC. So it's mixing sound content with name server operations There's no separation of concern Alternatively, the you put it elsewhere authoratively in a parent, then concern. Alternatively, if you put it elsewhere authoritatively, then some authoritative service may support it and return it in, we've always responses and some may not. And it doesn't really matter because the resolver if it doesn't get it, can query for it and check if it's over already there or if it's there Next slide But, but, but every non-extensible delegation zone will get to queries no but, but, every non-extensible delegation zone will get two queries? No. So, indeed, if you assume a resolver only implementation, or if you assume that there will be situations where there not supporting the autotor resolver only implementation, or if you assume that there will be situations where there is not supporting the authoritative surface, then each new zone will get an extra query asking for the possible referral in the new subdomain But the ANSEC records that show that would show for a zone that does not contain that kind of delegations also we feel that that closer thing closer, the underscore delac, does not exist, right, by showing that the close to closer the underscore DELAC, does not exist, right, by showing that the closer is dot com, and we have another insect record going over underscore delac so there's one extra query cost for non"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:06:02",
    "text": "non-deleck containing zones to discover that it's not there Or you could also use a DNS key flag in our situation, and that doesn't cost any extra query, but then the DNS key flag would mean something else if we would mean there are DENS key flag in this zone and it would not mean all the authoritative serve serving this zone support Deleck So inside zones need another additional query I guess, because then you don't have the NSEC records showing that it's there or not. Or we could say, for instance zones, the only support DELAC if the authoritative also supports it and do without it unsigned zones, we only support DELAC if the authoritative also supports it and do without the extra query. Next slide So in summary at the zone kit, names servers, signers DNSc validators, resolvers all need to change, not at the zone kit can work with a resolver implementation only already At the zone cut, you need a new aliasing mechanism not at the sound cuts you can reuse C-name and D-name. At the sound cut all name servers serving a zone need to be upgraded at once Not at the zone cut, you can have incremental deployment, non-mixed or full set of names at once. Not that the zone could. You can have incremental deployment, non-mixed or full set of namesurface that support it. At the zone, cut, zero extra queries not at the zone cut. It can work with zero extra queries or we could allow a few more to yeah make it somewhat simpler next slide"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:08:02",
    "text": "This is nothing a few more to yeah make it somewhat simpler next slide this is not a new notion there's a very interesting panel discussion about DELAC in one of uh encrypted DNS series from andrew campling where Paul Vixi says that putting DS on the zone cut has been a mistake and that deployment of DNSEC might have been faster or easier if it's would have been put somewhere else in authority in the parent's home And here's the link if you want to review the Next slide Yeah, and that's it David. Lou, it's Dale So first, thank you very much for bringing this discussion. I do think it's a really important discussion I'm happy to have it. I think it's also very workable, so I'm not going to tear it down as being unreasonable. I do still have a preference for being at the parent side of the zone cut and some of the reasons for that include that it does include some complexity in the size of the graph, for example, for the zone some extra, depending on how you implement it like I could see where the resolver signals to a knowledgeable parent that, oh, I also want this information, but whether it does it, in two packets or in one, it's still causing extra lookups in the parent as well through pretty much any reasonable implementation you do with that, possibly with additional string processing involved in that. And one of the other big things for me is that long-term, I want to do with that, possibly with additional string processing involved in that. And one of the other big things for me is that long term, I want to see a new mechanism be like a first class citizen and putting it on under a separate name and a separate name space"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:10:02",
    "text": "would continue for years to come to make it look like it was just an afterthought when while it is an afterthought that's true if it hopes to grow up and be the main way that things are being done. I think that the zone cut is better And the final thought that I have on all that is I would be somewhat more concerned as you are about another authoritative side record for the zone cut, if not for the fact that we do have the experience of, um, out of about another, you know, authoritative side record for the zone cut, if not for the fact that we do have the experience of, um, of DS in that regard. And while that was not, as far as implementations were concerned, i have not really seen that putting ds on the, you know, authoritative in the parent really caused any measurable problems. And so, all things considered, I don't think an RR that's now authoritative in the parent at the cut would be that disastrous an outcome. Yeah So the S in the parents authoritative in the parent now does not cause a problem because it has taken 15 years or longer to make it work in all the software It has a very long path towards this Also, so we can do without extra queries or that can be done with this way of having the delegation information as well but I think it's acceptable acceptable to have an extra query as compared with the DNS key query with respect to how much more traffic that's uh acceptable acceptable to have an extra query it's comparable to the DNS key query with respect to how much more traffic that will cost and also I don't agree that it's not at first case citizen Because, yeah, so I think if you look at the if DNS would be completely redesigned, then I think it would be more logical to put the names of the delegations on the edge"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:12:01",
    "text": "and not on the notes so to have it at two places in I feel also a sort of design mistake, so to say yeah. Joe? Hello I think this idea looks really ugly, but it's also really, really good And I think we have Stockholm syndrome from Zonkuts it's also really, really good. And I think we have Stockholm syndrome from zone cuts. I think we've been considering zone cuts for so long that this looks wrong, but I can't think, this actually looks deployable. I mean, this actually seems good to me. Have you could imagine a future? where the only NS records exist at the apex of the zone and you no longer need them in the parent, that is a glorious future So I think this is really good. This makes me a lot happy than every other Deleg thing. I think you should give it another name because Delag I think, is a dirty name now You should have a better name for it Thanks. Also, I'd like to mention that the protocol proposals that we not discussing, but the one that doesn't have hit authoritatively at the parent side does I already have a proof of concept implementation in unbound only? so it can work with just unbound during that? And Schwartz, I do think that our aesthetic taste will adapt I wanted to ask how you would avoid doubling the query load on unsigned zones Yeah, that's so you can ask for or you mean Bennett does contain DELAC information or when it does not? I was mostly thinking about when it does not When it does not, you can do an explicit query for underscore DELAC was mostly thinking about when it does not. When it does not, you can do an explicit query for underscore delac. If it's an Xermain, then you can cache"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:14:02",
    "text": "that information. Okay But you could also, we could also say, okay, for unsigned zones you need to have support in the authoritative name server That's another option. Okay As someone who operates a name server that does not correctly respond with NX domain versus no data, that's an very interesting idea. Thank you Okay. Right ray bellis, I see. Willem, D. Thielan maybe could or missed in the presentation, but are you expecting unscored del to be an empty non-terminal, or could it actually itself? potentially be a delegation? So, once a third. Yes, I think it has potential for having the delegation information for the the zone itself like the an asset which is authoritative in the child Yeah, because it occurred to me that a lot of james galvin problems are potentially solved by essentially having underscore Delag as being a delegation itself, so that none of the Deleg records end up appearing in the zone as leaf nodes but essentially as entries in another zone which is not under ICAN's control, or ICAN's contractual limitations. Yes, you're, yeah that's right, that's fine. That can be, I get, not under ICAN's control or ICAN's contractual limitations. Yes, yeah, yeah, that's right, that's right. That can be, I myself gave the example of putting a D name on underscore Delech to outsource Yeah, in fact, yes, a D-name would actually work very well for that and if that's already permitted. I think, you know, I kind of terms, the only thing that would need to be changed would be to permit the TLD registry to put underscore Delag as a reserved name within the TLD registry Yeah, okay, thanks. I think so, too And Roy Hi, Roy. Hey, Willem hi um so i just want to point out to that while Diena Shaq did indeed take a while,"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:16:02",
    "text": "it wasn't because of DSF parents I just want to make it very clear It did, however, show that authoritative invoice parent is possible and indeed feasible and desirable, right? At least at that point. No one at the time ever mentioned the idea of putting DS records in a separate zone and that Paul Vixie has this afterthought that was indeed nice to have as an afterthought but not mentioned at the time. But the issue to me, is the additional queries If the parent supports underscore Della, with the NSSEC or non-DNESEC, there will be explicit queries for some type, for some RR type under that underscore delic zone. And if you now mention, yeah, but we could actually include that in the delegation response anyway as additional data then you require changes to the authority server which is what you want to owe to avoid to begin with. Now, let's say right now we propose delic, right? And if this, if the zone code method or your method, it doesn't stop us in the future to come up with yet another way and maybe a third way remember we had an sec and then we had NSEC 3, and some people have proposed NSEC 4 and NSEC 5 Every time you add new parent side of authoritative data with DASH-like method sorry to shortcut this, you get this information almost for free But with your proposed method, you need an additional query for each proposed type type So that's my sense on it. Thanks, William Thank you. You don't need an additional query The authoritative can support delegation information not at the Zamkert as well and then you will just get it in the authority section, just like with a"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:18:02",
    "text": "normal referral response and a resolver can then for example cache that this authoritative server is Delac or does support DELAC and does not need to send extra queries but can for that time, for which it registers that it supports it just send the normal legacy dean queries and expect the extensible delegation to be in the authority section Though if it gets that gets a referral where it is not pressed it should send the extra query to look it up and it can do so as well Yeah Thank you right, so if I do a time check, I think we have 20 minutes So one of the things that the chairs wanted to do was, you know, we just had five-ish discussions of various requirements for what Deleg is supposed to do. And what I wanted to do is actually have open mic to see if there are issues that people have seen today that they think are important that aren't in the proposed requirements document if there are topics they think we need to not consider but this was really, you know, 20 minutes of chance for people to kind of give their perspective on what we're trying to do and where they're think we should be trying to go. So don't everybody run to the mic, but this is your opportunity to kind of let us hear you know, either what you agree with today that you've heard or things that we're not considering right now paul hoffman, reflecting"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:20:01",
    "text": "some hallway conversations both this week and last week at the KSK ceremony, and this is not my opinion, but I know there are people who are concerned that some of the requirements in the current document sound like NS records are going to be the way to delegate forever and this is additional. Other people feel like yes, but then that's going to switch or whatever. So I would like to see the requirements document not talk about future restrictions about where delegation is and how NS records are I just think that would simplify our lives and at some point in the future when we are mature and we have some experience and such like that, we can make different decisions but to keep that out, to explicit, either write in that we're not doing it or explicitly keep it out just because i've heard disagreements and I've gone like both ways in hearing them. So thank you. Thank you, Paul I vaguely remember seeing a comment from Tim Wilson that he was, he's putting an issue on the requirements document related to that so we'll we'll make sure that it kind of captures what you might be trying to cover he was, he's putting an issue on the requirements document related to that. So we'll make sure that it kind of captures what you might be, might be trying to cover. Eric Hey, Eric Oswald, george michaelson University. I just, I looked through the requirement draft and I might have missed this, so apologies if I did but it seems to me like it might be useful to if it's not there, put something in about what should or shouldn't happen with regard to consistencies between NS and DELEG. So if I have both like in a transitionary period, and I don't agree whether someone needs to suggest a precedent order or whatever, but I just didn't see any discussion and apologies if I missed it okay yeah jim Yeah, jim reid. We haven't discussed the other one about the cut semantics and I think we've wisely decided to"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:22:02",
    "text": "change the language in the draft document to the reflect that that's maybe the unfortunate use of wording but I think we might need to close up with something else which would mean suggest for example that we're not expecting a thorough to serve to do additional work or at least having some way of refining that, for example, by having the analogue of the do bit, which essentially says is if you've got additional delegation metadata please send it to me that might be a way to kind of signal that but i think we have to use some kind of make think about some kind of mechanism like that because if we don't do that we'll go be a way to kind of signal that but I think we have to use some kind of make think about some kind of mechanism like that and because if we don't do that we're going in a weird situation where we don't really know what kind of signal is going to be needed between the authoritative and recursive servers. Thank you Go ahead, Ben. Hi had, okay, two points I just revived a slightly expired draft so it's back. It's called Dane with Service Bindings or something like that, and it's in D&S off And it basically lays out how the service and TLSA records are supposed to interact, which is been a little bit underspecified up to this point So that draft predates the entire Deleg effort and was was basically my attempt to try to solve essentially some version of this problem by stitching together little making a sort of patchwork solution out of service B and TLSA and NS Records It seems like, you know, that patchwork is not really the direction people want to go. Instead, we have you know, an attempt here to create a fully-fledged solution And so I think there's a really interesting question about what to do with that draft, which basically otherwise would shortly enter working group last call in DNSI So I'd appreciate people's thoughts about that and especially chairs who are thinking about"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:24:02",
    "text": "where documents go, it would be great to see if we can come up with some smart solution there so we can we can definitely chat with the DNS op chairs I think one of the things we have to keep in track, keep in mind here is we need to get the requirements document going before we can actually consider solutions Yeah, and this solution is several steps ahead. It interacts with Deleg if the Deleg working group settles on a service B derived solution which is by no means certain The other thing I wanted to mention, again, related to Service B, that I think is just interesting for folks to ponder is that Service B and the HTTPP record are designed for a client that's performing a de novo connection every time it uses the record So a web browser client in the traditional conception went at the point that it's doing DNS resolution for a domain, it doesn't really know anything, it doesn't have a lot of history that tells it how to interact with that host that has changed over time but that's the the traditional view. And so the Service B record tries to convey everything you might need to know DNS resolvers are different We imagine traditionally that they keep a lot of state about the authoritative name servers they're interacting with. And and so an example of where this comes to a head is that service B has a concept of priorities that say this is the most preferred server, this is the second most preferred etc. But if you're a very smart resource, who actually knows which of those servers, is closer or more reliable, then that conflicts with those priorities So I think there's some interesting tension there that we are going to have to resolve somehow. Thank you Mark? mark andrews, I see"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:26:01",
    "text": "Let me get my notes up I heard the about the dealing with unsigned zones I don't see Deleg record being delegation information like this being in a unsigned zone because there's no real way to verify, validate the information We're trying to do it as secure trust, so we need to say this must be incited in a sign zone That's one thing And the other thing is we introduced NSEC 3 We had to change things to signal that to the rest of the world a zone was struck with insect three records We need the same sort of signaling for Deleg if we're doing it So you go into a zone, if it's going to have Deleg in it it signaled that when you enter that zone, you are going to get back delegation information beyond NS records And if you don't get either a proof that it exists or a proof that it doesn't exist in your referral there is something wrong This means doing more work and slows things down a little bit as validators and recursive service come up to stream, come up to online. But historically getting new support for this stuff has taken a minuscule amount of time to everything else I'm not worried about it"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:28:02",
    "text": "getting recursive servers that under delegation up and deployed fast or about getting the servers which return that being deployed fast We don't need to it getting the servers which return that being deployed fast. We don't need to, I think it's a non-issue And in terms of deployment, having Deleg or whatever the name of the record end up being, at the delegation point versus the other, I've heard of the delegation point, it's clearer. And you can return in NSEC or an NSEC 3 record saying, there is no delegation information as part of the referral Does that make sense? Thank Mark. Yep, thanks mark andrews information as part of the referral. Does that make sense? Thank Mark. Yep, thanks Mark. Hi, my name is andrew sullivan I work for the Internet Society for another, I don't know, six weeks, but I'm not speaking for them. I heard Joe Abley get up at the microphone. This is actually a comment on some comments, not on any particular draft I heard Joe Abley get up and say, oh, he's looking forward to the glory future in which there's no more NS record delegation And I heard paul gear up and say, we need to not talk about that And I think that's a bad idea to like both look for glorious future in which there's no more NS record delegation. And I heard paul gear up and say, we need to not talk about that. And I think that's a bad idea to like both look forward to it and not talk about it because I'm having hives thinking about it there's no more NS record delegation. And I heard paul gear up and say, we need to not talk about that. And I think that's a bad idea to like both look forward to it and not talk about it because I'm having hives thinking about the IPV4, IPV6 transition you know, as a sort of historical analogy. So I don't know that it needs to be in the requirements graph, but I think like somewhere we need to be serious about like if that's the plan or if that is if this is supposed to be some path towards, you know, some kind of future at it adaptation of the way the DNS is going to evolve we better have a story about it because you know unplanned stories turn out not so well Thanks. Thanks, Andrew Florine Hobson, speaking as a DNS director, reviewer"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:30:02",
    "text": "So I just try to review the incremental DELEC draft to just see how we would that work. And three things came to mind One is, this is kind of obvious, but it would be nice if the requirements document would be just see how would that work. And three things came to mind. One is, this is kind of obvious, but it would be nice if the requirements document would say an implementation, well, must conform to the requirements. We're not saying that It's kind of obvious, but, you know and then like, the drawing that tries to implement the degree requirements should spell out how the author think that they're confirmed to this. As a reviewer, I don't want to guess at this So this would probably discuss someone the mailing this and all this, but I just get the draft here, review the thing, and there's no information for that On a practical note, the requirements are just bullet points, which makes it different to refer to them, so maybe they should just be numbered or something like that And, um the requirements are just bullet points, which makes it difficult to refer to them. So maybe they should just be numbered or something like that. And the third thing, the requirement need to be written in a way that you can actually state it that. And the third thing, the requirements need to be written in a way that you can actually state that you conform to them. I think that's currently the case for all of them at the list, but if they're incredibly vague, then you will never be able to say, oh, confirm to them Thanks. Thank you I think there might be a way to look forward to a world where only the new thing happens but also tolerate the old thing happening And I think this mixes in with some of the comments about extra query and extra work being done and things like that I think maybe something could it feels like they could be a requirement that says it's okay to require new work, more work, or more queries or something for the legacy mechanism if the new mechanism doesn't suffer from those things, which might provide an instance to move beyond the actual functionality and it allows the long tail to survive"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:32:02",
    "text": "just not very well I think that might be okay. So, you know, I think it's possible to do both, actually actually All right. Any other? comment before we move on? All right, so the last presentation is actually by Roy. It's really just kind of a five-minute overview of one possible way of doing this. It's really just more informational than anything else since we are going to be focused more on the requirement side of things. But we wanted to give him an opportunity to talk about a little bit. So Roy, over to you. All right, thank you Next slide please What is this about? This is about doc documenting DNSX protocol changes if we're going to do this the zone cutway The idea is basically to separate the method to present these records to the to the end clients from the actual delic record itself. And in this case, I'm called it used to word parent-only records So a parent-only means a parent delegation point records that are signed similarly to DS records and similar changes that had happened that needed to happen for the DS records we need to make for these kind of records. And I think these changes to the protocol are substantial enough to justify us separate document. So away from what Deleg is, basically a document that shows how to do this, how to present this information to them to the client. Next slide, please"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:34:01",
    "text": "Next slide. All right So why do we separate, why do I want to separate this? from the Delic draft? I want to ensure that it's future proof So I hope you all remember, I feel sorry for you if you do the NCH3 signal that we needed to have to support NSAC 3 records It was the, I think, was a signature algorithm RSA shout something dash NSAC 3 To me it was a clutch, but it was a necessary clutch. Now I can imagine if we do, if we deploy Delic now or in a new future, that right after that someone has a new idea that doesn't really fit with the new Delic, and we will have Delic 2, Delic 3 or something else that needs to be on the parent side, etc cetera, et cetera. And I don't want to event new signals to support all these newer features in the future Next slide, please So what needs to happen? Well, we need to document these DNSI protocol changes So create a standalone document details the changes needed to support these future parent only records. We would designate parent-only types, and I'm saying here in this slide, aside a range of parent-only types What I do mean is reserve a range of parent-only R-R-types for you to use and basically they would behave the same way as DS records behave now. And this ensures that authoritative servers, include these records when they are present in a zone in a delegation, without the need to understand them. I hope that makes sense We also need to for every, every delegation, we need to require author authenticated denial records, like NSAC or NSAC 3 And this is to prove that there are, or they are not these records present And the reason I'm saying this is because if you look at it,"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:36:02",
    "text": "current secure delegation there are DSIC records. And when there are DS records, there are no NSEC records at present in a delegation response So we will always need these NCSEC records to prove, or NSAC records, to prove that there are no additional parent side only record We also need to have a secure security because there are, we need to signal to validate us that there should have been that they should expect an NSEC or NSAC 3 record in this Next slide, Felix need signal to validate us that they should have been, that they should expect an NSECO and SAC 3 record in this. Next slide, please. Now, this is not a new idea This is also not my idea I happen to write, to help write or to propose text to the Delic draft that does this, but Peter Van Dyck and Petit Spesek wrote a very similar, if not the same document In 2020, Drath Peter D.Sov Perensite author all types. And paul wouters, who I can see sitting in the room. Hi, Paul. Paul Wautus had the exact same idea I don't know if it's independent of him, but he was the one the one who right before this presentation told me the existence of this document and it's exactly the same thing I'm proposing here Now, either three people or four people are are completely wrong or we're out of something I don't know I don't have to have this document to be adopted. What I want is a separation of Delac, the record right? And the way it's presented to the client and the changes that need to be done in the of Delac the record, right? And the way it's presented to the clients and the changes that needs to be done in DNA. So I NSA and so I don't need any questions if you have them to free to ask them privately different and the changes that needs to be done in the NSA so I don't need any questions if you have them to free to ask them privately this is just an informational I would be happy to have this conversation on Adela mike english. Thanks, everyone"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:38:02",
    "text": "Oh, and I just want to say I miss you all. I wish I was there Cheers, guys Go ahead, Paul Paul, I'm not speaking as an 80 I wish I was there. Cheers, guys. Go ahead, Paul. Paul, I'm not speaking as an AD. So the reason didn't really push that draft much other than sort of give it us a proof of concept idea and send it to the death didn't really push that draft much other than sort of give it us a proof of concept idea and send it to the, I think, the then DNS ops mailing list, is that I'm still on the fence on whether we need to separate a selection of parental class are our types like that draft suggests or whether we should just bite the bullet and say, let's just stuff it into the DS record because then we're avoiding all these, like, you know, we have to wait four years to deploy before this all kind of work so like if we're doing this once maybe use a subsection of the DS algorithm field and make that basically mean oh this is really a parental R type. And that's another document I wrote up as a proof of concept that's there to see So since I wasn't really sure what approach was better, I wrote kind of both drafts and sort of hoped for discussion Can I add to that? From 50 miles high, they're basically now three proportions, right, to present them miles high, there are basically now three proposals, right, to percent Delech to a resolver. One is willem toorop underscore Delic zone. Number one is two is Paul Walthus and one is willem toorop underscore delic zone number one is to number two is paul wouters message to to put it in a ds record And number three is to to have additional set of records to basically what Delic proposes I just want to point it out there three three different methods now. And I'm not here to support any of the three. I just want to make sure that it's separated from the Delic draft jim reid Hey Roy, thanks for that presentation. You started to make my head hot. There's so many things that you put forward there that need a lot of careful consideration"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:40:02",
    "text": "But I think the important point that you really made there, and I think it's something me to understand at this stage is we shouldn't be thinking about this in terms of either resource record types or particular techniques. And so we're using the term day leg. I think we're talking about is some new meta way of expressing delegation information rather than how we actually express that in the DNS with resource records or naming conventions or whatever else it is And certainly the moment I think we're at the stage where we have to be neutral about this because we don't have any clear idea yet about what's going to be the best way forward um I employed. I completely agree. I think the content of Adelic Records could be discussed here, but I think changes to the actual DNS protocol, that two of the three proposals have or do this be an underscore delic zone could be held in, for instance, DNS op but I'm not preaching to the choir here, I think All right last call for any discussion on Roy's presentation If not, we allocated the last few minutes to wrapping up here next steps So I heard a couple of things today that I wanted to see, you know, what the working group was sinking here. The first one is the proposed Deleg requirements document It's currently an individual submission. So I'm going to do a quick show of hands poll in MEETO just to see if people feel like that is a good basis for a working group document We'll have to follow up with a call on the mailing in MEETCO just to see if people feel like that is a good basis for a working group document. We'll have to follow up with a call on the work on the mailing list, but it tends to help to kind of give everybody a chance to voice that here And if there are things we want to discuss, bring them up"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:42:02",
    "text": "So we'll give you a few minutes to answer the poll Well, I would venture to guess that that is a pretty strong statement that people think this is a good document to adopt So we'll follow this up on the mailing list just to just to confirm the consent The other thing that I want to do ask everybody to think about, you know, some of the comments we had on the earlier discussion session, there were some good ideas in there. I want to make sure that we follow up on those on the mailing list, especially as they relate to the requirements making sure we capture the things that people think are important So with that, any last thoughts or comments people have on"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:44:01",
    "text": "this effort? have my laptop crash on the ground on IETF working groups tend to schedule their time around IETF meetings We're four months away almost from another IETF meeting. One way to look at this is we've got plenty of time to work on requirements, get them right, the other is we're completely blocked on the stuff we want to work on and such like that. I would love to see us finish requirements before the next IETF meetings So the next IETF meeting could be on protocol discussion. I'm not saying we have to, but I think the default would be, oh, we're having a lot of discussion, look, oh, we're having more discussion therefore we're not going to finish before the next IETF meeting will finish there I would like to see that not be the default So before you walk away, Paul I want to make sure I understand what you're asking Are you asking the working group to make sure that we're doing, you know, that we're aiming at finishing, not just discussing? Sure. But are you proposing anything beyond doing that work on the mailing? list? No, not at all. I mean, if an interim would help, sure, whatever. All I'm saying is we've fall into a time default, and I don't think we need to on this one. I'm not saying it's going to be easy but if we aim to finish well before, that gives us the next one to start talking actually about the protocols, which like face it, we're all itching to do Okay. Paul, what does finish? mean like that the requirements document has been sent to IETA last call, not that it's been published that is enough even if there are some changes from IETF last call in my mind"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:46:02",
    "text": "that's enough for us to then begin working on protocol Area directors might disagree but I think that that would be a very good indicator, even if we have to change some things based on IETF last call or IESG review. Okay. Thank you Warren. I mean, I some things based on IETF last call or IESG review. Okay. Thank you. I mean, I'd love to see that too, but I'm entertained by Paul optimism that we might actually accomplish it Okay I'm entertained by Paul's optimism that we might actually accomplish it. Tail. Hi, it's Tail. I think actually Paul is pretty practical I don't think it's undue optimism I have captured, I believe, most of the issues that were brought up as suggestions as far as requirements are concerned We the authors should be able to turn that around pretty quickly again and once it's adopted into the group, what I'm hearing from the sense of the room, and maybe this is my undue optimism, is there's not a tremendous amount of controversy, actually, of what will be able to lay down as this initial document for getting us started on protocol work. So I'd and maybe this is my undue optimism, is there's not a tremendous amount of controversy, actually, of what we'll be able to lay down as this initial document for getting us started on protocol work. So, you know, the authors of the requirements draft will be working to make that happen, and I also support Paul's idea that maybe next time we can be working on protocol Okay. One thing I would I would add to what Taylor just said in order for them to get that document in good shape, that also means that everybody in the working group has to be providing comments and feedback so that we as chairs understand the consensus of the working group Yeah, that's the last thing I meant to mention was that so the issues I opened were in Tim's Git repository, anything that's still not covered will be moved to issues in the deli group repository But if you want to submit something now, head over to Moonshiner and do it there. Okay and then the last action item that I recall of Paul is going to send the text from his discussions and Dwayne and I will post that in the working group, GitHub, so that we have a record of it and people can review it and provide any feedback they might have on it"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:48:01",
    "text": "All right last chance Hit your button Warren Warren hit your button Just note in the chat, Andrew Kemplen suggested maybe an interim to work and getting requirements That's not a bad idea if that's part of what I was asking Paul if people are interested in the interim you know let the chairs know, those are relatively easy to schedule, right, Warren And we can try and pull that off All right. Thank you, everybody. We are giving you 12 minutes back in your day Oh, sorry, West says we have to stay All right. Thanks, everybody. See you in Dublin And I think we're Let me knock Thank you Thank you Thank you This is not a sense you very much. Thank you. Thank you Thank you"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:50:04",
    "text": "I'm Yeah, yeah, yeah, no, I was, I wasn't Thank you Thank you"
  }
]
