[
  {
    "startTime": "00:00:07",
    "text": "yes you might have a conflict I\u0027m new so he may have to do lambs alright it\u0027s time we will go ahead and get started good morning everyone this is the mile working group uh so hopefully you\u0027re all here to listen about mile next slide okay so this is just the note well I\u0027m not gonna read it to you this is just to make sure we\u0027re following processes and procedures which hopefully you\u0027re well aware of next slide okay so agenda bashing so we\u0027re gonna go through the status for a few minutes we\u0027ll probably need to update the milestones depending on the see cert draft we\u0027ve got updates on the xmpp mile uh XMPP grid draft which is in iesg review is that how you would classify it yeah it\u0027s pasta HD review on you\u0027re dealing with moments right yeah well there\u0027s still one discuss that thing dance is probably not but well I\u0027ll need to ask a few experts yes yeah well do you best if there is a set of RFC editor notes the difficult part you know I actually I asked Benjamin yesterday to update and he said yes half of my issues were addressed here\u0027s the remaining so if you can either revise the draft or give me a set of Archaea tonneaus which is pretty much I know it\u0027s I I was I will try hopefully Peter will help me I cannot control what the Benjamin has yeah because he was the last discuss I think yes right cuz been cleared it yeah okay I\u0027m in the process of writing the Shepherd and I have a couple comments that I\u0027ve been talking to taki about on the JSON IO death so he\u0027ll provide some updates on that and then Steven you\u0027ll talk about the role EC cert which we did adopt as a working group draft I believe and so we just need to get our milestones updated accordingly so "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:03:08",
    "text": "hopefully we should have ample time and maybe let you guys go early so with that want to thank folks for volunteering ahead of time to make this go smoothly so Thank You Steven for being our jabber scribe and Dave and Chris for being our note takers are you guys gonna use etherpad ah perfect alright so cocky why don\u0027t I let you do the status and then because I\u0027m already told you we have only three one left first one takes seem to be great that\u0027s already in a you see reduced age the second one the JSON you have draft working group last call was ended but after the secod writing I had to review and revise it and finally we have to discuss on the timeline for the roadie draft so currently this is a note from the previous meeting in the previous meeting we said we will be about working up last call by April 2009 teen that\u0027s coming pretty soon would you like to change it or just keep it as it is it up to maybe it also a sibling maybe we sadly don\u0027t remember which my can way volunteered I think for the minute taker so if you can help us by writing their last name that would help us chase them down well so next time that I learned that in Antibes it\u0027s like we need to get the full names okay so we\u0027ll probably not probably will need to ask again if we can get a couple more reviewers when we get the update I know a couple of ways that\u0027s why I don\u0027t so if anybody okay so let\u0027s move on to the process in there its exhibitors please and please punishment for standing here is uh this is running cold air okay yeah so I think I only did two two slides anyway so next slide okay so in the any IETF call we received quite a few comments and one individual comment most of them were good there were two or three discusses so thanking my co-author Peter and I try "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:06:08",
    "text": "to go through respond and Shawn respond to all of them so Ecker had to discuss I think he satisfied with all of the comments resolutions that we provided for his Ben had a couple more clarifying questions this week which we responded to Peters in the process of updating the text which seems to satisfy been as sorry Ben Campbell right ah I\u0027m glad you you yes okay yes but Benjamin had a couple more things list of things that hopefully Peter will help me address so from the main categorization of the updates in the draft basically we didn\u0027t put the mandatory to implement specifications especially on the authentication mechanism so we clarified that in the security considerations there were quite a few comments with respect to the pubsub and the discovery mechanisms of what happens when the discovery list may be insanely huge which in the implementations that I know of hasn\u0027t been the case because security information only come from a few but nonetheless we put guidance there to optionally use JEP 0:59 also with the the use of the pub/sub mechanism which again led to the discovery of how does a subscriber know where to go how does and this was eric ries colas comment of how do i know what the data model is and then and it\u0027s the well that\u0027s just the nature of how XMPP works and he seemed fine I think we added one clarifying clause in in the draft for that I think the biggest one that I wanted to discuss in the group was the notion of is this a standards versus informational because we didn\u0027t do a formal consensus and I should look for the chair for that so we wrote stronger language I think in the introduction that I could calling it a mapping and Peter said well Nancy it\u0027s the applicability draft it\u0027s an applicability statement which I wasn\u0027t which is a proposed makes it a proposed standard so we changed the language in the introduction to say this is really not really this is an applicability statement for how you use XMPP to carry security information so the proposal is "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:09:08",
    "text": "still to leave it as a standards but Alexi you commented and I think it\u0027s fair to have that discussion here which is next slide please which is why I left it as the here\u0027s the rationale for why it remains as a standards proposal but I wanted to just close it and have the discussion here right Alexi I think it\u0027s obviously sort of a H case here because if you have a strong feeling as editor and as the working group one way or the other then yeah it probably can be accommodated okay if you\u0027re flexible like if is G was more you know saying no this is really informational and you don\u0027t mind then it\u0027s just easier to change it to informational yeah I mean personally I don\u0027t care right right so if there\u0027s pushback and but it was the discussion I had with Peter and it was it\u0027s really an applicability so is Steven bang hard at the mic so it was like to IETF segoe that I gave the commentary that there wasn\u0027t a lot of normative language and I\u0027ve read it again and it\u0027s a lot better now so I think just from my perspective I\u0027m kind of in the flexible camp as well I think it\u0027s at the point now where I personally would not oppose it being standards I think it\u0027s gotten normative enough that at least it\u0027s it\u0027s it\u0027s there but that if I was going to pick one I would probably say informational but at this point fit standards that\u0027s fine so countless flexible sir and now I\u0027m being devil\u0027s advocate just not as their area director again because you actually described we put requirements on pieces that needs to be implemented it\u0027s not just pure xmpp right you require a set of extensions right which a normative right that makes it like you know more more right and I guess I I had help from my co-author Peter and saying and that\u0027s where he pointed out the applicability statement and clause so okay so it sounds like we\u0027ll leave it as oh sorry yep okay there\u0027s still let one discuss left Benjamins can your changes be that way you don\u0027t and send an arc see editor note the last set of changes or or say "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:12:09",
    "text": "this would be done since this is agreed upon it be done off 48 so you have those options you don\u0027t go back through the whole process again I knew you know this yeah it\u0027s a and it\u0027s not for me to say it\u0027s absolutely fine with it well utilizing the draft is the best if you don\u0027t have time set for its editors notes will do the only my question I don\u0027t know the answer is will Benjamin have enough will he be happy with you know either trusting me to deal with the rest or just say you know interview it before okay so admittedly I\u0027m carrying three groups two of them are today I have one more on Thursday I may have some time I haven\u0027t even had a time to closely read Benjy email cuz it was a bit long I know he provided some suggests the text in the beginning but there was a long prose further down that\u0027s why I say I don\u0027t know if I can get everything done today but I can try no but but then Ben has to read it right yes so I have to I have less time and I only saw his discussed this morning okay if you run into him I suggest you just have a good chat saying you know is he happy with the set of I updated the notes will he have time left my shirt circuit if he doesn\u0027t have time well okay let\u0027s figure something okay I will try and see if I can force running into him today okay ya see my demonic now yeah well I think he probably knows that that well positions and discusses of other ages leaving I expiring but can we quickly go into data track and have a look how many positions on the document that\u0027s right "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:15:15",
    "text": "well I appreciate the fact that you\u0027re trying to simplify so actually there are fourteen positions on it and three people are leaving actually we\u0027re sort of working still what\u0027s that we\u0027re getting into a little I see a little trick section well basically three I think three people are leaving is G so their positions will expire and you need at least ten yes and no objection I think we\u0027ll still have eleven okay well then Ben was kind enough to say you can ignore because I\u0027m leaving but then we addressed it and so he changed yeah but the point is his position wouldn\u0027t I think it\u0027s the right thing to address his comments anyway yeah but his position wouldn\u0027t matters for us ah got it official process concerned on Thursday so do I put the RFC or do I ask Benjamin okay yeah I\u0027m just concerned about the comments I think that would might still be some comments that might be worth addressing but this can be done really well I mean we want to address Benjamin\u0027s comments it\u0027s just a question of timing right try to run into him and ask him whether he has time and whether he has a preference okay okay okay that\u0027s all I had [Music] [Music] [Music] "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:18:33",
    "text": "[Music] [Music] make sure you guys sign up blue sheets by the way worksheet perfect okay let me talk about update of the draft on the c ball bindings of our death so only two straights why the status update work english by working with google fall but conducted against the return version and it\u0027s completed and no objection or no comment what Freud provided actually so but according to is an ANSI we still have to modify draft especially for the IELTS section for this I want to discuss a bit in the next slides but we really need iron a section or not for this draft and also one update is a converter in the previous meeting we are discussing the converter as a forum good implementation and that\u0027s already updated to the github you can access it if you want and the last one is a router of roc 17 1970 little bit enormous maybe we want to have in version is possible as any way to make a green version of rfcs 29 incidentally if she is I hope reach a modified text what I\u0027ve seen up 29:20 think we have modern thing Arata so it\u0027s easy it\u0027s not so easy for asking review on the Jason draft we have a way to have a clean version of ROC 20 1970 you know my draft is you have a mapping between this draft this RC and yes so how can I have a clean version of the RFC 3920 okay can i or should I ask Roman or who can do that no you you can ask the author oh no no no for this one this is a Roman phone are you ready and so or the the XML from its Kathleen Moriarty from the RCA they\u0027ll tell you how to get it the editors can get it easily or I mean Roman could download it but you could ask the RC editor to not bother a busy new ad but he\u0027s he\u0027s efficient anyway so yeah the final version though is is held with the RSC editor so let me compromise understanding I just have to get XML from our C editor and try to modify that "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:21:34",
    "text": "and send it to Roman and get approval then send it back to the RC editor it\u0027s as bright yes sure I can we pull it up it\u0027s just computer it\u0027s in Japanese sorry [Music] well this is a piece rata here yep so what I want is a clean version yeah he\u0027s saying there\u0027s ten more that he wants to put which will make it very unreadable so it makes sense because most of it is the XML because I have to ask Hank to review my C ball but Hank did not want to follow all that errata I guess so you\u0027re doing a bit of this of 17 well so there\u0027s two drafts he\u0027s referring to 7970 is already out in the process of trying not trying in the process of mapping it to JSON and see see DDL JSON right they found more errors on 7970 okay to get a review of the JSON see VDL mapping the folks that are trying to read 7970 is saying it\u0027s almost unreadable and if you\u0027re gonna add more it would be better if you just republish a clean with the errors fixed in the 7970 so what I would do is I would file and then the experts of proof or don\u0027t approve and then you do the while you\u0027re working on the biz right so that you have those approvals and then you could figure out is this worth changing status on the document or just publishing it as AB is in these types of things so yeah a social soup is or leave it as a draft just so we could do a 7970 Biss which is a complete rewrite yeah yeah you can do that simple of just doing the errata but i would file all of the right affirm first okay and then the experts you know and mailing lists be smooth they asked you prove each of these we can\u0027t close a good yeah and no this is this is this is a fast way to do it so the reason why I\u0027m suggesting this my homes because then when you go through the document "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:24:34",
    "text": "review it\u0027s all going to be unverified errata right yeah it\u0027s a really simple I guess Jairam you in that regard because all verified errata as opposed to just random mistakes okay can the note takers please note that and so yes you have to see if someone wants to be editor honest tiller co-editor thank you so let me just talk about INR section this is only issue I want to get some guidance from you guys so I\u0027m just wondering with a we do that I am at section or not the current draft has a CD DL data model in the draft it\u0027s already embedded in the draft so and also see Bob ionic draft is currently not defined any new value because this Sybil electrically just mapped in binding to the our system of three 1970 1970 so we may not need to host a young section at all but sometimes people want to have a civil data model as a complete file for this purpose maybe we can resistor CJD a model and i anniversary or we do not include could we do not use IANA we have too often I wonder what which way would be the best way for us do we need to register the data model as a separate file in a Jana or do we not have to register the data model in the ena does something I wanted to hear your preferences Christmasy oh this is actually working [Music] - but the i/o death the sorry the XML version isn\u0027t right is it no and so if you register the model then you divert the namespace is registered right so here the clarification and and part of it is ignorance on the chairs part is I\u0027m still trying to read the CDL and the Seaboard draft which has gone to publication now right so the way I read that it\u0027s really more of a structure so I think of it more as an information model and so using CV DL with JSON instantiate the i/o def namespace into a data model so from that perspective I don\u0027t believe you need an ion of registry in looking at so the only other "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:27:34",
    "text": "example that I saw was the concise wit draft which does have registries of fields and tags that may be extensible like types and versioning and so that\u0027s where I was suggesting tataki to the authors right if there\u0027s a notion of wanting to build extensibility do you then want to create an Dianna registry in the C DDLJ son right so that then when you want to rev ioad F if you want to create new structures you can do that and then register them through they I in a process I would not be in favor of that unless you also create a way to do the updates to the XML or some way to keep them in sync and that\u0027s the guidance the author is asking for no well it depends on how aggressive you want to get to your updates to 7970 right so so I think so this is Nancy speaking as an individual so what I think I\u0027m hearing you say Chris is if there were any other extensions you wanted to make make it in IO death which is 7970 don\u0027t make it in the CDD l is the way I would interpret it yes right because because if you create the registry they\u0027ll definitely diverge and that makes complete sense but I\u0027m doing the Shepherd right up I\u0027m trying to provide the feedback yeah Dave Walton ire so the example you gave was with Co swig mm-hmm so what we\u0027re doing with cursed with is in the ISO document we\u0027re working on an update there we\u0027re gonna point to the IETF or to the IANA registries so that whenever the Ayana registry gets updated both the XML version and the and the Seaboard version will be able to effectively stay in sync with the two so I think we were suggesting doing it in a way that both the XML and the JSON version could could benefit from that I think is the way to go or else you get divergence where you can you can use one value and you know JSON but then that value was not valid for use in an XML and that\u0027s what we were trying to avoid by taking things up that way makes sense to do it that way here although it would be a heavier hi this is a steven bang hard at the mic I just wanted to ask a quick clarifying question the ion registry Dave that you\u0027re talking about is the the tag registry right where the or is this an actual schema registry no we have we have some valid values lists that are used you know for things like entity "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:30:37",
    "text": "roles and version schemes and things like that which are similar to the control vocabularies that exist in I so we\u0027re using an I in a registry so that new ones can be added through extension and at some point down the road that those values and then be picked up by the corresponding okay so but what I\u0027m hearing from used that you\u0027re really asking this last line an option to a separate seat video model file improves its usability so to me it sounds like what you\u0027re asking is about having somewhere to have the entire CD DL file available for download and you\u0027re thinking maybe you could put that entire CD VL file on an Diana Registry somewhere so I think that I think we\u0027re talking about some different things but I got that statement - from what take\u0027t said but if you leave it i am a-- then are you gonna have it as i anna as just hosting the file which they can do or effectively or are you going to have it like with an expert review or something like that which could be updated no you would have to create a full process right so whenever you create a new registry with diana you have to define the process of what happens when you create a new one you need to assign experts review so I\u0027m just gonna answer just this last question on your slide here referring to the actual file itself I\u0027m going to say no option I\u0027m going to say option one I probably wouldn\u0027t upload the full CD DL file on an eye on a registry it\u0027s more common to find the full schema for formats like this just in the appendix of a document and then what\u0027s pretty common to find is that that ends up uploaded a lot of different places anyway on the internet and it\u0027s so you don\u0027t really have to worry about it so I\u0027m gonna say option one to this question here any other feedback thank you very much I think I understand the way forward thank you all right [Music] [Music] so you guys will see me post as the chair the guy the write-up and recommendation plus a mother I\u0027ll probably find a couple other knits but the draft will have guidance as to no no IANA registry effectively okay this is Steven Bankart up at the front Mike now "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:33:37",
    "text": "my presentations tend to go over time so I\u0027m gonna go really fast this time I just uploaded the Roli c-cert draft again with no changes just to get it updated because it had expired there\u0027s one last thing I would like to change which is to update the format usage section because we found a new way of organizing that section when we did some work of the software descriptor and I think that using that same format in this document would make it much more readable so I would like to make that one last change to c-cert and then it\u0027s ready for last call as far as I\u0027m concerned next slide there is one last thing we need to decide here as a working group we had talked about briefly in I believe it was London I suppose but the possibility of splitting this draft into two different drafts and adding in domain-specific language into each one the first draft being IO def and the second draft being four sticks we\u0027re at a point now where I\u0027d like to bring this conversation to the group and pick one of the options there\u0027s a really short list of pros for each one so this should be a pretty simple discussion there\u0027s not a lot to explain here option a is we last call the document as it is after I make that one final update the benefit here in my mind is that we can get this published sooner we can get it done and it\u0027s it\u0027s out there and ready to use next slide please option B we split it into two separate documents the benefit here is that we get more domain specific text built into the document that gives us more explicit support for some extra features around sharing io def and sticks files using Rolly of course the kind of implicit con it\u0027s kind of made clear on both of them but it\u0027s going to take a little bit longer somebody needs to to write the texts for all of that and obviously I\u0027d be happy to do all that I have to reach out to some domain experts and IO def and Styx respectively to complete those sections so we need to pick option A or option B so Kathleen see what about the standard that\u0027s being used a lot in Europe that\u0027s gaining a lot of traction so one thing that was discussed in the Harris workshop was adoption and problems and iota thumbsticks were both in the problem area so maybe adding this other one that actually that\u0027s a really great question Dave anyone else remember oh it\u0027s a question the there\u0027s some new transport no not "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:36:37",
    "text": "new transport sorry some new formats and something work or as you go through those should this other one be done since it\u0027s actually has adoption and it\u0027s been being used within Europe I think Miriam brought it up in her TF cert report and so it goes back to what do people actually exchange and I think it was more focused on indicators of compromise than more fuller events okay which is done by both hi oh that\u0027s Jeff and sticks so yes we do this other thing too that worthwhile right so for the first question especially if you\u0027re using fer s cap to dot oh right so to answer the first question of can we do it I would say absolutely the two information types that we\u0027re talking about in this draft is both indicator and incident so it sounds like this would fit more into the indicator of compromise category and it\u0027s worth looking into so right now we just have a kind of list where we say here we\u0027re going to talk about sticks here we\u0027re going to talk about IO death it would be really easy to add into this document let\u0027s talk about this thing I I would need to talk to somebody who knows about it and seeing is we don\u0027t know it it is at the moment I\u0027m guessing that we probably don\u0027t have anyone in the room that knows about what it is Dave table tomorrow we took a note format is that we can always just do updates to the draft at some point add the additional data format in the option D could be published this now and then if there\u0027s interest in adding this additional format we could we could do a short update I mean it would be like a three-page draft status for the working group would be my only question if it\u0027s close by then so is it easy to just do this now and be done right yeah and that\u0027s that\u0027s that\u0027s something we\u0027re gonna have to figure out if I could get you know minimally a couple hours on the phone maybe twice with somebody who understands this format that would probably be enough information to at least get a basic level support for that format in this document obviously the more cooperation I get that I\u0027m gonna go over time anyway this is what happens yeah I\u0027m gonna cut you off so I think the intent of the document is to show how you can use Rowley for Caesar using io def and stick so so it\u0027s to determine how you use Rowley and c-cert . io deaf and sticks are not part of the "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:39:39",
    "text": "purpose of the document they just happen to be one of the two of the ways that you would use see sir if this is a third way that you would use rolling in a sea cert I think it falls under the purview of the document I\u0027m not discounting that I\u0027m just saying it shouldn\u0027t be a stopping gating factor yeah yeah and I mean I it\u0027s a chair statement for some reason I\u0027m not seeing what you guys are typing on etherpad but that\u0027s okay yeah the Secretariat should probably be notified about this but yeah there are two different two different servers and it depends on which site we go through okay okay so I need working group guidance on how to go forward with this I heard at least one person Cathleen have interest in adding this third format to the document I I would say that I have interest in that as well but I\u0027d really like to ask the working group and the chairs on how to move forward with this document I see probably a B and C where a is publish it now B is split it up and C is let\u0027s add this third thing and then publish it well it\u0027s C and D oh yeah that\u0027s right publish it and then release an update so those are the four options what what what do people think what we should do what did the chairs think here well first question is we first need to identify what that third one is and were you able to find it Chris oh sorry do you have her her PowerPoint no okay from the Charis workshop so this was during a breakout session and we were discussing adoption of standards because he the only one I know is open IOC which isn\u0027t big no and it wasn\u0027t it wasn\u0027t that no it wasn\u0027t it was something I hadn\u0027t heard of before she\u0027s here I\u0027ve seen her so I can ask her it\u0027s not in the minutes we do have recordings now that\u0027s a lot okay so let\u0027s move on um okay option a is keep everything in one document stick with just I Oh death and "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:42:39",
    "text": "sticks option B is stick with just I Oh death and sticks and split them into two documents I\u0027ll make option three is one document sorry what did I say I just like two questions the first being that\u0027s a fair point do we keep it as a single document do we split it the second is do we include the new one okay all right so so let\u0027s do with the first one do we want to work okay so let me just ask it once um and I\u0027ll ask it this way not to show preference there\u0027s the working group object to keeping it in one document no objections I I don\u0027t object particularly okay that\u0027s a way of doing a and B so so you don\u0027t split you just have one document okay okay so we can confirm that on the list as well it\u0027s easier if I ask it that way okay second question does the group want to include the third the problem is we don\u0027t know what the third one does the group want to include a third example that uses a well known indicator it may be the way to phrase this given that we\u0027re not 100% concrete on everything is are we going to look into adding or or spend some work on or something like that I\u0027m not sure it\u0027s German okay could we phrase it as do we object publishing with to and revisiting the the third option once we know what it is that\u0027s a good wave I was just trying to give him quicker time could could we dave vault american we just set a date maybe and say are we willing to accept additional contributions until x dates after which we\u0027ll move forward with their working group last call no no no we\u0027re just noodling so well let let me let\u0027s do the sidebar as an author right yeah uh do "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:45:39",
    "text": "you want to have a cutoff date I mean I was just gonna say you need to know that by the end of this week since she\u0027s here right don\u0027t take notes here Kathleen can you help find out what that third one is by the end of this week okay if you can then let\u0027s just do what just suggests so we don\u0027t even have to do a voter question so let\u0027s just proceed with you with one document once we find out the third let me give you time and then you come back in the mail list and say I\u0027d like to include a third okay okay and and Kathleen if we miss that cutoff and we have to just move forward with these two and then we can sit down and write just a new document on this this especially if it\u0027s getting a lot of adoption and it\u0027s something that you know we think is important we can figure that out that\u0027s well let me know the third one because I can ask nineteen to cuz a lot of adoption may just be in Europe not yeah yeah okay yes Belgians the Belgians built a system including this format avenido exercised a bunch of the European NATO countries so from a previous like working on documents as a working group shut down the chairs can talk to the ad and it can still be a working group document that it would just be one document right as far as working group shut down because the list stays alive no my my main concern was to try and be able to get the document to publication before we shut down and in order to do that I want to make sure you have a draft that\u0027s ready so that I could do the last call and get to volunteers again people that I know how to go to the last names of people we know the last name with last names I\u0027m happy as an author with the current current plan of doing I think that\u0027s good okay so we can do a last call on this one unless you want me to wait for the third one that let\u0027s let\u0027s wait till the end of the week and then last all right because we want to wait for that third isn\u0027t that what we decided with the cutoff there yeah yeah okay okay don\u0027t note that well I guess you "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:48:42",
    "text": "should not enough if you\u0027re gonna add the new format it doesn\u0027t make sense for me to do a last call until you have that drafting agree okay so I\u0027m gonna go through this really quickly this is actually very related to this thing I just submitted a rolly draft for vulnerability it\u0027s something that we\u0027re actually working on implementing at NIST for the NVD this is something that is highly relevant work for us since it is about publishing CVEs as well as the there\u0027s a draft mister 81 38 on something called the vulnerability description ontology that is also a potential way of describing a vulnerability so these are things that we care about and we\u0027re currently working on figuring out how they\u0027re going to fit into roli if there\u0027s other vulnerability formats those are also things that we\u0027re looking at so I just submitted the 0-0 of the draft that talks about how to do those things in rolling this week like hours ago my question to the group to the chairs with the context of group status in mind is this work that we think is valuable being done here I mean we\u0027re implementing this I suppose we could do it as an experimental um I suspect that there\u0027s probably some other people that care about it what are the thoughts I think it\u0027s really good here watching this for the purpose of deriving CVS\u0027s score automatically the current one is use the current anybody disputed not use but we do that provide a lot views information that\u0027s really user before the passing on you so bright and that\u0027s ultimately my question is I\u0027m gonna keep working on the draft regardless well you\u0027re gonna if you want it published you need a home so I was looking at the Charter and it is part of the Charter it is so we have to post a question to the group if the group has interest in adopting this as an item "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:51:44",
    "text": "right and and I I do want I mean it\u0027s something that we\u0027re doing we\u0027re interested in we\u0027re actively working on as NIST it\u0027s something that I mean taki has expressed interest in but I do want to be sensitive yeah okay so let me just ask the group is the group interested in working on this document can I get a raise of hand because I the humming won\u0027t work here are you interested in a mile okay are you raising your hand yes you want to work on it and mile yeah well altameyer I think I just heard Jess say and I I\u0027m saying the same thing I think this work is worthwhile to do right you find a home for it this seems like a natural this is the natural home and I mean if we have work to do we have work to do I won\u0027t shut the group down and I didn\u0027t mean shutting the group down as a threat really tiny extension so it should go fast weeks yeah it\u0027s a separate draft no it just means the reason why I\u0027m asking is we\u0027re gonna need volunteers I\u0027d like to see at least three reviews well I have to ask first is the group interested and the answer is yes who would be interested in working on it as in reviewing unless you want co-authors I\u0027d be happy to take one if anyone\u0027s interested is anybody interested in working on the draft as a co-author but I wouldn\u0027t be offended if it wants to I can either help or you\u0027re in the same organization which means I could might be better if I help okay but but that\u0027s just showing interest right and working and then who would be willing to review the draft okay you have your three ah talking last names yes with last names Jess and Kathleen luckily I know them so I know where to find them yeah people on the rats group no I nudged Kathleen knows I know the "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:54:47",
    "text": "so this this this is short I mean it\u0027s like the third yeah not less than that of the Caesar document so I don\u0027t suspect that this is going to take very long no but if I once it goes to Shepherd they want to see that there\u0027s been review no there\u0027s been interested in adoptions I was just reassuring the chairs that it\u0027s not going to keep us open for another four years no you\u0027re not creating frameworks or anything there\u0027s no safe it\u0027s okay okay that\u0027s that\u0027s all I have okay so we\u0027re not ready to do a call for adoption yet because it\u0027s new Oh on the vulnerability yeah I\u0027m sure I mean it\u0027s posted it\u0027s pretty zero zero e zero zero at the moment I have a whole bunch updates queued up but okay so it in the interest of time could we do that on the list yeah so few weeks yeah so you guys are pre-empting me I was gonna say tacky Kathleen and Jess if you can provide preliminary review on the 0-0 draft right I can actually I can put a call for adoption I suppose since we\u0027re interested well I\u0027m contemplating yeah I mean there\u0027s a couple ways of do a hand I could just do a call for adoption now since you guys are interested is there objection to just adopt the draft as a working group draft No okay so just turn it into a mile okay and then I like that better except gives me a little bit of time to put out a new version before people start to review it it gives me like a bonus week or two okay if it\u0027s already adopted then we have a little bit of time to work on it right I mean there\u0027s no okay so turn it over to mile and then Jess Kathleen and tacky once you see it up on the mile um if you can do a review then I can do a last call after they review okay sounds good and then if there are no objections then okay I guess I\u0027m shepherding yeah okay thanks I\u0027m ready okay so that gets us to now um we need to review the milestones right what\u0027s the blue oh it\u0027s your alexi "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:57:57",
    "text": "one so our ad wanted us to look at our milestones so no you can stay there so for the c-cert Draft we\u0027re waiting on the okay so I will give you and your one I have to lunch and I have to be nudged so this is gonna be interesting taki you and I need to remember that we\u0027d like to do a last call do you think you can put the third one in by mid end of April that only gives you two or three weeks yeah so one of us has to do the last call okay okay so if we do a last call by April maybe by Montreal you could have April May June if you do all of the comment resolution by Montreal we could potentially get a check by Montreal yeah that sounds entirely doable I\u0027ll get the update out depending on the status of the conversation so how about this third thing get the update out be ready to working group last call it on the mailing list early April I\u0027ll do all the conflict comment resolution before Montreal that also mumble okay so now given that I don\u0027t remember which mic it was or way do you not have an reach way if you can reach him okay I\u0027ll just start asking mics until it says yes wasn\u0027t Mike Jones producer craft I haven\u0027t seen him this week yeah this would have been at sea I thought it was Mike Jenkins but it could have been Jenkins it\u0027s possible we could just say it was Jacob okay could we get another person in this room to volunteer to review the draft this is just surprised this is the one that may or may not include you\u0027re the third European thingamajig this will be by June Kathleen it\u0027s it\u0027s whenever whenever we do the last so I\u0027m not expecting to do the last call until end of April okay so "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:01:01",
    "text": "if you can note Kathleen will also help review that draft that\u0027s only yeah okay okay so tacky if you can ping way we at least have a second with Kathleen since we can\u0027t remember the mic um I do encourage others to review by the way I have to review a separate so I can\u0027t count myself well we didn\u0027t get any when I did the last call on the day son one that\u0027s why I\u0027m like trying to make sure we have people what\u0027s that but I didn\u0027t ask for volunteers because we did it on the mail list right he was ready so um okay then I\u0027m the vulnerability draft we have the three volunteers and so on the vulnerability draft yeah how much time do you guys need if we give you till the mid-may is that okay to review okay okay so I\u0027m trying to remember my preference doing the working group last call right before Montreal just to give you time for the for the vulnerability no you have to react you were really hard to nudge you have a legitimate excuse because you got married but okay so let\u0027s just say you\u0027ll Rev based on comments right so that we can do a working group last call sometime end of June July so you and I will have to coordinate right and so maybe we\u0027ll be ready to do move it moving it forward to iesg by august how\u0027s that and we could potentially do "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:04:06",
    "text": "the same thing with the c surprised you found it Miriam did of course and the answer is missed M is P wwm is P project org is the format okay that\u0027s malware that\u0027s not incident exchange okay that\u0027s fair okay so so Steven I just suggested that we can follow a similar path with the c-cert draft if we can get review by May you can we can do working group last call before Montreal and we can post the publication by August you are back I feel I feel bad saying you\u0027re not going on a honeymoon so yeah you\u0027re here okay and then that JSON I owed F is already in the Shepherd so that\u0027s not the long pole we should be good yeah okay so I think we can update the milestones for this any any other business no going once going twice I get to give you some time back I think we\u0027re done thank you I ran us I\u0027m sorry that\u0027s what I get for running two meetings back to back for some reason that I thought we had until 12:30 I was on the tool on the etherpad tools yeah well no I mean either one is fine [Music] no no no the mapping was fine it was if you wanted to create an ion of registry then you needed to be very definitive right but now you have no problem so I will send my so I need to finish "
  }
]