[
  {
    "startTime": "00:00:07",
    "text": "you control going to kill me here you got one of them as such I have one but I don\u0027t have mine well I have it from my computer oh this is the problem one piece that I mean you have to have okay my room converter for this from the meeting this time it\u0027s really always usually there\u0027s "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:03:56",
    "text": "[Music] [Applause] "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:07:36",
    "text": "experience the emerg Verint list and the speeding on the descendant email into yeah I am surprised that Chris isn\u0027t here Chris Potts yeah late lunch probably yes because I talked to no he isn\u0027t he isn\u0027t less and I\u0027ll help out when you\u0027re talking cuz actually I can take notes during any discussions when you\u0027re let\u0027s see about Jabbar maybe I\u0027ll get on Jabbar then it\u0027s like I got a new laptop and unfortunately I was using it to charge my phone and I forgot the dawn book it\u0027s it\u0027s a spinner one and I forgot that dongle that you need to get in yet to connect all the other dongles lu lu is going to do slides on it for someone right he told me that in one of my conversations I think okay so I\u0027ll get go ordered the booklet yeah thank you yeah I was I was just gonna get to the students yeah I\u0027ll did right now wine is this no I like it because I said just being the big yes I\u0027m one of the people that relaxes they don\u0027t have to wear my reading glasses so no RFC\u0027s in Chicago we have work you wrote last call on two things one of the things is we\u0027ve been slowing down work because there may be some other graphs that are ready but we\u0027ve been discussing these and I don\u0027t given the low volume anyway I didn\u0027t want to try and force "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:10:38",
    "text": "everything through at one time so I think we can do that so we have the segment routing the extensions I didn\u0027t update the slide but Peter just updated it based on today before the meeting with comments from the ops review from sue Harris and just one other comment to read better in the in the logic for inner area propagation of segment routing sits and the tunnel encapsulation we I don\u0027t know if you saw my note on the list we had this all discussion about common registries and the problem was with BGP it was they were using communities for some of the things so he didn\u0027t really want to use their since we needed the color to be an attribute in the RAL si and we didn\u0027t want to have a common water fire science cuz they have a one byte space and we have a two byte space and I left it to the offers but I said well you could just limit it but they said what about the length and I said oh okay what if we have attributes that are longer so we took the path loop least resistant and created a separate tunnel attribute registry link overload I think we have consensus boots on this we\u0027ve had some discussions on this and it\u0027s it\u0027s going to use just it\u0027s just gonna be an area sculpt I think area scope I think what people are more comfortable with area scope now anybody because normally if you\u0027re in a service provider network where they would use link overload you\u0027re probably gonna have the link attribute LSA anyway for the adjacency see it or something else so you might as well I mean I think I think having a single simpler solution is better each bit this is something that comes up every once in a while with OSPF v3 we can absolutely prevent transit traffic but with OSPF v2 we still only can discourage ah Trent transit traffic so what this does in a backward compatible fashion it provides a way to absolutely prevent transit traffic between a node also also I added something somebody that we that in this update 3107 somebody had commented to me that 3107 didn\u0027t handle the case of the type to metric and a sternal LS ace that you would still use the type to metric because it\u0027s considered higher so if you\u0027re a self originating any type to metrics you should also put that to Max metric and I got an update today on extended LS A\u0027s "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:13:38",
    "text": "this is pretty close I think I need the office to tell me everything\u0027s ready but I don\u0027t think there\u0027s any any controversy on that I saw this one is updated I haven\u0027t read maximally redundant trees yet I saw there was an update to it with some changes okay oh right right right that Stewart Stewart straps yeah yes yes always be a yang model there\u0027s an update today and this we haven\u0027t really done in too much with this simple extension but across te this is where are you you allow just to specify te and one of the protocols o SP to f2 or OSPF III and you can put endpoints for the tunnels of either address pipe segment routing three actually we\u0027re not going we\u0027re not really doing anything that to that until we get OSPF b2 segment running extensions and we\u0027ll work on that and this also is dependent on the pre extended link attributes LSA extensions which I\u0027ll talk about today in her face LS we still need that it was accepted we still need allocation of the LSS code point s re yang model that will be covered today it\u0027s been broken out for no SPF yang model in case because just about everything in the well not just about everything in the OSPF model is a pretty mature feature well this has been evolving at least over the last couple IETF this SR stuff both the base SR model for yang and function itself and screed label I\u0027m waiting for them to update the draft we had discussions in Chicago on this and we\u0027d agreed on the definition of the entry label we had all the original offer we at least we have one of the original offers of entry label Creedy was in there and Bruno and Stefan and wim and we agreed on what the definition of the depth and everything and all the parameters so I\u0027m just waiting for a update on that draft based on that side meeting and flowspec I don\u0027t know this mate unless the use case is more you know you know the we we heard that we\u0027re gonna have use cases on this I don\u0027t see any of the offers in the room I don\u0027t know why there is there a Wally lunch today or something where are they "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:16:41",
    "text": "I\u0027m sorry exactly yeah yeah yeah that could be it well yeah this one this one no actually the is is working group rejected this because they didn\u0027t think the use case was strong enough and this was this was for distributed das Prevention in campus networks and so I\u0027ve been talking to the I actually haven\u0027t offer this one but it because I helped out with the you know the encodings and everything but I think we\u0027ll just let it die if it doesn\u0027t we don\u0027t get more definition if you\u0027re actually gonna use it for flowspec beer I\u0027d like to encourage other people to review this I reviewed this I had a few a few knits and I had a few questions on it that Tony took care of all the the nets and I had questions on it that ah Tony P and Eric took care of so I I\u0027d like to encourage other people to review it though I think it\u0027s pretty much ready an NC camp we\u0027ve given once the C camp guys got to three levels of sub TL B\u0027s with all the WDM stuff and the optical transfer we quit trying to keep up with it that\u0027s it okay hello everyone my name is engine I\u0027m going to present an update of the OSPF young model better so this draft defines the Bayesian model here is the summary of changes since last IETF we modified the model to be consistent with an MVA format that was suggested by IETF so we knew there was some changes that going to happen so it made some preparations in less such as using groupings and then one-way changing to this time ta format the effort for us was not that big so it didn\u0027t take us long to do this change just you know if people ask what\u0027s the effort to change this big OSPF model we also modify the model to be consistent with the young module template I "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:19:41",
    "text": "suggested by our c60 87 of hand XE that\u0027s mainly editorial changes and so something new in this model is we remove the SPF lock when I did SPF lock and the air I say lock that was part of the effort eyes on language is ice model we remove the inheritance so because the feedback we got so far is it\u0027s not very it\u0027s not implemented by many vendors and make the model or complicated so we decided to remove it we also made some small other changes such as we for the OSPF we to air sa ID will change to use Delta called instead of IP address and also some other small changes and all those small changes you can look at them kind of like back fake sis for this model we are trying our best to reveal the model several runs already trying to reduce the number of errors and make the improved models quality so this is the new I did SPF lock and RSA lock it\u0027s pretty much the same format as a size model both of them are and I did under D or SPF instance level so the current status and next steps this model is feature complete and after changing to the lamp da format I think the model has reached a stable state and we do have some dependencies on other models for example the ATF are loading tabs that we use in the we import in the model I use them that way is in working group last car the RFC is 0 to 2 on the shouting config model that one need to be refactored to be consistent with the MDA format right now the only thing left you know OSPF model that still augments the shouting state is the one that OSPF augments the shot attributes like the adult hobbies in inter area intra area that have so dawa has right now is the indulging state and nothing else is in it\u0027s already too consistent with the "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:22:43",
    "text": "nmda format right now there is no redistribution defined in the model because of the real policy model that has expired in as a year ago um PFT is your way out Jeff is now here so we are going to have a VFD meeting list we are going to have a meeting with PFD young design team to discuss the protocol specific configuration parameters that they well we have on this issue how come backer for several times already so hopefully they after this cut discussion we can settle down yeah we we used to have a separate PFD module define B protocol specific parameters will remove it now o see what happens so um next step we need a young doctor review we need to start at the adulterer review considering the site of this model maybe we we need modern one young daughters to start a review process because it may take some time and then we will ask how this model so that was the pace OSPF model and this rafter defines the OSPF said my route in young model or change since last ITF semis the base model we change the operation stage to be consistent with an I\u0027m ta format we also change modify to be the young module template I suggested consistent so the real changes are we added the local block theories and as I am as preference TLV we also remove the funding theories so this page shows the new as a block theory the left side is the definition of the grouping and then the red racer so story of the ant yeah we this one is the SRM a preference TLB same again so laughs that is the definition right is the tree since this model is has a dependency on the OSPF site my routing draft so we expect we make how to go through a couple of more updates until we reach a stable state so that\u0027s a thank you and in question a "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:25:47",
    "text": "seal and I just want to make one comment on the one thing that we hadn\u0027t done with in DMA we\u0027re talking about I was hoping to have it done sooner but start getting get a git repository and yang Zen has volunteered to help out on the 8:02 to Reis pin for Indian a compliant with me and Lara yeah that one the shouting config model we\u0027re not gonna let lot I set it up originally because he likes to define his models in yen and then and then have tooling take it from you in the yang and it would dry he does and so uh we\u0027re gonna avoid this we\u0027re gonna ask him to come in after the fact yeah right now we thought okay the the best recent development is that we have two productized implementations of OSPF extended LSAs for OC Fe 3 segments routing and I\u0027ve added the two offers are two of the actual implementers we have one in the room direct calls from Nokia in Antwerp AHA and Peru from belem from Huawei in Bangla door yeah we\u0027ve had some Corrections based on people\u0027s comments and things mine are very minor things and I\u0027m gonna ask on the list to it too if there are there are any others I\u0027ve added I\u0027ve added a skeleton inflammation to those bf woof key implementation survey page and we\u0027re gonna experiment with this use this for to put the results of that out to that from the OSPF wiki I remove the boilerplate and put some things in so we\u0027ll have room for more stuff and I\u0027ll publish it on the wiki and point to it from Wednesday once that it the survey is going to ask if they support all nine types really the only new piece of function was and this was this was carried over from prefect link attributes in OSPF v2 is the N bit and I\u0027ll ask if there\u0027s full semesters there\u0027s full support or partial support what we call the sparse mode to support the new features both at the area and incidence level and then I\u0027ll ask if the "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:28:49",
    "text": "applications I think the only out I\u0027m pretty sure though only both both vendors did this to support segment routing and also request to routing or Ave will no we\u0027re both we\u0027re both offers I\u0027ll request it anyway from them ask them to review it and one thing we\u0027re gonna have to so we can start now that now that we know this this is proceeding progressing is we have a gap draft and we have one RFC for sure that needs to have a little piece in it that references this and updates that that\u0027s the two-port part metric metric and maybe I don\u0027t know depending on how fast we do link overload might put I\u0027ll get the link overload will advance that it is OSPF b2 and then just have a small little piece in this same draft that it does that and that\u0027s it i know i know i i\u0027m also gonna ask about interoperability test testing but the logistics of it i i\u0027ll see if anybody\u0027s i\u0027ll try and what i\u0027m gonna try and do is get the vendors interested in it i don\u0027t know how successful all be giving the if it were say it probably would be easier if it were two vendors that were in bangla door but it isn\u0027t so bangalore i don\u0027t know where i got the bank but banker doris yeah I got good place Bangalore okay are you gonna implement it David fun I\u0027m sorry pays you okay alright David Lassiter is a quagga ah one of the main contributors David Lam putter fr outing oh you are Fri God doesn\u0027t anymore we don\u0027t have anyone pushing for this currently so no one is actually working on it we do have people looking at segment routing they may arrive at the conclusion that they need to implement this at some point but that that hasn\u0027t happened yet so okay thank you okay next up Peter are you are you on job yes I haven\u0027t sir prom I couldn\u0027t get on it yes I see that "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:31:50",
    "text": "all right so she\u0027s a very quick presentation on the LLS interface ID exchange so what it is this is a very simple extension what we want to do is we want to use the OSPF LS which is part of the hello to exchange the interface ID instead of you know using any other mechanism there isn\u0027t mechanism defined which uses the local scope the epochal si which we don\u0027t make redundant or we don\u0027t very people can\u0027t use but we believe this is much simple and easier to do so the same mechanism is being used you know SP v3 is being used in ice is so we are just trying to make us baby to do the same thing so this stuff became the working group document is really published with a different name we added the backward compatibility section or basically we say if you use post mechanism prefer the LLS you can still continue to use the T epochal I say to you know communicate the interface ID if you want to there shouldn\u0027t really be any backward compatibility issues because the value should be the same and that can be time where you know the ID changes which should not normally happen but can possibly happen where these two values may for a very short interval be different but again doesn\u0027t really cause us any problem as soon as you look at one of the values you should be fine so what we really need is the the code point for the LS so we can use this it\u0027s a very simple thing we expect to progress quickly here and there is any feedback please do so okay questions comments just just leave you here from the early good point yeah early atlas so this draft was when the first request first came in right the draft had just been adopted and I haven\u0027t seen much discussion on the mailing list at all about it if it\u0027s really well understood and stable and there\u0027s agreement that folks need a code point I\u0027m happy to have that but I do need to see some discussion on the mailing list from folks in that regard I just hasn\u0027t gotten the quality of conversation yet to make me say oh sure it\u0027s a zero zero working group draft let\u0027s go for it I mean that\u0027s all you just please read it please provide some feedback if you have any concerns about it or if they\u0027re pieces if you think "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:34:51",
    "text": "it\u0027s stable enough if what if you read it and you\u0027ve wrecked you and your response is yeah this makes great sense I\u0027m gonna go implement it tomorrow but I need a code point say so if you think it looks great if you think they\u0027re issues I\u0027d like to decide about doing a code point before the next ITF so that folks you do want to implement it can get it moving thank you sure just there is an implementation already we can live with the experimental work for the time being so I hear you and I appreciate and of course work that comes with that that comes with running code already is always very valuable because it tends to be less theoretical but some of the other work and tends to have fewer gashes from things not being thought through fully so that\u0027s really useful but it is still a pre standard implementation and the question is whether there\u0027s gaps in words written down before one so we\u0027ll start discussion on that and then maybe we\u0027ll have like they do an IDR after some discussion and an allocation call like that your honor now there is now now I\u0027m much less concerned about this space than I am say BG pls where there\u0027s code points coming from all these different graphs and and we have collision opportunities galore with that one but that\u0027s not our working group but I\u0027m still concerned with it because we have some implementation that could have these these collisions okay so there has been already an interesting discussion yesterday on the eye size working group about this trap this is the OSB version of it so it has been presented so many times I believe strongly believe everybody understands what\u0027s the problem and we even have the existing problem people acknowledge that so that\u0027s good there\u0027s been good amount of discussion which happened on the ITF meetings and on the working of Elias both OSPF Anaya sighs I guess we have a problem solve we can\u0027t say it\u0027s not relevant at least I believe so so same problem is in our eyes we won\u0027t really want to make the solution to be the same in both protocols not necessarily the encoding part because there may be some differences due to the differences in the protocol itself but we believe the solution should be the same and obviously there is a draft should be 0-5 actually so what we change from the last "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:37:51",
    "text": "time so we used to have only a single application bit mask now we split that and we advertise the standard application mask and the user-defined application must because there has been some people saying you don\u0027t want only the standardized application we want to have the flexibility map any applications we have to a certain value and then advertise the various values of the attributes so we added that we added the deployment consideration about how to use this if I want to use a single advertisements for all the applications and what are the consequences if you introduce another application for which you want a different value and also we clarified that and I think that\u0027s very important for everybody who is looking at these drafts is that advertising a link attribute has nothing to do with the enablement of the application on the link we strongly believe we have to make that distinction so we have clarified that in the draft so there has been a working group acceptance poll which has been issued and we have fair amount of people saying they support the document I haven\u0027t seen anyone saying no even I can sing some people might think so but they haven\u0027t expressed so so I don\u0027t know what the next step is going to be given what happened yesterday on the I sides working group but I mean we have bows on the ice eyes and always be a very amount of people saying they do support this job so I leave it to working group chairs and maybe earlier to resolve that it\u0027s only bit of data I can add is we got some private comments also they are also of the support nature there is no concern at least we have received as part of the acceptance poll I\u0027m not saying that is a conclusion but that\u0027s the overall status so far right so last IETF we all had made agreement whereas a similar result in OSPF and is as far as the direction with this and at that point in time I asked Chris Hobbs to make the consensus calls and see where to go forward with it and that remains the case well I don\u0027t know if that happened yesterday I don\u0027t have that impression but okay so it\u0027s good that you\u0027re here because I\u0027m about to put you on the spot we do have working group adoption calls you know in both working groups and they publicly expressed opinions have been overwhelmingly in favor but what seemed to happen yesterday in the assess working group was this was discounted and there was a push from the working group chairs to actually have an interim meeting to discuss any issues associated "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:40:51",
    "text": "with this and my question to you not as you know your opinion on which solution you happen to like or whatever but strictly as from a process standpoint when we have overwhelming publicly expressed consensus are we obligated to follow that this is the inconsistency I see so well because there are people on me deco so but I also want to look at you right so we don\u0027t do voting you know this and we could say yes there was overwhelming consensus and I freely admit and happily that there were more support than from one particular affiliation but there was definitely a piling on from one particular affiliation which makes me not a of people who were actively involved and have legitimate and good technical opinions so I\u0027m not saying that but this is part of why we don\u0027t do the numbers game for voting and you know that the working group chair gets to decide when they think they were a person who\u0027s doing the consensus call does get to decide when to do it last IETF I asked for a virtual interim between that last one and this one I\u0027ve asked for the use cases to be better written down because I think what a lot of the working group and folks on the mailing list have been hearing is arguing over bits instead of Hugh\u0027s excuses obviously I\u0027m happy to chat with you as well we all understand that when a documents adopted as a working group draft it\u0027s a starting point and that there needs to be flexibility and willingness to make changes based on what the working group says and I think that had the discussion around that gun differently in is is you might have had different results but I am certainly not concerned about Chris taking time because the other piece of consensus is looking for significant technical objections and actually addressing them right so there\u0027s two pieces one is can any can everyone live with this and if you can\u0027t live with it what are the technical problems what are the issues and then how can we resolve the issues it\u0027s fine to have rough consensus with the rough consensus I mean you know this you can participate in the IETF for an eon sorry but the key point here is you don\u0027t you haven\u0027t if you hear two significant technical objections and we don\u0027t have some concept about how to address that and it might be that the working group has consensus of yes we heard that we don\u0027t care so I am NOT concerned now will I be concerned if we don\u0027t have a decision and it resolved before next IETF yeah I\u0027ll be screaming at people I don\u0027t want to scream so I\u0027m not talking "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:43:53",
    "text": "a numbers game okay and we you know we all build on rough consensus we\u0027re not taking a majority we don\u0027t have an electoral college etc etc I\u0027m just saying if you look at the history of the working groups if you have any draft and it has numbers such as we see in public today I do not know any case where the draft was not adopted I cannot think of one and so I\u0027m asking from a process standpoint and I\u0027m particularly concerned because of the direction that the the ice is working group chairs took okay the the largest set of discussions I mean you know Chris and I everybody knows kind of you know where we stand and and you know we don\u0027t agree that\u0027s fair you know we\u0027re all entitled but when the working group chairs make a concerted effort to say we think there needs to be an interim meeting to discuss this even though the publicly expressed opinions of the working group indicate otherwise my question is is this within ITM process or not yes okay the short form is take another read through seventy-eight work one of the ways the best document that I\u0027ve seen for thinking about how the I how and why the IETF does rough consensus is looking at RFC 782 82 and this is where I tie back to rough consensus is to hide around significant technical objections and the point is not that the technical objection has to be an search in oh here I hear you and we\u0027re going to handle that in this way but it has to be discussed and then there has to be more I can tell you about how what we had to do with enemy o3 okay for envy oh sorry and you know there was great consensus to adopt absolutely every single day to plan under the universe I sorry I shouldn\u0027t say that there were only three okay and it was the same type of thing but and there was a consensus to adopt each of them but nobody could live with particular one and it kept being so yes these issues come up usually they haven\u0027t come up and I as I asked or SPF because frankly we\u0027ve got a really well behaved and cooperative working group and I certainly prefer that style to having to go have strong discussions I believe that Chris was trying to poke at different things and get a better understanding and he\u0027s put it and I understand that I am aware that the public expressions on the I\u0027ve been watching the public expressions on the mailing list as well and seeing what folks are saying I would feel better if "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:46:54",
    "text": "some of the folks who are expressing yes this is a good point said it was a good point because they have this problem and or you know I mean plus one contains very little information and that\u0027s one of the other pieces is in a consensus judgment in a consensus judgment it\u0027s necessary to pay attention to what is said and so are there significant technical jobs the objections have we as a working group talked about them and agree on how to handle them and then when people when you\u0027re judging consensus how informed do the plus ones look are they plus ones or are they actually meaningful input beyond yeah my friend asked me to and I don\u0027t think that\u0027s happening here by the way because I know who\u0027s the people are saying but it\u0027s not enough input to say oh this person really cares about it because it\u0027s solving this problem obviously you all are really interesting it because it\u0027s solving your problems it solving customer promise for you and I understand that I about this dragging on but if you\u0027re asking from a process standpoint I don\u0027t think that anything wrong has happened yet and I\u0027m definitely keeping a close eye on it one more point and I\u0027ll get off this I was in the opposite position fairly recently on the encapsulation draft and I sighs I did not and still do not think that it was worth doing and I voiced my objection I was alone in that objection and the working group chair is quite rightly followed the consensus of the working group the draft has proceeded I don\u0027t see the difference here I\u0027d have to go back and look at that particular one I hear your point okay so last topic is he has some discussion on a necessity and I was I will stay sitting with this one since it\u0027s only one slide so I got I got a question from the implementation group "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:49:57",
    "text": "that does all three implementations always piphus - why RFC 3107 doesn\u0027t allow equal cost multi path to different ASPRS these would be these could be ASPRS or ABR\u0027s and I remember it was like that way way back at IBM and I just changed it for someone someone said that and I just changed it and then when I went to read back I just ignored it you know I made it I said of course you\u0027d want ecmp between multiple ASPRS everything if all the other rules and you know you aren\u0027t gonna loop if all the other rules are equal so what I\u0027m proposing to do is make this optional be an errata and I don\u0027t know if other implementations have done this too I guess I guess some among our implementations at Cisco some have done it in some of not because of the you know for conformance testing right they they\u0027ve stuck directly to it so I just like to do this be a rat or rather than trying to do a yeah and make it up and and if I were redoing it I would remove it completely but since I\u0027m doing it during the rat errata I I\u0027ll do it optionally and put in the description that it it\u0027s you know that it\u0027s a rather description it\u0027s not necessary I was really surprised that 15 years later or not 15 yeah something like that it comes up that or more so uh Chris powers so from or you\u0027re saying I think you\u0027re saying there\u0027s no this would there\u0027s no possibility of this causing routing loops it\u0027s just a assured as opposed to a must that people are doing as shirt or not doing it all yes so there\u0027s no chance of routing loops from from any change of this no okay I just want to yeah computer Matt you look if you look at this is this is rule II there\u0027s rules a through D that have all the different things about inter area paths and things like you know you know whether you have a path over the but you for a it is for both AAS external and NSA si and I don\u0027t see why you if you if all those other rules are satisfied right this would ever be a problem so so presumably current implementations make a decision here right it would actually be good to kind of figure out what\u0027s actually being done out in in networks I mean it seems trivial but yeah as if we\u0027re gonna fix it let\u0027s see like are we actually fixing something that you know ninety percent are actually doing what\u0027s said here or not I I have at this point "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:52:57",
    "text": "I had no idea what what existing implementations do and you mentioned that like two implementations at your employer are actually different is that yeah yeah okay yeah actually yeah went 1-1 does that does and one does honor this last rule okay there\u0027s last tiebreaker the last tie breaker for okay so it would make ones that don\u0027t honor it technically more compliant I mean in practice I don\u0027t know it says optionally I say they be of equal they be more functional because they would because some people might actually want to do this if it was equal cost multi path okay well it\u0027d be good to like I\u0027ll send another email see more about it yeah see if see if people can look at their implementation if David you could look at yours I bet yours does I bet you honor it because because because people who write open-source they\u0027re very off standards compliant yeah either they they\u0027ll have this standard right there whereas people that work for vendors are that somebody will scream out and why does it work this way and they\u0027ll just change it David I can tell you that we only started doing ecmp about a year ago so it\u0027s very recent actually ah but I have to no idea what actually does I should pull it I could pull that myself actually actually actually I have a big problem that I say I\u0027m gonna do more about as much stuff as two people or three people could do and I don\u0027t end up doing it all so I won\u0027t say I\u0027m gonna pull you pull the hahaha to github and look at it anyway okay so we\u0027ll continue the discussion on the list yeah yeah I\u0027d like some time to look at this just to make sure that yeah it\u0027s and see if anybody does think it could I die I\u0027m poor I\u0027m if it luckily we don\u0027t have many people in here but if it knew it if it were to loop just from this change I\u0027d buy everybody a beer in the road that\u0027s not that bad I I\u0027m pretty I\u0027m then I\u0027ll buy you a beer if just this changed just a newt oh yeah okay I guess we\u0027re uh unfortunately Chris didn\u0027t coming I see he was that you know he could have he could have participated in this discussion of her having I I see he\u0027s on Jabbar I was wondering why he didn\u0027t I should have I should have paint him but we\u0027ll continue this discussion I think about coming to a resolution on is is and OSPF "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:56:02",
    "text": "de efforts you in the end okay you know what so I think Chris has is I think Chris has his jammer on his phone so I don\u0027t know if he has if he looks at it all the time he\u0027s available a lot of the time I can\u0027t get ahold of them so I guess I missed Stefano he\u0027s going back tomorrow less on this morning that\u0027s nice you "
  }
]