[
  {
    "startTime": "00:00:07",
    "text": "okay so it\u0027s number five is this one but I can\u0027t tell it\u0027s number five because if some give me the Parliament it\u0027s okay I don\u0027t think I can tribute you the title in their boxes hey welcome welcome to best will I think just wait for a couple more minutes for for folks to come in if one or more of the chairs appears to vanish from the stage please call an ambulance is because we\u0027ve fallen off the back of the stage it\u0027s very easy to do yeah okay let\u0027s let\u0027s make a start welcome welcome to Bess here is the notes well basically says that any statement you make here is a contribution to the ITF I\u0027ll just leave it on that and they I\u0027m sure you\u0027ve seen this many times this week I\u0027ll leave it up for a few seconds for you to digest yeah I\u0027m comes folks at the back please close the door thank you thanks very much okay blue sheets there\u0027s two sets there are two blue sheets making their way "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:03:09",
    "text": "around the room please can you sign them and feel the last one at the back you\u0027ll be greatly appreciated if you could pass them back towards the front so eventually they arrive back here for us to take them to the Secretariat at the end of the meeting okay we have to sorry if you if you come in the door could you please close the door behind you or if you\u0027re standing by the door could you please ensure it\u0027s kept closed it\u0027s quite noisy out there thank you we have two sessions one today on one tomorrow here is the agenda proposed agenda for today there\u0027s nine well eight eight drafts and one working group status update any comments on the agenda for today and here is the agenda for tomorrow us just with bachelor\u0027s tomorrow okay working group status update so we\u0027ve had no new RFC\u0027s published since the last IETF but we have two in the RC editors queue at sea DCI EVP and overlay draft an EVO PN prefix adverse event draft we have a number of drafts with with Martin our ad or an IAS G review listed on the slides on the inter subnet forwarding draft there\u0027s an action on a later to update the draft hoping hoping to get that shortly don\u0027t make any comments on Martin Martin could you give us an update on your ad reviews thank you I should have that moment no I don\u0027t have that by heart you know I just started anything on and yeah I have no comment so don\u0027t push me because I\u0027ll be pushing the office okay where are you Ali where are you the only it\u0027s not here I have done ad reviews on four documents and I don\u0027t have any answer from authors on four of them heroes and and I know we\u0027ve chatted a bit too so no no it\u0027s being covered we all have their jobs so don\u0027t worry there are two others which I have recently added in my my queue which nsh control plane yeah which I need to start "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:06:12",
    "text": "reading and VPLS multihoming as well so these two are the next one shit happens and don\u0027t worry thank you okay we have quite a few you\u0027ve probably noticed on the list we\u0027ve been we\u0027ve been pushing through quite a few working great last call so we have quite a few documents now sitting with us as the shepherds waiting for reviews and for us to push the button to request publication there\u0027s an action on early to update the ethernet of the evpn virtual Ethernet segment draft the gmpm LD we MLD proxy this is we\u0027re expecting an update imminently we provided a review to the authors of the fast trail overdraft I think we\u0027re still waiting for responsible minute yeah the MSD PSA interoperation drafter and VPN i\u0027m currently reviewing that for my shepherds review the one procedure updates we need to argue this whether you\u0027ve provided maori view maybe last weekend and the evpn reference DF has just passed working group last call and we have a long list of drafts that we believe are already for any authors have indicated they think are ready for working group last call and we will set up a schedule following this IETF to get those processed as well so we know some of the authors have been quite eager to to get on with that and and we are doing our best to to get through the through the list don\u0027t any of you forgot bets any updates on on those from any of the authors in the room Hey thank you and this this slide just summarizes some working group document updates so the first one is the EVP and multicast flow DF election so we\u0027re waiting for waiting on an RJ MP proxy a draft to move forward and we\u0027re expecting this to be ready for working for a score by the next ITF the service training draft is currently parked although the authors may want to revive that in future and the evpn fast DF recovery draft though so there\u0027s an existing implementation but the draft has expired and we need to get that "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:09:13",
    "text": "updated as soon as as possible so we can request for working with law school we adopted some new working group documents including SRP six services the the me BPO and I said see my crush draft Ethiopian virtual hub and em VPN seamless interoperability okay and we have a number of documents that the authors of indicated and we believe is probably ready for us to run a work and group adoption poll or read through these but you can you can see these on the side okay so regarding if you hit all updates that we are requiring from the office so sometimes it\u0027s working sometimes it\u0027s not working we are really expecting to get in between updates for all the editors of working group documents so we can track if there is something going wrong or if you are blocked and if we can probably help in any way yeah so young models are really the one which are yeah harassing really slowly right this is Mancha from Siena both for l2 VPN any VPN right yang model size you say we did not make any progress in the last six months but we are we are planning to finish it up as soon as possible there are very few things left I mean obvious when you are at the last stage the newer things crop up people want different things in it and we recognize the Nate\u0027s and a couple of items that we need to so we\u0027ll have to gather all the other co-authors and get it done before right after this meaning okay do you need any help from our side like a setting up interim meeting or whatever to try to speed up the work or do you handle it on your side sorry I didn\u0027t get it can you repeat my point is do you need any help from an outsider no we at the moment we don\u0027t need any help I think we got a good handle on what we have to do with respect to the updates but yeah if we do need we will reach out to you for for any help we need okay thanks just interrupt if there are actually anyone who is planning on implementation EVP and camp model if someone actually say that it\u0027s going to be useful I mean because the topic came "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:12:17",
    "text": "up on open config cleese and there\u0027s going to be some effort to build one so would be good to know what spinner man comin up from Cisco so I have a question about MVP and yang we have not been able to get any input from the author so do we need it to be taken over by someone else in the working group or how do we want to make progress if you really feel is that your comments are not addressed yes we can find someone else a cuvette at least from the last two IETF I don\u0027t see much of traction are much of email response as well so okay I didn\u0027t get any input whether they really need help or they\u0027re not able to progress what is stopping so I don\u0027t it\u0027s kind of one-way communication right now okay we can discuss of trying to see which way to proceed [Music] yes I think you\u0027re up first right okay good afternoon folks so I\u0027ll be talking on behalf of proxy draft author and we had a working group last call I think two weeks back two or three weeks back when working group last call passed for this document and thanks to her he had pretty good comment and one of the comment was about one field in the NLRA of route type eight and after having multiple discussion among authors we don\u0027t see that there is any real use case for that particular field so we had couple of half sons and there is one proposal which I would like to bring to the working group and see the feedback from the room as well and the scope of this change will be limited to multihoming peers and majority of the I think deployment are cases where most probably you will have same vendor multihoming peers and these routes are scoped within same ESI so right now the NLRA looks like in the left side and it has there is something called as a leaf sync sequence number and this route is nothing but IGMP leave and we don\u0027t think that there is any use case where we have to send IGMP leave sequence number and we did speak to a couple of vendors who have implementation and none "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:15:18",
    "text": "of them find any real use case for sequence number to be used so one of the proposal is to to keep it clean remove that complete four bytes from the NLRA and NLRA will look something like in the right side since there are already existing running code in the field who might be using the old version of NLRA so one of the proposal was to in the BGP we would accept both both of the routes so it it might come with NLRA what is the new value let\u0027s say that it is X and it might come with X plus 4 bytes as well if it is implemented in the older version any questions feedback chance cutter wouldn\u0027t it be a little less intrusive to just make that field reserved instead of having to variant in codings that the implementations have to support so there are already I think two variations of implementation today one of that is without sequence number and one of that is with sequence number and so we already have the worst case in the field is what you\u0027re saying okay I just want to bring up Micah for this work group consideration the sequence number is part of key for BGP and an eye for type six a type eight evpn routes so I would request to support backward compatibility because this is something we cannot take lightly this is not part of attribute for tenon I this is BGP key so if we support have lens with without this sequence number as a key you know it seems to me like in order to achieve this the key has to be consistent for people to support sequence number as a part of key this has to be there and an eye has this has been there defined like this for past three years so backward compatibility that\u0027s a problem to take it out it\u0027s a key it\u0027s not a attributes so if we suppose this boss I need to be defined which means route type a same route we\u0027ll have a two different formats how we solve this issue here Jeff has so I\u0027m going to "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:18:20",
    "text": "build and the other two points made for slightly different reasons I spend a large portion my day job dealing with BGP incremental deployment issues of the negative consequences when you get it wrong mmm-hmm the general rule set that you\u0027re violating is that once a NL or I type forgive at a fee Saffy\u0027s been defined you can\u0027t change it because once you\u0027ve changed the key or the syntax the reaction that the receiving pure and receiving something it doesn\u0027t understand for whatever reason you know that when it\u0027s syntactically incorrect is to drop the session so what you are showing up here is drop the session if you want to make these things on a box by a box change that\u0027s partially what bgp capabilities are for you can get variances that way you know and it\u0027s like a patch situation if you really want to it\u0027s not generally a good idea because you then have to figure out how this flows across the entire network my recommendation would be the field it\u0027s preserved even if it\u0027s considered useless I would leave it to the experts on EVP honest what that field should contain but minimally though if since it\u0027s a fixed byte value in the current PD you know stick zeros in there or whatever makes you happy if that\u0027s a necessary thing there\u0027s already precedent for that then like multi-protocol bgp has a field that used to be called SNP a it hasn\u0027t been used for that since it was originally specified and now on the update of the spec it\u0027s just the magic zeroes value so don\u0027t be afraid to waste space in the NRI because the consequence is that what you\u0027re doing is basically potentially making the network unstable making it drop sessions you know 10 thanks for your input about the GPS and flap I think one of the consideration was to accept both of the key lengths unfortunately the problem is that it fort to accept both of them you\u0027d have to change the route type if you\u0027re willing to define a basically a version two of this route type and allow for the procedures that do that that would be acceptable but if you can\u0027t change the existing one because you have code out there that will treat in either direction it is a syntax here I\u0027m going to offer a little bit of reading for you know please check the minutes to pull up the discussion point but attribute 128 for BGP was the thing that got deployed that had two different formats two different code bases all from my employer and the negative consequence in that case was global internet outages thanks for that Nokia I think we have an issue no matter what because there are two shipping implementations in the field with different route key with or without the sequence number so what i would do i mean this presentation is very good because it raises awareness of "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:21:20",
    "text": "the issue but i would also send an email to the list so that you know other vendors with potential implementations can also say something about it and yeah my preferences still would be to remove something that has no use in the air in the route thanks and about sending mail to the list i think two weeks back i had already sent email with these details what is in the slide deck so though i didn\u0027t receive any response yet in the list so chris power is juniper networks i mean it\u0027s good to raise awareness of the issue but you know you\u0027re asking for feedback from the working group but not really supplying the information about the actual implementations right you\u0027ve sort of address presented this as if it\u0027s a green you know this is the draft zero 2 of this whereas they\u0027re shipping implementations so it would really be good to actually go into the details of the backwards compatibility and say okay there are multiple implementations doing things differently and saying this would be the impact of doing this this would be impact of doing this and really get him that detail as opposed to sort of a hypothetical you know oh if we\u0027re designing this from scratch what would it be so in your email to the list it would be good to actually get into that level of detail because you know someone\u0027s gonna be unhappy with the final decision I believe yeah sure thanks so maybe you can reply in the list I\u0027ll provide whatever details are needed q Patel arcus I know you talked with me about this and sorry if I was jet-lagged back then but if you wanna take that filled out you have an existing implementations and if they\u0027re doing a strict NLRA check there\u0027s a chance you might bounce a session if you want to take the filled out maybe you want to use some kind of a capability exchange to indicate the new NLRA field or the size has been changed I\u0027m not sure if the implementations out there are doing a strict checking on the size which also brings a question is that do you really need to change at this time or can you leave it as it as it is and be done with it okay well I hypo one from highway color we see we think that if you delete this second number although it may be no some not some news but it will you must consider how to involve with other vendors because some in some manner hi were implementing information disease and also many many many operators I want to each here "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:24:21",
    "text": "many vendors who in Harper with each other so so I think it is same input as what I got from others that will have to provide more details so in this light Nick I didn\u0027t put all the text which was supposed to be put in the draft itself that how to handle these different cases so those details maybe I\u0027ll send it in the list very last comment yeah so Sathya from Cisco so would it be less intrusive if we just you know add a knob as we discussed some minutes back so clearly this routes are only for like multi home PS right they don\u0027t need to go to different years so maybe we can consider that too okay thanks okay keep discussing on the list because this is a important issues that we have to solve hi good afternoon so just fairly quick updates this drafts been discussed a few times before so not significantly new so just a quick reminder this is essentially a mobility draft that details mobility procedures and sequence number assignment procedures across various evpn IRB scenarios as well as duplicate address detection procedures across these scenarios what\u0027s changed since the last revision there\u0027s basically one new section on mobility convergence which essentially details specific triggers where arc or nd probes may be used to speed up mobility convergence and it also kind of shows how the fundamental idea within the draft that is used for sequence number inheritance may also be used for this specific convergence scenarios so in terms of overall status it\u0027s I mean it\u0027s a fairly stable draft it\u0027s already has multiple implementations it is already in the working group last call queue but any other comments before the last call happy to take them any any questions or anything at this point "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:27:24",
    "text": "okay so this one\u0027s also been discussed a few times before this is again just recapping this is essentially defines handling or usage for link bandwidth attribute in route type 1 for unequal load balancing of overlay unicast traffic from remote piece based on ESI bandwidth distribution as well as defines usage of link bandwidth attribute in route type phone for DF election for the ESI in proportion to the bandwidth distribution for that ESI for the DF election part it essentially defines how this how the link bandwidth attribute is to be used for each of the four odd DF election algorithms that are defined today so no major updates since last time I mean the last the last update to the draft was essentially addition of weighted HRW DF election which is such as soft again from draft perspective this is ready for last call it\u0027s been fairly stable there was an AI last time to kind of check on the implementation status from Cisco side I did check it has not been implemented yet it is fairly close it\u0027s kind of like in design but it\u0027s not it\u0027s not implemented yet so I wanted to kind of you know also check with any other vendors anyone else who\u0027s aware of any other implementations to let the authors know that\u0027s it on this one any any questions comments okay so PC control plane for evpn this is this is a draft that was first presented in Prague couple of ITX back since then it has gone through a couple of revisions and couple of name changes that I will cover just a recap without going into all the details again it\u0027s essentially defines a PC control plane for Mac Mac IP and prefix learning the main motivation behind this draft is essentially to provide an alternative "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:30:27",
    "text": "control plane based alternative for learning that is decoupled from data plane traffic for simplicity and more deterministic behavior as well as may I mean the biggest sort of use case that has been kind of detailed in the draft is essentially how it simplifies a lot of the learning and convergence scenarios particularly across a multihoming lag based learning so revisions since it was lost presented there\u0027s a new use case that\u0027s been added it\u0027s essentially it has extensions added for a CD to be able to signal a desired SLA to an EVP NP that\u0027s essentially extends the existing Mac and Mac IP tlvs that are defined in the drop two also carry a desired SLA value to the PE and the main idea there is essentially to to enable any VPN or the set of E VPN pease to be able to provide an SLA based service to a c e which is essentially be able to route or bridge traffic to that c e on traffic engineered paths in order to meet the c requested SLA the other changes that it\u0027s kind of gone through 3dl protocol that this draft is based on as the underlying protocol has gone through some revisions it was L SOE earlier and now it\u0027s l 3d L so it basically incorporates changes that have that have happened in the base protocol to be in sync with the latest l 3d inspect other than that it\u0027s basically replaces these older versions the first one was called EVP analyst OE and the next one was called EVP NL 3dl that the draft does also now explicitly mentioned with the work happening on lldp v2 that even though the craft is currently based entirely on l3 dl there are future extensions possible to incorporate new underlying protocols like L LD be v2 and and that is inflected in the name change for the draft as well overall status it is still work-in-progress largely so yeah any any input interest comments more than happy to collaborate and take feedback any questions anything "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:33:52",
    "text": "[Music] hello so I\u0027ll be providing an update on on to draft the productive draft and the single flow active load balancing draft so what\u0027s changed since since the last version in the last IETF is so we received feedback to add a capability bit for the port mode so that\u0027s been added to the draft the section for essentially was going over the the port active DF mode and what we did is we expanded an entire section to address essentially the the orthogonal of the orthogonal T sorry of this new pivot and the three existing DF election modes so we added a section for essentially the RFC 7432 DF election the modulo based one with a change that we received I figured it was on the alias or or at the last IETF to to select a different bite for the modulo operation or a different set of bytes sorry just to get better entropy as opposed to the prior version where we were using the last byte of the ESI and then also a section for HR W and the press the preference based DF so the next steps for this draft so we consider this draft to now be amateur draft with multi vendor support implementations and adoptions in the field so this draft is very much ready for for adoption any question on this one actually I think the biggest question is is there any feedback that we received that we have not addressed in this new version of the draft the second draft the changes we made to the theater gateway product is to add or two to flesh out the backward compatibility section so we clarified a few things and expanded that section so we went into more detail of the to ESS solution and how this draft improves upon that - ESI solution but we actually went through all the steps of how this can also be achieved with a - ESI solution then based on some feedback we also added a section addressing essentially the route resolution of a of "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:36:54",
    "text": "a remote PE that operates in strict 7432 mode because if you recall in the proto draft essentially we\u0027re claiming a 1/3 1/3 load-balancing bit in the in the ESI label extended community and remote Peas may not understand this this new bit and they would essentially then operate in all active mode so we addressed that in this new section so the convergence the and the mobility sections we already addressed after the the last night or two ATF\u0027s ago based on feedback we received so this 0 5 version of draft if you go over the diff I\u0027m really sorry about that but we switched from the source for men are off to XML so there\u0027s quite a bit of formatting noise in there so the next steps for this one essentially it\u0027s- it it is still a working document so we do still welcome comments and feedback but the document would be ready to progress based on based on feedback ok I still find a few things quite confusing in the draft and I can send you guys an email later but so one of the things is the trophy is valid for pure layer two and also for IRB on the ring piece and at some point you talked about using our probes when you have a Mac flush in one of the peas but it isn\u0027t clear to me if it works in the pure layer 2 scenario or not because in that case you may not even know that the ARP entries of the connected hoses okay maybe we can talk we can talk afterwards I\u0027m not sure which section that would be alright yeah yeah I can I can let you know the other the other comment is so in the past I suggested to use for the Mac flash message the Mac mobility X in the community and that it seems that you guys added that but the still you\u0027re calling it McFly text in the community and in the Ayana section you are requesting a value for it which is not needed although at all yeah ok you know yeah a few of those things that are we can we can take offline shrink you Linda "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:39:59",
    "text": "okay good afternoon okay so this time we got some comments from the mailing list and also from IT 105 about this bgp usage or sd-1 this time I\u0027m primarily just goes through different scenario how we use PGP to scale sd1 so the purpose is really to show to the other s deals or industry places like for example map has this sd1 project they have lots of debates on how to achieve some of this management on the IPSec tunneling and using PGP actually make it very very nice solution so this it just shows them see for example in this case you may have I\u0027m just using one p1 CPE SE p2 as an example if you two have three attach routes and with the regular PGP update you basically have the Browse encoded in the allow I pass attribute and using the tunneling cap to indicate detailed property of the tunnel and true that tunnel in cap today doesn\u0027t have the IPSec properties encoded in IDR there is a draft discussing how to weigh at that particular IP sac so but the one difference in IPSec is in a way that is very different than our traditional configuration and normally when you configure IPSec which is always the point-to-point protocol like for example on the on the note c p2 when you configure IPSec you usually have to configure who\u0027s your remote end and who see a remote subnet for example for the CPE one you have a orange and green subnets and you can create two separate IPSec tunnels one for the orange one for the green and you could also just create one tunnel like CP is 3 aggregating all the routes into into one IPSec and in this example all the CPU 1 CP 2 and CP 3 are in their own administrative domain and and also their own route reflector and it is through the wrong reflector that is to build the IPSec tunnel information so that by doing that we eliminate the need to go through the certificate process like in the traditional IPSec 20 point you have "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:43:00",
    "text": "to basically configure them who\u0027s your certificate and who\u0027s a remote and such effect so when you receive a request you can validate your certificate and then be able to establish that so we assume in this in this sd1 case we have a reflector at home and which has a policy to to determine where this update is forwarded to you couldn\u0027t have a network consists of hundreds of nodes and its route reflector basically sending it to like CPU 1 and CP 3 another thing is those routes attached to the CPEs they are not routable in the underlay when network and so it is very important in a bgp update to include the next half that with routable address so that remote end can establish actually continue or can test whether this node is reachable or not so that\u0027s slightly different than our traditional impairments VPN so that\u0027s one example with aggregating all the routes and so you only need to send one BGP update to the reflector so this example shows the fine grant encryption meaning that for the three different routes attached to CP 2 each of them have their own IPSec tunnels so with that you need to send three different update so this shows that the PGP apps like CP 2 was an update 1 with the first route encoded in the and I passed attribute and then IPSec property in the tunneling cap then there\u0027s an update 2 and then that\u0027s updates 3 so similarly you can allow the remote end to aggregate all the routes or you can do individually as seen the idea the drive talks about remote local pairs that configuration is very complicated it works well when you just have two nodes are talking to each other but when you have multiple nodes they become a really big mess so in this case we\u0027re using PGP to update their own information for example c p2 is the authentication method whether it\u0027s a H authentication or ESP authentication his public key Rob reflector distributed to the other cities which I in the scope to be able to authorize to talk to the CPU this is another example which has been discussed a lot in the math recently they called application based "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:46:01",
    "text": "segmentation in s t1 so so for s t1 will most people know that this SD one for the traffic the past augmentation basically you can aggregate multiple paths but there\u0027s two other characteristics so and one of them is based on forwarding based on application ID instead of a destination so in this example for the retail business for example you could have red is the one application for the payment system so for payment system you can only talk to the payment gateway you cannot communicate with anybody else so that particular application only can go to the payment gateway and for the purple applications and you can actually is any to any mash so the two cases assume that this application actually have unique address then BGP can be used very nicely we can send to update from CPE twos perspective well update to show the red apology like from CPE to the red topology is only to payment gateway so in the you have route attached to this IP sacs are attached to this the route encoded in the past and now I pass attribute and you have the tunnel to describe that tunnel is only from Gateway to you then for the purple one you can have all the routes and then you can indicate different tunnels with different locations so that works pretty well but there are some cases where like the red application and the purple application actually coming from same IP address that can be problematic so that one actually I didn\u0027t address that in this document and if people know how to do it and will come to this send it to mailing list give some suggestions on how to do it ok so this example shows that just from CPE twos perspective because IPSec tunnel is all point to point so you need to establish all the pointer pointer nose so that\u0027s a lot of configurations this is just one node and then from all the cps any to each of them need to have this basically stand and square problem this actually this scenario will been discussed on the on the mailing list so that it could be possible we may retreat IPSec as the transport tunnel meaning that connecting the nose together through the untrusted Network and then the traffic can be routed "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:49:05",
    "text": "meaning that each of the CPE will process the BGP update propagated by the route reflect reflector and based on the BGP update it can build up the falling table and then can route to the destination so with this the number of IPSec tunnels to be created and much much less but then this introduced a new problem which is the traffic engineering right so for the path between CPU 1 to cp24 you can have two different ways to reach right so how do you engineer that so that the past can be going through deterministic method so that\u0027s one things has to be considered that\u0027s it this is just in addition to IT 105 we describe the basics the sd1 how BGP use it and this from well five to now we added a more detailed packet walk through the control signal what walks through and so hopefully we can ask for working group adoption and with the working group adoption we can bring it to other places like math or to show hey IETF PGP actually is very good and you don\u0027t have to bring Bend will do another thing just use this to achieve what you need that\u0027s it any question who has read the document ok few people maybe you have to socialize a little bit your documents request some feedback on the mailing list ok I will do that and maybe I\u0027ll do one by one I notice that if I send too much information people ignore him okay thank you very much I\u0027m next yeah okay guys so this draft is a kind of follow-up of the discussion which started in Montreal so there was a nish appointed on the mailing list it was a thing back in June which was that basically regarding the VPN unique sfe so we have multiple RFC\u0027s dealing with this so we have a 4364 dealing with a VPN which form of ipv4 network we have the 46:59 which is dealing with VPN v6 over ipv4 or ipv6 network and we have the 5549 which is dealing with VPN before over an ipv6 network and the "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:52:07",
    "text": "comment that was made on the mailing list was that we 55:49 is bringing a kind of inconsistency on how we are including the next stop in via envy bgp update so usually in the VPN service we are encoding the next stop purely for legacy reasons as a VPN IP address on it has it doesn\u0027t have any value it doesn\u0027t bring anything it\u0027s purely for legacy purpose because at a certain point of time it was required that the BGP next stop to be from the same fsfe then we then we preface again it\u0027s it\u0027s completely useless and it does not make sense but yeah that\u0027s our only guess from a pure standardization standpoint it works there is no arm and it could work because we have envy 5549 we have a specific BGP capability which tells that we are in a specific case so specification from a pure specification standpoint it works however if we look at how the industry is today so we have looked at nine beach implementation that are shipping now including all the major vendors and what we have found is that on this nine bgp codes we have seven of them which are following a consistent way of encoding the next step which means that in the case of 5549 we are including the next stop using a VPN IP address so we are consistent but not compliant with the 55:49 and we have two codes that are not supporting the future at all so no issue and we haven\u0027t found yet any code which is compliant with 5549 so we have an issue from an industry point of view the issue is not an interoperability issue because maybe by chance everyone is interoperable because at least all the implementations that we have seen are interoperable because between each other because we are using this VPN IP next up maybe by chance but yeah it\u0027s working this way the issue is now a kind of compliance issue because all these implementations are not compliant today to vrse so what we would like to propose is to change 55:49 to accommodate the reality of the shipping code today and yeah the reality of the deployments of course it\u0027s not a trivial change to say that blindly we are moving to a regular IP address in "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:55:08",
    "text": "the next stop to to the VPN IP but yeah this is mainly the spirit of ITF which is mainly driven by running codes so we really think that this is the way to do and the other point is of cool we could get all this implementation to move to compliance but what will be the value of changing all the codes it will be just pain for the customers it will be pain for the vendors and also we will possibly introduce bugs in with the implementations each time you have touching your code possibly you will introduce new bugs so it\u0027s purely a risk for customers without bringing any value from an industry point of view backward compatibility of course if we go to this straight change of changing the 55:49 there is no backward compatibility which means that if but it is unlikely vary somewhere an implementation which is compliant with 55:49 we will this implementation will not be compliant anymore and it will not be interoperable anymore but main question is do we are we really creating any arm there are three things first one is today there is no possibility to mix an implementation which is consistent with an implementation which is compliant okay because we don\u0027t have interoperability between between them so in case there is an existing deployment somewhere which is using routers that are fully compliant with 55:49 this deployment we will not really break anything because it can keep living like this it will not be compliant anymore but if the vendor is not changing its implementation it\u0027s not breaking any deployment of course if we wants to get to come to the new compliancy knob could be added of something to enable future interrupt with an additional vendor which is using VAP next up and for the existing real deployment that we know that are using this VPN IP address today there is no change at all and this is really what we the spirit that we want to are to share areas we want to have the less change in the code widely in the industry as we can so it seems that most of the implementation today are using this VPN IP code "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:58:08",
    "text": "possibly yes there could be somewhere an implementation which is fully compliant with 5549 but maybe it\u0027s just one or two it may be easier to change this one compared to the massive ones that are already deployed today in addition to this in fact there is a very small thing which is also missing in the 5549 is that it does not address via safely 129 which is via VPN for multicast address and we just also would like to add some text that yeah see this a few ways will be exactly will use exactly the same procedure as we do for front of ships and for so we really think that this is a reasonable proposal because yeah first that\u0027s really the spirit of ITF we show them we are driven by running code so yeah it\u0027s a bit unusual here but we need to accommodate the standard to the reigning code of course if anyone has any feedback about existing implementations that are fully compliant with 5549 and deployed we will really be happy to hear about this because we need to focus not just on theory yes in theory this kind of implementation can exist that based on the feedback that we have it\u0027s really really unlikely so we need to focus on what is deployed compared to only early fury do you have a comment now Laura okay and what we want is really to create as less pain as we can especially for the customers and that are already using your so shipping code I have one last slide about the process 5549 is coming from software which is in via internet area so Evernote now in our domain but the VPN selphie are usually managed InBev in this so if of course the working group agree to go to a change of 55:29 we would like to have this managed in best we have already engaged execution with martin and also with a diesel from our own software on i think we have an almost an agreement on that yeah and again in case we agree to continue with this kind of work what do we and if we agree to we spin on 5549 what do we do with this document do we just forget it and we spin 55:49 oh do "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:01:10",
    "text": "we keep it and progress it at the same times i\u0027ve the new 55:49 just for estoy purpose yeah that\u0027s it no what okay so first I kind of agree with most of what you said I think it\u0027s a reasonable plan we probably should go ahead and do it the tricky issue is if there is a compliant implementation out there somewhere that we don\u0027t know of what situation do we actually put that vendor in if we change the standard are underneath them so that say I would actually seek some lawyer or whatever input on this or discuss it within the ITF leadership or something like that hmm we\u0027ve been reluctant to do this thing before and I think we are done it once on the impeller side okay pituitary I can and also we need to be fairly sure that we done kind of all we can to actually identify if there is such and compliant implementation out there you know a little bit more work okay thank you for the feedback so far we I think is reasonable we sure at all he\u0027s a talker Lisa Walker okay thank you master has ad thank you for that work I think it was needed I won\u0027t speak in the name of rank but we are fine with that progressing in best if they\u0027re working of decides to pursue that topic Laura I\u0027m not aware of any habits of involving lawyers in our decision process so I\u0027m not sure we can do that I\u0027m willing to bring that to the iesg but involving lawyers I\u0027m not sure and and I have one question what form would would that take maybe I missed it is that abby\u0027s is the 55:49 visa so we can clearly other jobs about eighteen fifty five forty nine when we do this we happen to change the technical content no so we wouldn\u0027t be doing something beneath anyone well if I have a compliant implementation and you change the standard you actually changed my market situation quite a bit hope we agree there I\u0027m not saying that it is the case but I say there is a potential case and that we should actually look for and make sure that there is no "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:04:11",
    "text": "compliant implementation hanging around somewhere hmm I don\u0027t know about lawyers I just kinda I would seek advice from the people that could advise me that\u0027s nothing I\u0027m saying and I think you will actually release a new RFC with newer RC number so I think that\u0027s pretty sure way of doing it also John John Scudder yeah thanks for the careful analysis it\u0027s pretty convincing I think you should do it actually I mean I a few few weeks ago when when I first heard about this thing I was sort of like more in the position that I guess Lola finds himself in at this point I I find myself convinced that you\u0027ve already been diligent enough and and as both Laura and Martin said you change the RFC number you know old implementations are still compliant with 5549 new implementations are an employment of 55:14 anyways not be brick broken Marcus speaking as a coder and working group member I think this is a good work we should do it ASAP if you\u0027re too paranoid about any compliant implementations out here we could probably use the same office aathi and use new capability and get done with it like how we did RFC 3107 we spent mm-hmm a conf Cisco I think the fact that anybody that\u0027s interrupting today would be broken and the fact that we\u0027re doing it through a biz document which will take a minimum of a year that should be enough time for any nascent or implementations to be discovered I don\u0027t I think this is much to do about nothing the fact that we haven\u0027t found one just in you know the the survey that you you took off the time to do so I think I think this is I think this is kind of ridiculous you can change we can change the standard anytime we want there\u0027s no you know as long as though as long as we get consensus across the IETF yeah thank you I agree I\u0027m here as the internet ad responsible for software just for information software would be closed on this Friday so the job needs to be done somewhere else okay John\u0027s got her one thing I forgot to say before is actually in terms of diligence and sort of hypothetical other implementations probably the most important thing is to get a new version out at least in you "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:07:12",
    "text": "know some rough draft form that you know updates 5549 so that somebody i wonder actually if you can even use an errata to indicate this basically what you don\u0027t what would be most embarrassing right now is for someone to come along find 5549 and implement it newly not very likely but it would be quite embarrassing hmm thank you okay because that would be us so sooner the better I agree yeah all right so it sounds like we we need to do need to move forward as I say Peter to prevent any problem as much as anything to prevent anybody else implementing anything in the meantime that it\u0027s compliant but not consistent okay thank you thank you and I think that\u0027s US done for today so a few extra minutes thank you actually there\u0027s one set of blue sheets still somewhere in the room if you have it now you do you mind bring it to the front place thank you [Music] right "
  }
]