[
  {
    "startTime": "00:01:30",
    "text": "good morning everybody that's no good evening wherever you are hey mallory hey lars are you there okay so let's uh go ahead and get started um so welcome to the uh smooth working group uh at atf112 um glad to"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:02:02",
    "text": "talk to you all again um i was a little bit surprised i had to not see like you know too many agenda requests for the hybrid stuff since we're trying to bring that into the uh scope for the working group with the recharging discussions but we unfortunately didn't get anything there so just like keep an eye out like for the recharging to bring the hybrid stuff into scope that's part of like the end of the discussion today to just show you uh what are the things that have changed in the charter what people have proposed and we can continue from there already can you go to the next slide uh this is the regular note well like you've seen it all probably it's friday morning so uh you've probably seen it like too many times this week to be happy about uh like uh there's like this is a summary of the uh the apr stuff for the atf like you know the rfcs in question are like 53 70 and 81.79 so please consult the rfcs for more details next slide so if you're looking for a minute taker if there's any volunteers to do so ron you've been awesome until now so if you can do it i don't know if you would turn up today or not because it's like i know it's very late for you so if it's something you can do greatly appreciate it okay thanks mallory um thanks for picking it"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:04:00",
    "text": "up and if anybody else can also like you know help out mallory if she gets into some discussions or something please thank you very much so uh next slide so the um actually i think i think like you know there's like some uh version of the slide i think i didn't make a change here anyway the remote meetings has been published already and the um the remote fee uh draft is like pending change of status like you know it's supposed to change into a bcp and that's like going to be part of the uh discussions today to change the charter to make this a pcp and we had a leadership change like between the last meeting and this meeting um like amelia decided like you know she had like some change in circumstances in her work and like she couldn't dedicate enough time for this so uh maldi came on board so thank you mallory for stepping up and like you know doing this job and thanks amelia for the stuff you've done for us already thank you next slide and uh so the um chances are the running the idf hackathon it's like completed like the working group last call and there was like a whole bunch of comments that came in and and charles addressed them he's going to summarize like what is changed in the draft today and also the rescue levin online meeting so that's like miriam and martin like are going to summarize like you know what has happened on the draft and that should be something we should hope to adopt in this deliverable and we haven't seen anything pretty much on the functional requirements for technologies other than the uh the the hum draft like you know i haven't seen much like in this thing so like i think this is like going to be something that's going to come off"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:06:00",
    "text": "uh the the charter if like lars so approves right because we haven't seen any drafts for this like in the the whole time we've been around so next slide so um we have uh two presentations today it's like a pretty short agenda so like we're not gonna cut the mic um if at all possible unless it really runs into the whole uh to ours uh it's pretty much like you know martin and maria is gonna present first uh for the online meeting organization draft and then charles is going to summarize the changes to the hackathon draft um that have happened after a working group last call and then um we're going to like push for along with it like mallory is going to be shepherding the document through and we'll move further and the uh rechargers of what like we've done is like maldi and i have gone through all the comments that came in and during the recharger proposal and so we made like all the errors that are required so i think the last one came in from myria to address like a comment uh michael richardson made and that has been accommodated i think it was a couple of days ago that media put in so after that we haven't seen any changes so we have pretty much like you know included all the changes in there and i'm going to send the mail to the working group mailing list with all the kind of changes because it's done in a google doc it's kind of very hard to like do all the um like divs in there but i can actually run through the stuff at the end of the meeting to actually walk through the document and just show you what has changed and then at some point we need to ship it off the lars because it's something like i hadn't appreciated very much but the the recharger doesn't happen until we have a charter to put up so there's no way to put something up uh as a chair to do it other than going to the 80 and asking them to put up a straw man in there so the the goal would be after like you know a reasonable cool off time after all the changes are resolved now uh to ship it"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:08:00",
    "text": "off to lars to uh kick off the recharge process uh last any comments there hey uh yeah not really so i was waiting for it for the last bullet point there but but uh since you mentioned it so i'm i'm actually totally fine of having a small charter right if there's work items that the group has sort of lost energy on i don't see that as a failure i think i i see that as a chance to eliminate some things so so nobody should like feel that they need to write a draft just because we have like work that hasn't been seen in the action for a couple of years right um if we're okay with dropping it i'm okay with dropping it i'd much rather give give guidance that's actually going to be helpful sounds good thank you very much thank you so is there any other comments on the agenda itself if not let's uh switch to uh martin and media so we we don't have any slides from you did i get that right uh mutton on media just to prove their stories in the data transfer and they're loaded into media okay so okay martin if you'd like to drive go ahead all right okay uh i think this the hackathon draft is loaded twice that's what i'm seeing try again i can see the slides there"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:10:02",
    "text": "they're processing tracker they've been processing for a while so i don't know if that's because they're really large you can also do a screen share if you'd rather um so yeah i processed them immediately but they're still showing for me as processing so it could just be the file as large or something okay i have um i have a sharing request up that i think needs approval i've done it no yeah yeah it's not showing up okay i'm just gonna share my screen i think it's probably more productive at this point i think it's starting oops i i can see it saying screen share is being started but nothing coming through yet all right can everyone see that yes okay i see the comments great thank you so uh the purpose the strap that near and i wrote it's just about you know kind of how you set up an online meeting it's kind of just a guide to all of those things and it covers uh a lot of the um for lack of a better word traditions we developed over the past year and a half um i don't think any of this would be a big surprise to anyone um i mean you can look at it we've not much of this has not changed uh the one thing that really has changed is uh time zone selection so um"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:12:01",
    "text": "after a lot of discussion one or two meetings ago we uh settled on i thought there was pretty good consensus in the room to for any given meeting not optimized for a particular time zone but try to optimize for two time zones so that in any given three meaning rotation uh one of the uh one of the like official regions um would only really have an awful meeting slot uh once per year so what that means is that rather than having like a north america time slot and an asia time slot in the europe time slot there's a night time slot for each of those so this is the one where that suffers and then uh the other of the other two regions one is like having one start about breakfast and having one start the other one and the third one is having the meeting start about dinner time or so uh and then like the truly like you know graveyard shift hours are are uh only happen once a year so um you can see those times uh i'm going to talk a little bit about the scoring in a minute but i but we did mention before like a sort of scoring system for um various time zones and the hours in which uh a given utc start time would uh occur and after some messing around with that these are the these are the times we came up with and what are currently in the draft um we did make the step of separating out northern summer and northern winter because obviously daylight savings has an impact on on what's optimal once we move to this knight based concept we also had to revise the rules for selection so that table there which is in the draft in the lower right is is a very complicated way of saying that basically whatever um whatever time zone had a fairly uh favorable time slot before like you're the one that's going to be in the night uh if it's an online meeting and it kind of covers all the permutations of having previous online meetings for uh"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:14:00",
    "text": "in-person meetings um according to this framework so it's just it's just an algorithm that that tells you how to pick the time slot for a remote meeting that might not be tied to a to a physical location that got cancelled it could just be a deliberate online meeting so that you know that's one of the things we had to work around okay this is the final scoring system uh early fi you know current scoring system i should say so dear and i talked about this a little bit and we um assigned kind of pain points for hours uh 0.05 being the worst and then kind of the one shoulder hour there uh our two points and then um there were each one of those time zones had a median score among the three meetings per year so this is the second worst time zone and this is what we're trying to minimize so uh there's there's one there's one time slot of the three where you're just gonna get it just it's gonna be very inconvenient and then if we can make the second one painless according to the scoring system that's a that's a pretty good outcome or come as close to that as we can do uh for asia we just took sydney japan china and india um as sort of i mean i think it's it's just a sort of sample of representative time zones that uh that are relevant to itf um and uh we we took the medians for each of those times those are the simple mean of those four india is really quite an outlier in terms of times relative to because kind of as everyone knows is kind of between asia and or east asia and uh uh europe uh so that turns out to be a little odd in terms of scoring but nevertheless that's what we did with europe we just used cet of course there's only there's you know fewer time zones in europe than most other places and in north america we just took the eastern and pacific time zones and just did a did a simple mean of those two to to and minimize that so um you might be wondering what those"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:16:00",
    "text": "thoughts mean for you we've done the math for you here so uh given what we have in the draft uh for utc times this is what it means for you um or at least you can figure out what it means for you based on the time zones you see here uh take give me a minute to look at that and that's that uh there's no other changes since my last talk on this um mira do you have anything to add yeah there actually there were a few more changes but uh most of them were actually structural and editorial and then there was a little bit more discussion added based on okay i guess she has nothing to add unless my audio is broken um so i guess the question is is this ready for adoption or do people are people not happy with the general direction of this draft i i think media did say something uh so we could hear her i'm apparently having some audio problems uh and i'm not hearing things uh to answer the question in the chat the 112 meaning does not fall into these slots uh in one of these slots uh the isg's sort of emergent habit has been to schedule it at 1200 or 1300 local time um in the absence of any sort of consensus document so i i i'm fairly optimistic 113 will be in person in some sense but if for some reason it isn't and if this moves quickly we might use this as a framework instead of um the the existing tradition can people not hear me on my audio output right okay yeah i'm not sure what's going on"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:18:04",
    "text": "all right great uh i'll answer the question to chat since i can't seem to hear anybody for some reason um just tell me in the chat if i need to be quiet because someone else is talking uh thoughts on hybrid timing um i don't well this draft doesn't really address that i think in practice we will have to at least do it during the day of the of the um of the the the host venue but for no reason for the actual support staff to be able to do that um uh as for uh what specific time of day it will be like i'm there's been there have been no discussions about that and this this draft is not on that topic at all um maria since you got cut off did you want to come back make your point and thank you yeah i don't think i got okay i'm gonna uh i'm gonna attempt to exit meet echo and come back in um because this is not working but i can't hear anybody uh so just give me a moment please yep hey um yeah then let me talk first thing so um this draft had some more editorial changes a little bit of restructuring and there's a new section on some considerations about how to use the online time not flexible because we don't necessarily have to squeeze everything into one week but it doesn't give a clear recommendation it's just a discussion about what the options are so that's the other thing that was added can you hear us now restarting always works um hey nobody say maria just a quick question for you um like not related to the schmo itself right but uh like this experiment of the two week thing uh are you planning to have some kind of survey or something"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:20:01",
    "text": "afterwards to figure out from the people what they thought is that the plan i mean martin could could answer this as well because he wrote the text about the experiment i think the email is very clear that we have some evaluation criteria there and so there is a survey included there's some data we want to look at and we will send out um this evaluation after the meeting for more discussion i mean not and probably also to the to the many coaches list or to schmooze but like not necessary only because it was an ietf white experiment so i i assume that this pattern will happen also on an itf white malinitis i don't know okay thank you so whether you hear me [Music] yeah we can [Music] okay um okay i have no camera yeah so uh the question was whether this uh direction of considering uh four slots instead of three slots has been considered you mean four slots per year or per day or in which context no no okay so there is a number uh three in this uh in this draft right so instead of three to make it four well so there there are three the rfc number which 79 something i can't remember all of a sudden specifies three regions uh in which we consider hosting meetings asia europe and north america and um our intent here in this in this system is to keep a fair balance between those"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:22:02",
    "text": "three regions so what so i'm i mean i was a little verbally sloppy and assuming that there were three meetings per year in principle you could have any number of meetings periods to use this algorithm but the point is the point is to balance the time the the time zone pain across the three regions listed in the rfc okay to clarify uh myself three meetings per year but um sly cycling through four uh time zones not time slots but time zones okay uh so we did not consider that beyond beyond the the the observation that there's an iit ietf consensus document that we should attempt to balance across the three regions listed um and so that's what we saw we did if we did four by definition it wouldn't it wouldn't you know evenly balance those considerations okay okay there are regions and there are time zones okay some of the regions have more time zones than others so my question whether these uh so for example asia has more time than the other we only took the median of of the time zone so it's not that they get weighted more because there are more time zones considered it's just like the range of time zones we consider for each region but it we rate each region uh um equally so it's only three values that go in in the calculation yeah uh okay yeah so um [Music] no okay go ahead"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:24:00",
    "text": "to the slide and maybe just walk us through uh the chart that you did because i don't actually know how to read the chart um i could probably sit down and figure it out over you know i could spend 15 minutes trying to reverse engineer it but it would be nice if you guys since you already know how it works but just sort of explain it to us sure uh sorry to share my thing again um there we go okay so uh again in the draft there are three slots uh per season listed so that's on the far left here you have um you know the utc times that that are on the previous slide and then for any given time zone um uh if any meeting that in that is in the northern winter so so take the example of cet so um in the northern winter a meeting would start at either seven o'clock local time three p.m local time or 11 p.m local time uh in the northern summer cet meetings would start at seven o'clock 3 p.m or or midnight local time um does that make it clearer so i mean so so i think the the the takeaway from this is that one meeting assuming there are three beings per year that one one of those meetings will be essentially in the middle of the night and the other ones will be relatively uh i mean not not like right in the middle of work day but but during the hours people usually awake thanks does that help a little bootstrapping okay"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:26:06",
    "text": "andrew i just sort of picking up the uh this discussion from the chat uh i think for scoring purposes you could conceivably just uh responding to the point from uh alex earlier alternate the uh asia pack time zone so rather than taking a medium because it is so wise uh you you could even alternate between say uh india and i mean i was put in the chat maybe japan but you i mean you could pick randomly someplace on the other side towards the other side of the region but i think the reality is having said that you're gonna kind of end up with some variation of three start times roughly eight hours apart um i i suspect whatever whatever algorithm you use um so you could make the scoring more sophisticated but i'm not sure you actually end up with uh with any better answer um the the the than you have because it's gonna have to share the pain somehow yeah we certainly we've certainly played with it a little bit um i don't if someone has a very compelling case that a particular scoring system other than what we did is like is absolutely the right way to do this then then i'd be open to that but uh stickering with us is not going to get us very far it is an interesting idea to say that we have a what i think is in the chat and there's a there's a theme here that maybe when we do the well i'm not sure how it would work actually i i guess if uh in the north american night and the europe night slots if the asian slot maybe sometimes tried to minimize the pain for india and sometimes tried to minimize the pain for for japan um that is a little bit hard to work through but if there's a strong consensus that we should do that"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:28:00",
    "text": "i think we could probably work out something in that in that so i think you can make the scoring scheme uh as complicated as you want you can add more stuff and i'm not sure if the result would change from that um as i said the optimization criteria is really to only have one slot that is really bad which means the other two slots are probably doable but also not the best slot you can get that's that's the the main criteria and like for yourself i think you should look at what time zone you're in and if the times for you are somehow acceptable and that's also what we did and like we phone and and this what we suggest seems to be for all time zones we we considered that the spots seem to be acceptable there's one thing about india might suffer slightly more than the other time zones but there's no perfect solution well so i do want to um like i i think it's a little more subtle than that uh india india is experiencing something more like a lot of us are experiencing during this current tempo which is that uh like there are two slots that are kind of bad so you're you know there's one where you go to bed at two and there's one i mean we could look at the you look at the slide presentation again but uh there's there are two like moderately painful slots instead of one that's horrible and then the two other two are fine so um you know ages big as as you may not know and uh uh this is a hard problem but um that's kind of where we ended up thanks uh martin thanks maria so um so you you folks think it's uh ready for the draft is ready for adoption okay i think so i mean we can certainly have we can i would i'm open to another discussion about maybe doing something creative with this the breadth of asia as long as it's um as long as it's kind of done within asia uh and doesn't mess the balance between the three regions i think that would be perfectly fine but uh you know how that works is not obvious and uh um that would require discussion but that shouldn't block adoption in my view"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:30:01",
    "text": "yeah so that can be part of the working group process uh martin luther we decided to do something so um so what we can do is we can get a adoption call kicked off uh next week um yeah like i i think it's like we seen generally possible stuff but i'm sure there's like other stuff that's gonna come up uh so we can handle it during the working group stages of the craft that's okay yeah oh and just for people's information so the india time slots are 11 00 in the morning to 5 pm which is the best one 7 p.m to 1 a.m which is pretty bad and then 3 a.m to 9 a.m which in my view is really bad uh but i mean you can sort of see the dynamics of that it's it's not quite an overnight shift and i would like to reply to this idea of having four time slots which are each five hours apart i don't think that will solve the problem because that just means um that you have to suffer in more of these time slots so currently we have three time slots um so hopefully you you wherever you are have to only suffer really badly for one of them instead of for two or more that's the that's the goal here i don't think adding more time slot will make it better i mean like if there's another proposal i'm happy to consider it but like we have been thinking about this so much um and and uh really check your time zone and see if this is acceptable for you and let's move on okay thanks peter uh nick uh go ahead uh yeah i just wanted to uh change the topic a little bit to um there there wasn't as much advice in this draft and it has been a sort of active question on sort of attendee lists about uh about how to handle socializing uh among itf participants but i don't know what it is like for other people i think i'm still struggling with that i haven't always made it to the gather things i'm not quite sure how to use it um just should we in this draft or sometime soon like provide some recommendations about about what to do so the draft does mention that um you"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:32:02",
    "text": "know there is there is a little bit of a trade-off between online meetings are more open it's more easier to participate in general in the meeting but you're missing out the social um component um so there's a discussion about that and the draft generally encourages people to experiment with things but i don't have a good solution i don't have a great proposal so i don't know what what else to add to the draft but uh proposal welcome i mean we can if somebody would want to suggest some text that kind of hits it again like space i'm i'm perfectly open to that i do think they're fundamental limitations when you're at home um when it might be a bad time time zone or uh you know there are other things i think it's harder to get people to just go socialize because they have you know other things to do whereas when you're at the hotel you have nothing to do but but go interact with your fellow attendees uh it's probably a fundamental limitation in my view but uh but yeah i think if there's any sort of tooling um i'm not i'm not opposed to having a section in the draft but i'm not sure what that would say to be clear i i agree that it's hard i wasn't saying oh this is easy you should answer it but um yeah but i also sort of wonder if like maybe we should say like it is going to be hard and we should try to force it a little bit because otherwise people won't do it yeah i i think like you know it's one thing to say like hey we need to have a mechanism and the other one is to force like i think i have the same problem like you know media was stating right like it's the uh when something is online and offset from your time zone it's gonna be very hard to find the time so um like i greatly appreciate some text uh input there nick thank you yeah so as i said there is text saying socializing is a problem we see this because the zero drafts for example going down and the text currently says this should be considered right it doesn't say more than that so like look at x section four three and if you have additional wording please propose it yeah okay thanks uh lars go ahead"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:34:02",
    "text": "yeah two points on that same time for that nick race so so i on this meeting and also with last week for me personally the half hour breaks are sort of um too short and too long at the same time in some sense that um they're long enough that i do some other things but then i don't have time to hang out on gather um if it's a 15-minute break i think i'm sort of more more uh happy to drop in but this is sort of the worst of both worlds so i'm kind of wondering if we should sort of as an option describe you know having a one-hour break at some point during that meeting so that you know you can eat something and and then still have some time together um for those of us who don't like to eat in front of the screen um but that's sort of just a minor suggestion the other thing i wanted to suggest is a little bit earthquake are you proposing then because the draft also says you we shouldn't um extend the day more than six hours so are you proposing to actually accept the day or just using well i guess it would have to be excited because i don't think we can eat into the working room and i totally get the time the the trade-off here right if you're in the middle of the night a one-hour break is pretty you know useless but if you're not it's sort of quite helpful but you know there's no somebody said in the chat right there there's no good solutions yeah and also the draft doesn't give like a clear rule that you have to follow it says this is what we did so far here the traders please experiment in future with it so i mean i'm happy to to to write something else in the draft if there's consensus but that's what is saying the other thing i think i wanted to sort of bring up is that um this is about fully online meetings and and we're hopefully going to go towards hybrid meetings so people should think a little bit about uh maybe discuss it on the mailing list um what what guidance we want to give the guidance like this hybrid meetings so so for example um do we wanna um you know stick to this rotation or use this algorithm to schedule the working group sessions during the day for a hybrid meeting do we wanna like do the start at lunch thing do we want to think about having some flexibility in terms"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:36:00",
    "text": "of catering to the people on site but also not making it terrible needlessly for for people elsewhere um what what do we want to do in terms of the length of the day are we okay with going slightly longer for working group sessions or not so i think those sorts of things are what would be really helpful to see some community input on the list on specifically as we go towards 113 where hopefully we would have an in-person participation thank you okay thanks lars wait for the magic to happen yes um i mentioned in the chat room and and i think it might be worth saying something along these lines in the document that my my use for the past two meetings has been for gather to be the sort of home base for me and i use the little doors to go into the sessions and to meet echo and maybe some mention of experimenting around the idea of having the social space be the primary space and you go into the meeting sessions um as a potential way to increase the social interactions between sessions and to get people into the habit of switching between rooms for instance to check out other sessions um because that's become useful i can step in and go uh no really not or i can step in and say hey not something that i normally would go to but there it is up on the screen and i've been curious about it and step into a room um and not specifying gather but specifying tools that are around socialization and cross-area interactions in rooms um something along those lines might be useful to point out as a good part of the experiment it does sound a little bit like a"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:38:00",
    "text": "tooling consideration um and you know we can't push a particular one in in the draft i don't think that's useful i think giving the example is possible but just to sort of center people around the idea of maybe we have to think about the general approach to tooling do we want it to be centered around sessions do we want to be centered around social aspects um and maybe more integrate i thought the integration so far has been really good if you start by using gather um so some discussion about what we've seen so far yeah jay did we were kicking at one point the idea of beat echo deliberately kicking you in together when you left a session um i'm not sure what happened with that uh because i know that was an intent maybe it just turned out to be a problem for some reason yeah there were but yeah i think together as a specific i think for that um i mean some people really don't like gather for one reason or another um but it is what it is requirements are a bit tighter than meet recording like you know like there's some stuff that i got me take out of work but not gather so i think that could be like some technical showstopper there right like you know if the you cannot get kicked in together well jay's in the chat and says he doesn't know what happened to that either this might just be an oversight so maybe we'll fix it just in time for the online meetings to be done i kind of i kind of remember this i'm already in the queue so um i remember it on the list and so my use case especially in irtf is we have a lot of day passers and a lot of like invited speakers and it would create a really unnecessary speed bump because they're already struggling to use the tool for the first time to get on the agenda to get in the room and so if you're forcing them into these other things that are out of band for"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:40:00",
    "text": "them because they're not trying to socialize that could be a problem and so then of course you'd have to create an alternative where you could just dip in based on the agenda and then that's what everybody would use so you lose that sort of you know you're centering everybody because they'll they'll use what works for them and it probably won't be gathered i think that's really important yeah i don't think so i don't think any of these considerations belong into this draft actually um because it's really more about two links maybe it would be a separate draft but um if people think something should go into this draft then please let us know i was in the queue for a different point around social stuff that maybe we could say so one thing that might work well but would require a bit of decentral organization we couldn't really prescribe it we could suggest it it would also probably require a bit of sponsorship is to have local meetings um in fa like face-to-face um where there are lots of people that live like in dc for example or san francisco um paris or places where you actually do have a community of ietfers they might know each other already because they live in the same town that could be something to encourage because i think it actually is quite nice but only a half measure for sure so i mean i think this is the original idea that was brought up when the many coaches list was actually created um but the idea never really got so far to the point that people actually organized it so i would i would be i mean encouraging that is maybe a good idea but it would be nice to actually see some experience with it mallory can you send some text suggestions for marianne martin if you want to add something there like i i think miriam's mind is good like you know maybe there's something that can go into the draft and there's like other stuff like the details like how to do it might have to go somewhere else right i think um either because you can just ship it over and a really good flag that it was part of the original mini couches idea you're right so we can also go back to that and"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:42:00",
    "text": "get folks like dan york and others to chime in but yeah i'd be happy to draft something up just as a suggestion in the realm of experimental possibilities right and i see a pete saying that there was a boston hub experience so if anybody was actually at that boston hub and could report back that would be helpful as well okay i think the uh dead is next on the line this is the boston pub meeting um i went to them pretty religiously while they were happening they were kind of hard to organize there was a there was like not quite the right amount of energy to make it happen consistently and also the fact that it was asynchronous with iatf meant that you know people had to come up with sort of off uh off ietf presentations which meant that it was actually a bunch of extra work that you had to do so so um i think uh trying to figure out a way to make those meetings synergize with iatf rather than um sort of be additional to ietf might be helpful um and i think you know i have to say i definitely enjoyed getting together with ietf people in the boston area there was there were plenty of people we had you know great socialization so so in that sense it was good it's just that the amount of work that was involved in prepping you know i gave a couple of presentations and it was like you know it was a big hit so um that wasn't my topic though it's really interesting that mallory brought that up because i thought it was great but you know had some issues um my topic was what would be helpful for me is to understand like how those meetings were actually organized because i've never been at one right was the meeting during the itf week was it before what kind of presentations did you have did you have a social component on these kind of events would be probably yeah so so these were interim meetings essentially except that they weren't working group meetings they were just"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:44:00",
    "text": "like people get together and uh the presentations were just so we'd have something to talk about like what are people working on you know so so you know doing it uh sort of at the same time as the itf might work well actually but the problem is that then you need an actual venue like we were basically getting spaces loaned by various companies and to do that for an entire week would be like pretty hard um so yeah but uh i you know we i can i can tell you more offline if you want about about what this was like or i could i could even go into it in detail here if you feel like we have time and want to do it but uh i was thinking about bringing it to the main this probably rather okay um yeah so the thing that i wanted to to talk about is that is that you just got a whole bunch of questions that basically boil down to the thing that we're taking off of the charter which is tooling right so so um basically all these questions about meat echo or whatever the social thing is are um really questions about what's the right tool to solve the problem at least i'm going to claim that that's what they're about and the reason i claim that that's what they're about is that it was really interesting listening to pete talk about the way that he's engaging with the itf and contrasting that with the way that i'm engaging with the ietf in these uh weird times because the way i'm engaging with the itf in these weird times is that itf meetings have just become new meetings on my schedule there's no longer an ietf event except that the week of ietf is like super busy for me because i have so many extra meetings um and that's very different than the way that i engaged with the itf when i was going to the itf in person when i went to the itf in person if i had to take a work meeting that was like a big imposition on my itf schedule now it's exactly the opposite and i think that uh that uh you know some folks probably the people who show up for for gather are trying to replicate trying to continue the experience that they had with with in person its um"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:46:00",
    "text": "so like i miss um the things that i got out of the in-person ietf in terms of socialization but gather isn't solving that problem for me the problem with gather is that i have to go together and i have to be there in order to actually interact with people and because it's it's optional and because i've got other stuff going on it it just it's not the right thing like it would be nice to have a way that we could um that we could have a sort of impromptu discussions forum um that uh that replicates what what we did in i-techs in ietf in person meetings the way that that side meetings often formed was sort of by happenstance you'd walk by somebody you think oh right i need to talk to them about this thing we don't have that anymore and i don't think that gather really does that because you kind of have to be able to spend like a bunch of time and gather to make that work and it's hard to justify spending that time so it would be kind of nice if there was like a much lower uh cost way to uh to be sort of in the same room with everybody uh rather than gather like personally like if jabber was a little bit more functional i'd say let's just have a jabber room that's like where everybody is between sessions and like if you're doing ietf yeah yeah we do have an itf slack channel that is only sparsely used by a subset of people i think but the itf is also working on or the tools team basic is working on to going away from jabba and using other chat tools where you have more this kind of channel kind of uh set up on and might make it easier to connect to people directly in these kind of things so there is work in progress there um uh i'm not disagreeing with you at all um but talking about the charter um i think that the reason why we took off this item from the charter was because in a lot of cases we were just diving into like very low level requirements"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:48:01",
    "text": "about you know using ip6 or how the button should look like if it should be green or yellow or whatever and i think for these low level things it's not useful to have an rsc for more high level consideration requirements what you were talking about this might be useful but um we need to think more about it and we need more discussion about it yeah i mean when when i heard that it was being taken off the off the charter my immediate reaction was i should write a draft before it gets taken off the charter because i actually think it's pretty important so you know in my copious free time but yeah i'm not sure if you know the the item we took of the charter was really more about low light level requirements so i think like if you really have this kind of high level requirements about how to improve socializing this might still be in scope i mean check that out just got a charter but um the first step is really writing a draft that that forces discussion and that might help us to make progress yeah i think that's like a really bad echo so i think uh okay i think i probably have to call back should i speak whilst uh was he's sure okay um well just reflect on the last conversation i'll get to the three points i wanted to make i i think the fundamental problem with um the socialization thing uh remotely is uh we're all remote um and uh yeah you can't do things you would do in socialization like drink beer or you can but drinking beer by yourself is a bit sort of sad and uh not quite the same and depending on what"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:50:01",
    "text": "time zone you're in you're maybe not sleeping in order to socialize and so on so i yeah this may be the wrong venue to say this but i think actually uh completely replicating the whole of the in-person experience with the remote meeting is probably impossible um if we if if we're all in different time zones um yeah i think it's the wrong thing to try and replicate um because in my view it's not it's not solvable uh remotely um the the other comments then just pick up the things i wanted to to to then cover um someone pose a question uh possibly martin uh about when we go to hybrid meetings should we use the time zones in this paper um i think that's a horrible thing to do um i think when we go to hybrid meetings we surely have to use the the the model of the time zone where the meeting is actually happening in person because otherwise if you think about it we're asking people to pay extra to be there in person to have a dumbed-down experience to suit the people that aren't there in person i think that doesn't make a great deal of sense i think the better thing to do is to try and uplift the remote experience to make it better rather than limit the in-person experience to make that worse um so i think that needs a different solution to a fully remote uh meeting um one of the things i've commented on in the chat is probably worth saying is and i've no idea how this is going to work but i note that igf uh next month has adopted a hybrid model um as i said no connection with that no idea what's planned um but i think that's bound to throw up some interesting observations good or bad so there must be some learnings from"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:52:00",
    "text": "that that will help guide atf 113 uh in in different ways so it's pretty quite fortuitous timing um it's happening when it is um and then the other thing just finally just by chance i noted this morning in the news there was an article about one of the big hotel chains has done a deal with zoo to facilitate hybrid meetings um so maybe um if we go to multiple uh in-person remote gatherings uh if if you will you know maybe that's saying which is gonna be more commonplace uh in future anyway with at least the meaning that conference facilities and so will be equipped with the right sort of stuff um to make that practical i'm not advocating for zoom necessarily but they got the right kit there presumably it will work without the other tooling as well so um andrew i think what we really need at this point is having something written down if you have a concrete proposal of what we should do in a hybrid meeting then just um write it down in the draft and so we can have some discussion based on some text would be really helpful because we um in in the ieh are also in this in this meeting have heard many different opinions about different things right and it's really hard to to come to a conclusion to understand what the community wants yeah right now that would be the first step here now i'm all things being equal i hope to be in poland igf uh next month so i'll be able to sort of put some reflections from what the in-person experience in the hybrid meeting was hopefully there are other people in this group that will be attending remotely so you can get two halves but dare i say murder to to to put forward the paper doesn't that need the charter to change first because that's out of scope i think yeah but i think uh we have the charter text now so as soon as that is uh um approved like you can start writing the draft now because it should be approved be a proof person and maybe one more point because you um made this"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:54:01",
    "text": "point about there should be additional benefits uh for the in-person people and then there were comments at the chat that like we shouldn't like decrease the remote performance or whatever so this is kind of a very high level um principle where we need to find agreement right so far when before the crisis we we said like we always want to optimize for in person because that's what you pay for and that's what is important now we improved remote a lot we also tried to improve remote before but not on the cost of in-person meetings now we improved remote a lot are we willing to take some of this back if it would make a person bad or is there enough benefit already by just going there and socializing that you might also you know take some drawbacks from for the for the in-person people so this is like a high-level principle where i don't think we have community agreement and some discussion and some proposal would be useful might be really helpful because i think they are for example going to have a single mic queue um so that you know you have to use your device if you're in person to join the mic queue so there might be some simple adaptations and i don't yeah personally i don't see how that detracts from the in-person experience but then at least makes everyone on equal footing to to have a voice uh in the room uh i would imagine um so i mean there have also been more extreme proposals where people said instead of having the whole room set up with a screen and the press and so on everybody should just sit with their laptop in a room and participate in this way in the meeting right so this is the other extreme like we need to figure out where we want to be yeah we're great okay thank you thanks hello uh can you guys hear me yes yeah hi uh abdrov uh michael shamed me to come to the mic when i was talking"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:56:00",
    "text": "about the hubs in india so just wanted to share a quick experience there uh when we did it uh it was not that successful i think the main reason was the people who were active in itf in india were actually in the itf meeting so it was kind of very difficult to sort of organize like in a hub meeting at that time now if when we go back to the hybrid model and there are people like you know there is a restriction in india where we are not able to travel because of some reason then i think going back to the hub model would be a little bit more successful and we could try that the issue that we have faced at that time was that people had so varied interest even in like you know this like people some people are interested in routing some in apps so how do we organize hubs like we needed six seven rooms and that was a logistical nightmare at that time to do it at a very local like in a simple level so we kind of dropped the idea what we started doing is more uh meetups uh something that we call rfcs we love we kind of invited people that if you have some ideas come and talk about what you are doing in itf even if something that you have implemented so we got some implementers whoever talking now about the hybrid model uh uh and uh even what we were talking about with uh uh with gather in my area what i've seen is like you know i think we need some kind of forcing function like organize some event something to make people come there because i know so many people i talk to like meet me and gathers like oh i don't have time for that there's so i have a busy week i want to go do things so even if it's some technical like hot rfc was a pretty good thing that we did in gather something like that even if working group chairs can organize something okay we'll be reviewing this draft which is"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:58:00",
    "text": "next in isg so if anybody has any concerns let's go and meet and force people to use that i think it i i see some potential there it would be good to like you know we find some ways to make that work thank you um so about the hub experience i think it would be super because i have like no experience with that and like in i'm assuming that you now talk about the hub where there was actually a meeting during the meeting right other talked about perhaps where there were pre or site meetings or whatever so writing down your experience for others to learn from it would be very useful i think thanks thanks stuff when um i i think one of the challenges for me on like one of these hub things is as i think other people said like ultimately you're there but then everyone goes off in eight different rooms or just gets on their laptop which is not awesome um you may be separating out the plenary as we do this time is an opportunity to gather everyone for a single event so all the bay area people could get together and watch the plenary and then have some position something like that might work i don't know just thought are you just coming up as a chair or um i was just going to suggest maybe that there's a actual section on hubs um that that may be where both driven i could put our um text but anyway actually as a chair to accept a text but it seems like this is a bigger topic that might need a different document a separate document to be no um so do the chairs want to consider"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:00:02",
    "text": "an adoption call or what's the next step for us this week search is breaking up a little bit for me is that just me i i think adoption called next week on the mailing list okay thank you thanks thanks maria thank you thank you everybody charles hi i think you're up next let me know if you can see if you can get your slides loaded otherwise i can help you it's uh taking a while to uh but yeah i see the option now [Music] okay i can see him here you see him great all right so this is about uh the draft on uh running an ietf hackathon uh just to give you an update on uh where we're at with it so uh just maybe for those of you who this draft might be a little bit new just a quick recap what the draft is about um it's about running an ihf hackathon and those are two to encourage um the itf community to come together to collaborate on code and code that's related to the work we're doing in the ietf around you know the drafts that we're working on and this this document is to provide some practices around how to run those those ietf hackathons um it uh you know the hackathon started out as i mean as the itf meetings this in-person"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:02:01",
    "text": "events but we've always had remote participation very similar to itf meetings in general and then because of the pandemic we had to adapt to running hackathons online only so this draft covers both as opposed to what you just saw with the previous draft which just really focusing on online only this draft covers both that you know all aspects of the hackathon whether it's in person or online only and also to that extent that the hybrid aspect because basically all all hackathons have always been hybrid but maybe we'll have a little bit more about that so we started working group last call after iatf after the last ietf meeting and uh thanks to those who uh reviewed and you know there was a lot of good feedback mostly positive actually i think all positive over pointing out some some issues that could be raised and so what i did for tracking these was i entered them all as issues in github and then started uh working through them there and basically oh sorry let me go back all those were um resolved and um and then a new version of the draft was produced unfortunately i couldn't get that done in time for the the deadline for submitting drafts for this ietf meeting but i i just posted it a few days ago hopefully you saw that on the list even if you haven't had a chance to review it yet um yeah i'd appreciate it if you would take a look um i know i worked with all the submitters of the issues to make sure that this draft resolved their concerns but then what i want to do now is just run over a few things which were a little bit more substantial changes just to bring them to everyone's attention and provide that opportunity for additional feedback"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:04:01",
    "text": "um so the first thing was around something new that's been developed really as a result of the pandemic and that's what we refer to as hacknet and this is for remote networking so that when you're online here you can still connect to an ietf network or a virtual ietf network and that's really important for the hackathon or at least some hackathon projects that that really need that idea of like connecting everyone in the group connecting their devices you know together on a common uh layer 2 network so hack.net provides that and that's been a great thing we certainly plan to continue to use that even as we return back to in-person meetings as a way to enable people who are remote to join the ietf network and so um i've documented that before but the concern was uh that you know this is still very experimental and although it's worked great i think we've enjoyed using it for the hackathon the noc folks who are supporting it mentioned like hey you know we want everyone to know that this is still an experimental thing so um text for that effect has been added into the end of the draft just to set expectations around it okay i'll move to the next thing um nesting was around also with hack.net i think dhruv pointed out well you know yeah that's great but what about additional um security considerations that may come into play as a result of that we had some considerations around privacy but nothing around uh security and and so that was a really good point and i'm glad to phrase that so um you can see what we've added here that um yes it is kind of opening up a new vector for for potential attacks and"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:06:01",
    "text": "misuse of the ietf network being able to join remotely however we do have some mechanisms in place you your access is tied to your data tracker account so at least we we know who is accessing and then you know as at any ietf meeting we always try to keep the ietf network as open as possible and that probably makes it a little bit more subject to potential attacks but we also just rely on ietf you know the community that's uh at a meeting to to respect the ietf network and that's actually worked out pretty well for us but in the event anything did go wrong we would treat um sort of misuse of the ietf network through hacknet the same as we would if a person at an in-person meeting was misusing the ietf network and address it that way and then the last thing um drew also pointed out that uh you know there's a ton of basically links to you know references whether it be wiki pages or web pages um things on the internet within the draft and i had just included these all as inline sort of things using you know with using markdown um and so the thought was well hey these should probably be informative references so i added an informative reference section and uh you can see the way i've uh gone about doing this i just uh basically the the text that i had in the draft i made as the title and then the the target is is the url where the things appear um i don't know if i actually did this correctly and if people on in this meeting now uh take a look and have a some thoughts about maybe uh is this appropriate use of informational references is there a better way to go about this perhaps i should have done"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:08:00",
    "text": "something different with the title um i'd be happy to hear that i'm also planning on if i don't get any other feedback i'll take it to the uh maybe the tools discuss list just to let them know hey this is what i've done did i mess up and you have a better idea so um thoughts on that would be appreciated and uh the next step um you know there's just that one thing with the the references that i think needs to probably could use some improving other than that though i think it's ready to progress the draft i hope people get a chance to take a look at it and provide review comments and of course any feedback now or questions now would be great too charles and uh the goal is to ship as possible i think you said uh suresh the goal is to uh progress this draft as soon as possible kind of get it done is that what you said that would be my goal um i wasn't sure i heard you right kind of the audio cut out for me okay um if no one's coming to the queue or has questions uh i guess i'm done that was my last slide all right thanks i'm i'm having some audio issues not sure why"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:10:00",
    "text": "but there is like a recharger text that's almost finals and i'll send a mail to the mailing just to get it kicked off uh yeah we heard we heard you okay um suresh but it was just a little soft but yeah just reiterate there is rechartered text it's going to go to the mailing list cancellation somehow just seems to be off for some reason okay there's nobody in the cube go ahead charles yeah so uh regarding the rechartering text uh i i had a look at it and it seemed like like several people did uh review it there within the google daca but in terms of the the next step to i mean do we think it's ready that this group needs to review it more or is it like you know ready to take it as a proposed recharter to the isg or i wasn't quite clear on if you're looking for more feedback and how yeah good question good question it means there's a there's an echo for me um i'm just gonna mute you um yeah that um i think this was a suresh and i took all the changes people had put in before we created a new draft version but it's worth folks"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:12:00",
    "text": "commenting on the list before it goes um for a final recharter but so yeah look out for it on the list but i think it's actually in really good shape there's no outstanding questions that i can think to present to you right now about it so yeah suresh is going to email the list you can put yourself back okay i i was happy with uh with the text that was was in there i mean the one thing i thought about was i didn't know if we wanted to call out specific sort of deliverables or drafts that we think it does provide like the types of drafts um the types of things that need to be covered but maybe if um that was the only thing i thought of is if we wanted to add a little more specificity around that i recall that being there so i don't know if i don't have if you have specific suggestions around throughout the situation okay maybe was it like okay i'll take a look again i didn't remember seeing that but okay it was there before and i don't think we removed it so okay but maybe your level of specificity is different which is why proposed changes be fine okay yeah miriah yeah i'm wondering if we should just use the time and bring the charter up on the screen and talk a little bit about the things that have changed from the previous charter so everybody's on board uh yeah we could do that um just i've done it exactly for that media and i'll ship it up to the list right like it's kind of hard to go through so there's three classes of changes in there so one of them is to remove the cove related stuff and make it a bit more general and the second thing is adding hybrid media principles"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:14:00",
    "text": "and third thing is really changing the meeting feed not into a bcp charles or mariette are you back in the queue because you want to speak you can just go off my you can go on mike and thanks for dropping the link in the chat go ahead i'm looking at the text now i was i'm actually wondering if what ted proposed earlier as a more a high level recommendation which is somehow related to tooling but probably not just like how to incentivize more socializing for example if that would still be in scope or not um because we have this one point about planning fully online meetings but that point is mostly focusing on scheduling aspects um so i guess it's either either question to the chairs and the idea of that would be in scope or a proposal that we add like a small thing there as well"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:16:00",
    "text": "i think it's okay to be ambiguous if it's not obviously out of scope then i don't feel like we need to make a change and if it it's something that we we feel is important and i think if somebody wanted to write that down i know ted was saying supposedly doesn't have the time to do it but if someone feels strongly enough about writing something about social interaction then if it isn't explicitly out of scope with this charter i think that's a good thing it means that there can be some experimentation and suggestions around that that's how i feel but if we put it in the charter explicitly then does it feel like an imperative to address the social i don't know we just uh to add to that um i think for me it probably would also be hard to put something in without actually seeing it and understanding what the draft would be seeing indeed i agree with that okay i'm just rounding out notes um i encourage everybody um who's who's spoken today um i didn't capture a lot of the discussion in the chat and the notes but i think for the most part it's they're thorough so but you can go ahead and check them make changes before we finalize and yeah there's nobody else in the queue so i think we might be we might be done for today okay yeah nick go ahead yeah just to bring something that i was uh mentioning in the chat there was this"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:18:00",
    "text": "draft from elliott lear who i think isn't here uh we got to stop meeting like this suggesting that we should or the llc or someone should investigate changing the in-person meeting cadence because of the costs of very regular in-person meetings and i'm just looking at the charter i certainly think that is in scope at least under the revised charter although maybe maybe it's not very emphasized like it says that one work item is will consider the cadence of mostly in-person meetings um i i guess i hope we could uh uh like emphasize that or change that more substantially um but it just seems in scope to me so what i'm saying right yeah yeah it isn't it isn't scope i think and um so the isg and the iab and the llc we discussed this a little bit on a workshop we had a virtual workshop we had a few a few weeks ago and um so generally the feeling was that because of covet and this long string of fully online meetings it's not actually clear if this is sort of something we want to do right away in the sense that we are just trying to build back to go into some in-person uh capability and um immediately thinking about you know should we change the cadence and the type of meetings we have now after kovitz seemed like something that was very difficult to imagine um the other thing where we are sort of a little all over the place is um you know what what do we think what would that look like so would we replace one of the three meetings or at least one of the three meetings with the fully online meeting would we add fully online meetings to the year um"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:20:00",
    "text": "and and so if there were you know people that felt that adding meetings would just make the year too busy with too much itf stuff going on especially since there's also interim meetings replacing one of the three with a fully online meeting the feeling was that you know which one and why and they're already sort of rare enough that uh uh you know spacing them out further would be maybe difficult to do but um so so we were sort of basically decided to punt this forward and and worry about this um as we sort of ramp back up from corbett but all that said right if if the community wants to discuss this it's certainly in scope and i think if there would be some sort of consensus or at least an indication of consensus expressed i think that might be helpful um but in like in the isg and ibn llc we didn't have that uh when we discussed this that's useful context thanks i i think it's an ideal time to consider it i think um we have an opportunity now that remote people aren't second class citizens uh because we've all had to be like this is an opportunity to not go back to okay well let's make them second class citizens again for a few years and then we can talk about switching i'd rather we just not go back to second class citizenship andrew go ahead yeah just a quick comment uh one observation from the last uh couple of years i i think has underlined why for for those people that are lucky enough to be to be able to participate in person why that's important and and does make a big difference um"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:22:00",
    "text": "notwithstanding improving the uh remote experience there's a lot of learnings from the last two years which mean that going forward the the remote experience could and should be a lot better than perhaps it it was previously um and then as a quicker side without going too far off into other matters for those people more concerned about the carbon footprint of in person um in my opinion i think the the community will be better off looking at the carbon footprint of of its protocols and protocol changes which probably have a far more significant uh sort of uh impact on on the world's sort of carbon footprint than a few people attending meetings each year but that probably is a whole different conversation than the one here thanks um if again like you know um just like cut in for a second and uh sorry john like the idea is not to go through it just to kind of show you like it's a extensive change in the chatter i did send the uh link to the um it's in the chat so if you can go in and click on it like you know uh just go ahead and look at it at your leisure like this is not to finalize it today so sorry about that i just wanted like i think somebody proposed to bring it up and take a look i think it was media so i just like uh brought it up right like but uh yeah absolutely the idea is not to um litigate this now because it's it doesn't make sense to uh do it online on this so we had like probably like a month of open period like where people could go and comment and like a lot of people did so we can probably have some um small cool off period before we ship it off to lars um i would say"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:24:01",
    "text": "uh would a week uh be good enough for you lars to um like uh set off as a cooling period so people can um fight their idea fatigue and then like you know work on it next week yeah that would be fine for me so so this is basically for the working group to decide when they have text that they consider stable and then i'll stick it in the data trigger and start the formal thing yep sounds good so um thank you very much uh jay please go ahead thanks thanks so on this question of um uh regularly meeting offline um sorry online not in person uh a few things so what data we have shows that people strongly prefer meeting in person and are experiencing adverse effects from not meeting in person so whenever we do a survey after a one of the fully online meetings it's full of comments from people lamenting the fact that they're not meeting in in person secondly it's it's not actually more expensive for us to run um an on-site one compared to an in-person one because they're both relatively cost neutral obviously it's more expensive for attendees and for sponsors the sponsors are quite comfortable with that and i suspect the attendees by large are next thing is we've started doing carbon calculations for um on-site meetings in person meetings the last time we had one and we have a process set up to do that again when we go back to that and we've started looking at carbon credits or carbon offsetting anyway the we haven't done anything about that because we haven't been expecting to meet in person for quite some time but um it looks as though that's perfectly possible for us to do within the cost of a meeting to do carbon or setting now obviously that's not as good as not traveling in the first place but it's something a bit better"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:26:01",
    "text": "and then finally the bit about being second class so um a lot of work is going in to try to prevent the remote experience being second class compared to the in-person on-site experience so that's through the technology so we have a new version of meet echo coming which um uh well would anyway there are various things going on there that we're aiming to do to try to adjust that um such as a single queue for example and those things it obviously a lot of that comes down to the behavior of people within uh the who are on site um as to how they are willing to accommodate people who are off site so we can only sell some of it with technology but i'm detaining to do that and of course the other problem is um time zones that um we have to decide when we go back to these if we're still going to have a six hour meeting or if we go back to an eight or nine hour meeting because that would be much more difficult for participants so um you know there are as i said basically there are a lot of reasons why people want to meet again in person and a lot of work taking place to mitigate the impact of meeting in person thanks uh last like you were in queue like did you want to say something uh related to this or do you think is that what i what i wanted to say okay thank you phil go ahead yeah i just wanted to say that yes i do want to meet in person i don't necessarily want to meet in person more than once a year and you know well my my kids are will be in college very soon one's not already there when my kids were younger uh doing three meetings a year was well i never did it actually i never did more than two meetings a year"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:28:01",
    "text": "um the other thing that i think i we assume that the itf meeting structure really works at all i think it obviously doesn't because to participate meaningfully in any working group meeting you have to read the drafts over an itf meeting week i usually do at least 12 working groups reading the drafts for 12 working groups is in itself a huge undertaking which i could only do because i was permanent research staff um i don't think that most people can do that and i don't think that the itf meeting structure really relates to how i would want to do work as an engineer if i designed the process from scratch finally on the carbon offsets thing the reason that you make a symbolic gesture on carbon emissions is to remind yourself that it's important so it's not i mean we've never talked about the carbon uh cost of our protocols before the reason for starting to to making a symbolic gesture in terms of how we do our own work is to remind ourselves that that is important that said if you look at the um aviation fuel is mostly kerosene if you look at the consumption of kerosene globally it turns out that over half of it goes into lighting kerosene lightens it's expensive it's dangerous it's poor lighting if we just gave everybody led lamps and solar panels"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:30:00",
    "text": "we could do that within five years and we wouldn't need to change we would have the same effect of converting every jet so offsets are the way to go but um it's complicated i just want to say thanks phil um i i think like one of the things that you brought up right it's kind of a bit relevant here and i don't know if you that's what you meant phil but like you know um you said this is not how you want to work i think some people have suggested uh like a whole bunch of interest is the way to go right and that could probably help with your like read too many drafts thing if it's like offset in time but there was a proposal i think from michael and and media that's incorporated into the charter yeah go ahead chris thanks yeah i mentioned this in the chat but um you know certainly looking at the in-person meeting cost of the carbon i mean how do you factor in uh the benefit that the work we do at the ietf right i mean we empower a lot of remote work right there's a huge um i think multiplicative benefit from what we do so even though we might burn some carbon getting in person if we work really effectively uh the benefit uh and the reduction of carbon across the globe you know from remote work and and things like that uh i think it's probably multiplicative right and so i i don't think we should get into counting numbers too much uh in that particular sense um and into what phil said um he did say i a few times but there were a few like things he said that were like sort of statements about ietf i mean i find it very effective three times a year right so i mean i guess you have to balance that right some people it works some people it doesn't"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:32:01",
    "text": "yeah thanks chris thank you jay go ahead and elite go ahead if jay comes back we'll go ahead hi everybody um well hey hey suresh and i can see that christian's doing his part because he you know in terms of saving carbon because he clearly doesn't have the heat on in his house he's got that jacket on um well it's been quite uh a while since i published draft we are we got to start meeting like we got to stop meeting like this if ever there was a draft that was overtaken by events that was the one um [Music] just a couple of brief comments and i'll move on first of all thank you jay uh thank you very much jay uh for uh collecting uh the information um the draft that i wrote was not intended to be prescriptive in terms of any any particular solution um but rather for us to ponder our footprint our footprint on the planet um and to maybe consider getting us out of the mode of where we book five to seven years in advance where it's almost impossible to run an experiment uh in terms of how we might restructure things um but to think it's but to get us into better position where we could try different modes of uh communication and uh collaboration so now that"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:34:00",
    "text": "i'm not even sure we can say we we we're seeing the end uh you know the light at the end of the tunnel yet here in europe the numbers are spiking again but assuming that day comes um my suggestion is we go back to this notion of trying a few different things and seeing what works i don't really want to sacrifice effectiveness either i can tell you from my own personal experience i'm sure everybody's different here but i don't feel as effective when i'm jet lagged so it could be that the costs are it's very hard to account for all of these costs but the cost that i primarily wanted to account for was the one that my kid was sort of you know buttoning me with and saying hey you're becoming the problem in terms of carbon footprint so um that is one of the issues that i think is important and to the point that oh yeah well there's obviously a benefit of us getting together and meeting and being productive uh i'd be a little nervous about using that that that line because i think everybody would end up using it saying oh we're always benefiting the world by meeting and we're social people so we like to meet so the trick is to find the right balance anyway thanks for your patience and wish everybody a great day thank you did you want to chime in there hey yeah i i sort of want to um that was all great elliot but i sort of wonder if you wanted to if you had a concrete change in mind that that we sort of you think sort of we should do or that you think we should we could get consensus on because that's sort of where you know this this is sort of the step that i struggle with right sort of you know to go from the from the abstract to sort of a concrete thing that that we actually believe we can do because i think is sort of a little bit all over the place here"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:36:11",
    "text": "okay um well thanks for the question lars um very classically you know the question i'm used to you asking that question at this point so i actually have a couple of concrete suggestions uh i'm going to go from a little bit abstract then into the concrete um at the abstract level i think we should um uh collect a number of possible approaches um that we could try um when i say try i mean not standardize on in terms of this is the way things will go in the future but i do mean try we don't have to try them every year but maybe we plan out a schedule of how we try things so what does that mean concretely i'll give you a couple of examples that we could try the one that i like is going to um semi-annual meetings to try for a for plenary purposes and then load up with lots of interims and further in that period of time require that the interims not be in person in doing that the other there are a couple of variants on that one variant is instead of running a meeting for when we do the semi-annual we instead of running the meeting for and this is where things get a little interesting is how you calculate the beginning and the end of an ietf meeting but extend the meetings on on either side by a couple of days that would be one example of trying another"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:38:00",
    "text": "thing to try would be to uh do semi-annual meetings again and actually after your clarification question on the first one so you're saying we think we should we should go to set a semi-annual sort of plenary but make it like one and a half weeks or something or two weeks yeah yeah yeah exactly okay thank you yeah another approach is to uh do a similar semi-annual uh activity but require um blocks if you will of um of of uh interim meetings that occur in person on the book ends uh on so if we're meeting and say i'll just pick two dates if we're meeting in um say march and november uh then require uh interim blocks in say july and uh december or something like that um maybe even it out a little bit so that it's a little bit more on the q on you know symmetrical so that would be another approach to try and i don't have a particularly strong you know direction to say let's do this first so let's do that first um but what i would like to do before we do any of them is at least do a calculation a rough sketch calculation as to which we think will have the most uh beneficial impact in terms of the environment so we have some understanding because last thing i'd like to do is try something that makes things worse for the environment and we could absolutely do that um you know i don't put it beyond us to to do that by accident uh so uh that's what that's one approach the uh you know a third try by the way would be to go annual meetings and make them every you know make make them for two weeks in light but do a lot more interims um i think that may be too radical for the community to be honest i think it's"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:40:00",
    "text": "already pretty radical to swallow the idea of going semi-annual so those are just a couple of ideas but again i didn't mean to be at all prescriptive right these are just some things we we could evaluate and the intent that i had of asking jay to get the data and ask the llc to get the data was to help us calculate these things in terms of what would be beneficial and then present that back to the community as options of things to try what i think is most important in the process though is to make sure from a contractual standpoint the llc sees that we're interested in doing these tries and thus allows for at a contractual level us to be able to to manage the hotels and things like that and i i don't want to discount the effort that's involved in that i'm sure that's a substantial challenge all right thanks again thanks elliot i think ian you're next thank you uh we can have all sorts of opinions about what is best for the environment and the planet and so on but a real fact of life for me is that my employer cisco has announced that they will be cutting travel expenses by 60 going out of kovit and i heard ericsson say similar things from the ceo so no matter what i think it will not be possible for me to attend in person at least not in trans continental venues so it would be really nice if we could have no second level citizenship in the meetings if we are remote i don't think we need to change all that much you can have as many meetings as you want and so on but make sure that everybody who wants to pass his bait remotely can do so in a good way i don't want to be second rate thank you thank you"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:42:00",
    "text": "thank you uh charles okay um yeah you know i think one of the things that's become clear through a lot of our discussions is that the way people interact with the itf really varies quite a lot and the people on this call are probably people who interact with the ietf a bit say more or more intensely than than people who perhaps aren't on this call but you know i think we need to keep in mind that there's that that spectrum we heard from php how even just within his uh time working within the ietf how he participates as his change and his level of participation has changed and um so to me that the real thing for us to focus on would be the hybrid approach and looking to see you know let's keep the remote participation and let's continue to make improvements in how when you do attend the meeting remotely that that experience is good and you know i think what you'll find quite naturally as a result of that is you will have more remote attendees that people will you always make that trade off do i travel to the meeting or do i attend remotely or do i not go at all right we all make that decision or we have uh for a number of years before covet and even with covet how much time do i devote to it but i think what you'll start to see is if the hybrid if the remote experience is good people will tend to use that a little bit more a little tip to where okay i can't or i don't want to travel there's only these few things i can do them remotely i don't need to be there we'll enable that decision or we'll make people uh more likely to make that decision and we'll improve the overall experience for for everyone if we do it carefully i think if we what we need to watch out for is that we don't mess up and everyone feels like they need to be at the in-person meeting or else you know because remote's useless or alternatively we make the in-person"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:44:01",
    "text": "meeting so bad because we optimize for remote experience that no one shows up and then we say like oh we'll just meet online because we know that's not ideal either so i'm really trying to find that sweet spot with these experiments people have been mentioning i think that's great i'd like to see us go forward with that and then maybe after that give that a little bit time let that uh see some of the benefits of that and where we end up and then we could probably also meet you know in person less often if the the whole hybrid experience or remote you know attendance thing is continues to get better as it has thanks thank you chels andrew all right just picking up on the uh sort of discussion on on uh move to more interims um there's an observation i think if if if if the itf was to become much more interim so based that feels to me very divisive for the community um and so it depends whether you think the itf is a community or not so for some people that may not be a consideration um but if you like by putting much more stuff into very discreet silos um then you lose um the perspectives from people that perhaps aren't focused on solving a particular problem but can bring a unique perspective to it because they happen to be a on-site um with a spare slot so so drop in um and i think that's less likely to happen if we've got you know a huge spread of uh interims um i'd also worry that it will be harmful for diversity um if if there's a much greater use of of um interims"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:46:01",
    "text": "because they tend and this is a generalism but i think if you look at the data it would be brutally supportive of this to be scheduled for the convenience of you know people currently involved in a particular working group so it makes it potentially a lot harder unintentionally for people in other places to participate effectively and frequently um so dare i say if if one thing we might want to consider is should some of the time zone guidelines that on the paper that we started this meeting with apply to interims should they be required to rotate time zones um should they be required to use better tooling um so that the remote experience of of interims is both consistent and and better um you know maybe that would be a good use of uh of some time and some expertise because i think at the moment my impression is they're pretty ad hoc yeah in how they're arranged i mean i know there are some rules around you have give to two weeks notice et cetera but other than that they're left a lot to these devices of the individual working group so perhaps they'll be benefit from that being regularized but i'd go back to my original point nevertheless if there's to be an itf community as opposed to a working group community um then you know there would be implications in in in putting a lot more emphasis on those rather than the itf sort of meetings as they're currently structured thanks thanks andrew uh martin thanks uh three three points that um are in response to the things that have been moving through the discourse here uh i would like to unpack the second class experience experiment second class experience uh uh comment um so like"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:48:00",
    "text": "personally it was only three or four years ago i was a regular remote attendee and having done um uh having done uh a a having been a remote attendee under the old regime and a personal attendee and now this this new kind of remote attendee thing i would say like the real difference is that um in the in the first case i was not really participating in the side conversations for reasons that are obvious um like the side most people would agree the side conversations are extremely valuable and i am not prepared to um kind of kneecap the productivity of itf by in an effort to ensure quality by just degrading the value by eliminating this really valuable process because some people can't attend it um secondly there's been a talk about like like more strict corporate travel rules um you know obviously if people don't want to come to meetings anymore we're going to stop having them but to the extent that the companies are limited limiting travel to within their continent that is actually a case to continue to be three times in person per year because then at least you could get the productivity of in person once per year that's what's why we rotate uh to a large extent uh and then finally about interims um look you know i was a big participant in quick the interims were amazing uh but ietf 107 was uh at least a it was an emergency situation but we went to a very interim heavy model and while you can poke at the exact details of implementation there we essentially had a month of meetings at about 1700 utc uh i did not find that to be a particularly good model um and and like you can you can tweak the details and maybe there's some like one magic formula for for in terms that would work really well but that that seemed to be really onerous on people's schedules and also as andrew was suggesting not very um"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:50:00",
    "text": "inclusive in terms of time zones like it always falls into that link optimized time zone so uh like i said i midterms are good some working groups it really works but i'm really reluctant to just kind of drive a lot of working groups to to to be forced into that mode thanks thank you andrew did you have another comment or is i lingering around from the previous time you were just speaking okay um so i i did have a comment to make on this and so this is something i just observed um like interims work for some set of people and some set of working groups but they don't work for others like i think when michael was talking about stuff working pretty well right like the iot cluster in the itf it's almost like a mini idf so like people kind of all hang out together and and they do attend like working groups across multiple areas so things become easier like so for example like you know core in uh core and then like roll and lp van and all those things are kind of like pretty well integrated like technology-wise they all work together so it becomes a little bit easier to follow those things i do see like you know the like both sides of the argument here but i think the real answer is it really depends like some some groups just get along well with interns and some don't and we just need to make sure that like uh different needs are accommodated by whatever we end up doing so thank you i think media are you up next yeah i'm up again because this point about interim is actually something that we touched in the in the draft we discussed earlier and um so first of all i want to make a point that rooms and the kind of meeting that you have at this itf week are usually not"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:52:00",
    "text": "have not the same dynamics they kind of work very differently and that's also why they might work definitely well for different uh groups um and they can achieve different goals um so i just encourage js to use like both of these things in interim it's much better to have like a small group deep technical discussion which is very interactive while um in the meeting week you have much more people who are not that frequently um reading the mailing list or coming to the meetings and can provide a different kind of feedback and so you should also organize your meeting to accomplish these kind of things and so um what i would like to encourage shares is type to use both of these meeting forms appropriately and also consider if you always need to meet at the itf meeting or if you have if you are in a phase with your working group where maybe interims are more um effective for you for example at the beginning of a working group it does make sense to have these meetings in the meeting week because you want to have other people have a look but when you're like close to the end and you're just rushing through the issues maybe ingrams are more appropriate um so there is a little bit of discussion in the draft um and the draft basically says it really depends on the chairs how they want to organize it but if people want to add more text about that um i'm i'm happy to take tax proposals for the draft thank you maria thank you very much uh i don't see anybody in the queue and we're almost out of time so i just give like a couple of seconds for people to like come up to the queue if they want otherwise we'll just wrap going once twice and thrice so thank you very much folks this has been like a a fantastic meeting thank you very much and please do comment on the chatter and like we'll keep it open for at least the next week uh for the recharge proposal and then we ship it off to lars of course it's like still going to be open for comment after because like bunch of other people are going to be seeing it um but really try"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:54:02",
    "text": "to get in your comments into the chatter before that if you can but otherwise we'll ship it off to last and we can handle it after thank you very much and have a nice day early morning evening night wherever you are and especially like the people in australia like you know who are having a really long day thank you very much thanks and new zealand that's all like in case there's somebody there thanks you"
  }
]
