[
  {
    "startTime": "00:00:22",
    "text": "Okay. It's time to start the first decision Thank you very much for all of you for if staying Friday afternoon, And I hope that the second session, we have almost as many people as in this one, even more. Nope. So we will let Let's start by the idea. If not, well, just remind me of the policies, and that by contributing in this working group that are going to follow the IT processes. And that, if you contribute you should disclosed a new carton. It said that you are aware of and that's your day. Need to work respectfully with others. So I don't expect much heated discussions today, but this. If they happen, they just the work, for 12th just the discussions them technical. No personnel discussions here. Prepared to contribute to the working the working just Yeah. We are not too much here. We are friends. For the people here, just don't forget. There. Can make the photo, sign in with the and always gives me take all. Now we are At this point, we are all used to this one, but don't don't forget it."
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:02:01",
    "text": "And, turn off any any audio an idio showing. So we don't have any kind of echo and for the remote participants, they, if any, that and this represent you know, good try not to put your audio and video. You're so sexy. It's it's much better. To be shared with So here, you have a please help us with the note takings, especially if someone makes a comment I make sure that it is capture. Okay. So it's understood, so there are not, misunderstanding, so here, and it's you can pass taking notes here. It will be much much, much radio. Here, just log in to take the notes, especially for the discussions. So we have 2 sessions today. Came in the first two hours we will go through the working group documents that then the first ones are in a much material state. Okay. And they are, say, going in the in the processes on the corner. About to go to the last call, process test, and then we start with the the different slices related graph that, comply the second 2nd half of this morning sessions. And then in the afternoon week, continue. With the nonworking group and documents. Also, probably in the slicing and then finally we have also some and documents that are coming from the World Cup 1 coming from CCAM that I guess we will if the working groups like it, we might be able to transfer it to to hear to to this. Scale. So that's"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:04:02",
    "text": "for the second for the second half, not that in the second part, we still have we have plenty of room available in the second part. So we expect that in the afternoon, we can and earlier today. In the afternoon session. So we will start with the documents that are not being presented then the visual of RFC 32, 72, 72, and the especially the document that I would the the first one is, let's see. In the document, the second. The second one also has passed all the IAC processes, and I think it will it is worth to highlight that based on the ISG evaluation process, I suppose already discussed on the list, there were there has been some notable changes that universe. So the title was changed, and there was also note with the clarification of technicality of the term IT, network slices. Also, what we have now, the TCACC use case is also submitted. To the ISG for the publications, so we expect that process to start some some Nova. Questions, we'll move to the to the next status. So here, we have a set of documents that are is still, but there's still some some actions. Okay. So we have the want to mean, We'll, use the next slot to discuss this for Perfect. So we can go in the in detail, but g, you have some coming, coming to know from Hawaii. I just to briefly mention that, cut in and I met offline this weekend. We of most of the comments and we will have to draft accordingly. There's one remaining issue for the"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:06:01",
    "text": "in group to consider. Yeah. Yeah. We will, discuss that. We'll dwell on that a little bit more in the next slot. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. If you're in the room, please make sure to join on the app or on your computer because we're expecting to do a poll related to that discussion. Okay. And so we will go in more details of following on all of these drafts in the in the next one. So unless you have now some also some common on the on any of the documents that are either the working rules like call or that are going to be in the work in the call, we will go detailed one by one in the in the next slide. Then select it. So here for the Liasone we have, in this, framework for our network slices that it is this ongoing Liasone, that we that we have. That we just inform them about it. And I think got if you are around, to come to the mic for the there's another a potential milestone on currently, Yeah. There is woah. Scott Mansfield, Ericsson. I'll stay back here. There is another liaison that's come from the it UT and it's related to OTNT roadmap. It's one that's been responded to before. So if there's any information that anybody wants to send back, We're creating a response back to the ITU for the study group 15 meeting, which is coming up next in a couple weeks. So Just it all you gotta do is provide a list of names of drafts that you think they'd be interested in. Thanks."
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:08:03",
    "text": "Okay. So deadline 2 weeks. Right? Is what we The deadline is whenever you do it. Yeah. I mean, but but if you are meeting in 2 weeks, if Yeah. Yeah. That that would be It can be input. Yeah. It's it's the type of document that no deadline as far as they're concerned. So if you get it to for the meeting anytime before the meeting's fine. Thanks. Okay. So just please, working group in the meets as Scott mentioned, if you have some documents that you consider that is worth unrelated to this OTM system that we working decentralization, Yes, please. Compiling. K. So We lost the gift card documents so that Remember, we have this, Did you have weather? Some people did the transfer I I recall the word. Some. So if the word that you are when you would like to move it. To the to this working group, GitHub, contact us in its It's a good place to to the host the the the all the all the gift card centers instead of having them in individual or let's say, in not, not the IPF. It is working group. I mean, it's not mandatory, but I mean, yes, recommended that. I mean, if you have it, it's better to have it than the umbrella. Of of this. Okay. So just and remember that Even if your track issues in the in the jeet the process this as usual, and we need the and we need to build the consensus on the list also on the discussions that we look here. Okay. So it is not replacing anything. So just, that we are aware of. And, yes, use the main in list,"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:10:03",
    "text": "in in addition to those and opening issues in did have and and if if please ask the interims when you need it, and also for the the working meetings. You know, we have periodically the NCOI meeting. And also, there is the the meeting that happened here on Friday. So these are available show for other purposes. Also, you need You need more. Just please ask us to provide beneficial one. And just the the final reminder for the for the IPR and that whenever we go to, working group plus call process or to the adoption process. And we all for the for the API. So we need estimate for everybody. So so, right, be careful, especially when you have multiple contributors that are not regular participants in IPF that we typically that is delaying the process in many many documents, we have now, for example, have an example now, so with a young young, for more computation, one, that there are some people living that they they are mainly that says that and it's complicated, So if you collaborate and you have sample putting some contributors, even the small contributors, but then they have not regular you can't remind him, not they need also to they contribute to ATF, they also have this commitment. So it's not just I put a small thing, and then I forget Please. As your contributors. For So now I think we can go with the detail established for each. Document from Okay. Next on the agenda is the working group document status."
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:12:00",
    "text": "I see about 50 participants on me to go if, he guys haven't joined the app, please do. So there are 28 documents listed on this slide we have made some progress in pushing some of the modeling documents towards the finish line. And we're hoping that we will be able to get those out of the working group by the next idea So as always, quality reviews are most welcome, as we, work towards putting in publication requests for these. We have, a couple of documents, that are suited to send to this and then IT of network slices, draft, that are in RSCators queue. There's one document, the BCC use cases document that which we have put in the publication requests. We have 8 working group documents on the agenda today. So that leaves us with 17 documents and the the status of each of those are listed in the slide deck Of those 17, there are a couple for which, we have this post working class called tag suffixed to them. One of those is the g m plus controller interval document it did go through NLE, helping that at review, few comments came in inhibition was published to address those. Next step for that would be to get the shepherd right up completed and publication request put in. The other document that's in the post working of last call is the enhance VPN document, and we'll dwell on that. In in an upcoming slide. I will not be, as usual walking through the status of each of these documents. I will, however, double click on a select view. Which we team need some immediate attention and, dwell on those. For the rest, you can go through the slides. You can go through the status reports that was sent to the list. And, if you have any questions or comments, please do"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:14:02",
    "text": "post them here or send those to the list. So let me jump to slide 3. This is the young document, that covers performance metrics for, virtual networks and T tunnels in the ACTN context. There was a division published for this, in September. And, with this revision daughters are saying that there are no more changes be made. And the document is ready to be considered for working class calls. So please do review this in anticipation of an upcoming last call. And they should, we should get going with this as soon as the Vian Yang document is complete. Can we go jump to slide 6, please? This is the document that talks about applicability of ACT and network slicing. The authors did publish a revision for this in late August And with this revision, they are saying they're done. Really done. So, again, the plea here is, for reviewing this in anticipation of an upcoming last call. Let's go to slide 7. Okay. So this is the enhanced VPN document We did take the document through a working class call before the last IETF. There was a revision a revision 14 that was published to address comments that were received during the working of last call from Joel, regarding the isolation, specific text. With the document then went through an early routing data rate review. At thanks to Kaithen, we did get, fairly detailed comments and a fairly thorough review of the document. Revision 15 was published as a"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:16:03",
    "text": "to address some of those comments. And as she mentioned earlier, the authors did sync up with our routing data review at this week. And, It seems like they have made some progress. There were, there were, there was an updated set of review comments that and sent to the list, this week. So this still seem to be a few core issues that need to be resolved. One of the core issues is with regards to the use of, two terms for the same construct, the these two terms paying VPN and NRP. And the ask was to use NRP for, all practical purposes and remove the use of VPN. The chest did, discuss this, and we believe it's a valid ask and before we pose this question to the to the group, I would like to request, Kaithen, and g, to see if they have anything else to add to what I said. Caitanji, the floor floor is yours. If you are wanting to add something, Okay? So you guys seem to be in agreement. So we will go ahead and post the question. Okay. Don't be shy."
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:18:07",
    "text": "Okay. We have about half of the working group, for how the people who voted have said that, Actually, twin we have 24 folks who have said yes. To go ahead and, make the change. Not a number. Yeah. It's unanimous of those who have participated. We, you know, we don't see any opposition. And that that's a good indicator. Thanks for the feedback. K? Of the remaining documents k. That that that that that that that Just, another suggestion, not the NRP thing, but, would it be more clear to call this, NRP based VPN or NRP VPN instead of enhanced VPN, it may be it sounds like a more technical name to me. I just wanted to make that suggestion. So this was, another comment that you had which was, I think the the comment that you specifically had was not to use VPN plus, but use something else instead of that. That's so I I know that the working group has like, gone through the discussion and enhanced, but, this is just a suggestion. You know, further in the process, somebody would may ask, like, what is enhanced and, like, what we get into, like, those terms, right, and then send traditional, So just a suggestion to the working group. Anybody wants to respond to that. Yeah. Greg, sorry. Go ahead."
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:20:00",
    "text": "Greg Mariske, Erickson. Yes, I appreciate the the discussion and, question of, Tightening up the terminology. I'm thinking of it, some more as that I think that any, VPN solution will be NRP based. So, What we are discussing now is enhanced I think that probably would be just, possible to enhanced altogether. Because, again, it's we're talking about that, the technology that we have now is as we, discuss it and realize at least, for myself. Is a special case of, more encompassing technology for VPN. And that would with NRP. So might be we need just unrealized that and say, yes. So, basically, what we are doing, we're involving VPN and that will be VPN. And our existing technology is just special case. Yeah. So, from my re review of the document, I think, The authors are very clear that there are it's called traditional VPN, but VPN without any hardcore resource partitioning or delay latency, those things, And, this is a VPN based NRP. So not all VPNs may use NRP. So I think, I I mean, I would"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:22:02",
    "text": "disagree a bit with Greg. This is Not all VPNs will become this way. So, either enhanced or NRP base, that's we could look at that. Okay. Jake, Yeah. Uh-uh, kind of agree with Kevin that, not all the VPNs are enhanced because we already VPN service for many of years. And Whether we call it the enhancement, you know, an RPA based the Libyan to me, I would prefer to keep it as enhancement. Okay. We will, do another poll How do we answer this Oh, yes. Should explain the Oh, if you Okay. Alright. So if you want to keep enhance VPN term or use the new NLP based VPN term, instead of the other one. Right. So, yes, So just keep as it is. No. We don't change anything. No. No. It's that you want the new term. Thing fifty And if you don't have an opinion, don't don't participate. But, yes, his current terminology and hence VPN think it should be who cannot accept it. Your So we have a nice race going. Let's see which one, but it seems to be settling out Fairly even. But, NRP based slightly ahead. Photo finish, Frank."
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:24:01",
    "text": "Like, like, Can't call out or both consensus. Yes. So, again, it's, Greg Mursky, So my personal debt I don't have a choice here. Alright. So I think the the conclusion from this is we should take it to the list that discuss it a little bit more. Okay. I can Given how long given how long the document's been going through and where we are in the process I think there's a bias to keeping the same name, but we still should discuss it. We actually had two people in the queue Jane? G And you're not in the queue. Okay. Rakesh? Takis from Cisco Systems. I only have one comment that after we come up with accountants, VPN, and now we have enhanced VPN. So somebody missed that saying EVPN, and that would create an issue. Thank you. It's a very, valid point. Because we do have a EVPN out there. Yeah. And Okay. I think we'd well known this enough. We'll take the discussion of the list. With respect to the remaining documents, we do have a fair number of young documents that are at the business end of the working process. We, the plan is to line those up for, working with last call after the initial set that are currently going through working with last call see to the next stage. These would be the RSCP and the MPLST Young documents and the 3 topology model drives that we have, SRT topology, LTT topology and s SFAVA topology. So please do review those in anticipation of, last call, hopefully, before Brisbane,"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:26:00",
    "text": "So those were the documents that we wanted to draw your attention to. If you have any questions on the status of these documents or any other working documents, now would be a good time to pose those questions. If now is not a good time, please post them on the list. Thank you. 1st presentation, through. Points. Should I do next steps? Okay. Excellent. Okay. Look at the screen. Yeah. Hi, everyone. Let's have a quick update. On, VM, yank. Expect this. So, we had the working group last call on draft version 19. Thanks for everyone who provided their comments and suggestions. The main changes after that with Adrian comments on where we published the version 20. We added context related to actN in the introduction because the draft was called. We know the main use cases, ACTN. So we added a little bit more description about that at the start instead of in the middle of the document. One comment was that we should Fi a little bit more than how we are relying on the t topology connectivity metrics So we added that part as well. There were updates to figures and JSON examples. Further, in the version 21, we had some more comments. Some of them, I will go over in my further slides as well, but thanks everyone for providing suggestions. The main updates were there was misalignment in some of the example JSON example and the text that described the same example. So we fixed that. Next slide, please."
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:28:01",
    "text": "So first concern, this was, from both whereas the suggestion was made that our model doesn't have something called as a VN type. The reason we did not have a VN type was that our model remains almost the same. Whether we are type 1 and type 2, for type 2, the differences in the t topology connective connectivity matrix that they have an underlay container And inside that underlay container, you can specify an underlay path. So the change is mainly in an another model our model remains almost the same irrespective of VN type 1 or 2. So it's sort of implicit. The discussion happened on the mailing list. I suggested to leave it, but we wanted to get this one opportunity if people have strong feelings, that, yes, there is a use case to clearly specify that, a BN is of one particular type, and it should not inherent based on another model. At the and the presence of a container in another model rather than in the and model itself, If someone has any concerns, maybe we can discuss this right away. Before I move ahead, because this is the only site I have for VN type. Any suggestions? Yeah. Thank you. Yeah. Ethan speaking. I look at I think the what is missing in the VN type 2 is, how you create Yandrelate apology. Maybe we can look at we can add this example and I I'm having a mixed feeling. Maybe from that example, we will see whether we need or not the type her because from the connectivity request intent, you don't need a typo because are you totally right? When I request the connectivity, I add the specify or do not specify and the late part constraints. But maybe from before coming to that stage, maybe there is any a type. I'm not 100% sure. Maybe let's go to the exercise"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:30:02",
    "text": "to see in the in the framework, we have the 2 cases where the the the the apology is pick a configured API or when the configure is required by the customer. We can look at this use case and see whether there is a need for a diaper to the flow working. You have everything in it. Maybe, yeah, but I'm not 100% sure maybe. Let's do this as a size and come to a a more informed conclusion. That's my suggestion. Just to confirm, there is an example in the document. The document does talk about we in type 2, but, actually, you are right. This Clement also came from Tom Patch. Because the JSON gets a little complicated. Yes. And the what's happening is that the VN model JSON is pretty simple. And the t model JSON is the one which gets complicated, and I was not 100% sure as in this is not the place where we are defining the topology model. How much detail about the topology model settings should I go with my phone? Find a balance, maybe there is still this thing I would love just show the note and the identifiers should be enough to talk to you. Maybe let's about to show how that this there is a set or a get operation on that apology to get the notes and the links. Maybe we don't need to be and maybe a network with 3 for notes would be enough, but it it's a lot. I think that's already there. Just see, like, you know, what at what how I can make it better? Because what you're asking is there. Maybe it's not meeting your Okay. Placeable. Track. Thank you. Okay. Let's move to the second concern. The second one is with respect to, again, JSON examples and the use of URI. Now as we all know, ttopology is an augmentation of IETF network and IETF network topology. Both of them use URI. Type for various leaves like node, network, link, combination point. And the if you go to the, where the RNA types where the URI is defined. It's type string"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:32:00",
    "text": "but in the description, it clearly says that you need to follow the RFC, based on which C3986, which defines how a URI type should be. Let's go to the next slide and see what happens then. So in earlier JSON examples, we were just using string. And we had seen even the earlier RFC from IETF Network. They're all they were using strings. So I thought there was no problem. And in fact, Med had an Rata which met, pointed out that no, a colon is must We need to have some prefix colon and that's string, that only will make it a valid URI format. Otherwise, we are not following the URI anyway. I went and looked at other places ODL, other open sources. Everybody's sort of using strings and IP addresses, because no compiler checks this And that's why this was happening. So good that at least notice this and we should fix wherever we can. So the fix that we have done so far next slide, is to add an example, a prefix wherever we have an URI And, this is the same feedback that is there in the 84 07 biz as well. That use the URI example should prefix with example. So that's happening. 1 thing which I'm also highlighting is this t topology ID. The t topology ID is actually not URI. It has its own string that is defined somewhere. And I wanted to get a feedback. Like, what is the best example that I should used for t topology ID. And basically, my request was I'm getting I was focusing on VN model, and I'm getting, like, stuck in the t the apology. Js on a little bit. So folks in the into who have good examples, good JSON, which will satisfy our requirements for good examples in an RFC. Please help. And I'm looking for help, and that's why I'm here. Next slide."
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:34:04",
    "text": "Okay. So I think this is something what I just said, need help, And one thing I was thinking, can we just move JSON example to appendix What is the good practice? Should it be a part of the cortex? Should it be an append that's again something that I was thinking about. For JSON verification, I have used Yangland, there was suggestion that I should use the accent. So if somebody can help with that, that would be really nice. I don't wanna install more tools. Next slide. That's it. So help first is with the topology ID. Suggestions with the JSON examples, And there were one email that I have yet to respond to, which is the minor editorial change from Tom Patch. I will handle and hopefully we'll move ahead. So Please help. Right. Yes. Generally, examples in the appendix is a good place for them. It will help not to become the document, like, a super elephant. So, anybody has Yankton installed who can help me? I've looked around even during hackathon to find someone. I was not able to this thing, is there anyone who can help with that? Let let let let let let let let but yay. So that's all too. The topology ID. I think that's the only thing I'm not sure about. So if anybody has a working topology JSON that they have already been working on in some of their projects please pass that on to me. That will save lot of effort. Okay. But what what I hear also that is interesting is that there is a model out there produced by the working group, the team, to believe that has some doubts in some sample that so we might might be interesting to see in the working group if maybe not, you know, not here in a separate place. We can"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:36:00",
    "text": "have some solving these doubts in, and clarifying the the fields that, Well, implementations, we'll have, I guess, if we don't say anything here, implement well, but but I don't know what they what they have here. At least there are some some places where there are doubts. This is a fundamental model. So we need to make sure that, like, you know, we have clarity on this. And if there is some good example that the working group agrees, we can put it on Vicky. We can put somewhere make it easy for people to access. That would be really So we did have, tutorial draft that kind of expired a while back that was supposed to have sufficient examples of how the data policy model would need to be used. Mean, you could go revive that. But, yeah, I mean, we should have we should be able to get you examples. Yep. There's misalignment between that one as well. Even I think the examples would be not following the URI there if you look at it. So you do need to fix, that one as well. Okay? Yeah. Thanks, Luke. Thank you. Thanks for giving me time, and let's look forward to version 22 and If there's anybody, willing to help, throughout your help, would be greatly appreciated. Thank you. Thank you. Next would be italo. Thank you. Hi, Mittu. I'm presenting on behalf of call to some contributors. Okay. An update on the RSC 8776 Visa. Next slide. Okay. What we did, we, updated the roster from 02 to 7 to address, mainly the comments where we're coming from first working group last call around non key, key tunnel and debug computation draft, sir. So we had some, we added we added a possibility in the grouping a bullfoot no IDs and or l tpads as a"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:38:00",
    "text": "emergency to notify all the astemativiniti Fire. You know, the DNTPAD error. C8795. Sorry. There is a typo. It was a a working group last call comment, rest for the key tunnel model. We had some cleanup on the part putational reasons. There were some duplication or some missing, causes, that so now it's more cleaner. And that we, noticed that there were a a proposal to update the attached the linearity topology. So we moved the that update, from the linearity topology into this rafter, and we address the one of the open issue that we're pending about how to describe the band in reverse size when you configure we provide for used by the other IETF, and then we removed the scientific notation way to as I've been with. And then we completed the list of photos to comply with the FC 73 you, Next slide, please. Okay. So after that, we got, some, comments on the list, which, we need to discuss. The first comment was from Tom Patch on September 27. He was asking to some summary of the changes that we have done. For, in respect to the base version, 8776, And we noticed that that this is a common let me say, approach in in other rough refs. The provide is appendix, but in our draft, we have put some differ because the the the changes that we did are minor, and we are not sure whether these appendices need we've looked at 847. I also look at the Net Modra ID new This, I didn't find any guidelines that requires a pen is to be present in the draft. And that the pro discussing with the court is the pro the preference of others not to write his appendix unless we have a strong requirement. Since the changes are quite manual, and you can see from the diff, that we have provided what has been changed we can go one by one."
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:40:02",
    "text": "So is the preference based on that you just don't wanna Yes. Saving Yes. Going faster. The idea is to go faster. Yes. Speaking as a contributor, I I generally like those. I think those are helpful. As a a reader or someone who's coming into it. So it's not too much trouble. As an individual contributor, not as sure. I would prefer to see it. Okay. Any other comment on this? Okay. Next. Okay. Then we noticed, there were a lot a couple of working group comments that were addressed to the T tunnel model, which is in working group last call, But because resolution can have an impact on our rafter. One was about, an old discussion we had, in the design, in the weekly course, about adding the path loss elaboration metrics. These are metrics defined in 74, 74, 71, and 8517 for the OSBF and yes, sir. And, what we did, we didn't complete. Actually, there is because we define the path loss metrics in the IETF team MPLS but we didn't find a part, the name of the nation. And also, we had some discussion, but we didn't complete about the fact that these metrics are not MPLSD specific. They are specific for any packet technology. So it will be better to move them into something more common. So maybe a possible solution for this in is to move the existing, packet loss metric from the ITFD MPLs to the packet types in this draft and to add the missing metric, in our draft. And maybe there is also some description which is good in the in the T tunnel model, but maybe it's more belongs to this draft because it's more generic issue. We put a debt in the tunnel model because this issue we discussed before we started this draft."
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:42:01",
    "text": "So we we didn't have a types, a, a, a, a, this document to, work on. Now we have it. Maybe it's more clean, if you put this clarification in in the in the types, again, comments on these are appreciated Okay? Okay. Next one. Okay. We had the last another comments, from Julienne about the fact that we don't have a way to control the configuration of a tunnel with full LSP routing. I some offline discussion with Pavan. And the reason, there underlay reason was that for packet, to close you, the full LSP routing is basically implicit. But when you lose this standard for optical, there then it's not that implicit. It has something you need to enable or disable on on a tunnel basis, sir. So We have not, actually, we had discussed that in the in the weekly course, but we have not written down the resolution. So This is what the I I by remember, but maybe my memory, maybe 40. So I said, this is a possible resolution, but people can have a different opinion. What what we could do, we can deprecate. There are 2 identities exist in the LCC, 77, 76, LSP, Protection, Tableau, Text, and protection route which are referenced to the full LSP. But it's not a restoration. It's not a protection mechanism. These are restoration. So, we think these 2 identities are wrong, and we can either deprecate or even obsolete as these are that should not be used. And, and then we need a new type to say that the restoration is a full LSP routing such that you can use this in the in the the the when when when you can control and maybe since the the behavior in the that packet in the sequence is quite difficult. Is different. We can remove the default mail. It's such that in the packet word, the LSP, the full LSP routing is always as soon as a default and the pocket the controller may reject and you could try"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:44:01",
    "text": "attempt to review to remove it in the in the optical controller. You you put the default and you are low operator to configure this railway on on on a tunnel by tunnel basis, sir. But again, this this a possible solution that that there is no consensus among the others because we didn't And we did I I forgot to write it down and maybe my memory may be faulty. So It's good to, by the way, it's good to discuss, in the in the context of the working group. So we have resolution agreed by the working group. And the resolution here how much does it does it impact the the tunnel Yeah. Just removing the to the full villas. You won't you won't need to change the other document, is not a major change on the key. Yeah. I also here is not a major change on our document. Yes, Okay? Next? Oh, that is correct. A type, system Thought as an a co author of the T tunnel draft. I understand the ask, and it's reasonable. We can't move the default the the It's an okay ask. My opinion. Thank you. Tarek, we cannot hear you very well. Right? There's an issue too. Always want dropping. The your voice is broken out a little bit, and you try to get closer. Hello. Can you hear me well? Hello? It's everyone, social. Better than last time, ma'am. You are the next presenter, so we do need to start them Michael showed us, but go ahead and go ahead and state your comment. Just wanted, as a co author of the T tunnel draft, I'm okay with the proposal. Oh, okay. Thank you. Is that true? Thank you. It's yeah. Yeah. Thanks. Next one."
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:46:02",
    "text": "Okay. Next steps. I think we think the document is really working plus call. And, we have to consider when we go to working call that the the the documents, the types, the impact computation are quite strongly related to each other is a big dependency So as we have seen in this slide, sometimes a comment on one draft may affect the, the other two drafts. So it's better to keep the tree altogether to make sure that when we go to ISG, we have a consistent set of documents. And modest. That's all. Thank you. Okay. So I go I guess we they're all these minor issues that need to be solved now before going to last call. So you will, like, meet or in the middle of last the middle of last call. We can Okay. So we can call our school with this version and then add the rest. Okay. Make sense to me. So then we can start now the API for calling process. And then in the meanwhile, you have time to solve I'm sorry. I I think I misunderstood. You have update more updates to do. Correct? GSPs wise. This one are coming from the MPS that So when the updates are done, we should do the last call. We should do the last call and then with with known updates. Okay. We do the update based on this Yeah. And then we do the last call. Okay. We can do weekly. And then the documents we have to be careful to make sure that they progress Yeah. Exactly. It's easy to do that. After we've I've done a publication request. We actually wanna do it before. Yes. So we don't want we wanna submit them all 3 at the same time. Makes sense. Okay. And then it might be then better to way to have the final version with these updates to to trigger all the process Yeah. Okay. Okay. Try to move quickly. Thank you. Thank you. Next. Next. Start. This one? Yep."
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:48:02",
    "text": "Okay. She can try. Yeah. How is it now? Can I get a acknowledgment, your It's a bit faint? If you can maybe speak a bit louder Okay. Sounds good. Yeah. Maybe back on the first slide is any questions at first? And that's It's okay. I just wanted okay. So today, I'll give you an update on data model for traffic engine LSPs and interfaces, we did publish provision in 34 from last time we met it only included, a a a moving one author from the page, as a contributor, that Only change we made and, I'm presenting on behalf of the co offers Next slide, please. Very high level 3 on this. So the update that we're going to get today is really a replay of what I gave an ITF117. This model contains, 2 modules. One module for the configuration and state of, generic engineering, attributes, And the second module is to cover configuration and state lives on the device. Specifically and see on the device. There were, low comments that, working group provided I I don't want to know, I mentioned name and name. I I but thanks to everyone. Who gave comments and previously,"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:50:02",
    "text": "the office address all the comments in revision 33 and we did updates in a ETF, as I make as of now, the draft is going through a working last call, since October 16. We started getting some And, again, thank you for, people who are reviewing the document and adding the feedback. Next slide, please. So that updates with 30 3 just so that we again, we removed some defaults to allow flexibility on certain lease So implementations can decide their own defaults. We added an active relief, under the path a candidate path, and that will will indicate that the path is active or not. Or after it's being instantiated, we added a lead for under the forward inquiry path we added a preference The secondary was missing, describe how it's used. Nah. Recipe, for the, for the, under the tunnel. And, Yeah. We we added the restoration none, to indicate that no specific patient, I understand there is a, ask, recent ask on the list that came about this, this default and we will take it, as an in as a as a common, the address"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:52:00",
    "text": "a working group last call, revision that we will make And I'm we added text to describe how bidirectional and associated bidirectional peace, peace, peace, peace, peace, peace, can be provisioned this using this data model there were 2 new leaves that were added, a source node ID and destination node in in addition to the source and destination teams that we had, but these are of type UI There was an ask that these are health the policy model, So we added those And we clarify how model and manage the speed, you know, the from the controller or or LSP is living on the or even transit and egress, LSPs. And there were some updates that were made in the RCA 776 update to those updates to make sure that are in sync. And lastly, we added a reference that was missing into the document. Next slide, please. So the ask, I mentioned that the document is working group last call. We encourage more, folks to to the print and provide, any feedback if they have a or acknowledge that it's ready for application. It's a good document, so we appreciate people being patient with Was it if you're in it? Yeah. So strictly speaking, the last call ended last Friday. The intent was to get the comments in so we could discuss them here. So we did get some comments that came in this week. The reality is, that we'll take last call. We'll take"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:54:04",
    "text": "any call right now, even the last calls technically expired, because there's always an opportunity to do IETF last call. So it's better to get the them in now, even though the working group last call period ended last Friday. With that said, as soon as the authors say that the revision is done, and give a summary on what changes were made if there's not major changes. We're not gonna do a third last call. We will just proceed So, authors please let us know when you think all working group last calls are addressed. And make sure to send a summary of changes to the list and then we'll move forward with the Shepherd write up and, publication request. That Understood. Again, as a reminder to the working group, if you have comments, even if you haven't made them, send them now we don't wanna hear about it at IETF last call. Thank you. Thank you, understood. Thanks, Tariq. It Leave it's it alone again. Sergeant. Okay. Okay. I'm Sergio Bellotti from Nokia. I'm going to report the status of, part computation. RPC So, this is the summary of the changes from version 18. So the working group last call, 1st working group last call, So we we address it, all the comments from the working group last call. From, Childed Drew and Tom Patch we clarify in that contest, that RPC is, really a main thing there to see contained in the tier tunnel. We have solved the working group, last all comments, about this VAC object function,"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:56:02",
    "text": "and that we align, the JSON example that is, in in our document with the expected data Tietana, JSON exam. Then we align, made some of update in the young to align the document with the, RSC 8776 update and the tunnel. And then we address the the post working group, comments, in particular, we added a compute priority, leaf, leaf to make an order in the in the part computation request. And we add this, a security consideration. And then we made some, editorial cleanup. Related to the outdoors, and so Next, So one of the modification was to add the, this computed priority lift, we, depart computation can be different, depending on, the order of the request. We got a request from, Orange from Esther, ask for the introduction of, an index in the, an order list of requests so theoretically, we can avoid 2 or 2 of to have an index ordering, just using the ordinary by user, but that implied that you have ordered by the user all the time. So we follow, the suggestion that is already contained in Picep. So throughout the a priority, leaf, and, throughout the, a feature compute priority indicating that the server support, but computation request priority. Next,"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:58:05",
    "text": "okay. We in this modification. So adding compute priority, we, got a comment from one of the contributors saying that the usage of priority does not prevent, against the denial of service since the attacker can, set set all the all the requests for the same, I guess, priority and, that could be 90 for shaping policy mechanism is in the in the considering the implementation. And we added the text to address this comment, and, but also adding the fact that, the input shaping policy is not part of, the scope of this document. Next, Okay. Next step, okay, is a second working group has started. We did not get any further comments, And there is just a few pending replaying the IPR poll that is I hope completed in these days. We think that the, the, the, the draft is ready to move forward. As pointed out by Italo before, so our suggestion would be try to have an alignment in the moving forward between the the the the 3 of this document because these are related and one comment in one draft can impact also our draft, and the same in the opposite. For for, tier types and, and Yes. To"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:00:04",
    "text": "Okay. And yesterday's weekends, working group, I raised some discussion point on service past computation, and I also raised some requirement that I think it's variable to also in the autumn pass competition. So I would like you to also maybe we can have some alignment in the future. Okay. Okay. But, you require that to update the model with your you plan to handle or not no. Okay. Okay. It quite depends on what we will be found in the discussion and currently, we cannot judge whether we need to extend the current model or not. You mean extend the model and CCAM, not this one? It's hard to say right now. So we are in the middle of last call. So if you intend to suggest changes. Yeah, now would be a good time. Okay. Okay. Understood. So, I'd like to remind, So the others, I think we are still missing a few IPR responses. So if you can because we we did start the last call in parallel with the working a class call, but we are still missing a few, for those of you who haven't responded, please do Thanks. Hello, everyone. My name is. I'm CNN on behalf of the culture and realtor. I'm going to, give the a status of the NBIyang"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:02:03",
    "text": "In general, the document is pretty stable. But having said that, this slide shows the summary of where we are I saw from the top, most of them are self explanatory that there was a discussion about the topology and how we are using topology defined somewhere else in our model. So from that aspect, we have some discussion with the audience licensing alters, and we have, some agreement on that one. We defined a custom topology, which is a container you can go to our model, specify more than one apology and that apology can be defined anywhere. And from that aspect, we are allowing to do the topology reference from our model also from the, there is another orthogonal this question about using, that model and argument our model to to their, folder dues. Thanks to the comment, came from, him and, a few of them are described here. The one aspect was about the AC attachment circuit, through the field draft, to describe that one. And we have friends to that that I have a separated slide to go through that, but some aspect about the AC. Is something that we enhance this document to scriber data and uh-uh the second one is some of the improvement definitions and young module and so forth. We had remove some of the reference to some individual draft. And then last but not least,"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:04:00",
    "text": "some of the bandwidth, value we change the type. Somebody, again, minor changes has been done. The number of auto reduce to file as per request of a shares. And some of the, the comment that we got from, through review from. Lots of them are small and, tutorial. But a few of the that we are going to, going through that one today, you know, in the next fewer slides. That will be discussed as a outcome of the comment that we get for if we can go to the first, the second slide, the about apology as I mentioned before, that we have a reference, a container reference to topology. So the topology use in this context means that we want to week operator, whoever is the customer of this young model, would like to have would like to create a network a slice service But in addition to that, they want to enforce some specific topology to be used in the context of that connectivity. So we can use this one And we allow, there was it used to be 1. Now we are adding at least which gives more flexibility And this is obviously optional if it's not given, nothing, will change, but we have that flexibility to do that. And with that one, we can model existing model or in the future model. I put one of them here as a VM model, but the whole idea is as we go forward, we not enforcing any specific model to be used but as a general rule, any of the model can be used here. We think that with that, we close-up this issue but I would like to hear if there is any other comment that these addressing here"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:06:03",
    "text": "we are getting closer to working group last call. It might be beneficial, to have a discussion if there is any. Comments. If you go to issue number 2, I mentioned about the attachment circuit. As you see in the model, there are very places that we define AC for various reasons. And it, would be beneficial to align all these with the and the the are doing with other cultures in the context of the uh-uh ops group to generalize the concept the attachment circuit. So that is a work which is happening independently orthogonal to this model, And from that aspect, we're gonna make sure that we are aligned with that and the proposal was to the for us as place, the, few places that we have changed the reference, the to informative reference. It used to be no a normative reference And from that aspect, again, we think that the address is issue here, the constant, and again, but more than happy to hear if there is any additional need to be done. In this context. Or this one satisfies the request. If you go to the 3rd issue, that Again, this fundraised by Met the about, and I mentioned from last time as well in the IITF 117. The QOS model that we have is on the top right. Today, the model that we have is not per cost."
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:08:01",
    "text": "Because the assumption was at the time our model is technology agnostic. And from that back is just specifying an intent if it is the intent to create some network of slice services. So from that aspect, that there is no need to specify the incoming and outgoing QOS. That, paired costs. But mention that the picture on the right, lower right it might be desirable when we have per cost define, the QS per cost. Also, there is a bandwidth support in that model that model taken from that, that, L2 VPN, RFC 92 or 91. The question that we have This is still on discussion that we don't think we resolved that yet, but one thing that we want to hear, from the audience here Is this acceptable to basically go towards the direction of adding her cost support, If the answer is yes, how we can do it. Should we just take whatever is in RFC 9291. Just put it and bring it to our mother. Or do some modification. So they're more than happy to hear. This is one of the area that that is still not resolved, because we wanna 3, go towards the working group last call. Again, more than happy to hear if there is anything that you can add here. Or, but you can add it on the mailing list that this is something that the we are waiting to hear more about, which way to go I'm not sure if the chairs have any specific opinion on that side as well."
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:10:01",
    "text": "We do have people. Yeah. Both. Yes. Thanks, Rita. And, from the discussion with the Matt, I think the Percast X-ray is also technology agnostic. It's class of surveys. It can be used during to to to define that. Okay. So So the other co author of this drop, we think we can accept that. Okay. Yeah. Fair enough. We we can see if there's a method to simplify the definition because On the right part, it seems like a list So I I don't know Like, we, we, we like to hear the feedback from working group, whether there's some bad approach to model that. So in summary, you said that it's a good idea to have per car. But whether or not we take that model exactly or some revision of that. This is a still a question. Yes. Thank you. Next, Christophe Yes. Christopher Sarkovy, gmail Networks. Yes. I second the comments, from for example, when when we try to apply this to 5 gs licensing, one five is kind of multiple 5 QIs. 5 QI is the is the QS, kind of QS in in the in the mobile network. And, if we like to map this, to to our, and that's slight service model, we need to have, pack costs, capability of defining per cost limits Great. Thank you. Thank you. Luis. This is Fran Telefonica. My my question here is this Yes. course would have implications not not only in the SLOW SLEs. Also in the much criteria that we could apply to the to the slices"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:12:00",
    "text": "Yeah. Definitely. That would be the case. Yeah. If I refer as whatever you said, when it goes to realization, it has a effect, you know, how to realize that. Definitely, if you specify the northbound, it goes all the way to the model itself and realization. Definitely, this will have some effect on that. Okay. Thank you. And, that's as I think Thank you for all all comments. So there's somebody yeah, it's good idea to go with the green model. And The next logical question is is this good idea to take exactly the same put it in our model or, revise it. This is something that as a, culture, right, visit with other cultures to go through the the make a proposal on that one and we post on the major Okay. It's Chris Baskin. So the without, I think the next slide, says that if we resolve all these, we are ready for, working group last called, the the VA, you just said the looking for that, but after resolving these issues and Hopefully, by next IETF, we should have, be reached to that agreement that DSP already for last call. Thanks. If you can, summarize the proposals on the list especially the last one. Seems like I think you got you mean, the working group seems to be leaning towards another specific answer, but, yeah, if you can summarize that, that would be great. And, yeah, it would be great if you could, closed this before. Next next meeting. Yeah, I understand it's been a long road and appreciate all the the daughters and contributors have put into this. Thank you. Yep. Yep. Yep. Yep. I drove, please. Think the name is also one thing which we need to which is a big thing. It's IETF Network Slice everywhere. We have to do RFC Xxx. Good point."
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:14:05",
    "text": "Yeah. We will, hopefully, by the time that we have this one for the last call, That one is already RFC, and we can just take that one and other debt, but it's a good point that we have to work on the name as well. Yeah. So, like, Thanks. Thanks. Okay. Thank you very much. At least Hello, everyone. This is Gino. I'm going to give a update about scalability considerations for NRP Draft on behalf of the officers. Firstly, a little bit the recap of the concepts. We know that think most people know this very well. We have the concept and the general framework of IT and naturalized about maybe RBC, network slice. Defining that draft. And, it kind of narrow slash services can be realized by mapping the slide service connectivity constructs to the NRPs. And RP consists of, set of dedicated or shared memory source. And it's associated with, a filtered apology And if we want to support a large number of narrow slices, scalability of NRP is also important factor to consider. This document is talking about the scalability considerations in both the control plan, the data plan to for the realization of the Na NRP and also propose some optimizations. Okay. Here, we summarize some of the scalability considerations mentioned the draft basically in the control plane, especially the deep district within the control plane, several, aspects need to be considered are related to the scalability"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:16:00",
    "text": "But the number of the control protocol instances need to be established the number of the control protocol sessions the number of the control messages at advertised by each node and amount of the information need to be carried in each message. In the end, this is, the number of the competitions of, for example, the shortest path forwarding, computation, which need to be executed by the that who knows These are, kind of a necessity to the number of the an RPS, ends weeks in this need to be considered when we provide a solution to realize therapy in different scales. Regarding the data plan, scalability concerns this document first need, they describe and analyze analyze the pros and cons of a reusing either we're using existing fuse or IDs in the packet versus introducing a new idea of fuse for dedicated, an RP identification. And the scalability implication of the different encapsulation options are also analyzing the draft. Okay. Next slide, please. Here are the updates in the 0 3 version. The previous uh-uh discussion on the scalability we'll get some output from the group and also post it on the mailing list. This time we added to the draft as a new section called scalability design principles the taxes do the same as the the one posted to the Middle East. So it needs further review and feedback so that we can polish it and make it, in a good shape. This document also replaces a term, to align with a framework draft. And we also have some editorial changes in this version. Okay. In this page,"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:18:01",
    "text": "Okay. Here, we list the the design principles in the draft. I will not go through it 1 by 1, but basically, we have some considerations about sensory between an RP and the topology and, how we can support more NRPs with a limited number of technologies. And the data plane what kind of, identify identifiers need to be carried in the packet how it can be realized in different approaches. We also can see there's a configuration and the instantiation of the NRP in the natural nodes Okay. Next slide. Okay. This, bullets are more about the past election taking an an RP specific, I've reviewed and stays into consideration. And this, can support either, centralized controller based on past selection all we can consider the distributed approach. Okay. Next slide. Okay. This page is more about the operators twice or about the solutions for different scales. Actually, where you can allow, solutions with different scales to coexist and as long as the people are aware of their limitations and their applicability in different narrow scenarios. So we can support each solution and, agree as long as this, limitations and the scalability or the scalability considerations are well documented in the corresponding drafts. Okay? Another thing with this document is, how we can coordinate with, working as a working groups. We know that there are ongoing works in the auto logging group on the"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:20:00",
    "text": "protocol extensions or the protocol applications for the network slides or Napier realization. Some of these works are targeted at the specific network scenarios with limited scales And they may not be applicable to the a larger number of natural slice or NRP requirement. So was suggesting is the this document, this kind of documents need to make it clear in their draft. The scalability considerations and the limitations. Another point is some of the protocols may be more sensitive than others to the scalability issues. So so far, we think that most of the concerns on the scalability of the control plane is, on the IGP protocol. So maybe for the other protocols, there may be less sensitive. So I would suggest to make that, also made that clear in the scalability considerations in the protocols, drops, And the last part is, some of these solutions, MS to provide a higher highly scalable solution for the wide deployment of a narrow slices for example, in the narrow scenarios, we are there can maybe even more than 1000 of, NRPs. So this, kind solutions require careful design, and, we hope we can provide some design principles help the solution. In the other working groups. Okay? So here are the suggestion and the next steps. We would like to suggest to have further discussion on this unhappy scalability in the working group and so that we can try to reach some consensus on the design principles for the scalability. And another plan is that we make add a appendix with some examples to show"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:22:04",
    "text": "different possible NRP realizations and their scaling properties. In the end, hope we can coordinate with a relevant working group the solution drops, to provide better scalability Okay. Any comments for So I think this is the I think this is the first document that uses RFC Xxx network slices. You know, it says, this is a we can refer to these as that I'm not sure that's a great way to do it. And I'm, reading the text, it it doesn't always feel helpful. So I think this is a limp little cumbersome, and we have to, as a working group, have to figure out how to if we're going to have a short term for what the document, you know, the the the framework is network slices using IETF Technologies. It's a mouthful Yeah. But RFC Xxx network slices is a little awkward and not necessarily understandable. I think I I think we are gonna have to grapple with that a little bit as a working group I think look at where you're using the term and the document. It's and and see if you really need the X X X and rather than just saying network slices. But, I I think this is gonna be something we're gonna deal with across multiple documents. Right. You're just the first one. So, make a covenant to make, some agreement to updated documents altogether. But if go go read through the document and see whether whether where we use our see Xxx whether you really need it. Whether it really adds anything. Yeah. Okay. Hi, Jean. This this is Grace. Hey. I I I was wondering if this"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:24:04",
    "text": "calability issue opens the door to to some work in the benchmarking working group or or so how to to find a way of benchmarking the scalability of the different different solutions, because somehow you are putting that kind of framework for comparing scalability. So maybe could be interesting also to to have some ABS on how to benchmark this. Okay. Yeah. That may be good suggestion. We can take a look at whether we need to coordinate with edge marking on this topic. Robleton, And just to lose points about referring to this, could you just put in defining the terminology section that network slicing is means this and then refer to network slices if if throughout the document, just as without the RFC, it's success in there. Thanks, Rob. Adrian Farrell, It's good to hear an AD say that because we're only doing this because the The our our beloved ADs, I use that adjective inadvisably, have told us to to try to do this. Lou to you, please don't ask a non native speaker to look through the text and see whether it feels good or not. If I said feel good by my apology, I I meant to say, and I thought I said, whether it adds value. Whether it adds anything. So if it means something specific, great. If it's just a a, a search and replace of an old term, and we're really talking about license, or slicing, just use that. We don't And I'm also happy to go through the document if if you would like don't know. I think that would help just like here a 2 minute conversation with Yeah. It's like four places. And I think if you just drop them all, we're probably good, but, you know, we could do that offline. The county. Good."
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:26:04",
    "text": "Any other questions? So I did send an email out earlier in the day about, what the chairs are thinking about with regards to work that's being done in other working groups related to NRPs. The only ask that we have at this point is for, these documents to have scalable deconstruction section. That talks about, you know, the impact of that particular extension or feature on scalability in the network. And, to keep this working group updated about progress of those documents. We would have to look at this on a case by case basis. So we do have one of the documents that she would be presenting today. It was It's an IDR document and, the the chairs The idea changes have asked for feedback on whether this is, valid protocol extension or not. And, I'm hoping that we would get some discussion on that particular use case today. Okay. Hello. My name is. From Draper Network I would like to present updates, about Fcxxx network slices. Authorization. So that was changed. Yes. $7. It was changed here. On behalf of my car Next slide, please. So, basically, his summary of issues that we that we, you know, encounter. So one of the major issues was to assess, boop"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:28:05",
    "text": "the material, there is an over, an over drafted, which is follow-up it will be discussed after this draft, because it's application draft, so 5 g application draft, size application draft. And the question is about content of these 2 drafts. If there's some overlap, not over not overlap, how we should, you know, separate the contest, but just two draft, especially for the network slash mapping section. And, well, we have discussion with the outposts of the, of the application draft, that will be presented after me. The outcome is to keep the text of this network slice mapping section in the realization draft So in the in the hour draft here, And at at the new, scope text, to both the drafts. So to exactly define what is the up of the application draft. And what is the scope of the, realization draft so that there's no confusion regarding, you know, what should be in both in both drafts. And then the we proposed fixed in the chart on the on the main increase in October, And then we remove the notes that is something needs to be to be fixed. Next slide, please. Yeah. And this is basically the the post text to avoid the overlaps, between two drafts So this is the scope of the of the slight of the application draft and the next draft, actually, that will be discussed of this. So basically, that the application draft focused on them mapping between 5 gslicesunderlyingcapitalnetworks Specifically, it describes, how exact, network slash services can be derived in the context of 3gpp slice So basically, in other words, let's say this way that application draft text the free GPP request as the input message this 3 gpa request and then provide from this 3 g request generates the network slice service request So this is the on the high level, you could say the the the the task of the application draft"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:30:00",
    "text": "how the free GPT parameters, you know, when where when I when I send by the 3 gpp orchestrator, how they did the map, to the, to the IETF, Nesco's nice, service model that was discussed before by race up. Yes, to slice And then for the application draft, let's say, sir, for the application draft, the realization, so how this, the request I realized in the network. If we need some QS policies, we don't need Do we need some traffic engineering? So we don't need traffic engineering. We need some NRP. So we don't need, we don't need an NERISPs, etcetera, etcetera, etcetera. All this realization is out of scope for the application theft. K? This is the desktop of the realization draft. Next slide, please. K. And this is the This is the scope. Actually, the title is wrong because this title, he is for the realization draft, sorry, for the the typo here. So this is the stop of the of the release, the realization draft. So basically, technical realization of RFC Xxxx network slice, we can, again, discuss the terminology that should be used here initially. It was active net slides this year. So how to realize that in the in the IP MPLS works, basically, So how to use QS, how to use traffic engineering, how to use VPNs, mapping between the villains to VPNs, etcetera, etcetera. This is the scope of the realization draft. Next slide, please. And then summer of issues and resolution, 2, So there was, as well, questions regarding, if we need to maintain, there was one or there is one section called first 5 gslicesversusubsegment slices our draft, we updated this text to clarify why we need that. So, basically, c when the first five g slice is being created, being realized, there's much more a, things that needs to be done because there's 5 g slice contains of the user plane"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:32:00",
    "text": "Contron play. Contron play usually is the shares with over slices and so on. So the first creation of the 1st slice, annexation of the 1st slice is much more task, intensive. So we we enhance the test, next year, and we keep this section know, with the rough. The next one is clarify the use of INTER Reyes option BC to model the between the C and P. Again, we are referencing here that the the AC model that's, what I mentioned by might be for, and we, as well, introduce the terminology of service, our C because many times on the the the VPN series from the, from the, you know, operator perspective, it can be already created on the sea. That's the reason we introduced service sea. There's a nice explanation of distributed p, distributed c in the draft here. And then the last one further discussed, whatever the TN slice the customer site discovered out of the network slice. So, okay, we agreed to, remove this text here we delayed the statements, from the draft year and the proposed fix was posted already. On the mail increased in October. 23. Excite this. And then over changes. So we have this new section to cover the entire see that was missing, before. So we discussed on the option A and b. So here with the option c, This is basically on the handoff between the domain which is controlled by the ATS network slash controller and domain which is not controlled ATF Networks NICE controller. Like, for example, in the in the 5 g context, we are talking here about the cloud or DC and inside of DC, we have network functions and there is some handover between these two domains. And, of course, the cloud is not not that this is not, controlled by the IETF Net Process controller. And there are some small changes, you know, to enhance the, the ability of the text Next slide, please. And the next step next step, so"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:34:02",
    "text": "think that the co, context content is quite stable now So we went through the 12 revisions, including the individual draft first, and then a working group adopted draft. To be under the revision 02 at the moment, So the proposal from our side from the outros is, to target the working room last call by March, say, 2024. Until March 2020 1st, a couple of months going, we are collecting the eventual additional comments, as well. We request early direct rate review, after I TF118 from various, over working groups and seek as well extended review on specific sections So we received already some review from a really good guide regarding regarding QS, for example, the far, the review are positives. So our comments will come Thank you much. Thanks, I mean, I thanks for working with the authors of the other work, other draft and, making sure that the scopes are clarified in both the documents that was useful. Thank you. K. Thank you. Hello, everyone. This is Luis Montelefonica. I will cover the the other recommended the crystal words, commenting about is the the one and title application. So, essentially, we take the the request from the field UPP and and try to take the those parameters and map them to the, be a model that was presented personally for So next, please. So, it's a little bit of background. These documents are the result of the merging of 3 previous commands."
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:36:00",
    "text": "So I had been presenting several times, and and also just to highlight as well the fact that we had a meeting with the the efforts of the realization draft, identifying points to to be covered. Are not in the in the slides. So let me comment briefly. So one of the the comments to, one of the points to be covered is since some doing some alignment about the the station part. We have some different terminology and and some, let's say details that need to be align in order to provide clarity and so how have a continuity and consistency the application or the realization draft. Another topic is, well, in in the application draft, comment about some potential ways of, doing the hang off of the flows toward, I mean, entering the slides. So because this based on how could be able to, blur boundary with the relationship and stuff that is to put a clarification, at an application paragraph in the application such a way of saying that we provide some database different options because later on, we do an exercise of mapping the MBA model. So so how we need we want to introduce the topic but not that they need to relation details. It's just simply clarification of the zone artifacts that we use later on on the exercise of mapping to the NDA model. Then, also, we we, with this alignment, we realized that we will somehow have a a a better clear on a better understanding of potential gaps that could be either in in a ideal side or 3 EPP sites. So we identify things, for instance, at the time of identifying what could be the kind of connectivity, you remember in the idea model we identify as, any 20 point to point to point to multipoint to multipoint. So this is currently not provided us as as as an input from the EPP. So we need to figure out from where we we will take, the this decision. Right? So so this kind of gaps will be documented and"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:38:00",
    "text": "with this alignment, and this we we are sure that we will identify gaps that could provide consistency. Another point is, with this, maybe you are familiar with draft. We are including some an example of how to do the mapping from the CPP side with the different alternatives So we also agreed to include some example in the realization draft in such a way that we can provide continuity as well. From the request up to the realization with, in in IPNPLS Networks. And, finally, as well as some other clarifications about a number of identifiers that are being used in in the realization draft. So these are more or less the the points taken by the 2 teams, and, we will work on on keeping these consistency. In both documents. So regarding the changes, we added the clarification test that was commented by Christophe. So the same the same test. I will not go into that. Just simply saying that we are somehow sharing the scenes in in both jobs. So, I I understand now reader can understand where is the, like, which is covered in each of the graphs? Next, please. Apart from that, some some few changes, the internal changes. So we provide a simplification on the into an hour's life might be procedure. We were, in the previous version, there was a a kind of workflow explaining the procedure a little bit compass on also a little bit entering into a realization matter. So we remove that. Apart from that, we also added in in one of the figures that try to represent the relationship between the EPP of the classes and and IETF stuff. We added the APA RPA object for for clarification for supporting, let's say, the the calculated on how we use the parameters for CPP and also the alignment in terminology also be have commented before. As our next steps, we are we have in mind probably more, add more examples of this mapping between potential ways of interpreting the C EVP, objects and also"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:40:00",
    "text": "different situations that we could have in the network. So currently, we are covering 3 three examples. I see mode, p mode, and also the p mode with the, attachments you get case. But there could be other potential cases that, could be worthy to to include. So maybe this is kind of open question to to the group if this is worthy to entering these descriptions, or maybe we can stay as we are. So we were thinking for instance, dual home 5 g the case of the dual home 5 g entity. So for instance, the UPM or or the, you know, V or the CU that could be dual home. So trying to understand the implications of that fact. Or also, the case where the file entities is associated intolerance of a cloud environment. The the could be, let's say, the the the endpoint that could be declared by the EPP be in internal of the cloud. So so how we need to extend connectivity up to the internal of the cloud. So these are it's an open question that I I we would like to to to know what the working roof is about that. Also, we want to to ensure the full alignment with the latest version of the NDI model. So ensure that we are in the x mapping exercises that we are doing that we are using the latest version so that this is consistent. And we would like to encourage the working review the mapping examples. This is important because, I mean, having a standardized on that will help us to to be sure that the mapping is correct that we are not missing anything or we are not introducing errors or or taking wrong assumptions. So it will be a great people in the working group could go through them. Also the after a live song that was, committed before I Pavan, we could start some comments, maybe. So we, yeah, we will the say, you expect the expecting those comments. Well, let's see, as soon as they let's come, we will try to address. And in line with the relationship and that we will we will work we want to work for for, push you in the working group last call, for next ATF. So we'll"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:42:00",
    "text": "we'll try to be ready for that, point on time. And that's all from my side. So thank you very much also for the for the on aligning with the other drug. Have a question on the 3gpp, I guess, did you already receive some comments where they are going to come. We expect that they are going to they are going to come. We are, somehow I was interacting with BB. So providing some change requests to to the EBP, BIA, the work that we are doing in Orange, so we expect that something could come from them. And then do we have a dependency on the documents from 3 GPT, I I guess if if because you plan to go to last call, but I don't know how stable are their documents compared to 2 hours. So if we have any dependency, that forces us to to wait. I I think what Depends on on on what release of a 3 p p, we put a scope. So we are tied to release 16 or 17, which is all the specs are already out there. Will not be dependency. So it will be for for parameters that they could include for novel new releases, 18 or 19 that will be that that, the dependency, but, I mean, if we stay with, 1617, would not be open. Because I the the specs are frozen, basically. Sum, Thank you. Something we have Kristoff. It of Sharkovich Uniper Networks. Say, I wanted to comment here on VGPL a little bit as well. From release 18.5.3gpp includes the reference to the attachment circuit. A draft. So it's, officially referencing the release 18.5. Although we still did the video drafts from IETF perspective, yes, but they they 3gpp acknowledge that this is important. So they the reference described as in the in their in their scheme. And, of course, we can work with 3 gpp maybe as well to reference the NDA draft or whatever."
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:44:02",
    "text": "And or an as well or an alliance as well as referencing the straps. Okay. Greg Mursky Erickson. I just wonder, is it possible that we have a little bit more formalized and organized way of communicating with a 3gpp and oram using Liaison. Because that that would be somewhat more definitive Not only in this subject, but just in general. So we did send out a formally is on to 3gpp and various other standard bodies about network licensing related work. So there is there is a a liaison that already been sent out regarding this we haven't received any specific response back, but It's been central. Yeah. Asking them, especially because again, my understanding in for with the 3 gpp release nineteen work where they will approach QS modeling. So Seems like we are ahead of them. So There might be a risk that what we define would not be used by them. So, yeah, I mean, we'll continue, sending out in, when as and when we reach certain milestones, we will continue sending out relevant liaisons. But, I, at this point, if they haven't, I mean, they haven't sent anything to us to us to us to us Yeah. Something that would explain them the situation that we want to be Corporating, not to be disconnected. Krishna."
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:46:00",
    "text": "Christopher Sharcovisioniper Networks. Yes. I wanted to comment on the lasers. with my oran hat as well. So we received a liaison from, IETF a Doran Alliance, And, we'd promote as well issue liaison from a or an alliance site as well to ATFTS regarding the current status of the slicing the arena lines. Thank you. Thanks, Krishna. Thank you. We have 14 minutes left in the the session. So we have one one more presentation in the as per schedule. Yeah. I was hoping we could speak in one more, but, yeah, I think This may be the last Hello, everyone? Can you hear me? Yeah. That's it. My name is Boul. And I'm here to present this, an API model. On behalf of or they others. You can see that, there's, secondary ramp for the contributors and the quarters. Next slide, please. So I want to give a quick recap on these unhappy young models because, of actually this a model has, finish the 1st round of IPR process. But, It's kind of now we we don't move on. So in this presentation, I will give some, updates on what we have changed since last IITF. Then, we we want to get the feedback from chairs and working group, like, give power some the guidance on how to move this forward. And this NIPIA models is actually for multiple NRP. Management NFP"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:48:01",
    "text": "like, the previous, has been presented. It's It's a red it's a concept introduced in Nas framework draft. And this young models covers not only the an IP network model, but also the NIP specific device specific models and And the model we try to, modeling or the met mechanism that has defined in the working group draft that is and also Nabi Sikittlebit scalability, And in those two drafts, the NIP, like modeling, management, including installation and also the NRP scalability gave some right, mechanism on the control plane and data plane. So these are to, dropped. Keep some framework on how our our model is about And the other, background is that This, an API model is a merge of the 2 a previous draft, like, why is an IP policy? And this, the other is enough young, and this model like merge the take advantage of those 2, drafts So We think now it's quite stable now. So the current status is that we complete IPR process. And we update, this model and send out the revision 02. So, I think these may, of course, It's maybe questions to the IPR process, but"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:50:04",
    "text": "So the updates, actually, we think the updates are not about adding the new solutions here. So, I will give the further, this description on what the, like, updates is about, but Here, we We want to sense, the Joe Hoffman and Tom Patch and Greg Nixby, on the helpful comments to us. So Next slide, please. Here, I I want to give the the summary of the young this young modules, on the right hand side, on the picture, you can see that this model try to build, an IP model that other than the flat resource management, that currently we used, like, tea topology all those modeling, We actually use a flat resource manager. But this NRP, we try to, have that, hierarchy co management on the IP networks. IPM trust network. In that way, like different network slices can have different service category. Then different, NRP can provide different SRO as ecaracteristic So in that way, like, each NRP can provide the original, flat QS traffic nucleism like before, but an IP level, they have another layer So you can see on the left hand side, that's the major components from NIP. The first is that, It's about topology. You can see that is quite, mapping to the right hand side figure that each anarchy has, specific"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:52:00",
    "text": "topology, and has different resource reservation, And these resources sometimes we can use, piece selector to identify those resources and, for those each NIP selector like like different per hop behavioral can be applied So Next up, please. So that's given this, context. Here's our first change based on the comments from Joe, that the comment is about whether there's a lucky selector is has been, like, being, atop those mechanism, haven't, whether those mechanisms has been obopted in other IETF working group So here, in this update, we right now, change the right hand side. In that way, you can see that we we just changed the one part. Is about MPI's part. On the ipv6 and other part, it's we're adding a more, 2 reference to see that some already, some adopted mac mechanism has been in men and also a spring working group for MPIs here. We we now. Provide a placeholder for future updates when, the some mechanism in and trust working group has been adapt it, So Next slide, please. And the second change is about an epidemiology part. Here, ing, we"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:54:03",
    "text": "not only have that topology can be, can support other future or, selection based on the topology here. We also have a IGP conclude concurrent. That, Kim. Parameters has been defined. So before, we don't add some examples here. And it seems very, not that clear enough. So In this change, we don't do any young model change. We only add some, figure and text clarification with this on the IGP congress. The idea is that, the NRP in some, especially data playing mechanism, an app can reuse the the IGP for wording on that apology. So that's, of, of, some, I mean, the function that we we we like this NRP provides. So that mechanism is, we can reuse multi topology routing and also flex echo. So Next slide, please. So with these two changes, So, We like to have some guidance from chairs that like, can we, move on to the working group adoption, or there's some other concerns on this Yeah. In this, merge version, you refer to a PHP prop behavior profiles. Where are those defined? Where do you expect to have be those defined? I I think for PHP profile, it's similar like a qs"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:56:00",
    "text": "policy profile. So Yeah. We can add in some more text to set That's the case. Defined in the best bar doc document which she drew from. Uh-huh. In the in in the in this version, there's no definition. Yeah. We So either either you need to reference where it's defined or bring that definition forward. Okay. Because right now it's just sort of hanging there, and it doesn't have any backing Okay. I see. So, so so It the common the feedback is that we need to fix that, then we can move on to the working group adoption. I think you wanted to not have any, incomplete definitions, particularly when you had the complete definition before. We can always fix it during working group processing, but it would be better since it was in the previous document to just bring it over. Unless there's a reason not to, and then you should flag the open issue, you know, if Okay. If for some reason there's disagreement, you know, sometimes happens. You have 2 2 documents that come together, and the authors can't agree. It's better actually to flag that and say, hey. We hate we don't agree on this. And then the working group knows that. Okay. But right now, it's just incomplete. Okay. See. I I I think if you had a reference to something that is already defined. Of course, that's best. But if you don't have, there isn't something defined. Yeah. And you had it previously, bring it forward. Okay. I think the anatomy part, Pallen, can you make comment on that? So I guess this was an oversight so there's no disagreement. So it's just a matter of bringing it in. Okay. So Thank you. That's easy. Great."
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:58:02",
    "text": "K. We are done for the 1st session. So we are meeting here in 30 minutes in the same room. I expect, all 62 of you that are currently logged in to come back. Bring your friends to let them bring the tea and biscuits as well. See you, to as a heads up to those online, just double check that the link you have the right link. The last time I had a double session, they changed the link on us, and it surprised a few people. So just re re you know, go back to the master the the original schedule the agenda and open from there. Thank you. Not Thanks. Imminent. This. Sorry. I just opened this"
  }
]
