[
  {
    "startTime": "00:00:57",
    "text": "Helpfully close the doors for us. So I guess the answer is supposed to get started. Welcome to ABC Corp. I am Donna Lennox. I'm here. Bernard Ababa is remote. He's driving the slides because my laptop decided to fry itself yesterday. So It's I'm doing this on a doing the rest of the, conference for my iPad. That'll be fun. Excellent. Meeting tips, If you are here in person, please make sure to sign in to the meetico tool so that we can get your We can register that you're here. You probably just want the light client unless you wanna see the slides on your computer, which makes you use the full client. If you do, make sure to mute the audio or we'll get feedback in the room. If you're remote, you're already doing that. If you could hear me,"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:02:00",
    "text": "But please make sure your audio and video off unless you're chairing or presenting or speaking with the mic. The use of a headset is strongly recommended or will likely get feedback from you. Next, yeah, remote meeting. Tips, I guess some of these are come in, come in, come in, come in, come in, come in, come in, So you press the hand icon to join the queue. Leave it when you're done. It does not automatically leave you. If you're remote, you need to enable your audio To be heard, That can also take a second, so make sure you see it on before you start talking. Or miss what you say. Video is helpful if you want, but, acquired And but you do have to enable that separately from audio. Nailing video vince, you can see you, but not hear you, which is Usually not that useful. Here are some links. StandardLinks. Hopefully, you know where these are. Next we have links to the agenda. The main thing here is we will need notetakers. So we need to ask some people to volunteer to take notes. Either local or remote people can volunteer. But we can't get started until we have an up ticker. You don't have to all you'd have to do is capture the major action items we don't need. All the blow by blowing details with everything everybody says. So, I'm looking about the room. Would anybody like to volunteer? Somebody walks into the room. Do you want to volunteer take notes? Do you? No. Oh, this is always the way. Okay. So Magnus will do it for the beginning. And then if he has to leave while we're still going, We will try to get somebody else, and please alert us when you're leaving Magnus, And,"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:04:01",
    "text": "for the people can Also, follow along in the, head you're looking at the headstock, Magnus? Yeah. Okay. Spencer, yeah. I just wanted to, invite people to look at what Magnus is taking in the notes and do corrections as we go. I can do some of that, but, I going to be pretty focused on a couple of the topics, and it would be better if I was not try and describe alone. So So Okay. This could be a group activity Yes. Please don't Thanks. At the very least, open the head socket and a tab in your browser. And, If Do you think the and, you know, if you think the Scribe did not capture what you said properly, you can correct at least that. And maybe you could even, work on other things too. Alright. So thank you, Magnus, and we will try to get somebody else. I'm interested. Alright. Not well. by attending, by participating in the IETF, You agree to follow the IETF processes and policies. These relate to patent disclosure, have to disclose a patent that you control if you're talking on the relevant topic, You acknowledge that we can make recordings of you. And keep your personal information and cut go to the privacies, statement, and you agreed at work. Respectfully with other participants. Next, No. Really well. Emphasizing the last point. We have a code of conduct, intended for professional collaboration and and networking try to maintain a attitude of respect for everybody else. And if you feel like this policy has been violated. Anyway, you could talk to the office team."
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:06:00",
    "text": "K. Draft status. We had a number of drafts published and even more exciting We have a number of drafts that have made it to The RFC editor queues edit state. We have Some drafts that were in misref for nearly 7 years. So This is very exciting. I believe we, Single handedly dropped the median time and misref of things in the queue by 17 weeks. So, That's exciting. So, yeah, so we've got a number of things waiting there. We also managed to get skip to the RFC editor queue. After some back and forth with the ISG. So it was also very exciting. Those were some of the biggest, the the some of the harder lifts recently, but we managed that. So, we're in pretty good shape here. V3C had a working group last call. There were comments published there's some some issues. We'll discuss that in a bit. K. We've adopted number of drafts. Some of which we're discussing today Some of which we are not. I think one of which we are not Alright. Chair action items after the last meeting We were supposed to call for adoption of Viewport Region of Interest, Which We didn't. I apologize for that. Try to do that. After this meeting, Or close to figure out a working group github repo, which We have created the organization, and we need to still need to transfer the repo. So I'll mention that in a second. And find a place to store test vectors, which probably the GitHub repo will do for the moment You may need to talk to somebody about a longer archival"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:08:00",
    "text": "stuff at some point, but Certainly, for in development process to get repo, seems reasonable. Next. I got the AVT get help set up. I created it. We need to start creating and transfer repositories and also There's currently a script which automatically emails the list once a week about everything that's happened specifically in the RTP over quick. Repo. So we'll probably wanna change that to point to the official organization. Spencer, is that your script? You did you create that? Up to the bathroom. I thought Spencer created that. Sorry. Sorry. It just takes me a to find my, mute button when I try to do 2 things at once. I I believe I created that, and, I would be happy to I would be happy to, make the addition for, anything in the repo, you know, anything in that organization. And we should we should transfer it's just our transferring, like, your, probably, your quick I think there's a way to do a transfer that actually keeps all the issues and PRs and things like that. So we should figure out how to do that and transfer everything into the official repo, but we can work on that offline. And if I if if I could just say, also, you might want to do that going forward. Madison and I are have every intention of asking for working call on, on our draft. So, So, you know, maybe maybe moving it is not a the most important thing that the chair could be doing That's fair. That's fair. Yeah. If it's almost done, then maybe there's not not so much, I guess, But, yeah, but so I think certainly anybody who's got a draft Either as a working group draft or up for consideration was a GitHub repo"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:10:01",
    "text": "Doctor. The chair is we'll figure out how to get that transferred into the official for working group organization. Perfect. Thank you. Next. Oh, sure. Spencer. Oh, sorry. Stefan? I apologize. I'm I'm not capable of pressing buttons here. Okay. There's a loud discussion going on on IETF at IETF regarding the relevance of GitHub and, whether whether it have postings of substituting drafts, etcetera, and when, especially during the cutoff time, at an IITF, what rules, are we discussing GitHub stuff. That was that after the cutoff date and stuff like that, I would suggest you set a policy for please. Thank you. Okay. Yeah. Bernard and I will discuss that and generally, I'd say probably we should say we're discussing The draft says published. And but, you know, if you have co comments on them, you know, obviously, you should comment on them as soon as they're published and Those should get tracked in GitHub, but probably also should get anything subsidiary would also get mentioned on the mailing list, Spencer? Yeah, and I just wanted to confirm that what What we've been doing with the, RTP over quick draft was basically that we're working in GitHub, but, We, published a draft before every, IETF meeting. And, And every, and every, ABC core interim. So that you don't have, you know, you don't have to be following what's in GitHub."
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:12:01",
    "text": "If if, you know, if that's a sufficiently high sampling frequency for you. But I mean, that this this is this is a problem that, we can sell off. We just need to make sure it stays solved because it doesn't it it won't stay solved by itself. Yeah. Agreed. I think, yeah, basically making sure that you know, something is published either a meeting where you're planning to discuss it, or once the addressing is happening. Murray? Just on that top point, have you engaged RTC web about this? Because I keep getting word from the chairs over there that we shouldn't expect any further interaction with them at all because they wanna shut down I just if you've reached out to them and you're getting a dialogue, that's great. I we posted something to their list. I'm not sure we'd like to talk to those chairs. So we should probably I should probably make sure to link it to them. If it seems like you're not getting what you need at them, let me know, and we'll Yeah. Or, I mean, I think or we can just say, wanna shut down, we can just say, no, we will discuss this topic here and, if it's the core, and but just mention it on their list because So that the people relevant people are. But I think all the people who are who who this is important to or also pay attention? Yeah. They are waiting for one document finishing the RC edit acute. It's an off 48 and They don't even wanna hear any issues back from the RFC editor. Like, can we please it. Don't make me go out. Oh, this this stuff relates directly to that draft. It's a problem with the draft. So are you getting any responses when you ask these questions? This is what I wanna a black hole right now. Yeah. We did get a response from Justin. Okay. Which we'll talk about. Alright. Yeah. So, yeah, we're talking about this draft some of them aren't in a bit. And then other auth author action items. I think all of these Yeah. I think everything but green metadata has an actual slot here. I'll talk about them. Green metadata. There were some issues posted, and We're not discussing that here. So we'll make sure to follow-up the authors to"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:14:02",
    "text": "when when that is done, Alright. I think it for the chair slides. It's a blessed item. Oh, the Aiana registries. Yes. There's an issue with this IANA registry Magnus is working on a draft. I think he has in his GitHub, but not others yet. To close the that registry You also initially could not identify any RFC that actually defined that registry. So we think it must have been created by some Chair or AD, just emailing IANA at the time, which is a little strange. So I think that probably lowers the bar to closing it. Because we're not actually changing an idea of consensus, but, So I we'll we'll probably have that as a topic for discussion Either our next interim or and expediting. Chad, have you guys talked with Diana about it? Like, I mean, I mean, there as I said, like, the bar could be really low. Yeah. can just talk with, Anna, like, hey, this this We this this There there's no defined thing nobody using it. So can we just kill it? Yeah. I mean, I think I mean, we have an existing RFC that does that did that have an RC that defines it. We have a later RC that says make sure to put things in So we wanna at least update that. So and, Okay. And I think they basically they're I went and told Diana, they said, basically, just tell us what you think it's the right thing to do, we wanna actually, we're doing it just to make sure we have consensus on it rather than. So we the the to my understanding, need some work to actually not kill the registry, but, I mean, to update the documents that actually putting things in the very stream. Okay. Okay. Alright. So here's our agenda. Anybody wanna bash this"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:16:02",
    "text": "Otherwise, we can get started. Alright. And we're just on time, excellent. Thank you. Good to be back in ABC Core. It was a while since I presented here. So this is Scaloa ContiML in Secure short text, which I presented in CF audio yesterday. Next slide. So most of you new AS DCM. It has been standardized. It's the the faulting quick test customers for SRGP. It's used due to its attractive performance, and approval security, whoever it's almost always used with 128 bit tags. And the reason for this is that during the standardization list 20 years ago. Ferguson pointed out to, weaknesses with DCM The first one is that, the security of the tag decreases with the length of the message and the additional data that is protected. And the second weakness is that a successful forgery Give by doing as a sexual forgery, attacker can recover part of the authentication key. And this is it. Very serious when you have short tags because then you can do that time and time and time with, yes, it's 2 to 3 power of 32. Work. During the Easternization project, and during this, Ferguson thought they should go back to the old, way of doing things, but, McGrew, Viega argued that that was not"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:18:01",
    "text": "high performance, and they kept the camera as a comment, Denise suggested alternative changes s keeping the other additive encryption. Nothing happened with this, I think one reason is maybe that ipsec had already started using DCF as far as a new IPSec is still referring to like, a pre standard version of GCM, not the final standard. 1 and, now instead is standardized some requirements that has been criticized and now Niece, we has is planning to remove short tax and ECM. Completely. If you want short tags CCM provides that, but CCM as you might know has versus performance. It seems like people are then performing ECM with long text, Next slide. Lisa might not have to tell you so much, but there's a lot of use cases for short tags, one example is radio link players. So, 40 and 5 g, which is close to my heart. You use 32 bit tags. Everywhere. It will be like, very likely be increased in 60. And now they're use case for sure tax is useful is, of course, in media encryption. And especially audio when we're, don't care at all if a single package is forge because it's hardly noticeable because it didn't go so little. Or your data. And as I said, you cannot use,"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:20:00",
    "text": "ECM. So if you want short tags, you need to use something when with, with, with, with, verse performance, like CCM or AS CTR with HVAC. And the performance, like half the performance or something like that. Might be even less. Next So what is gella short tags. So this is, some small modifications, to the ECM Algrids, it completely follows the recommendations from need back, 20 years ago. And, already 20 years ago, the the security of these changes had been proven in several papers. That they are referring to. It's general construction. So you can use it with any Key stream generated not just AES, but I think everybody here probably wants to use with with AS if you want to use it. Has 3 changes. It uses One additional key, refreshes the keys every time, and it use the little Indian version of dehas which is called polyval. Which is faster on modern, yeah, only the MDN processor, which is basically the only thing we're using. These days. NG has to impose all can be defined in terms of each other. And DCM SST has been understandization for many years now in SSH and 3dpp. SSH has published specification of this integrity move and 3 dpp are working on integrating it in the 5 g. Standard. So this is, Very good day. Ground, if CFRA would adopt it, they might change it, but then it would only be Beth Deber. I think it's it's"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:22:01",
    "text": "It's very usable already now. Yeah. Jump next slide. So these are the changes compared to GCM, the The change part are highlighted in in green, so It it what you do is that, so DCM uses a fixed th in the same SST, h is the right for each norms. Also, there's a new key q, which is also derived each nonce This, of course, costs a little bit extra to derive is 2 extra ASinvocation views. AS. And but that is typically compensated by using Honeywell is faster than G hash if you run it on Modem CPU architectures. When we tested, it was hard to see any difference between ECM and and this. But, of course, is some difference between depending on, like, Next, And here's the decryption, and it's same changes compared to DCM. Next. And The benefits you get what are the properties you get? So performance, as I said, is very similar to ECM. The benefit is that you can use short tags and you get the expected security from the short tag. So if you use touch 2 or 64 or 80 b tags. You get 32, 64, and 80 bit security, in respect of the message length, and there is nothing happens. In the success of 4 jury, except that the attacker gets it successful for 4 year. They can"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:24:01",
    "text": "recover key material. And looking at the equations for short tags, you get TVID security, if you're m is the number of blocks in your plaintext, m is the number of blocks in the a 80. So as long as the tag is less than 128 minus the logarith of the by number, bytes, plaintext, AAD divided by 4, you get T. B. Security. Compared to GCM you you always only get T minus the lower rate or to say things. So if you have 32 bit tags, you get much less than 32 women. You have this problem with key recovery also. In this specification, we have the It adjusted PMax and AMax, which is the maximum length of TM a max to get there. Perfect. Security for 95 bit tags. If you have an application, we'll use less plaintext and AAD, you can get perfect security for a little bit, even longer attacks according to this formula. Yeah. Same thing as before with GSM, you should not reuse the non in GCM, you can, yeah, the confidentiality breaks anyway. It's a yep. Next slide. So here is, Taglinx. I took a look at SRTP tag links. What has been registered for SRTP but of course, the same thing would apply if you would like to use this in in quick for media or you want to use this in s frame. For SRT, that has been registered"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:26:01",
    "text": "32 bit at 80 bit 96128 tax, and the 96128 bit tags are for DCM. So there you don't get the full security of these in 961280 packs. You only get t-0.25 times that, as I said before. And should be And if you look at this in late, we had CTOR plus HMAC. EBT Core decided to, standardize GCM, even if it has longer tags, And also, perk decided to stem rise double DCM, even if it has longer tax. So history shows that IETF has been choosing ECM. With longer tags, I the only reason is that it's faster and but you get longer tags. With GCM SST, you can get both you can get the performance of DCM with secure short text and when I wrote this, the draft for this, I looked at what was used in SRTP and s frame. So SLTP has been using 32 bit tags. And the ATB tags. And Yes. Frame are registering 32, 64 bit. Tags, but it can, of course, be It"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:28:01",
    "text": "adjusted. I think, the reaction in see if audio was quite neutral. They asked if there was any interest from working group. If anybody is interest. I think if anybody's interested in using this for media. I think CFO would be happy to standardize this. And, yeah, Next slide. Think that's the last. So this is a small modification enabling DCM performance, And 4 digit short tax with 4 digit probability close to Egypt. The changes are that it gives this security has been proven in several papers, twenty years old, there's strong industry in to use this in radio. I think it makes sense to use So this or something similar in for media encryption, is this interesting for SRT or something else? And which tag links would you then want to use. I think If you are interested then I CFRG would adopt this think and or something or something else. It can only get better from this. Be Does anybody have Comments and Harold? So hi, Dhalla. This is John. Hello. In the Google Meet where strongly interested in Get thing. More secure for the tubing with tags. So, yes, we are interested. Yeah. Great to hear."
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:30:03",
    "text": "Mozinati. I'm also very interested in this for a lot of, applications including audio, like you said. One thing I wonder though is, A lot of the reason people use GCM is they have, hard hardware support. Yeah. How easy is it to or is it even possible to have a a, software fall back to some parts, a fixed function hardware, to implement this, or you really need to redesign hardware from scratch to be able to use is I I I guess what the I think this is if you design it from scratch, I think this is a superior solution. Scott commented on the CFRG, and he want seem to want to reuse the whole DCM and then you add something on top. I think that that seems to work. It gives little bit less performance, I think, I'm I'm not sure about the exact security properties, but I think it were it resembles the old CVC mode that macro, this this micro this signed before DCM, I think. Yeah. So so I think that would that would work, but you lose some But you're talking about an alternative designed to to this. That would be an alternative design. Yeah, if you want to reuse you, it depends on how your hardware looks like. I don't know what your hardware do exactly. I think you need to show exactly how your hardware look like and what it can do like, if you have Dehas, you can implement from that. If you have AS, you can implement. But if you have DCM as a that folks, yeah, then you need to do something slightly different, but I think"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:32:02",
    "text": "If you're interested in in having short tax I think Let's tell, see if that, then they can work on something. Yeah. I I think there's great interest in in having short tags having some security have a short text. We just don't know if Yeah. they're secure or not. It it would be, it would be a big benefit if something like this stabilized, but with the lens that The reason people are picking GCN today is because of a lot of reasons, it's hardware performance, not just computationally efficient but it's already in the hardware. In any way to, retrofit or layer on top of something else that can use function hardware, it would be useful Yep. Okay. So it sounds like there is interest and but, I mean, We shouldn't Go forward, I'm trying to write in the actual specs until CFRT actually stops it. I understand there's chicken ag, but we can feedback that, yes, people are definitely interested Yeah. Yeah. I think if you write something that would to see if all you that you want this, but it's like maybe just go and tell and see if audio that if you have that in the minutes. We can point them at the minutes to this from this. Yeah. Okay. That's good. Oh, thank you. Okay. So v 3 c is next. Who is Letting I would be presenting, this slaughter, can anyone hear me okay? Yes. Alright, brilliant. So let me get started. So, during the working group last call phase, we received some comments from Christopher and Jonathan, which we greatly appreciate, of course. This is the first time that we really got some proper feedback on the on the draft. So, now starting to start addressing those comments, and that's somewhat what we did. After this the the reception of the comments, we didn't have time"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:34:01",
    "text": "resolve all of them. There are still quite a few open in our GitLab, a repository, which I'll come to later. Let me quickly talk about the ones that we did resolve, at least partially, the first one was resell related to the SDP grouping. This comment was a valid one. So we were erroneously using an extension of the group attribute with up optional parameters, which is not actually supported by the RFC ring to. So we removed that option from the draft of ours and rethought how it would be done And instead, we're proposing to use the media specific format attribute, to signal this 2, which is how it is now described in the latest version of the draft we later then received comments from Jonathan blaming that we can't actually use this to the video media, format parameters to extend them with B3C specific attribute, parameters. So we need to actually now rethink this approach a little and figure out how we can, have this V3C specific parameters as part of the STP. For scenarios where we want to do have static B3C related information signals over the SVP, This in all likelihood, we'll require some additional additional specification text then, we were previously under the assumption that it would be nice to just use the existing, maybe a line format attribute"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:36:02",
    "text": "to extend it, but, yeah, well, it it says that it it it can't be done. So maybe there is a need to add a new attribute that Conveys this information and then registering the this with IANA. Something to discuss. That's one way of potentially solving it. So, yeah, this this issue isn't fully, fully resolved, we probably need to revisit in the next like, calls and next meetings. Some insight into whether it makes sense to actually the new attribute would be appreciated, though. Or if it will just complicate the design a little, Yeah. I guess the question is whether these need to be on something other than just Attributes of the V3C payload itself. Because that, you can do, you know, as much as you like. But if you're trying to put something that's outside the the parameters of the V3 CPLF itself, then things get complicated. But we figure out information. Yeah. Yeah. Yep. So maybe maybe a new attribute is then the cleanest way of dealing with this and, yeah, so in our in our thinking, there is a need to kind of this Have this then specified. So I assume that this we can be then register with Ion as part of this this draft later on. Is that how it works? Sorry. Could you say that again? So if there is a need for adding a V3C specific rebuke in the STP. We can register it with this, specific. Yeah. Okay. Good. On STP attributes if that's needed. Alright. Very good. So that's probably then the way we need to consider resolving this issue. I would didn't have time to do it or propose the design in in this meeting. But for the next one, then"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:38:03",
    "text": "Okay then, clarification of the packet packetization mode there was an example where where the packetization modes were incorrect used, and that was actually an editorial issue that was not handled properly when we were removing the packet, support for different packetize packetization modes from the spec. It actually ended up still being visible in some of the examples. So with with fixed the example. So now it should be clear, rate. There were also questions about other STB examples, and we feel that we address those questions chance, with the latest draft. Now if we move into the next slide, So, yeah, then there were some other lingering issues that we've kept open in our GitHub mainly editorial ones. So, there were some unused abbreviations that were just hanging there in the text. They're not used in the rest of the specification. There was one acronym or definition that we weren't defining. So we added that then we clarify the informative nature the 3 c unit header syntax instead of, removing it we felt like it was useful for, implementors to see what type of information there is in the VR 3 c unit header. But all when when when actually implementing it, you should always refer to the latest specification available. We also did some additional minor edit further minor editorial improvements fixing some of the indentation for the examples, to get rid of some inmates complaints,"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:40:01",
    "text": "and then fix the data alignments for the example. Some of the exam, now it looks looks proper. And, yeah, assess explain to then then we received some additional comments that we weren't able to resolve, and those are now all documented here. So there are 7 lingering issues if we open the next slide, I listed 5 of them here, I think. The ones that require more most effort. So the one that requires Biggest change is this 22, so we can't use the B3C specific parameters as part of the duty media lines. So that's where we probably need to introduce this additional V3C specific attribute And then I guess the one one big one other big change is this, reconsidered the need for 3 different trans mission modes. This was there in the HEVC spec, so we kind of just took it and ran with the concept we can also consider removing that if it makes the rest of the specification text clear, Yeah. Yeah. That was something that we did for HEVC, and then the time we got around to VVC and EVC, we decided Those that complexity was not needed to know what he was using it, So, certainly, I think unless you have specific use cases that do need it, I would recommend following the model of VVC and EVC instead, which is should be much simpler. And then actually the thing well, I think on top of that is I was gonna so I saw that Stefan, I saw that DBC and EBC still have Don, Do you was there a reason you needed that? Cause I don't know if anybody was using that either. Stefan does, Yeah. Sorry. Stefan Banker, my current employer doesn't use that I"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:42:00",
    "text": "think I have seen that being used though. Yes. So the, not for the interleaving stuff. And not for the purpose. So Don is decoding order number. That's the thing that's designed the original intention why that was in loot. It was to allow interleaving of packets in case you have, you know, drop tail routers or something like that. That leads to burst the patent loss. And there was, at some point, the idea that when you kind of interleaved stuff in, in a very deep fashion that you could avoid, or that you would have some, sample data around the, packet that you lose, and then you could do our concealment like that. That's where it came from. That was on Vogue, 20 go. Not anymore. So But I have seen Don in in the wild. I've seen the so Don, the use of Don is signaled by don't have signal being larger than 0, I think, SDP. I've seen that. Yes. in in the Alright. But it was a wildcard. So Yeah, as well, yeah, I said, I don't know Whether this will be needed by anybody, but I think you should you know. Don't include it just because other payloads included. I think include it because you think know somebody who needs Fair enough. Let's let's review Yeah. I I would also suggest to to pot. Really, really cut there because not only is that stuff, not only is it clear whether today's network where that makes any sense in today's network. But also, In contrast to the rest of the video RFC, which are deployed and which are used and where there is working code and some some, understanding that that stuff actually works. You know? Especially for MRMP don't think anyone has ever implemented anything even remotely resembling that. So"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:44:04",
    "text": "whether whether that stuff actually works, it's it's not clear to me. Yeah. So, may. I don't know. You know, Yeah. And it's it's really, really old stuff now. It's it's from from obviously 39 84. So there are no commercial arguments putting that in anymore. Beyond beyond possible deployments scenarios. Thank you. Yeah. And I think also if you're if you get everything down to SRS T, I think That may mean you can drop all the grouping because everything's in 1 source anyway, which makes your life a lot easier. Because you can remove all the grouping semantics also. So I think that makes will make the draft significantly simpler and Imple letters happier. So Alright. Very good. Yeah. Alright. Appreciate the feedback. Thank you. Alright. And we'll look forward to, com revised draft or comments on the list if you need help. Alright. Not this. I wanna give it a quick. This is We have this 20 minutes. Yes. Alright. Yeah. Go ahead. Okay. Alright. Yeah, short update to RTP real quick. Not there. So the most important updates we made since the last interim meeting is that we changed the status to experimental and edit, section 4, future work, for directions for future work, that mostly includes gaining experience on congestion control and whether mapping RTCP to datagrams or screens better. And, it includes a list of future extensions to Creek that might be might be useful for ADP over Creek in the future. Then we added a section on, guidance on choosing quick streams or diagrams. Which makes it a bit more explicit that it is currently, in the draft, it's possible to use both and the same application or even switch between them and what are the implications of that."
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:46:01",
    "text": "Then we added a section on coalescing RTP packets in single quick packets example, if you have small dataograms, small audio dataograms, then can, you can have multiple of them in 1 quick packet. And we added some are considerations for that. It's a bit hard to make it very concrete because it depends very much on what the quick API or with the quick layer is doing with your packets. If you use screens, then it's probably not that important because the quick stack will just would, whatever screen that her there is in the quick packet. But, for example, if you or use data grams and then you put RTP packets of the maximum size and the diagram, then that could, for example, mean that you have additional quick packets for small audio frames which are much smaller. And then maybe it may, or maybe more useful to have or put more of these audio frames and one quick packet make your, RTP packets, smaller such that both of the important, fixed fit in the same quick budget. Sorry. I wasn't done with that side yet. Yeah. So then we added a section or discussing the subsection for a a 0RT to you. Had that before, but it may be a bit more explicit now. And we moved one editor note and put it in the text, And then we remove the RTP multiplex or RTP, RTCP, multiplexing with non RTP RTCP protocols. And our gold to a bit more detail on that on the next slide. Now, next slide, please. Yeah. So we discussed that in the last interim meeting. We removed the multiplexing with non RTP and RTCP protocols, because we didn't really know what other protocols there are that we want to multiplex with. And if just use the multiplexing based on the flow identifier that we have for RTP, RTCP multiplexing, and we technically could multiplex any other protocol as long as it works with that flow identifier, and But the problem is that it kind of bypasses the quick AOPN,"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:48:03",
    "text": "mechanism, and it would require something similar to ALPN on top of rock. Or in external signaling or somewhere, so if you can actually figure out what protocol you're using. And then there was a comment from Martin Thompson a while ago that we shouldn't make it too generic and should focus on making all use cases work instead. And so we removed this from our draft now, and we added or last time I already mentioned 2 drafts that could or describe how this could work in the future, true. We still fulfill the same requirement, But instead of having this very generic that we can go to text with any protocol. We just need future drafts that explain how the multiplexing was some specific protocol would work. Last time I was asked to go into a bit more detail and to how this future draft could look like. So I have an example of 2 drafts, which I will quickly explain on the next two slides. So first one on the next slide, is Next slide, please. First one is about, one protocol that maps something similar to data channels too quick. They're not. You're doing the slides or, but not distributed. Oh, there we Ah, yeah. This one. So the first one is, mapping something similar to robotics data channels, too quick, don't know if that specific protocol would be useful. Anyone, but it serves as an example here how he could do something like this multiplexing in the future. So the, the details of this draft are not too important, but just to explain how it generally works, it just maps or data chunks are basically a stream of large messages and that can be ordered or unordered or have different liability properties and here in this graph, it just, we just map 1 message to one quick stream. So you open a new quick stream for every message. And then if you want to have them and sequence ordered. Have an option and sequence number, And you can use different reliability options based on cancelling quick streams, basically."
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:50:03",
    "text": "And then we edited an open and close message to open a new data channel and explain what are the properties of this data channel example, ordered or unordered or reliability or priorities. But the important thing here is that the, open close message or every following quick stream that contains a message on that data channel starts with the flow identifier or your general ID has the same probability as the, or RTP over quick flow ID, which is basically just a variable length integer, describing that one channel. And then we wrote another draft on the next slide. That explains these two protocols, like this data channel thing, for example, could be multiplex with RTP over quick and 1 quick connection. Next slide, please. So this, multiplexing graft, basically defines a new ALPN, which says, that click connection using this ALPM uses RTP over quick and the data channel protocol in the same quick connection. And then it defines 2 more 2 modes of multiplexing, One is that you could explicitly design flaw identifiers to RTG p screams or to data channel IDs, and the other one is that you could, for example, use one fixed bit in this flow identifier or general ID to identify whether this is a data channel or whether it's RTP for RTCP. And then which mode to use, is not yet specified in the draft. You could, for example, different AOPNs for the different modes. But Yeah. That's the basic ideas that you use to flow identifier to multiplex them and have an additional draft to define the ILPNs to make sure that you always know which protocols are used in that quick connection. Bennett. Yeah. I think Peter can also speak to this, but the idea of running the data channel protocol over quick"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:52:00",
    "text": "Has been thought to be very problematic because that a that protocol is extremely inefficient it uses, at least in the web, it uses an event based model, and the result of that is is it overflows it doesn't have proper interfacing of the received window to the application consumption. So, basically, that's I think in the web, particularly in the designer blood transfer, that was a nonstarter I don't know, Peter. Do you wanna comment Well, are you talking about the AP an API that would be on this or that at the protocol on top of preventing the data channel protocol would imply the data channel API I mean, I I think it would be a mistake to use a the same data channel API from the WebRTC API to do something like this. I I think it makes sense to just stick a flow idea channel ID or whatever at the front of a stream and That's how you demultiplex streams that are correlated together. Yeah. So the idea of the data channel protocols. I don't know if that would be useful for anyone. It was just easy to write as an example to show how multiplexing with other protocols and RTP or multiplexing RTP with other protocols on the same pre connection could work. So because I was asked for in discussions earlier about multiplexing, and we didn't want to keep this in the draft anymore now. So we remove that from our draft and wrote this draft to show an example how this could work without other protocols. It it it data channels may or may not be useful for anyone, but if you want to have another protocol that you actually want to with a then you could write some protocol that uses some multiplexing like this. So you're not asking for adoption of these other crafts. Just an example to show how Well, what for what it's worth, I do think that for for"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:54:02",
    "text": "Doing such an approach, it makes sense. To put an ID list in front of a string. Spencer, Yeah. Thank you. I'm I'm, still trying to do too many things at once. So, I think one of the things that I took away from discussions with matters on on that on work that went into the slide. Was that we were trying to think about most plexing kind of in general and that feedback like the feedback we're getting from Bernard and Peter about a specific possible to protocols that could be multiplied or you know, shouldn't be multiplexed is, extremely valuable. I think a reasonable question for, the editors on this draft is to say, yeah, yes, to his is to ask how much do we want to anticipate there of one of the things that I have wondered about privately was whether we're likely to, end up with people running, You know, bay basically, are people gonna be excited about adding a new ALPN for, rock in the first place. So, you know, we we just got we just got some week. I think we're we may be too early in the process to speculate, but I'd really like to hear opinions from other people because I know what my opinions are, but Other people are likely better informed. Thanks. Right. Secure empty. empty Sorry. Queue's or Thank you. Okay. So, yeah, that was multiplexing, and I about we have a list of a few more changes that we merged after the"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:56:02",
    "text": "last interim meeting. It's just a long list of put request that to merge since then on the next slide as well. I won't go into detail of, about these. But if you're interested, then click on the things in there to see the diff, next slide. Then we have currently one remaining open issue, which is basically just a general cleanup of the current draft. Merged 2 more public requests yesterday that were already some editorial changes and fixing spelling and, such, But, Yep. So we are done with all the other issues. Next slide. There are a few other going on in other working groups or multiplexing stuff I just talked about. Which could be done or could be useful for RTP public in the future. We have talked about them in the past. A lot of the things we decided that multi path and eyes are not, and munity cost, our out of scope for our draft. But, if there will be, future documents making these things possible, then that may be useful for RTP over quick. And the same for the multiplexing think if you're interested in that in the future, then these documents may be useful. Next slide. We still have signaling, which is which we moved to a separate draft a long time ago that Spencer opened, that the probably need to come back to now that RTP real quick will be done soon. And I think Spencer is interested in collaborators for this, of course, then Please talk to him if you're interested in working on that. Next slide, please. I just I just like to say that, I've had a gracious offer, from one other person to collaborate so thank Yes. you. Now this is exactly right about that. Yeah. And then next steps"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:58:05",
    "text": "I think that's the same slide we had in the interim meeting last time already. So is this going in the right direction from your point of view. Are there other things that we need to consider, things that we've missed completely or is going to working group last call by maybe IETF 120 something that Makes sense. Yeah, any feedback, I appreciate it. And of course, also reviews of the draft, would be very helpful. I have I see a thumbs up from the audience. Yeah. I I would say it probably seems sensible to go to last call, my inclination would be, and I'm willing to be argued if somebody wants to argue against this, that We should probably wait for public before The until the SSTP signaling is done in case the doing the FTP signaling reveal is something that we need to clarify. In this spec. But that that shouldn't block us from working with last call. So we can So that'll be my inclination. If anybody Peter, do you want us to consider that? Something else Yeah. How far can the spec go including with SDP, if We are relying on the quick working group to solve the peer to peer question. Can the spec go all the way to RFC, even though there's basically a dependency on something that doesn't exist yet. Well, the draft doesn't have a dependency on the peer to peer stuff from the big recruitment group. So we kind of kind of team that out of scope. Well, yeah, I guess what I'm saying is is it useful to have that defined even though many of the uses of RTP over quick would be peer to peer ones, but the peer to peer part is not defined. Yeah. I mean, I think"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:00:00",
    "text": "just to respond to that. I think that, I mean, SDP and I's are different things for centered media, and you know, Yes. FTP assumes IP addresses are directly connectable to each other even though that's not true in many cases in practice, but it works for those cases when at least one side is reachable. And I think we could define an SDP that works the case where one side is a probably reachable IP address. And it would work for those cases. And then we would still need the peer to peer traversal solved to handle those other cases. So I feel like I'm not sure it's a whole solution without that piece, but I think it's a separable spec. I guess that's what I'm asking is, are we happy with Publishing a document that says here's how you do RTP over quick. But it's only defined for client server really and then peer to peer will come later. Because that sounds like what we're doing. I'm just Yeah. double checking. Like, that's I mean, I would say if you think We need that, then we should, you should work on, work with people who want to define that in working quick work. That's okay. Hold on. I think Spencer and Bernardo in the queue. Than you are, guys. So, if you wanna get, press the button. Spencer? Yeah. I'm, thank you, and I'm getting faster. So, So I want I wanted to make sure that I'm and I'm actually looking at the the notes that basically, what I'm going to what I'm going to put in the notes is that, The SDP spec is not blocking for working group last call, but probably is blocking for for a public Is was that what that you said? That's what I was thinking if you wanna argue with me feel free, but that's supposed my No. That that that that that sounds that sounds"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:02:01",
    "text": "very plausible. I'd like I'd like for us to get the feedback from the group on this specification for working group from working group last call, so that we have higher confidence that the SDP we're providing, is not trying to support a moving target. If that makes sense. So I I I agree with Jonathan's suggestion Although I'm willing to be explained to by anyone else, of course. So the, The question about publishing for a client server Menace, I you and I've seen several versions of these slides, Is there Did we have a slide that, Put we did not put a have a slide that put up the contents of the new, future directions section, did we? We didn't have the details on the slides. No. I think if I think if somebody goes back to a slide that has that Pool request on it. I think I think, we could we could we could pop up the that ver that new that new, actually, any version of the of the spec. The master version of the spec would have the new post section that we added after the last AVT core interim. And that has, you know, that has discussion about, support for peer to peer and support for multi path and things like that. These are things these are things that we had issues for that, it did not seem like, you know, they mattered, but it did not seem like it worth holding up all of, RTP over quick. Until we had a path forward for them."
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:04:01",
    "text": "So, Jonathan, are you call are you controlling the slides? No. Bernardo. Oh, Bernard, could you go, actually Probably, I probably, if you if you can go to if you can go to whatever slide it is that has the PRs on them, maybe the previous slide? Yeah. 178. If you click on that, does that turn into anything helpful? I think not in this mode of looking at the slides, but probably if you actually go to the slides in the it a tracker it would. Oh, okay. I'm sorry. And and like I said, if, you know, if you if you just go to the GitHub repo and and uh-uh the editor's copy that that should be there. Actually, even whatever the current version is, I don't know if you wanna do that in real time or not. Now we're pretty we're close to out of time on this. So let's just Then I will stop talking. Thank you. Vernard? We're not drinking some out of the queue. Was that on purpose? Yeah. We we need to 1, Okay. So this is a brief discussion. Well, I still have 2 items here on You were in the queue for previous topic. We saw people on queue for for previous topics. York? I guess you're up. Okay. But try to keep it quick real quick. I think I wanted to say that that the yellow highlighted question that that I might just hit on the last slide. I would certainly answer with yes, probably rather we are"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:06:04",
    "text": "effectively finished. This has been dragging on for way too long already. We have been pretty much removing all the critical bits. I would not see that we should have any dependency on peer to peer versus client server versus whatever mode. We have done this for different applications at all. This is a most index encapsulation mechanism here. So I don't see any any strong dependencies or anything else. And, ideally, we could do the working group last or before IETF 120 so that we could have some time there to spend to flesh out any critical issues in person if there were any left to make good use of that time. Yeah. Agree. Agree. Thank you. We'll try to do that. Alright. Limus? Magnus Vester. Yeah. I I say just go to work plus call when it regards to page attachments, comments at about dependents, etcetera. I don't obviously signaling is one aspect. There's several potential steps and levels of signal extensions you can do, etcetera, and and the peer to peer mean, I mean, I mean, I mean, I mean, The rock is primarily about the mapping on top of which. While the peer to peer aspects is saying, okay. How do you actually get that. Yeah. Point, peer to peer, a quick connection in place. So I think they're separable issues and can be separately addressed. I, yeah, I think that the peer to peer is gonna be necessary for a full solution, but is not not does not block this piece getting done. Okay. And I think Ben, we're over time. So thank you. And now, Bernard, you can go on to your presentation. We're a guest for over time, and I apologize. Alright. So we'll try to be quick. Basically at the virtual interim. We talked about issue 22, which was issues with receive only codecs. To give a shorts and ops is basically some browsers are Currently only capable of receiving it. HEBC, that would be chromium, for example, and I believe, Firefox"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:08:03",
    "text": "other browsers are able to send and receive. That would be Safari Tech Preview. So the question was potential issues with potential negotiation. Failures, in these cases. So Here's a very basic summary. Currently, chromium. Does not include h two 65 in an offer on a send receipt m line. Because it can't send age to 65. So it's making a strict interpretation of our 3664. And so in Chromium, offers to say safari tech preview It will not offer h 2 65, then what'll end up happening is safari Techreview and Chromium will end up sending H 264 back and forth. Which is not ideal because Safari could send H265 to Chromium and so in this issue, people have discussed various solutions, one of which is to have separate m lines send only and receive only. But, we got an interesting comment from Justin Uberti. Is also the author of Jason Biss, which this issue partially relates to, suggesting That basically, What is that Chrome Chromium should, include h two 65 on the send receive m line. Which is interesting because if if you actually did do that, I think it could work. Although it's it's not what, the code does today. And it's probably not, very compliant with 3664. But, anyway, I thought I would get, some reaction from the working group to to that suggestion. Randal. Yeah. Hey. Yes. What was that? Sorry. So, yes, the"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:10:04",
    "text": "I mean, it should be totally what Justin suggests should be totally legal by 3264. If you if both sides agreed to send and receive both 264 and 265. They can send whichever one they prefer of those 2. So there's nothing wrong with doing it that way. You can say you're planning to send it and then never send it. Never have any intention of sending it The risk here would be is if the other side were to answer and say, yes, I will do 6 265 only. At which point you'd be stuck in a you can receive it, but you can't send it. Oh, and just to briefly go back to administer itself. Magnus has to leave. So do we have somebody who's willing to take over taking notes for the rest of the session. Right. That's what he says, no. Anyone, please? Well, Oh, wow. Thank you, mom. Alright. Good day, guys. That was pre that was pretty much all I had to say there. So Yeah. I think, Randall, you've you've hit on it, but, basically, if the answer or answer is with both h two 65 and some other codec. It'll be fine. But but if it's 8265 then you'll have a problem. That would be the situation. Yeah. Yeah. Any other comments? Randell again? I mean, in the unlikely instance of them, Excepting only the codec you can't actually send? You could then just renegotiate and say, okay. Screwage do 65, we're doing 264. Right. Right."
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:12:02",
    "text": "Okay. I don't I don't understand. The case where The other sentence that cares this problem is that sentence that says that When you answer and have a codec preference. Only announce the codex that are in the codic preference. I think that's what the sentence says. Result is that if you If the offer says. 26, 4, and 265, And the answer is, well, I prefer to receive 2 5. Then the answer will not contain 26 4. And that's a loss. So, The interaction between the Answererer being able to set preferences and the list of codecs announced. It's, I would call it suboptimal. Mean, if we have the If you start to only used in Sandreseep codecs and on Sandreseep timelines. I'm using some some send only and receive only if we need to do those all codex that that problem would go away. But, the fact that we have this problem is because People don't do that. Center seat and lightness is a bad idea. Because we have to live with them. Alright. That I'm not sure that comes to a specific conclusion, but okay. So But, yeah, so please, if you're interested in this and have opinions, please, provide them in the various GitHub issues, in IPF and W3C. And we'll we'll try to figure out what to do. Thank you."
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:14:00",
    "text": "Alright. Great. Thank you. Peter, you're up next. Okay. Next slide. Alright, so an update since last time. I didn't put it on the slide, but the feedback I got last time was To duplicate the payload type and that was already in the specs, you know, change there. And also to make the duplication of header extensions, the default, but also optional. So it was required previously, so I just made it optional with this paragraph that you can read here. And that's only thing that's changed. the I didn't actually hit the confirmation on the submission yet. So it's in the data tracker. But if everyone's okay with that paragraph, then I will. And that's all that I've changed. So if you want, you can read the paragraph and tell me if I should change it. So as an as an individual I think the one thing We do want to clarify is that any header extensions that have start and end bits or other things that are different for different packets of a frame, like, framework in your a vonedd or the other Google thing that I can't remember where you need to actually mark the start and end properly. So they're gonna be different for different packets of the split up encapsulated s frame. I know exactly how you wanna word that, but I think we do need don't do that. Publicly The way I was trying to word it here is that everything should be duplicated unless It is known that the header extension does not need to be duplicated. Mean, sounds like you're saying doesn't need to be present. But but but but but you know, I think You know, unless it's maybe unless there's, like, specific per you know, packet per Symatics that should differ across different packets of a frame."
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:16:01",
    "text": "And maybe give the example of frame marking or 81dd. Okay. I could do that. I could say something specific like that. Sure. Yeah. And then there's also maybe, like, things like and there's also things that are transport level, which shouldn't be put on the pre encapsulated at all. Like, Right. That's that's something that would not would not come out of the media format specific packetization in the first place. Exactly. But might need to I I mean, I don't know if it's useful to call it out or not, but it might be worth Yeah. I I could do that as well. That'd be fine. Alright. Yeah. I think And Is that the only open issue you have at this point? Yes. So the next slide would be If you know what else would be what are what would the next steps be? I kinda feel like I don't know exactly what what what should happen when there are no implementations yet. I'm kind of looking for feedback from chairs, whether you can do Yeah. I mean, maybe we wanna do, working with last call, but then What, you know, ask people to do some implementation before public or I don't know. I seem to be going to that solution a lot. Zad? Jared. As in as individual. I must say that now, just hearing this working So, I'm a bit hesitant about like going forward from last call. Not really seeing, like, this is really working in implementation or visible at all. I mean, in in the paper. All things looks good. When you start to implement this one, you say like, oh, there's a lot of columns."
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:18:02",
    "text": "And I think if we progress this document without this kind of, like, at least 1 connect implementation or, like, an intuition experience that we might actually find, like, law product after the the faster working when it pushed the button publish it. And then people will start to look into it and file lots of issues. So I would like to avoid that kind of situation. Yeah. I I certainly think I would certainly say we shouldn't do pub rack and send it to the guy fee before we have that kind of implementation experience. I don't know if doing some working with last call to give people a stable thing to implement to which we can then we find problems to a second working glass call after making changes, would be reasonable or not. We Yeah. I mean, if you you chairs that kind of thoughts and agreements, that I think that makes sense. Okay. Rude up that kind of confidence, like, okay. We need to see this is implemented, implemented somewhere. Yeah. So so I it's pretty hard. Mean, I think the 2 things we want is, a, implementation experience and, b, wider review, calling working class call might induce wider review. We can just sort of ask people to do it. Anyway, but I do agree we need to put a experience, which is probably often the best review you're gonna get anyway because You often find things when implementing that you don't find one with his reading. Yeah. I think when you are doing this work from last call, we should should be very clear that you already need for I understand. Bernardo, did you were you in the queue? I I've left you said what I was gonna say. Okay. Alright. In that case, Alright. We will Look at doing that. Okay. Haptics, What? And we're back on schedule. Excellent. Hi. This is a haptic drift. So is the history of the overdraft. So we published"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:20:05",
    "text": "We're in Georgia, last October last year. And that we are so presented at the IT tab at last I gave meeting, after that week, we'll receive the very paleo feedback from the spencer So based on that, we are so updates our draft and policy 1 month ago, to doubt that we are so presenting at the abtcoreintermediating. After internal meeting, we or so file the security consideration section. So we are still, published as rep report in 2. A few Wixel ago. Next slide, please. So this is a status, this is the detailed contents of the the rate is dropped. So, 1st of all, we update the security construction section. So we added the basic security issues and we also added a haptic device based security issues to reflect the unique haptic characteristics And then, as we mentioned in the last interim meeting, FPDIS of the our main reference Impact documents is already. So we are to update the reference section 2. Next slide, please. In terms of the INR registration, the the current version only updates hmpgmediasoft type because the time frame and video time registration will be done by the draft, which is haptic camera with your time. But, after we publish the right dispersion, we got a a in person feedback from the Jirada on the mailing list. And we realized that we need to register they have take as a SP parameter, So will be added shortly in the section 6. Next, white, please."
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:22:03",
    "text": "And, I mentioned, we are, the FPIS document is ready. So raised on document process is the skills to start. And, we always suggestion and the feedback are welcome. And, we are waiting for walking road action call. Yeah. As I remember, the last intermediate, our item, or so one of the item of the their chairs working item, but you have missy. So Yes. I I think apologize. Supposed to do it. And Thank you. I just wanna check it. Thank you. Yeah. That's all. Okay. Great. Thank you. And like I said, we'll do that adoption call. Shortly. Thanks. K. Hello. My name is. Name and you know, mostly I spent time in Impact work And, here, recently, I have contributed to, LDP payroll form for EVC. So, this is kind of, you know, the, let's say, for our intended work here. So, as a motivation, you know, you know, that, you know, I'm from a company kind of who, you know, massively products practicing their smartphones and, you know, our, you know, equipments. And, we got a lot of requests from the users that, you know, they wanna use a smartphone for not only for just kind of, you know, you know, NIVE, because of video, but, you know, little more professional not like, you know, kind of movie. You know, recruiting, but, you know, more professional in terms of, you know, you can understand that there's a kind of YouTube or any kind of, you know, live video you know, showed it in a high resolution and used for many, many other purpose. So,"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:24:01",
    "text": "And also kind of from the product point of view, I mean, how do you point of view that kind of, you know, of not only us, but in our words, all the smartphone makers are kinda adding, improving, kind of camera part of the product. So kind of, you know, now some decent phone has a multiple lenses kind of 4, 6 and also they support, like, a hundred times, you know, analog and, you know, do you combine in June and support kind of 200 megapixels and also start support, you know, raw format at work. So kind of it's really improving in the, in the sense. And, we have, kind of, you know, you know, tested, you know, as you know, that, you know, there are a lot of, you know, codex are let letting implementing a smartphone So, like, an ATBC, BBC, and a V1, but kind of, none of them are suitable for, professional or semi professional in a content creation. So If you go to next page, then, so now we have, you know, started to looking at, you know, something called a professional video codec. So, you know, main difference here, summarizing a, you know, table. You can understand that, you know, professional video code ID for the taking the uh-uh video content suitable for multiple decoding and re encoding. You know, steps. So if you use any, any kind of, you know, convention or video product, then you will have a issue of, you know, losing the quality and adding a lot of noise. So if you, you know, decode it and coding again, then you start to lose it, the coating, you know, gain, again, or so you are rules that kind of, you know, quality again. So mostly professional video codec you know, into a frame for, you know, easy editing. So you don't have to have any, any in dependencies between the codec. I think you may know that, you know, from other acts, other work in ABT, so, and also what is important is that, you know, we need to support, you know, visually lossless, you know, level of compression And also one of the important"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:26:04",
    "text": "you know, aspect here is that, you know, what's the kind of target throughput of the, video coding, you know, mostly related to to the the, the entropy coding part of, the, you know, design you know, matters a lot of, you know, throughput here. So has a kind of little bit different, you know, nature of the codec design itself, you know, come, you know, compared to the conventional video codecs. So, we're gonna look at, you know, various, you know, codex, a bit of various, you know, professional codex in the field, and we have found that a little bit different from the convention or, you know, consumer grade codec. There's a many you know, professional codecs availability in the market, but most of them are you know, single company develop and, you know, quite a kind of, you know, secret codec. So you need to get a a special permission from the owner of the codec to get a, get a you know, let's say license of using it, even though, you know, you don't have pay anything for for And also there's another type of, you know, professional codec in the market that has developed by Sympti or, you know, JPEG you know, one of the concern we had was that, you know, they are not really you know, rarity free and priority risk free. I would say, you know, here, I only mentioned alert free, but and I think, you know, both are important since, you know, loyalty free as of now is important. And also kind of royalty risk free, which means said, you know, in later time, somebody, you know, changed their mind and asking us to pay money. Right? So we've been, you know, went there several times. So know, we wanna make sure that, you know, for this codec, you know, since it's not like, you know, really a kind of conviction of codec. You wanna have something royalty free and also loyalty list to free in, you know, nature. So we have, you know, decided, okay. Must, you know, find some solution by ourselves and start to"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:28:00",
    "text": "kinda contribute to the, kind of industry. Next week, please. So with that motivation, we have developed the, you know, the 1st draft of, you know, video codec. Advanced professional video codec. And, you know, what has the in there is that, you know, very low complex it's, kind of, you know, what what you have tested ourselves is it kinda has less complexity than JPEG. And, you know, that is also mean that, you know, it can be implemented where software for smartphone and any kind of, you know, resource limited devices. And also it has a very high throughput and high fidelity oriented codec. It says intro only coding. As I mentioned that, you know, it says a kind of tile structure. So it can be even kind of penalized if you have a kind of know that, you know, for, smartphones or any, any of, bits kind of professional, you know, capturing, you can, get the, video or, image as a 2 d frame once. You know, you don't have to kind of read it line by line. So sometimes you can pattern and processing of the frame, and that's kind of, you know, one of the degeneration we had. You know, there, there are some smart some professional codec, you know, using a wavelet, you know, which has a little bit of issue you know, kind of paralyzing the, single frame, you know, processing. So we can have a little bit of different approach and we have interpreted coding, for very high throughput up to the server gigabit second. And we don't have any, any loop filter or post filters to, to, to consider, you know, What's that word? know, You you know, to keep the quality same even though you need to, kinda decode in quite multiple times. Next page, please. Yep. So, I I don't know whether this is kind of really useful here, but, you know, we have tested our code activity somewhere known, other"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:30:02",
    "text": "professional video codecs and we have found that, you know, it's working better than them. And also, we have, you know, decided to make this one to be more kind of open standard basis, you know, open software and, open spec as well, so that can anybody can use it, you know, for any purpose you know, in, in a, you know, you know, in, in their needs. So, we have tried to design product with, you know, proven to be relatively free. Which means that, you know, we have, example, for example, it's not the only way one example is that we can find a reference you know, public elephants like in a paper published in more than 20 years. So if somebody has a paper and also paid on that means since, you know, paper is 20 years forward. Which means to be kind of, you know, proven to be free. So we designed the codec with, you know, those technology. We have, you know, absolutely sure that the, you know, any, any of, you know, IPR has been expired And, and and that we wanna have a kind of specification to be, relative to be published at RFC. We've been considering a server organization, which can, kind of, you know, work on, can already free or relatively risky free. Because, you know, the, all the IPR decorations, the difference And, I think in IETF, it might be, you know, kind of one suitable for this purpose. So we have decided to publish it as only information or sea. The codec itself since, you know, I don't think, you know, this is good item for any any IITF working group to, study on. And then, you know, we are working on, several uh-uh open source platform providers to, make this one as a starting point for open source development of professional codec that kind of, you know, we can also have, open source and, you know, cut open spec, together Next page, please."
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:32:00",
    "text": "Yeah. I think almost done. So, we need the RTP parallel format as well. If not, you know, what I'm here to present it so one of the use cases we have heard is that since you know, we are using it for our phone, that there's been a need for a contrast meeting to, to someone else. And also we have, you know, a lot of, it's you know, examples of, you know, wireless cameras So which captures the video and then directly send you to the clouds for next step, you know, processing so we are working on the internet draft for RTP payroll format, and I hopefully do be submitted by next meeting. For concentrations. Any questions, comments, So for the codecs draft itself, you're going to let the independent series editor or? Yeah. We saw media as independent submission and, targeted information or CTTC Okay. Okay. And if somebody wants to take it, As a group, Ma'am? Mozanati. So, if I understand right, this is basically a a Samsung alternative to Apple Perez. An open alternative Tuberas? Yeah. I wouldn't say this is wrong. Okay. So the the, I don't have any problem with doing it here. I just don't know if there's gonna be enough expertise It's a I've tried to, read some of it. It's a large, spec. Yeah. Yeah, I I don't think the codec spec itself would be for this working group. So that's all for myself. Is it just kind of, you know, work That's not that's just not gonna go through the ISC. Right. Yeah. And then we would do the PPA load format here in this group. Okay. So the the the other question was gonna be, have you considered taking this to other bodies like, AOM, that wants for open media. I I think that's something we can discuss offline, but anyway, you know, we have consider evaluated, you know, many alternatives, and we found that, you know, IETF seems to be the right one in terms of, you know, publicity and also, kind of IPR declaration plan. Okay. Yep. Yep."
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:34:00",
    "text": "Stefan? You know, Stephen Winger. So, budget points. Number 1 is we have a Burton group called the seller working group. Has just recently published, a specification for lossless, video codec, they are do mostly matroska related stuff. You know, piled system, Matroska? You know Matroska? Oh, yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. So so that it's that Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. But they they have, they also try to to do, a lossless codics and stuff. So there's a working group actually doing doing, still doing some video codec related work in the IETF, interestingly. And So in, in other words, You can, you can do it your, your own informational, thing there if you want, the way Google guys did it with VPA, but you could also go over there, right, and do do a real standard, for, this a AP whatever. So that's number 1. Number 2 is, with respect to pay dot formers, if you consider just just throwing that thing into the MPAC 2 or MPAC 4 container and use 6 in payroll forms of just sending it over, then I mean, as a starting point. Right. Which which don't have to do anything Yeah. And Normally, I think, doing tailored payload formats for our for the video codecs is usually to avoid the clumsiness and the the trickiness, that surrounds, streaming a file format essentially over RTP. But whether you're doing lossless or almost lossless stuff, That's I mean, that that they've a few bits, you can drop there or who cares? Right? It's it's we're not talking about, more than 0.0 and some 0s percent, impact there for optimization. So"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:36:02",
    "text": "that's what I would, what, suggest, to consider also rather than than doing and an RTP payload format for a spec where the spec itself is single company spec that's not yet stable. That's my understanding at least. Right? So maybe a little bit too early to go here with that Thank you. And then, finally you know, making our mouthwatering about new industry consortiums that are going to to pop up without naming them, name them. Tell us where where should we go to get get access to this APB thing. You already know what was this? Last question. Where where where you guys develop If APB is currently a lab product of some, some Zoom Labs, that's one thing. Right? But you mentioned that you are also starting the industry consortium around, but Oh, so name it, tell us. You know, always fun to join more industry Sure. Sure. Thank you. I mean, concerning your first Christian. I'll be happy to, you know, bring this one to that group. I I have looked at, know, charges. you I'm I I don't care. Right? Personally, I don't care. Spencer is this is this a working group chair there. over Will have a chance to chat with your colleagues, you know, to see whether he wants to take it. And then I'll be happy to work on there. And the second thing, I mean, we've been also considering that, you know, various options, you know, whether we you don't you don't instead of having, you know, new format from scratch, whether we can just use existing one think that's also, you know, considered over options, things. Yeah. It must be David Tortman. Yep. presentation. Yes. So thanks for the Just have two quick questions. One is, for your codec, are you mostly, thinking in terms of software implementation or also hybrid implementation. Right. reason I ask is because, I think I mean, both. Yeah. Both. So the maybe in the specification towards the back end of the specification, you have, various profiles and levels and so forth."
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:38:03",
    "text": "Right. And they're really, you specify things such as overall bit rate, average bit rate, and so forth over the entire frame, And I'm wondering, have you considered, how well they would match to sort of hardware implementations that that may not be able translate that average into a buffer size or a buffer bandwidth or something like that. It's not if there's something you're working on or Yeah. Sure. You know, we are working on internally, externally, with kind of the hardware vendors, you know, chip makers, whether they can support you know, that lever up it lays for a smartphone and also for some kind of resource simulated devices. Yeah. Especially memory, memory limited. it sticks on a memory, that's the thing. Yeah. If That's sort of work in progress, is it? So yep. Okay. Great. Thanks. The other one I had, I was just to ask you, Have you considered high throughput jpeg2000 amongst the codecs that you considered? Because it's also a high throughput JTech 2000 standard is exactly in this. Great. I think one of, you know, JPEG was kind of really, kind of was really suitable, you know, codec for such a purpose, you know, we were not so sure that, you know, whether they can be Dorothy free and also priority list free. Yeah. Sure. I mean, so, so, so, so, certainly, amongst the JPEG, technically, okay. Yeah. The the hardship or JP 2000 standard is certainly relatively free. Royalty risk free is one of those, Right. Yeah. That that's kind of, you know, we've been we've been there for several times. You know, we have a of, you know, we have adopted, you know, quota which know, intend to be or known to be free, but later, after we kind of massively deploy that, you know, somebody came back to us, said that we didn't intend to that. Yeah. So, I mean Yeah. So that's the key. The key nugget Right. Yeah. So if if, you know, you know, you know, any, any, any of JPEG family of, you know, center, you know, has been proven, then I think we wouldn't have to do this. Basically anything which is at least twenty years old. Right. In every respect, including syntax, everything, or whatever. Yeah. Yeah. Yep. Yep."
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:40:00",
    "text": "Yeah. Colin, Colin offered me, jump the line here. Stefan Winger, cut an offer me to If I were making a risk assessment for my company, I would rather trust an thirty year old existing standard. Then the informal assessment without without any, I would assume legal consequences or legal umbrella from one company that they are relying on technology. So that's a hard sell, a very hard sell, right? So And Yeah. Thank you. Agree with Stephan on that one. But, actually, I I was bounced back to I I'm glad to hear it's working for hardware too. I was bouncing back to a question about the the IS. I I do think IETF is a good place to bring this. I, like that idea. But that still leaves a bunch of choices there. Have you talked the ISE have they accepted publishing this at this point? Or We don't know yet. just submit it and then waiting for any We further review our progress. guess I Yeah. That could be another option. You know, if we we're gonna, you know I Yeah. what says, The ISE would be my least favorite way of doing it at IETF. But if Whatever. If that works for you, it's great. There might be better ways. What what would be your most favorite way of doing Right. Yeah. like I think it's sponsored everyone else. No. I'm sorry. What I've one of the reason, you know, one of the choices, you know, as I mentioned that, you know, IPL declaration framework I I think, you know, IETF seems to be sued over for, let's say, kind of protecting any future risk. Right. Right. In the sense, you know, some of, you know, we've considered in other organizations, you know, other one, you know, one one of them could take so many times to"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:42:04",
    "text": "so much time to get the response back, you know, even though it could be a really in a constant work, Either it's really naive or, you know, vague in sensor, we cannot really, kind of, but I, I think, you know, IETF has a good framework and also have some his story that, you know, we can pretend, you think doing it as a know, I Informational draft out of the working group in IETF. Perhaps a new working group, I mean, perhaps it wouldn't but doing it that way with a very much, you know, This is a record of a system that matches some open source. Not, we are trying to redesign the system. We are documenting what exists, like that type of, Yeah. Of of RFC, informational would be a a great path. Maybe ISC would work as well. Yep. of, And then we for any any any kind know, are waiting you recommendations or advice, you know, how to move forward, you know, if you are interested in in order to be happy to Yeah. Thanks. Sure. Yep. Spencer, yeah. I just wanted to follow-up and say, on the discussion on seller, that is so seller is chartered for lossless codecs, but, that is a conversation that we could have with the area director who I believe is in the room there Murray and, and, with the working group itself. So, I look forward to talking with you. Have a great day. Yep. You. Thank you. And and and and I had just And, Jared, not to you, but I would like to understand what cool insight about, like, okay. Forming a working group for publishing and informational artists. Might be the right thing to do rather than I see. But I see has been publishing this kind of like, okay. What is already there? And just like,"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:44:00",
    "text": "the informational RFC, right? So I'd like to know, like, My understanding is, like, if those this, we want to farm and working group. To do it, there'll be more park is interested in the world. So maybe that's the question we should ask. Like, okay. Innative. Is there any other interested doing this work. And if there's a yes, then I say, like, definitely, we form a working group, get it to But if it's only just like Wait. Will you? Nobody's there. No any other no other stakeholders are there. Maybe I see might be the right choice to him. Yeah. okay. I mean I just put the record. Colin is agreeing with me. That's great. I'm, I'm taking more time than I, you know, have you know, located, you know, for that I'm, I'm, points. I know that, you know, IETF have been working on royalty free codec for server times. So I don't know what's the current, you know, at here here? What's the kind of people's, you know, mind here that, you know, we can do one more time. in it anymore. Yeah. I'm interested doing Yeah. Yeah. I mean, I think the The previous attempt to do a royalty free video codec here failed here and turned it to Amy 1. Basically, basically, basically, basically, basically, basically, So, decided that doing an industry consortium was basically, people better for whatever reasons. I thought it was better. And it it you know, basically, they adopted the firement documents we produced here, but did all the work in in the AM. So Sorry? Jump ahead of Spencer in the queue? Yeah. Sure. After Wednesday. After Wednesday, I am not your AD anymore as I had is. So he's the one that can talk sponsoring or what about, yeah, I mean, just sure you're not wanna make looking. I mean, I I definitely don't wanna do the codec in this working group with definitely out of Barb Charter. So Okay. It's so it'd be I don't know. And so it'd be under the scope of either seller or something new and Yeah. Probably have not with, but a art don't know exactly where the split would go. Who's this? Seller going. I think I think in our It's staying in our I think sellers are still Yeah. Yeah. And now that one is one of mine. So, But, yes, for this Yeah. Yeah. Yep. Yep. Yep. Yep. Yep. Yep."
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:46:01",
    "text": "Yeah. Murry, we'll we'll have to coordinate anyway. Okay. Thank you. Alright. Spencer, I'll give you the last work. Yeah. to To just just the last thing last thing I wanted to say on that is no matter where a proposal for new work, ends up targeting the model of saying, you know, we want to document what we've got, you know, what's out there and then we want to work on, you know, work on improvements to it. That is the model that was used for seller and would be makes sense for any other working group in that space. Okay. We we did we did FF FFP 1 versions, what, 0 013. And now, we're working on, V Four. Mhmm. We need to wrap this up because we're behind. Yeah. Marissa. Murray, are you still in Kyor today? Just not dropping. Okay. Not have Mozanati. Yeah. So just to coming on what Jonathan mentioned. We we had an IETF working group called Met VC which was gonna look at standardizing a a new, video codec, not lossless or not, high throughput, but you know, generally competing with state of the art compression. And the the work was moved to, alliance for Open Media for nontechnical reasons. And I think, you may wanna, consider the same nontechnical reasons. Although the IETF patent policy is, you know, good for some people. There are even stronger policies to make, more insurance, something is remains royalty free. So may wanna take that in consideration for where where you decide to put this royalty free is a is one of the main main thrusts of this Yeah. I mean, AOM, I I think, you know, I can say that, you know, we've considered that, you know, but but but"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:48:02",
    "text": "wasn't very successful because of many reasons. And I and cannot disclose that because, you know, it's not we can talk offline and see if if if you can be But anyway, yeah, we do need to move on. So But yep. So Yes. Okay. Alright. So anyway, we're Yeah. So thanks Thanks for a great interest. You know, whatever comment you have, you know, feel free to send me. Thank you. Alright. And So JPEG 2000 who's presenting are you presenting that? Pierre. Pierre, are you here remotely? Yep. Can you hear me? Yes. I can. Alright. Great. So thanks for putting this on the Genda. So very quickly, if you go to the next slide, specification updates. So I've, made some progress in, Finding a independent implementer, you know, somebody that's interested in going through the spec and implementing it and kind of, Clean room. So, I was hoping to have something concrete to share with you this this meeting, but, I think you'll have to wait until the next one. But, anyways, so some progress there. And, yeah, I'm also looking forward to moving that, GitHub organization that you've set up. So just let me know If and when and, I'll I'll do that. No more respect there. An existing GitHub repo. We should be able transfer it into. Our organization. That's probably the or if you dialed, I can create 1. We can create 1, and we'll Yeah. I already have a public, GitHub repo that I can transfer. So just know, basically ping I mean, I can just move it tomorrow. I mean, whatever just let me know. Okay. Sure. I need to figure out how that works. So Yeah. But more exciting, maybe, David Tomman, is in the room, and he's he's had a lot of experience while he's one of co authors of the proposed RTP payload, then is Been, deep into hardware implementation and"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:50:00",
    "text": "maybe, maybe, David, I don't know if you have any updates there to share with the group or any thoughts. Yeah. Just just brief updates. So, shortly after the the, recent publication at the end of last year, we released a latest version of our software, which has, has this included, and and source code for that software is available people. It's it's not open source. We have, also we're out in touch with people who are doing open source, Jet 80,000 who might actually be incorporating at least, sort of, reading side of this ITP code that's back into those implementations, And, hardware, yes. So we showed off, a nice working, 4 k solution. We have an 8 k video solution. I 10 gigabits per second, and we're working on solutions up to 16 gigabit It's 16, 16, 16 k video sort of solutions. And so yeah, we showed off, a nice hardware solution in, the ISC event in, in, February in Barcelona. Which, got a lot of people very excited in this, and that's all based upon this format. And my experience in implementing this, of the nice things about the format, the RTP format is that it contains not only error resilience, but it also contains this kind of implicit pointer information inside the payload header. Which allows you in a, in a very low memory application to extract whatever regions you're interested in or whatever. Resolutions you might be interested in from the content. And so you could do that ordinarily by by pre fixing, you know, some sort of a catalog onto the code stream. That's not consistent with low memory and real time. So building that into the RPP payload header works, And, our experience with implementing that is that you can certainly implement for very high throughput streaming solutions without any difficulty both hardware and software so far, might be a set where where, in touch with various people who may be doing independent implementations, that's probably the most important appropriate time to to make it an RFC. So once we have confirmation that the spec is completely completely clear. Excellent. Excellent. Alright. Okay. Thank you. And then and then"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:52:00",
    "text": "for wrap up. I know was one issue that Spencer raised on the list asking what things are likely to need, document shepherd soon because we said we were gonna have document shepherds, other than the chairs, but free which is be a so I guess if you look at the list of what our drafts are. I mean, I think the there were things that we said, we're gonna not we're not going to public right away. Because we wanna wait wanna hold, I guess, s frame and Hard to be over quick. D three c, we need to see what the what's how that shake, how how that happens after the latest working group last call, if we get to something, convert to something, but hopefully that'll convert relatively soon. We'll need it'll need a shepherd Oh, I don't know if want if j2k is gonna be ready to go to working glass call soon. Spencer, did you have something to say? Yeah. I was just saying I continue to, offer to be a executive Shepherd, even if we're not publicing, Ron right away. And I don't know if you're starting a list, but, this might be a good time to corner people Okay. Yeah. Thank you. Like I said, yeah, I'm not sure I'm not sure what we have that's ready for public. Right away, but you for volunteering, and we will certainly reach out to you we have something Althani Acoustin, Hi. Altna from Sysco Meraki. I'm just wondering, could you summarize the responsibilities of a document, shepherd I would like to volunteer if it's okay for, beginners to do that. Yeah. It can often be useful. It's basically it's you there's, list of of things you need to make sure are ready before our document is set to the IES fee,"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:54:02",
    "text": "and then you make sure that you know, as the process goes through, Colin, you might have you wanna speak to this? You might have more to better explanation. I I was gonna make a coworker, Anthony, I would be happy to co do this with you work through it together. That worked for the chairs. Yeah. Sure. Absolutely. Yeah. So, basically, the you know, you sort of it's it's easy. It's easy. And you basically get to keep on top of make sure that you know, if somebody doesn't seem to be responding to the latest email, you nag them and Things like that. So, yeah. all for volunteering. Yeah. Sorry. Yeah. That sounds thank you And we'll definitely Keep that off the chair's plates, which will make the life easier. Other than that, I guess, well, if we need to figure out, need to look at exactly what our action items are. We don't even we have Two things we're supposed to we're supposed to do a adoption call on, which we will I think, I'm sorry. This is why I should be taking better notes. Or any notes We need to do an adoption call on Haptics. I mean, he's doing adoption call on region of interest. I think that might have been the ones we had for adoption call, then We're going to do working with last calls on Somebody remind me. On gonna do work next fall. On RTP over quick, I think, once we have the last things pushed. And then on s frame, but not that those are gonna go immediately to public. I think that was Basically, where we were? Did I forget anything? Yeah, I think we're going to, to do need to do adoption calls on haptics and on region of interest"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:56:02",
    "text": "And we need to do working request calls on Hard to be over quick and s frame once the last few small issues are resolved. And we'll need to check whether there's anything else We need to Resolve. Alright. Thank you all very much. Thank you, Murray, for being our our, responsibility until this time tomorrow. Thank you so much for being our Responsible AD sorting. Tomorrow. As we move. As this working group ends up in its, I believe, 4th area, So are we have been around a long time. You all very much. Thank you, Emerson. I think I think that if, you guys are five areas that make you an ace. Yeah. Something like that. What? You did volunteers. Basically, she volunteered to the you know,"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:58:29",
    "text": "rounds lot of things"
  }
]
