[
  {
    "startTime": "00:00:00",
    "text": "Thank you I don't think of more Intensity of the other people It's going to go on Yeah, yeah to be at the time Thank you. Thank you We're going to be Thank you Thank you. Thank you Thank you Thank you very much"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:02:00",
    "text": "We go first Thank you for five Thank you How is it? I have a lot of 18 specific Thank you very much of, yeah, I'll do that Thank you Nice new on the city and some of the others Please go back the of the future. It's a thing for it. It's an issue. I know that So, I'm sorry Thank you, man go Thank you Hello, hello everybody Sorry, we were chatting, so we are late. So welcome to the LISP working group group Yes, it's working"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:04:00",
    "text": "So to catch up with the time, this is the not well as usual it it says what is supposed to be a contribution to the AIETF which more or less is everything we discuss here and in the corridors, drinking and enjoying our coffee There is also the code of contact in a certain way this has been shown a around for a while as well, the fact that we we treat each other with respect okay and we have just technical discussion, nothing more Okay. If you didn't do it, yet, please lock on the mythical system. You can click on the onsite tool so you have a didn't do it yet, please log on the mythical system. You can click on the on-site tool, so you have it on your phone. You are allowed also to use the full client even if you are in the room, but don't share you audio don't share your your video because we don't need it. We have it here okay These are the usual pointers concerning our meeting, so the agenda the minutes we will do it and the various out meetings, so the agenda, the minutes, we will do it, and the various audio stream, the mythical links, and the Zulli Proof okay Before actually going to the status, because we want to spend a little bit of time on the status Today the agenda is like this, so we will discuss a little bit on the status on the various documents okay. Then we have two presentations about two working group documents, so the reliable transport at the young model And then there will be somehow cut the slides so there is a bottom of the slide is cut I don't know why It's a form of issue. Is there any? way to adjust it"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:06:00",
    "text": "No OK, not be deal. Anyway, um Dino will present three not yet working group documents Two are the best documents that are in I mean the chapter is the fact that we want to bring us on standard track, the multicast document that we have And there is a third multicast document for now is an individual submission, which is supposed to complete a little bit the multicast saga, I would say okay so unless the are any comments on this agenda I go one slide back in order to to have a look at the status of the various documents It's real, man guess I can go back one slide This is the, if you look on the Datatracker this is what we have right now, okay so you know that first we have the list of TE, so it's traffic engineering but ma you were working with dino right on this one one So we finish the review for the list traffic engineering and Dino I did address all the concerns that we have so far. I am presenting I'm preparing rather the shepherd document at this point and we do have to do a couple of things about the IPRs and there's also an INA pointer that we have we have to actually have a we have a request in the doc, but we need to make that offer"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:08:00",
    "text": "if not already done At this point, I would like to have a working group last call. I think the document has been around for quite some time, and it's pretty major, unless anybody has a already done. At this point, I would like to have a working group last call. I think the document has been around for quite some time and it's pretty major, unless anybody has any objections about that Great. I think we will do it on the mailing list after the this week Then we have the list name encoding. So this is already in the I IESG hands and he went through IETF last call where a couple of people pointed out that this document uses ASCII for the to encode the names and should use UTF but was not clear what are the changes that we should do to the document So this is in the telechette at some point we hope to have good directions, more specific direction, and Jim, I think, wants to say something. Yeah, hey it's jim yeah so i've been following that with interest as well and I got to be on honest, I'm kind of a little stumped and I got the impression that Dino is, too, in terms of what we need to do Because even the UTFA has its issues and so I don't know if Dino's around but I'm not sure what is thought on. Yeah, Dino uh what is thought is in there one yeah dino it would be great if you can give some thoughts on that i mean obviously it's on the tele chat week after next, I think. So, you know, I'm going to push it as best i can but um i guess we need resolution to that. But as I said, in the email thread, it wasn't clear to me how we actually resolved that unless you saw something that I didn't which is quite"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:10:00",
    "text": "likely Okay, this is Dina. Jim, so I addressed all their comments except for the one that we're talking about Yeah. And they want it to be Unicode slash UTF8, but they were already on which the right reference for it. So we could change it to UTF 8 because they say Askey's compatible with that, but they can't agree on the reference and they won't provide text So we're at kind of a crossroads. So some is compatible with that but they can't agree on the reference and they won't provide text so we're at kind of a crossroads so somebody somebody needs to break the deadly embrace Okay, well, I can probably, do that during the let's see what the IA to break the deadly embrace. Okay, well I can probably do that during the, let's see what the IESG reviews come back with and on the telechap I'll I'll bring this up and if there's no objections then I'll I'll just um you know go go with that but um there obviously won't be a reference if they can't agree upon it. So I'm not going to allow jon peterson to hold up the document I was about to add exactly this point I mean, this is IETF last call and there are just two people that we're talking about themselves in a certain way, that I understand the point I understand the point, but I mean to block a document and we have already implemented with us, I mean, that. Right, so with see what the IESG says you know, in terms of balloting, and then if, if see what the IESG says, you know, in terms of balloting. And then if it's an issue on the telly, if it's not an issue on the tele chat then I'm inclined to let it move forward So, so let's just see what comes back with that Jim, this is, you know if they just say we need to point to something, ask them to provide text so we don't have to keep going back and forth. Right give us the reference. And if they just want a global replace of ASCII with UTFA pointing to those reference then we could do that. But make sure they give us something"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:12:00",
    "text": "rather than we try something they say no we try something again they say no right because at the moment yeah, at the moment, as far as our remember, they can't agree between them what the right reference is Okay Okay. Yeah. Yeah, I did got my eyes on it so it's not being ignored. So I just wanted to let the working group know that I'm aware of what's going on and, you know, I'll do my best and see what, let's see what the ballot is says. And then we'll go from there okay thank you yep Okay, next in the list is the lisp geo Well, how about geo coordinates? We have here Kyr, and this is shepherding the document Can you say a word on the state of this document? Hi, Kieran, I reviewed this document and I found it in a pretty good stable state and Dino also followed back with answering my review comments. So I'm pretty happy with the document There are a couple of things remaining I think IPR call is still pending on the document and the IANR registration thing. That still needs to be done, right? No, no, you think but we can double check anyway but you have to do something about it it's all to be there okay so that's good I need to update my document to reflect that then so i do have yeah please please i do have two questions for you it's mostly out of my curiosity. The two comments did not satisfy my curiosity. One was"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:14:00",
    "text": "about the use of terminology geopolitics So the document I could not find any reference of geopoint. And the reason I so the document I could not find any reference of geopoint and the reason I'm picky about it because we are using a term which will be used globally not just specific to this talk document and my concern is about why do we have geo prefix in front of point, like, why do we call geo point? Rest of the documents, just outside literature, just use the term point for defining a point which is described by a geo-coordinate Zedino. So Geo Point is in the glossary section and the reason the spec introduces GeoPoint, which is a GPS coordinate, as you say, is to differentiate it from a geo prefix so we can build a a GPS coordinate as you say is to differentiate it from a geo prefix so we can build us a geo prefix is a sphere where you have a radius, and then with the mask length, you can decide how large the sphere is. And a geo- a geo-prefix is a sphere where you have a radius and then with the mask length you can decide how large the sphere is and a geo-point is testing any point that's in that sphere. So the point is the actual GPS coordinate in a kind of structure, you know, either to two-dimensional or sphere when you use altitude Yes so that makes sense and I kind of understood it The only question is geopoint is the term which is used in this document not us yeah okay And second thing was I made a comment about the reserve flag, and I mean, if you have added it there must be something in your mind that how it could be used in future because there is no reason for alignment or other reasons that you would need to add this flag so and then from the backward compatibility perspective let's say you want to extend that reserve space for something else You have to update the document anyway So do you see any backward compatibility issues? again? so the beginning of that 32-bit field has a bunch of"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:16:00",
    "text": "bit fields and we wanted it to be by the line, because I forgot what the field is after that So that's why we just put it reserved And so to reflect your comment, I said that we reserve field could be used in the future to add more bit fields so we have more room to extend it And if we do it, then we have to have a compatibility statement Yeah, I think that pretty much covers my doubts. I'll update the Sheffat document to reflect the IAN, I think, and should be okay from my side there. Thanks. So we can go for working group Lasco as well well after this meeting apparently okay thank you The next two in land which have been discussed at the reviewed since the last meeting is the reliable transport and the young model but we will have the presentation right after this introduction so we don't need to talk about that. There is only one additional thing so we need to work on the LCAF B's documents We know that Anton Smilnov proposed to take care of that, but then we didn't follow up, so we don't have really an update on those documents We will do it. I mean, we will be busy with these others and there is also the LISDT and LISPN document DDT is just a BIS document moving to standard track so that we have the allocation The NUT document has been around for a while. We asked Albert Cabellos to be the editor of of these documents, but we are waiting his reply because he said I'm not sure if I have funding to attend the IT"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:18:00",
    "text": "in the next two years I'll come back to you. So we are waiting Let's see if he replies or we need the order funding to attend the IETF in the next two years, I'll come back to you. So we are waiting. Let's see if he replies or we need to find another editor for those documents we will see and I think that's it for from this side so I think we can go to Mark that we'll present an update on the reliable transport Mark, you are online, you want to share the deck here yourself or I'll do it for you? Can you? share it? I hope you can hear me Yes, you want for me to share it? Yes, please here we go okay so yeah, we are just pro providing an update on the progress of the reliable transport draft The version online is still 04. During the week we'll update with version 05. Next slide, please Okay, so the updates that happened during this time, four and now five, is that we got a very thorough review for working group, thanks Luigi, Panama The review was quite detailed and it identified multiple sections that had if you want enacted language and not very well-rafted descriptions We've been working on cleaning up all these sections and yeah, simplify text wherever possible But the other interesting part of these updates is that this review also brought some interesting points that we thought would be worth discussing with the working group in the call and this is what the rest of the presentation will be about Next slide, please"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:20:00",
    "text": "please Okay, the first point of discussion is the that we have discussed sometimes is how do we establish or how do we decide to establish a reliable transport? What the document has right now is, as you know, we all start with the regular UDP registration and what we define in the document is we use the R bit to signal that the ETR signals the intention. I want to switch to reliable transport and the map server accepts if you want this switch through using the RVit again in the Map Notify but one thing that we are clarifying in this version of the document is that this RVit is only about the intent to establish reliable detention not about the protocol that the ETR wants to use to establish this session, okay? if you go to the next session, either the next slide, sorry So what this means is that with the RV what we are introducing is something called serialization delay I think this work came from Dino dino in one of the reviews The catch here is that initially after the acknowledgement, the ETR doesn't know what protocol to use. So once the the switch to the session is not accepted, DTR will go and depending on what's locally supported or configured, we'll try protocols one by one until the map server accepts and this is the serialization delay We had this text in one of the previous versions, but in version three after group, group discussion, we removed all the alternative to TCP in the document"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:22:00",
    "text": "and after removing that, we also removed this text on how to choose the protocol, because now the ETR only has one option but and I think this question came from Batman is this maybe an occasion or an opportunity to discuss whether we need a capability exchange mechanism in Lyft? One use case would be this one, right? signaling which protocols are supported for a reliable transport. But I don't know if there are other instances or other drugs that would you see think would require something like this. And it's a question that I leave at there. Maybe at the end we can discuss Okay. Next slide, please okay okay Patma one of the uh motivations behind this comment for me was also about deployment because when we start deploying this feature, you might actually end up well some of them understanding only UDP or TCP and whether you wanted to actually do an exchange of capabilities but also with a preference so that you do not the previous version I'm I read was they're going to try one or the other and one of them will come up. So you, there's no deterrent about which one is going to get chosen So what I what I was trying to bring up is that, first of all, there's a backward compatibility problem if you don't have a capacity exchange. Number two you will not have a determinism on which one got chosen in the future so I thought that it changed an exchange of a capability might be a good way, saying that there is a preference maybe you may want one or the other"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:24:00",
    "text": "but at least have a way of making this transition seamless as possible. That was the motivation behind. But I will like to their working group comment on this I would like to to add a comment for me it's also a method of extensibility. The fact that we don't use another reliable protocol it's pretty fine but as you in the future someone wants to use something else how do you extend Lisp in other? to do it? okay that's the question doesn't mean that in the document to you i have a really to solve the problem if you want to use quick for the example but at least say if you want to extend you have to do something like this but this is out of the scope of the document document I agree with you, Luigi, I think having the octet to be able to do it is more important Daryl. Hi, Daryl Lewis I can't. Just wanted to mention that of course, in the original intuition of this document, like a decade ago, TCP was kind of the only assumed transport protocol that we were imagining but I think that given the prevalence of other protocols like quick that may provide the same services to the to the client that it's probably reasonable to allow for that in the future. Personally, I don't think that a capabilities exchange is required given the amount of other bits because you could imagine describing other reserved bits to four other protocols and given that we're talking about less than five ever probably then it seems to be overweight could be a solution yeah yeah i know i'm just saying that that we're talking about less than five ever probably then it seems to be overweight could be a solution. Yeah, yeah, I know. I'm just saying that there's other bits to add that in the future if needed. Thanks do you know you were to add some. Yeah, this is Dino to your point. Quick is coming. So we have a"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:26:00",
    "text": "glimpse of the future. I would also say one other thing and if you're gonna allocate bits per pro, Dino, to your point. Quick is coming, so we have a glimpse of the future. I would also say one other thing. And if you're going to allocate bits per protocol, let's allocate three of them, TCP, Q quick, and multicast quick, because you may wanna to send reliable, multicast, reliable messages to more than one map server. That would scale really nicely so you don't have to replicate So I think Daryl's suggestion is a really good one Thank you Okay, Mark, I switch the slide Okay, next slide. Are we going to update? the version 5 with this suggestion? suggestion? Let's discuss it maybe in the So do you think it's final? you prefer to go with the bits We can do that yeah okay we can even ask the question on the mailing list. I mean, the discussion when this way it has been suggested this Does anybody disagree? And if not and you, the authors, you agree, then we go for it. Okay. Sounds like okay um Yeah, next part of the discussion in the review was about the use of the words withdrawal and rejection in the draft As of today, the draft uses the word free to indicate that, for example, when I'm upset server receives the map register that it's rejected I'll explain that data and uses the word withdraw when I'm mapping that was stored on the map server for some reason is removed or lost okay as part of the comments it well, what was indicated that these words gave give the impression that the map server suddenly becomes also"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:28:00",
    "text": "authoritative over these mappings but that's not exactly the intention of the draft. It's more of about compensating for the fact that once we have the reliable transport mapping are permanent, let's say, right? the DTR sends a registration to the map server and now the idea is that map server and an ETR are in sync, the state of the two is in sync, right? And the refra reject, withdrawal, all this is about covering the diversion state between the two and how things evolve. If you go to the next slide slide Yeah, for example, trying to give an example, right? map server, let's say it's not configured yet to accept registration and even instant ID That's when the document uses the word reject the ETR sends a registration so it's okay. It's DZID and ID. That's when the document uses the word rejected. The ETR sends a registration, so it's okay. It's DZID with this instance ID. The map server is not ready. It says, okay, I'm not ready to accept this and it rejects. Or maybe the second example, right, a reliable session between the two is down the mappings that were ready registered before we used using this reliable transport or withdrawn from the map server that's when the the word withdraw is used. Or that's the intention of the document It gave us the impression that either the examples were not very well given, so we are cleaning up this part and detailing more these examples But the open question for the group is, do you think this? two words are not the right ones? We should use something else"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:30:00",
    "text": "Is this a confusion? use of these two terms? that gives the impression that we are transferred? an authoritative role from one to the other? other? I can explain my opinion, I will just speak. But myself can express my opinion for myself I mean for me the words are okay when I read the draft this just it was unclear and what you just show in the last two slides is fine, as long as it is mirrored in the draft. Okay, okay then we'll include this um this If I remember, well, this is Patma, if I remember well, there was one concern I have uh regarding this and especially when you talk about the rangers is how these rangers affect and create holes or not What I think I would suggest, and you know it's just a suggestion is that to have more examples of how this will work so that we don't leave it too undefined that we may have multiple people interpreting it differently If I remember right, there was a question of whether you're having a long map or short or and how is this really going to affect what it is. So if you can give some examples in the dark, that will help. Okay yeah. We have some, we have included some, let's see how they look and we can extend more. Okay, next slide Okay then there were some comments about registration refresh is this is a message that has gone through some back and forth in the mailing list But as you know, registration refresh is a message initiated on the map server to trigger a refresh of registrations"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:32:03",
    "text": "What the intention of this message is to be used on a certain list of triggers like after a reliable session is initialized after a config change on the on the map server so that it can accept more mappings when there is an information loss on the map server What we tried to do in the next version, is to clarify a little bit more the use of this message through these examples I think by now this message has been very useful in the implementation and has been working well. We're trying to reflect this on appropriately on the draft draft But yeah, I think the this on appropriately on the draft. But, but yeah, I think there's not much of a question here just wanted to point that please read the next version and let us know if the usage of this refresh message is is the refresh message is clear. Next slide Yeah, now the steam machine. Yeah the steam machine, right? Yeah, the sentence of the state machine is the description is very hard to follow and we agree it's very hard to follow. We're working on a simplified description or representation of this machine. We're following one of your suggestions to split it in two the transitions between UDP and Relief transport and and then to follow the states of the mappings within once we are in reliable transport mode Maybe the question for the group here is if you have any RFC that you like we're more or less big state machines is described could you share it with us so that we can follow the example?"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:34:00",
    "text": "This, yeah, to be honest, this has been the reason we've delayed this update because it's kind of complicated to rewrite this this Okay, so next one And one last one is on ayana's racist trees the the current version of the draft specifies a registry request for the message types introduced in the document But there is no request for the message codes associated to these messages, right? And there was this comment that should we ask for requests of registries for these codes? Yeah, a question for the working group is do we need to? The types is enough or we should do a request also for each one of them codes? No, okay, I'll leave the question here And the next one Yeah, and this is what we already talked about do we need capability exchange message looks like we are reverting to using bits we'll ring it up to the mailing list And that's it, yeah, next slide, thanks to the last one Yeah, and we'll update version 5 this week okay thank you for the Iiana section I don't have the issue on top of my mind, but I will look at it and suggest whether to go one way or the other okay awesome Any other question or comments from the room? room? No, so thank you again, Mark. Thank you"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:36:00",
    "text": "There is a pointer there you can use it to switch yourself the slide light. This? Yeah. Wow, technology Hi, I'm Rashad. I'm going to be presenting on behalf of all the authors The slides were prepared by Alberto, but he could not present since he's not here Okay, so we got I think, three sets of comments on the mailing list, end of last year, beginning of this year, and this is an update on the comments comments so med provided good set of comments The base list specs are all outdated you know, asking for just justifications, use of Ianna module security considerations for the due coordinates, some yeah specifying stuff, like, you know, should we be using the grouping? from RFC 9179 There's an inappropriate types and some editorial stuff So anyway I'll talk about next steps a bit later Those were the comments from Tom Petch. Abstract is a bit sparse, so we'll have to beef that up License again, the editorial stuff is out there from what I remember There was a switch from in the last previous in the last version from using enums to identity Tom suggesting that we reconciled to use enums again the IP addresses were using our to use enums again. The IP addresses were using are, I think, of an incorrect form and then a bunch of victorial stuff, ID reference, reference clause, and a bunch of Those were the comments from Drew Clark, Yang Doctor"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:38:00",
    "text": "The regics will have to revisit. I think we're allowing stuff which we do Drew Clark, Yang Doctor. The regics will have to revisit. I think we're allowing stuff which we don't want to allow. And then there's a bunch of editorial stuff, you know, normalizing use P. Yang, capitalization, copyright, etc He also provided feedback from the comments that made provided. So that's the question update on the comments we got. The plan now is for Alberta and myself to address the comments ASAP. I think that document has been around for a long time and I don't know there's been any discussions if the next step after that is what working group last call or there's some absolutely we are waiting for that Well, I know then we were waiting for all the other disc docs to go through so that's my excuse anyway I think this is it. Any questions? questions? Thank you. So I was going to suggest something because this document is a big document and I really want to help So I was going to suggest to the working group is that we have a number of documents with our advancing at the same time so that whether it is during the Shepherd's review or the review to actually couple that with also reviewing the yang section that you are working on So I think that would help for any kind of discrepancies or any kind of discussions so that all the documents will hand in hand, you know, and go work together So that may have been some of your concerns No, it'd be really good. I mean, reviewing Yang, how can anybody wish you? will hand in hand, you know, and go work together. So that may have been some of your concerns. No, it'd be really good. I mean, reviewing Yang, how can anybody refuse that? So it should be great okay thank you Thank you Thank you very much"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:40:03",
    "text": "You can control from there Hi, I'm Dino. I'm going to give an update on the multicast standards track document status, and I have about a dozen internet drafts of my own that I'm trying to make a decision on in the next, well, immediately Okay, so the agenda for this talk is a give a status of the standards track documents for multicast, look at some other documents and describe the set of three multi- documents and how their functionality is split logically among documents. And then quickly at the end, just go through my documents and what my intention are for them So, RFC 6831 was built and moved experimental back in 2013. That was basically the sister of 6830, which was the main list, data plane document. This is the multicast equipment It's a pretty long document and has a lot of design and details it's 28 pages that's the one that the Charter says we want to put stand tracked so with permission from the chairs they said, go ahead and create an individual submission called Farinacchi rfc 6830 BIS, and we will then turn that into a working group documents so we could start the standardization process. I'd like to do that immediately if that's okay. The other multicast, document is the signal free document I'll describe what each of those are, but the signal-free document, 83-7 is pretty much the same status as the other one where we created a fair enough 83-78 bis, and we want to turn that into a working group document so we could start the standardization progress as well and I'd like to have that done immediately as well"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:42:00",
    "text": "There is, you accept the question now. Sure. In the Q queue. Go for, yeah, sure. So, please go ahead Wasn't the question, thanks Dean Juan Luigi. It wasn't a question, it's just a clarification to what just Dino said The 6831 is a large document It does describe all the LISP scenarios. What has been added to the 6831 Bistraft is the head-end replication part of it which wasn't present in 6831 I'm not following Can you repeat the question? It's not clear Maybe you speak up a little bit. We have Oh, I'm sorry. I'm sorry. It wasn't a question It's a clarification. Am I audible now? Your voice is not intelligent so we want you to repeat Okay You know? Okay repeat okay you know yes okay okay so it's more a clarification uh to say that uh 6831 bisdraft contains text for hidden replication which 6831 did not contain This is what I should I think we should do, Prasad. Can you type in your question in the chain? and then we'll have Luigi read it and just let me, why don't I just continue and then we can take it Yeah, please, is that okay? Type the question on the chat and I will relate to it. To D. Steve Oh, did you understand? Just say, I think it's said that the Bistraft content contains tech on head-end replication that is not there in the non-BIS draft It's what? replication that is not there in the non-Bist draft. It's uh what that's what I think it said I don't understand what does what depends on header replica he said that the BIS version contains text on header replication or ingress replication"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:44:00",
    "text": "That's what 8378 does, yes He Oh that was not in 68 originally. Right, okay, so I think I know it for some wants to say. Okay, so we put updates into the BISD document to indicate that the Arloaks doesn't have to map from the EID to Arloch G that it could also contain a Unicast Arloak set, which means head end replication would be done, yes, correct Did we get that right, Prasad? Okay. Okay said yes say the yes. Okay. Keep going Yeah, I get it. Okay. Next slide It's not advancing So we have this draft, VDAS is basically Prasad Nye Prasad, Mi, Ashwin, and Stig. That's what VDAS stands for the four authors. And it's a group mapping We want to make that a working group document because we think this completes the set of three documents that are necessary. And I'll explain that on the next slide. However, we want this doc, this to be a experimental RFC and it turns out that this document points to both the BIS doc documents, but those BIS documents do not point that way so we can move the standardization up forward Okay, next So let me just do a refresher on those set of three documents So 6831 defines how you run overlay multicast on underlay Native Multicast. Okay, and we also added that you could put an Arloak set that has"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:46:00",
    "text": "an underlay multi-cast also coupled with Unicast addresses. And that's basically already documented 8378 as well The key differences between 6830 and 8378 is we call one a signal-based approach in 6830 which means we use FIM on the XT to signal group membership across the underlay and through the underlay where 8378 uses the mapping system to do describe where the receivers are. So that's the fundamental difference of both And it's 8378 We introduced that the Arloak set could contain both Unicast and Multicast Arloaks, where we thought that in 60s, it could do the same thing, so now they're both consistent And that was what Prasad's comment was about Next. Now this list group mapping, I presented this in Prague, but basically what the draft does it formalizes what G is supposed to mean So normally if, on the overlay, if you're running a group G, that's an EID and all the other draft We said that the underlay G was exactly the same address. So what we're doing now, is we're just distinguishing saying there's a G-E-I-D and a G Rloak, if you will And so we formalized the terminology to say that the over state is S-E-I-D that sends to G G-E-I-D and that the underlay has an S-R-Locke, which is the XTR that's encapsulating, and it could send it to a UnicastR R-Loke or a G R-Locke. So how do you match the outer G to the inner G is the next slide? slide? okay so we had two mechanisms we had a hash based mechanism where all the XTRs could do it independent of them mapping system where they just hash the GEI to get a GR-Loke And in that case, it's the XTRs that have the policy"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:48:00",
    "text": "and the control of what underlay group is being used if service providers or the underlay operator wants to have control, then we decided to use the mapping system to find out what the mapping is. So if you had a GEID of 224-111-1, you could then put in the mapping system a distinguished name of group 24-1-1-1, and it can map to an Arloque of, say, 225-1-1-1 and that's what it would be used on the underlay and that would be within the group allocation range of what the underlay provider would want to use use Okay, any questions on that going forward with those three doctors? documents? I will be honest so there is no issue for me to go forward. It's just on the mailing list our mailing list is, let's say, a little bit sloppy. So open five calls at the same time wouldn't work So it's just a matter of timing. We will do it right after this week the one after another in order to progress all the documents including so you want the request to come at one time or you want it serial no no No, no, serialize, to serialize because otherwise we're not going to work So you're saying wait on these or come with 68? first and 80? No, no, no, no wait but we will do it in the coming weeks i mean no it's just uh okay come with 6831 first and 80? No, no, no, wait, but we will do it in the coming weeks. I mean, it's just this. Okay. So I have no action item to send anything on the mailing how you can ask for reviews on the mailing list in the meantime yeah yeah yeah ten years So reviews continue to be requested Fair enough. So should I move the documents to from Faranacci an individual submissions to ID No, no, no, you just waited right now. We're waiting issue the call on the mailing list and then we'll documents from Farinacci and individual submissions to ID? No, no, no. You just wait right now. We will issue the call on the mailing list and then we will tell you when to submit the IETF 00. It's just"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:50:00",
    "text": "will not be on Monday, that's the point, but we'll be so okay thank you okay so I have a bunch of individual drafts that I'm responsible for that nobody else is off authoring, so I wanted to go through them really quick And the three green ones are the ones we just talked about so we can skip over that. But we have the two yellow ones the Lispers.net implementation is under IC review and it's going to come up for reconsideration in August And so we're going to let Elliot figure out what's the next step. And I think he's going to work with the chairs on that And the working group chairs said that since mapping systems are no longer in the new charter, that the list deced, thing either has to fade away, cannot be become a working group document or make it impact informational RFC. So that's why it's marked yellow. So we're going to have Elliott look at that as well The telemetry draft and the mobile network draft, I'm going to let time out and expire because I'm tired of updating it The mobile network draft is how lists works on 3GPP, if you remember the the ITU days up here and when we went there to doing that. So I'm going to let that time out because 3GP is not interested in it, and it looks like the working group does want to do anything with it. It was basically putting LISB on E node Bs and UPF devices in the 3GP network. So those will time out I'm not going to update those and then I the satellite network one is relatively new And I would like to keep that alive, but I'm not sure what to do with that. So I need help from the chairs or the working group to decide what to do with the satellite draft I have a question on this. Do you think can be included in the document about use cases that we are supposed to publish at the end? I mean,"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:52:00",
    "text": "so you see... It talks about protocol operations but it doesn't define anything new. So the use cases is satellite, and then there are also technical details how to make it work Yeah. Could be included in that one. How long is the spec? 19 pages I don't know. Somebody else is going to have to do it I can't I see your point yeah but let's think about it could be an option Okay, next slide So this is just me giving my opinion about the drafts that are working group drafts And the green ones are already in the pipeline and everybody's talked about that. So that great, the green ones The ones down here, the LIS mobile nodes the red ones, the VPN, and the list Perspective, those are really important documents and they need to be resubmitted because they've already exposed And I just put some names back to I thought who could kind of be take champion of that mark well let's see the list mobile note draft, it was Darryl Dave, and me were the authors and that's gonna not be the case anymore I mean we're not going to be actively working on it so somebody needs to pick up that document. Mark is excellent because he knows the EID mobility. He's responsible for EID mobility, so he'd be a likely candidate to support that. But there's nothing to do rather than editorial work. So I don't, there's no design work that needs to be done there. But it, um, it a working group document and we just need commentary on it The VPN draft was always, owned by Victor, and so we need somebody to look at the VPN draft and Mark very familiar with that and is contributed, and he's a co-author so I thought he would be a good one. The list perspective I thought I mean given Luigi's history with Les"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:54:00",
    "text": "with that and has contributed and he's a co-author. So I thought he would be a good one. The Liszt perspective I thought, I mean given Luigi's history with LISP, that that might be a suggestion as well And then for the blue ones, LISN Mexicans being worked on EID Mobility is Mark. I don't know who can do reliable. Well, a lot of transport is NIA Nyang. We already talked about that. That's in process But those aren't my documents, but I think they're covered by the working room. So I don't know what people think about that, but it's just my opinion and my suggestions on where to go forward. Because I'm going to retight soon. That was what the last slide was about about So usually the chairs do not are not authors of the documents. So this may be because we are, let's say, in a kind of a closure of the whole work, we may discuss with Jim and see if we can do that. I mean, so so Okay. That's it. Done Yep Thank you very much, Dina So wow we have five minutes paired It's very rare, usually we are at the very last minute. So does anybody any other business that wants to ride? or discuss, Russia? I have a question. I just overheard you saying that chairs can't be author of documents do I hear you properly so yeah yeah it's not exactly like that um just overheard you saying that chairs can't be authors of documents. Do I hear you properly? So, no, it's not exactly like that. If I take over a document, it's I'm the one pushing it the main out of This is kind of a conflict, right? And usually you don't do that. You quote the documents, but is someone else that champions the documents"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:56:00",
    "text": "You see, usually that there are corner cases which this is one I mean we are a pretty small working group The documents are there, it's just editorials so if Jim agrees, we we can do it okay yeah but because i was asking i mean i've had this happened to the working group i could co-chair, and basically the other co-chair was the main author of a document, and he basically, had no say in any yeah yeah this happen to the working group I co-chair and basically the other co-chair was the main author of a document and he basically had no say in anything so anyway the other co-chair was the main author of a document and he basically had no say in any yeah yeah yeah anything so anyway yeah just to yeah yeah just to follow up Luigi it's perfectly fine as long as your co-chair actually does the call on consensus. Yeah, yeah, absolutely Luckily, we don't have any So we are fine Okay. That case, thank you very much for coming and see you in Dublin Right. Thanks everyone"
  }
]
