[
  {
    "startTime": "00:00:33",
    "text": "[Music] yeah yeah however you want I didn\u0027t all right welcome to music at IETF 100 so sherry today by myself and Ari you know a blast from the past here so it\u0027s not I guess I gotta get closer can you hear alright so welcome to music IETF 100 chaired by myself funny injuries in re Karen again Bowl couldn\u0027t make it this time sorry has kindly agreed to step in and help us out note well statement I guess you\u0027re all familiar with that one if not please take a close look administrative stuff we have the blue sheet circling around I guess you guys know how that works so we don\u0027t have to go over that getting help "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:03:33",
    "text": "we already have two note takers identified so thank you for that the Jap ascribe is well thank you Jonathan so we had that covered too as always when you speak please make sure to use the microphone and state your name we do have a remote participant so using the microphone in particular is important otherwise they can\u0027t hear you just a general requests for people to please help out with document reviews the energy level in the group is not all that high and we\u0027ve had several documents that we\u0027ve gone through working group task calls on and we have got very very limited feedback from from the group in some cases no feedback at all we really need some participation and even if you\u0027ve looked at it and you don\u0027t have any comments please just send a note to that effect and keep in mind if you don\u0027t review anybody else\u0027s documents you\u0027re probably not gonna get your own documents reviewed either it\u0027s a two-way street so just to please everybody you know please spend a little bit of time on that it doesn\u0027t take that long our agenda here today introduction and status update I will just go over where the various documents are at and what it looks like in terms of the arts you see what dependencies that we have and then there\u0027s some open issues that have come up in simulcast and some of them actually affect the writ draft as well so we only call out simulcast here but it\u0027s really both simulcast and grid that are being affected by this ah that is the proposed agenda let me ask if anybody has any comments on the agenda I see you know so let\u0027s just continue into the working group status in terms of published RFC\u0027s we don\u0027t have any but we got several documents that have nominated into the OFC editor queue basically waiting for other normative reference documents to work their way through so I think the good news here is that we\u0027re getting a lot closer to actually getting a lot of these dependencies resolved we have two requests for publication right now actually we only have one but it shows to you right now so you know wait we submitted yesterday in the apparently very naive hope that we could move it forward that way as the discussion today will show you know that was a little too optimistic so that I don\u0027t know if it already has been pulled back but it\u0027s not it\u0027s being pulled back okay it will be pulled back from that shortly but hopefully it\u0027s just a very short and temporary setback while we discuss the issues here today and then get some updates in trigger lies sip on the other hand that should be fine so that\u0027s moving forward the ice working group is moving forward will trickle eyes as well so we\u0027ve seen good progress there too and we have the ice cream group Koecher here as well so if anybody has any questions on that I\u0027m sure we can cover that 4566 bits that is ready to move forward as well that\u0027s just basically up to the Sherratt which is me to get to review and the write-up but we don\u0027t expect any issues "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:06:34",
    "text": "there so that\u0027s ready to move forward in terms of working groups of consensus documents we had the data channel SDP neck document which the Shepherd I did a review of and asked for some changes and the author team on that document is virtually non-existent at this point and they have agreed that they need help so we are looking for a volunteer that can help move that document forward I mean it says it\u0027s essentially done at this point but the authors just don\u0027t either have the cycle is or the energy so if anybody is willing to step up we would greatly appreciate that if not I mean hmm STP net yeah data channel STP neck can I get bit after the meeting I\u0027ll check out if I can do that okay Ronnie you said there might be able does I think we have a dependency on that in clue okay so so sorry Ronnie are you volunteering or you saying maybe just okay that would be great yeah okay any other volunteers if Ronnie is not able to do that Crysta I\u0027m available after bundle is done that\u0027s all I can say all right that would be fantastic so anybody interested in SDP neck you know make sure you don\u0027t put any roadblocks up for fun boys all right all right simulcast we\u0027ll talk about that one today but hopefully that should be moving forward pretty soon I sip SDP there was one comment from the working group last call we\u0027re still trying to get the author to respond to that one but hopefully that won\u0027t require a whole lot so we can move that one forward the working group last call has completed and again the corresponding specification and ice 52:45 Biss eyes essentially ready to move forward there as well so we don\u0027t foresee any issues with that and of course we got bundle which Krister is working his way through addressing the the last set of comments there\u0027s been several pull requests that have been circulated on the list already if you haven\u0027t taken a look at them you know please do we work in Google ask all this document several times already so you know hopefully we don\u0027t have to do that again but yeah please do take a look at those pull requests because we want to move this document forward sooner rather than later as well other working group tasks that are not in the agenda are already covered MSRP use its data channel same issue as with the data channel STP neck document we need to data channel STP neck document first so we haven\u0027t put a lot of emphasis on this one but again and I forgot to check actually whether this is an RTC with dependency or not but if "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:09:36",
    "text": "anybody\u0027s interested in is not okay okay all right so that so that might be less of an issue but we are in the same situation essentially the authors do not have time slash energy to pursue this document right now so if anybody\u0027s interested in moving this forward we need somebody to help out a new author on this document so I\u0027ll ask for volunteers here again and you know we\u0027ll repeat that request in the minutes as well okay thanks mr. um quick quick question on so also some dependency that we shouldn\u0027t note in the notes on the MSRP draft there were a few comments that I not sure I\u0027d captured and rollin it\u0027s a free GBP dependencies on the 3gpp dependency list we have references to it is there a date a particular date that you want to see met for that well yesterday it\u0027s really it\u0027s released 14 which is a frozen release so okay I mean it\u0027s not release 12 which is the baseline RTC web stuff so I you are you a stakeholder meaning would you be willing to not me personally okay all right so I think it\u0027s one the companies that cares about this needs to provide a name okay a theme that\u0027s been a victim of the alcatel-lucent Nokia merger basically yeah there has been some issues there all right opportunistic negotiation we are having some discussion with the authors right now and offline as to whether this document should have a proper offer answer considerations sections in it or not I think that discussion is though ongoing offline so we\u0027ll see what happens there but we think hopefully that should be you ready to move forward without too much further work at least Jonathan yeah wasn\u0027t there also some harmonics let\u0027s now some discussion that the assembly I forgot the name of the other working group the the well it\u0027s a brandy graph which is basically the same thing yeah wasn\u0027t there some discussion of whether those two documents should be merged I feel like there might have been but I don\u0027t remember and then I don\u0027t know what group would do it yeah so we split it out of that other document the issue is that said Brandis not chartered to do anything normative so instead of reach our Turing said Brandi what we did was we send some things to to music we could undo that but we\u0027re just going in circles yeah I mean I don\u0027t have any problem I mean what working group does it I just feel like they\u0027re being I don\u0027t see that important being to documents it\u0027s not helpful anybody I think I mean I might say take the whole sip brandy document throw it over here but it\u0027s about having some of it in that document some of this document splits up all like the "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:12:36",
    "text": "instructions to people in a way that I think is not very clear Krista yes I don\u0027t really care if if we had two documents Asajj even though I would agree with Jonathan says I\u0027m the one who raised this and my problem is really that that none of the documents contain the offer answer the see brandy document is first of all it\u0027s an informative document and the only thing it has is an example and an offer example or something like that there are no offer answer procedures and that drafts if Brandis draft says please look in this draft for the details in this draft there is nothing either and this draft says please look into sip brandy for details so so I mean it\u0027s it\u0027s I think it\u0027s it\u0027s a mess wherever my I think because this is an M music draft we should have the offer answer precede the normative offer answer procedures in this draft whatever see brandy wants to keep their draft as an informative blah blah that\u0027s fine with me but a music draft is what the implementer should be able to take in order to find out how to implement this thank you this is Ben Campbell a little history on that and and why that\u0027s a little bit problematic I understand the request and I and I am NOT disagreeing with it but the reason things are a little problematic that way is that this the opportunistic security draft was intended as a this is something you can do here are some examples of things you can do with the existing standards to do to opportunistic security it was not intended ever to be a normative here\u0027s how you do it right there\u0027s a distinction between here\u0027s some things you can do versus here\u0027s the right way the standardized way to do it and then in the process of doing that we discovered that in order to make this work you got to be able to negotiate SRTP with an AVP profile instead of an S ABP profile and so originally this dress was to do one thing which was to meet the proper update to say yeah it\u0027s okay to use SRTP with a VP and now we were getting a little further down the role of specifying exactly how that\u0027s supposed to work and we\u0027re bumping up against the original reason which was to say here some things you can do as opposed to standard I think something so I don\u0027t know what the right solution to that is I\u0027m in the process of trying to have some 80 level discussions I\u0027m figuring how we want to go forward on that if we in fact say that yeah let\u0027s go ahead and normally state how we do they offer an answer and all that sort of thing then some of these comments about the current separation of the documents are definitely worth thinking about all right thanks Ben I think that helps clarify the situation for now at least any other comments from anybody on opportunistic negotiation all "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:15:40",
    "text": "right then we had the unknown key share draft as a working group draft now I don\u0027t remember it was in a previous meeting but it\u0027s the Syrah version at least there were a little bit of a mix-up in terms of whether this was information or a standards track it is standards track and that should be indicated at least in the milestone I don\u0027t recall if the actual draft document has that on the a title page right now or not then finally we\u0027ve had a couple of SCP Directorate / designated expert reviews you can see those on the bottom here nothing terribly controversial yeah yeah could you please come to the microphone I just checked it to the GPP documents over 300 pages and there\u0027s a lot of this TV stuff in it this is a Mike may have to relieve that dark month and so the document is already reviewed so what happens actually is you know sometimes it goes to direct the Directorate sometimes it goes to the designated expert you know which is me and in in a case like that typically what ends up happening is that we check the actual registration which means that it has to be well specified right there certain requirements for what it takes but we don\u0027t do an end-to-end review necessarily the document mm yeah we don\u0027t typically do a review of those not for designated expert review yeah yeah that it\u0027s you know well specified right that there is a grammar that you have the right definitions in there and that you believe it is possible to come up with interoperable implementations based on what\u0027s in there it\u0027s not a request for an intent review it\u0027s already done it\u0027s registered but thank you Crysta question clarification I don\u0027t know if it belongs here but since been nice here I asked there was an email a few days ago I think one of the art ADEs who sent an email regarding the art Directorate and that more reviewers are needed for there and it\u0027s one of the tasks of the art Directorate sdp was mentioned so I\u0027m just wondering is there how are those related we haven\u0027t talked about moving SDP Directorate type reviews into art art I can\u0027t speak for the future but I don\u0027t think there\u0027s a plan for that right now if there is a plan for that no one told me but that happens sometimes we do not currently have a plan to move "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:18:42",
    "text": "the SDP reviews into that I would say that you can consider the historically right contribution to art art to be the kind of thing that used to go to Rio art which wasn\u0027t very often we actually do people know we had a right art most of you were on it all right let\u0027s move on just real quick to see where we stand in terms of RTC you have dependencies in our music and I\u0027d appreciate it if people could double check what\u0027s on here to see if anything looks incorrect or and if anything is missing I think the good news is that we\u0027re moving forward and I think we see the light at the end of the tunnel here there\u0027s a bunch of documents now that are at the in the RFC edittext queue most of the documents are either in working group last call or you know getting very close to that there might be again you know a few open issues in some cases bundle we talked about right that\u0027s being worked on right now if we look at the dependencies or CPC IDs that are currently holding up the various of the drafts all of these are essentially on a good path so I\u0027m not concerned about that at least from a should we say holding up draft point of view it\u0027s really just up to this group I think to just get our work finished so you know bundle we talked about already symulast right we had that on the agenda we thought that was ready for our publication request hopefully you will be now within a couple of weeks after this meeting read so you know that gets pulled back now so that will be in the same situation as symulast but again hopefully it\u0027s just a matter of a few weeks before we get that one back there I said STP again which is waiting to hear back from the author there shouldn\u0027t be any issues there there might be a minor update that\u0027s needed we\u0027ll see what what ends up happening there trickle isip that\u0027s already publication requested and that is essentially it and I guess there is a question because we don\u0027t have do we have STP neck so maybe a question was is STP neck datachannel STP neck is that a dependency I checked it to figure out and I noticed that the only thing that in the in the data tracker it says the draft Jenny\u0027s RTC web depths mentions it but that\u0027s all there\u0027s no real real dependency on the on for the SDP neg in RTC web that I see but there\u0027s dependency for example RFC four five six six be straight as the dependency on it also so that might be like this the dependency not so forth so 4566 biz is a dependency for RTC UF at this point because we\u0027ve talked about that one before and previously it was "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:21:42",
    "text": "not so so so it depends on obviously P make at least that\u0027s what shows the data tracker shows okay so I see Collin on me deco so I don\u0027t know if Collin has any comments on either the 4566 base dependency or the data channel STP neck also shows drive music DPS DPS also his dependency those deep evening I don\u0027t know what the pendency but it shows yeah that one is covered Collin go ahead please so this area has been a source of huge confusion and I believe the current view is there are some documents that probably don\u0027t need to be dependent on that that list says dependency already went through and so when we get this whole cluster 238 thing if we get the rest of the documents we need for cluster 238 there and the ice biz is not yet ready then we will move all we will try and move all the dependencies so nothing depends on it and the goal right now is as much as possible to make anything that doesn\u0027t need to depend on something shouldn\u0027t so if you don\u0027t have to depend on the biz document don\u0027t just use the baseline document however we may get there and realize that we do have a dependency in which case we will so the idea and it may in fact not be the long pole in intent I mean lots of the people and some of the authors of its it will be done before many of some of the other stuff that\u0027s holding it up so if that\u0027s the case that just becomes a non-issue and we\u0027ve decided just to let the things flow through to the RFC editor queue and then sort them out there that\u0027s that\u0027s my current understanding of where this whole mess is but again we shouldn\u0027t unless your document has a technical reason it needs to depend on the biz dokyum inversus anonymous document it shouldn\u0027t she just reference the base document then it will get updated when the biz document replaces the base document n : just for clarification and a note-taker so was that specifically on 4566 bits so like I\u0027m looking at the dependency like that RFC 4566 biz is the the one that is the one problem child on this right now right or as their other ones that are also a question so the other one we talked about previously was data channel STP Meg yeah so I this is - I checked take the document so the reference to feed from our to see web that exists is 245 is 566 base and base parent - esta fish yes deep in egg once due to this the SDC s a type of attribute so that\u0027s where it\u0027s writes in in four to five six six bits so I cannot find any other web RTC document that report that relies on "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:24:42",
    "text": "the data channel STP neg though so like what document is it is it that depends on that it\u0027s the setp EPS music SCTP SDP depends also depends on that I don\u0027t know what dependency but it shows it is dependent on the SDP leg so for contracting so four five six six bits depends on data journalist EP Meg because it references the DC si attributes because the in the ana considerations when you\u0027re registering new at fields there one of the things you can register so it has to reference the thing that says what you can notice them sorry can you say again what was that dependence there so forth four five six six bits depends on datachannel SDP neg and SDP MUX attributes plus the unfinished things the reason it defendants depends on beta Channel SDP meg is because it allows you to register in your tributes and one of the attributes you can register is the DC essays stuff which is defined in the data journalists VP Meg thanks Ali since you\u0027re in the room as the primary authors 4566 peers that matches your understanding as well there\u0027s no way of getting rid of that normative reference to STP neg microphone please I don\u0027t remember now why we put it there but there must be a reason for it and if you are able to move it to informative references I can do that you I need to check whether they\u0027re eligible for that or not okay all right Colin Perkins so the only reference to datachannel SDP neg in four five six six bits is in the the Ayane considerations where it\u0027s talking about how you register new attributes and it says you know when you\u0027re registering in your attrib you need to provide the following information one of which is usage level one or more obsession media source D CSA or DCs a sub protocol for a definition of source attribute CRC five five seven six for a definition of DCs a attribute C data channel STP neck and that\u0027s why it\u0027s a normative reference yeah I remember my name is done I don\u0027t find where any of the other our web are "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:27:43",
    "text": "to see related documents actually ruff is forty five sixty six piece so that might actually be a reference that disappeared but it exists before but doesn\u0027t because I can\u0027t find it so it is by not actually at all be a problem for from the web or to see perspective chrisser Kristy yeah I\u0027ve been looking into this and in my opinion I think the bigger issue than forty five sixty six piece is actually their ice references because as far as I know unless something has changed in RTC WebRTC web they referenced they directly referenced the RFC five two four five but then they have other reference to two other documents that reference I space and say I say snippy and so on but so you know I indirectly they\u0027re gonna reference both but I guess what what Colin said was that it will be sorted out somehow somewhere sooner or later right because otherwise it\u0027s very good gonna be very difficult for TC web implementers to figure out okay what should I do because there are differences between eyes and eye space right so I mean that\u0027s the whole reason we did I space to begin with because there are things we wanted to fix and change or add or remove and so on sure I think from the cherries perspective here in a music light the primary concern right now is to figure out how urgent is it that we get STP neck finished or not that that\u0027s the primary concern oh this has been I will still go ahead and address what crystal birthing the 80s can I have a plan for that I think the idea and Adam has been when tracking this I think the general idea is that unless the draft is dependent upon something that\u0027s new if we can go ahead and reference the RFP and then when all these things get released into the RFI editor queue we\u0027re gonna ask the our theatres to go in and harmonize it all I\u0027m sure they will love it for that : Perkins for the four five six six bits we could just take it out and then in the s in the data channel STP Nick say this updates four five six six bits yeah we would yeah we would prefer we were probably preferring not to do that because 4566 business is essentially ready to just move forward at this point so so the change to four five six six bits would just be to take out the reference to the DC SAE attribute the tribute and then in the the data channel thing we say you can also register these attributes and we update four five six six best to allow it but isn\u0027t there something in forty five sixty six bits there twice about reworking the IANA registry and that\u0027s why all that can still happen I think and we can just say him just honest pygmy words we just "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:30:44",
    "text": "don\u0027t don\u0027t put that valuing and then the other document adds the value but I mean if you search for bit for the as the the the neg draft it only appears at the once it\u0027s a it\u0027s a trivial thing to take it out as far as I can tell okay all right well hopefully Ronnie you will come through with SDP neck and this won\u0027t be an issue yeah that would be great all right that is it on the status update and RTC web dependencies anybody else have any comments or questions on and run along again just to correct my a comment its release 14 that the MSRP usage data channel draft is referenced in okay all right okay so let\u0027s talk about simulcast and rid and the issues we found so ok next slide so what really happened was that Fleming noted one issue you also noted another issue and on the main list and then we sit down and start discussing this being beginning of this week and we found a couple of other issues in due to that discussion so trying to go foodies to try to fix ensure that simulcast and read results these issues as needed and and we can go forward quickly so we can publish the documents so let\u0027s go through the issues now so take the next slide so this one is what Fleming noted when it was doing this view for the public West so what in this is in the context they are we had discussion in the simulcast draft around some related format such as comfort noise a telephone events that you could switch to in some cases for me to stream and the accounts personal simulcast Rev in section 5.2 stirs you not in such related format must not be defined as having their own read list unread I be listed explicit in that two-bit parameters as they don\u0027t to see local streams yeah Flemming is problematic and looking back to you I think we the others agreed that this looks problematic so let\u0027s go to next slide and really any type of this definition of what you do with any type of special handling should really belong to you in a music read document to begin with so and also there are "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:33:51",
    "text": "actually alternative representation of the media source so even if there so they that\u0027s why I think we was the wrong assumption before and therefore you would specify them as alternative pts for a particular it so you have maybe for example a little Kovac and a telephone event you could actually send them or comfort noise with g.711 if it\u0027s those together is actually a simulcast a restriction on a particular in from a similar caste perspective is particular resetter restrictions something so therefore and they were also this existing text in Section four of MU secret which is the old wonder that\u0027s already said that least one or more PT values that can be used in The Associated not to be stream so the proposal here to fix this issue is to remove the sentence that we noted about bullet must not include related panel formal cinema construct and change tighten up the definition in rid so that\u0027s the the bold text here in the new version is to try to clarify that you\u0027re not allowed to send in you need to list the payload types if you\u0027re using a payload type list to begin with if you\u0027re using it you need to list a subset of payload types that may be used to represent that particular restriction so that\u0027s the suggestion so that\u0027s why table take addition no sentence during the bold text so any comments on that seems not didn\u0027t ya so for the note taker right it sounds like there are no objections or concerns with that proposal and so yeah and yeah I should note that I mean Adam is not here he has a conflict but he has seen this before in comment etc and this basically happen with everything except the last issue where I will think I provide ease his view on this so in my interpretation so this second thing was the thing that we discussed this previously we did notice they\u0027re actually difference for how you\u0027re single for example red which has its own payload type and then it has one or more payload types that you express as being the reason for the redundant encoding so for example you can have 97 PPO type 97 s red eastern eleven a ye 79 and then you can say oh this redundancy packing of the Codex is season 11 plus time delay is 79 and and in that case there\u0027s actually a difference if you were this that\u0027s why red line between sending alternative one there saying yes PT 97 "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:36:52",
    "text": "which means we only say represent red encapsulated tailor to you and the second one where you can say oh this industry me idly being red or it could be Eastern 11 or d 79 so there\u0027s a clear difference and I think their proposal is to actually write the sentence or two or as they exemplify this into the reader after saying this is what they see in the context to the previous change after that say okay these two applies two examples like read etc where this will be a difference between these two so but that takes proposal hasn\u0027t been written yet so but that\u0027s so we can\u0027t show it but the main intention here is to write this up as an actual text proposal and it\u0027s released as soon as we can we just making clear that there\u0027s a difference between if you stand stating for a codec that is my tab you need on the M line those are all coded all those payload types but if you could only include one and only then your X restricted to RIT which is saying that what\u0027s going on the road line is the payload types actually sent as payload types in the RTP header so say of the media of the RTP streams so a stream Sue\u0027s ending right so you don\u0027t need to specify the tail like so in if you\u0027re using one yeah then you\u0027d have an F MTP line for payload type 97 which mentions bunch of other payload type that are not mentioned in the rid yes exactly and that doesn\u0027t break anything yeah exactly yes clarifying that some people understand the okay it might so this is an example of something that I could have it also other formats which has associated formats which is represents as payload types and and and might actually show up as encapsulated in some form in your stream so it\u0027s a point one is actually you can only send the read format yeah but it will then specify what is sent inside it yes yeah okay yeah I know I think I would say it is you can\u0027t just naively replace the contents of the grid line with what with wherever you put the used to put the contents of the M line in your code because you still need to use the actual M line and that\u0027s why I think we need a clarification because there are differences here and and you need to think about this so it\u0027s it seems to be a wordy clarification at least towards the interpretation of the specification so okay any disagreement about that it seems not only your okay so well proposed text for this to-do list and top yes someone in in the other team is gonna propose text so "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:39:58",
    "text": "so yes in and in Section 4 of the rids draft this there\u0027s this text that\u0027s quoted here and it says must support and use repaired or to be stream ID SS items so the issue with using repaired stream RTP repaired RTP stream IDs is that this doesn\u0027t fit to redundancy formats that reference multiple source streams multiple different as a source is in order P which includes Flex VII so we need to put in some type of exceptions for these kind of redundancy formats so if you have a one-to-one 1u it\u0027s fine to require to use repaired RTP stream IDs but otherwise you need to say ok there are there are exceptions to other formats that continues this Meccans as its requires and one-to-one mapping between the reads to source streams it said so yeah repaired stream ID it points to rid the read needs to point to one single as the sources or RTP stream represented by one as a saucy and and if it\u0027s that\u0027s doesn\u0027t come is to write for repair format then it can\u0027t be used basically so we need to change the text so if you go to the next slide we has it takes proposal here for noting is thinking separatin exception and saying that is only this past is when it\u0027s applicable and make clear for example that the Flex vac is one case where it\u0027s not applicable due to the reason that it\u0027s it associated reference multiple RTP streams or actually have a mechanism on RTP level that\u0027s fully specifies this it\u0027s so yeah we might so but it\u0027s agree and I also wanted to point out the Flex pack is already in the bundle 238 dependency so this doesn\u0027t go is an information all the references anyway sites it\u0027s just an example of something that does this so but I\u0027d assume it will come out in the same time as the rest of the cluster the big part of clustered two 38s remains so okay any any objections against going this direction and fix in this issue silence all right so so for the note taker I guess people are in general agreement with this but a little bit of wordsmithing is required yeah yeah yes "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:43:03",
    "text": "another issue we can dub realize when we\u0027re discussing this so when you using redundant formats like cortex so you will be fake as I discussed before we have this kind of reference chain between the repel stream idea points to rids the readers bounds on SSRC and your repair stream and the repair stream is bound to be repaired stream ID and because this is level of indirection something you\u0027re wrong actually if you go to the next slide you could have a soul if the repairs bottom reference source ae4 repeller the different points it sent that\u0027s fine but then if you have a change in the route what to read points between SS or say a and SSRC B and you haven\u0027t really received it so you missed it the repair packet might wrongly point to the source de and try to use that while it\u0027s in actually should have used as a source to be so and when it gets the updated Road point to 2 B it will actually use the right packets but it this can actually happen so so so the risk for this miss Association when you do using dynamic reassignment of reads between SS or C\u0027s so next slide there actually risk of this happening in some sense with if you would switch along the midline between conceptual source is not the EPI middleboxes if you actually want to notice it would affect upon the laughing because this puzzle that needs to make that reflection in self but I don\u0027t know how I will feel about that otherwise the issue for around these documents really to focus on update documenting the issue in a music grid and one way around is to avoid this issues of course to not you depend on this level of indirection instead use flex affects that directly points to the stream and you will never have an issue because it referenced the package by its authorities in sequence numbers and the problem is solved or completely avoided so but this is also text we haven\u0027t written yet which needs to be suggested in Santa list so yeah and that means so the suggestion here is really not to do anything about bundle but the issue would kind of potentially exist here also but if you use the RTP it might be yeah it\u0027s might not manifest itself as clearly there because you stream section bound to the whole em lines and and any stream at any changed should contain your own means in the header extension and "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:46:03",
    "text": "therefore will correctly associated for the use so it probably less problem they are done it is for this mechanism that\u0027s actually may depend on this leveling direction yeah FK from from the redundancy mechanics perspectives yes that might be true but it shouldn\u0027t be rely on mid in that case you more actually might be a problem even in non bundled if you have your ever you ever changed SSR C\u0027s so maybe this is something that\u0027s you know been around forever I\u0027d only just noticed it I I don\u0027t think yes not this is just that I don\u0027t have enough problems it\u0027s about having a repair flow with different SRC and then changing yes sir C of the primary month in most cases you have a you start binding mechanist that hasn\u0027t been relying on these labels that\u0027s why I say it\u0027s might not actually be an issue here because for I mean the Rio TX pelo father has been broken all along yeah it\u0027s usually absent its has only worked because people have been using RTP and restricted Waits yeah and we push back against it at the time that that was specified and well it worked for the way people were using sip at the time there were no one was interested in fixing it yeah and I mean you OB also has problems although for different reasons and yeah I mean yes it\u0027s a known problem and it\u0027s coming back to get us yeah yeah the next X dust solid so if so don\u0027t use RT X is the solution yeah and and and through this we will actually have a documentation of the issue in some form a general with one existing documentation list so so yeah so focused music read and recommend not flex effect as a way avoiding it or similar mechanics that has explicit indication Alessa sources of what\u0027s the air path and you get away from the problem so any any objections against the proposed way forward here I for the note-taker looks like we good yes we also realized in a simulcast draft at the STP examples in there it might not be the particularly complete they also both not using read in multiple different ways that might be worth it it also doesn\u0027t contain particularly much about redundancy related formats I didn\u0027t know it when actually looked a bit deeper that\u0027s the RTC webs STP example draft actually has "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:49:03",
    "text": "fairly much more details examples with simulcast and I actually need to go read them properly review them but we might be actually be able to steal watch from there also box and this in the same way of actually shaking verifying those as depart examples but the plan here is a sausage that anyway really advice in document is to put in that is one more example as a bit more advanced an example it\u0027s more advanced I think a lot of the examples are kind of Unchained from our old approach of doing pillow type based simulcast and so I feel like switching to most examples should only use read you know and not you know film types at all you know probably it would be a better I think we still need some let\u0027s use payload teletype there\u0027s also so like for instance the finger you\u0027ve got like pillow type scape scope image adder there\u0027s the only place you specify the sizes of the simulcast dreams is clearly not what we want people to do know that\u0027s what three DPP\u0027s doing it but yeah yeah yeah yeah yeah but I agree we need to modernize the examples to what\u0027s but if all intentional rid provides for simulcast so so that\u0027s not a thing for us authors to write up any more comments just know take a question clarification you may take the examples but we\u0027re not going to add a reference to that draft you know no no no but yes can I so copy/paste still relevant part if you want in example I don\u0027t want a full web or two cstp my example seen in simulcast either because it\u0027s too much junk all right so for the notes figure what I believe I heard was agreement with the recommendation here but also per Jonathan\u0027s comments I don\u0027t know if you want to modify one of the existing examples I think modify one and add one is the kind of things that ends up being doing so modify one of the existing ones to use image restrictions for example and and then we probably add one which contains redundancy a few other things together with that so yeah means after having reviewed the RTC web SDP examples and they\u0027re more like broader than what\u0027s in that draft I think it would be good to have it either either the same level or less than the STP examples this "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:52:03",
    "text": "was like confusing to me because I was like what the heck is this RTC web examples thing doing because I don\u0027t see it actually in the draft and then I had to talk to people to find out that oh yeah that\u0027s probably why we for this that\u0027s probably an indication that we actually need to move up the examples in simulcast draft two levels of people understand yeah these kind of advanced things is possible and it\u0027s so and we can focus discussion in the simulcast draft on providing the guidance - how do you read this thing and what what were thinking about in attendance okay all right so again for the note-taker should make sure that one of the examples is advance to the same level as what we have in the arts you see what STP examples draft okay next issue yes so this is your sense comment that went on the mailing list a few weeks back thank you maybe so any comments on one paragraph in section five point one around so specific signaling and and this sentence release it\u0027s not really clear what it tries to say I think we have had several different interpretations of it which was both shows it\u0027s confusing but and I think my my reflections over is that in general is a source in and a ribs are kind of independent I mean you can use the SSRC one you actually can use them to put up information about specific sources you\u0027re sending when you\u0027re creating an SDP offer an answer you there exists some impossible in ferment of between red and a SSRC by using payload types if if you have unique payload types pointing to particular and and they are reflected in the AC sources lines but that\u0027s we\u0027re not likely to cure because the only AF MTP line source specific parameters exist so far is parameters for h.265 payload format so it\u0027s not likely to be actually be used in that sense of binding it so force currently is that they are independent so the suggestions here is to remove this this paragraph from sea-monkeys draft and it\u0027s not obvious that it actually needs a clarification in the raft around this but so I think the easiest way were just to believe it long butts here you might have other ways if you see some issues around completely moving it when they have some qualifications but that\u0027s a question for the group if you have any in any input on this one even since it came before I started the comment that he may not know from the "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:55:03",
    "text": "SSRC to relate it to a teller that then I\u0027m okay was removing that I did like this text in the first place you just know if I did a bit but it\u0027s okay good so then we came to issue number seven which way we for here summarize so seems to be my take at least seems to be consensus that we can remove it and we don\u0027t need to add any new text on the general usage that the existence of a SSRC and read can be almost orthogonal or anything like that it\u0027s just okay they both mechanism normally unless specifying anything more they will be two separate mechanism that may occur in the same STP so no exactly clear we\u0027re just hoping that people understand the limitation of a equalizer so see that\u0027s all yeah so so issue number seven so this came out also came up in discussion was actually about so is there so let\u0027s level up so mean values that you used in this context maybe bind is actually implicitly buying two Assoc lines if they exist because they are included in the same media description so the same in equals block if you have the SSRC lines there and you have a equals mid you would know the mid value yeah don\u0027t like this the whole thing we went through whatever a few months ago about the appendix to bundle which defines the routing of receive packets based on various yeah so so now the question that actually came up in our discussion was so read doesn\u0027t have this feature party what we have is the RTP or TCP level mechanist bind reads to us the sources they are required because a source is signaling clearly doesn\u0027t work in cases where you have dynamic switching back and forth you also have this kind of signaling race condition that if you haven\u0027t if the offer the answer includes in u.s. is a ESS or see it and you have an established party position the meaning Ameri HD clients prior to to do a signaling message which binds themself you clearly need the existing mechanism already so but that\u0027s the question is so building and a enabling an Assoc mechanism for "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:58:05",
    "text": "indicating the read values for particular aces are see in those cases where it can be used it\u0027s a possibility and will also have some restrictions on when how to change the read value and SSRC binding however so that\u0027s kind of what would be possible but next slide so what we really want to have is discussion at all if this is motivated and I mean if so where would you specify it I think we should start with if it\u0027s motivated at all to specify this mechanism so because I think that\u0027s the important question so I\u0027m Colin if you get an SSL C collision so break anything you have previous Assoc mechanism and single area change etc which would happen anyway if you use it today without finding it rid so if if you include a SSRC you already have this normally your two peers and you the first part of the classes this is our C\u0027s then you can include your SS or C\u0027s that\u0027s non colliding so you miss you may still have to change yeah and it works in those cases yeah in worst case you have to say oh why switch by previous SS or see that suppose colliding to this value instead and and do an under singling rounds okay and nothing breaks too badly well well the signaling is racing the new SS se use media is unlikely to work during the accretion so so I mean that\u0027s why we have any over several reasons why the RTP level mechanics passed advantage despite whatever is happening here is exactly the same as happens admit that is broken that\u0027s probably a bigger deal yeah exactly the idea is this take is this is essentially the entire mechanisms actly same mechanism as made just one level down yeah yeah I\u0027m just not sure I\u0027m really following this problem I mean this mostly seems like yeah there\u0027s certain situations where yes in that pocket with a new SSRC you need to signal the red in it or else things don\u0027t work but we knew that from the beginning I guess I\u0027m not getting what the problem is it\u0027s actually only question of feature parity with being able to signal in those cases that you want to use a SS or C\u0027s so that\u0027s that\u0027s only the question we have a mechanism that\u0027s sufficient to make all the cases you can think working but you would not get the SSRC binding to rids until the media start flowing so you get this reward to PE or to CP you\u0027re saying who would use that in win I can\u0027t think of what I would ever use that sum of work maybe this is know where this came from "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:01:05",
    "text": "and channel some of objections to it and maybe try to resolve well you know what the pros and cons were so originally this besides just you know having you know symmetry or parity with with what\u0027s available for mid which is not really a need it\u0027s just you know a cleanliness thing I don\u0027t think it\u0027s actually a use case where this is required for something to work so from that sense it\u0027s not it\u0027s not a need but one of the other things that came up as a motivating use case for it is moving specifically chrome to unify plan a chrome currently signals a bunch of equals SRC lines to indicate simulcast in a in a very you know non-standard way and moving them to signal simulcast properly but yes the backwards compatibility with the older implementations which are using the equals a Searcy variant of signaling simulcast providing the rear binding to that equals s SRC seemed like a natural transition to moving to unified plan because then you could say that this equals a star C is the 720p you know high resolution layer with red one and they could say equals SRC the next one is the lower resolution layer 360p with red too so it seemed a natural way to evolve chrome from using hard-coded SR C\u0027s with implicit knowledge that these are different resolutions to being explicit about these are different resolutions but so atoms counter to that was you know why would we need this interim transition step why wouldn\u0027t they just go to the proper unified plan which use a simulcast equal simulcast line is what tells you which rids are which you know are the two different simulcast resolutions and you don\u0027t need these two different a equals or C lines to tell you that there\u0027s two different resolutions simulcast line tells you that there\u0027s two different resolutions with two different mid bindings so from that sense you wouldn\u0027t need that transition period just go straight to the unified plan simulcast syntax and not need this so the only real use of this that would provide any benefit would those remains would be to prime a decoder pipeline before it gets the first RTP packets to already be able to set it up and let it know that here comes this RC and it\u0027s this resolution and you could create your decoder instance with these you know maximum frame sizes and things like that which is a pretty small motivating use case and I guess my view on all of this is that I\u0027ve kind of been convinced that it\u0027s probably not enough of a motivation to require new specification for it and just just leave it leave it out leave it alone and don\u0027t require people to do that and let chrome go directly to unified plan and not have an interstate good no way moe moe wait I have a "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:04:07",
    "text": "question we\u0027re not adding extra additional a equals a sources anyway screw with Google\u0027s implicit simulcasts scheme I don\u0027t know enough about how they actually so what it is they just put the number of equals is our C lines is the number of simulcast rings yeah and you need a dish to my understanding you need you could you can\u0027t have several different that type of attributes on the same a a equals this is our C so you need to repeat this is our C several times if you would do this because you wouldn\u0027t have to have one which has yes yes I mean different equals a sir C with different SS or C\u0027s yeah different sir see you see that\u0027s a different simulcast stream yeah so it\u0027s might actually anyway clashes between their implementations depending if they only had one sa SSRC before it still might not be well supported but that\u0027s yeah I guess from my point to do so it\u0027s not so much what is chrome going to do but as chrome itself going to do so much as can i as a you know as a basic translate Chrome\u0027s weird dialect of STP into something closer to standards conformant that the other side can understand and vice-versa because you know obviously if chrome isn\u0027t speaking a know the rid header extension or be then you need it needs the SSRC to do anything useful the other thing I mean so the other thing a question is for mid are there obviously for bundle you never you can do bondable never sending an eggless or see by just relying entirely on the header extension and rtcp yeah but people are sending it anyway and that is that just for compatibility with you know older systems or is it that they would say okay I\u0027d rather pre bind then spend the bits of the media playing on the header extensions and whatnot because in the light if there\u0027s actually the latter motivation then removing they have the same motivation they would have might have the same motivation for it as well you know I\u0027d rather not spend the head or abstention bits and depends whether you have other hair extensions yeah so I mean from my perspective there\u0027s one thing here which priming the whole Dakota Shane is possible the only thing that\u0027s outstanding is this octopus - so the RTP stream binding into that rest of the code the chain because you will gonna know from the AC mocast line and the rids what the requirement is on the decoder changes you\u0027re gonna have to set up so you can prime them have them up and read the only thing you need to do late this say okay oh how we have a new SS or C oh it\u0027s indicates rid it one then we should connect this RTP stream to this particular decoding Shane that\u0027s only the initial that you need especially if you\u0027re not having dynamic "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:07:08",
    "text": "changes a millinery one more thing one more potentially motivating use case that came up which i think we did not discuss with Adam because maybe we thought was better left unsaid you know you\u0027re they\u0027re saying it but I\u0027m gonna say it just for completeness so I think one of the something related to what Jonathan just said about implementations that don\u0027t actually send mid on the wire in RTP but yet signal you know in signaling you know what you know what the mids are and so that\u0027s enough to resolve all of all of your your RTP stack you know instances you don\u0027t actually need the mid on the wire in those cases you could do the same thing with rids with this binding that you could declare your rids in the SDP and never send them on the wire so that a middle box which was not on path a middle box which was only on signaling path not on art speed media path could actually signal the mids and rids and even manipulate the benefit fit wanted to even if they could never see or inject them into the RTP path I don\u0027t know if we want to apology like that called out and supported and it seemed like it probably had a whole corner you know whole rat\u0027s nest of corner cases that would break or cause more issues so I think it\u0027s why not a strong motivating use case you\u0027re actually going into the case where I\u0027m kind of furious that people who might wrongly think that they can live without the you know TP or TCP level mechanisms for listen and try to implement itself the chrome team here I don\u0027t think there is it\u0027s just for the record Firefox since MIT is an RTP now and the rich stuff is in the latest chrome I think and we\u0027re saying yeah people are moving to the cities that already specified solution yes and we\u0027re planning to basically up between the MIT in the as well hopefully this whole mess should be over yeah so okay good so I think that takes us to the question it\u0027s it\u0027s I haven\u0027t really heard it so I need to ask Suffolk explicit is anyone really think this we should do because so far we\u0027ve been neutral to negative [Music] it was my suggestion and I feel like it\u0027s architecturally cleaner to have it but if the if nobody agrees with me I\u0027m not gonna fuss about it yeah yeah so and "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:10:08",
    "text": "and as I note about there is a possibility to specify this later it\u0027s it\u0027s it\u0027s just that he would have to work him or if you actually want to include it it\u0027s Koshien some other specification if you want to mandate it for example from our to see web perspective or things like that but it\u0027s so but you can always specify new so a source specific fmt paper on my aura saying this is Nesta starting basically for use in within SSRC so a separate document later could easily fix this if you if we see more need for it but from my perspective I think we can conclude I think it\u0027s it\u0027s rough but this the rough consensus seems to be you do not do it so yeah so for the note-taker I think the chairs you know we\u0027re hearing the same thing so yeah it\u0027s not motivated do not do it it\u0027s not motivated right now on this issue yes okay so I think that was the yeah so the goal here now then we gone through the issues we I think we have clear directions on how to proceed it was a team we work on providing text for a not yet written in the near time I hope by doing it\u0027s already next week to get it on - and then after picking a few about the text will hopefully have publication version in a few weeks of both simulcast on rid and I would guess that because this change is actually change is mandatory herb and normally it takes to things like that we prob yeah if we do have we are removing must not old changing a must see resection sentences and adding in other must not that cetera so I assume we need a targeted last call on these particular changes so and this guide disagrees no but I don\u0027t ponder through my I would say the answers that depends on the chair is assessment on whether everyone understands the proposed changes and and as a consensus to do it yes you assess that that is the true stage you don\u0027t necessarily have to realize call it but that\u0027s the truth for I get up to decide yeah yeah yeah let\u0027s write up the text and then you can decide I think that was it right yeah for you yeah all right that\u0027s all we had on the agenda so unless anybody has anything else Ronnie it couldn\u0027t be bit so yeah you\u0027re willing to sign up before the data "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:13:08",
    "text": "channel SCPA the frame thank you very much clap too soon there Ben all right going once all right thank you very much everybody see you next time [Music] you "
  }
]