[
  {
    "startTime": "00:00:04",
    "text": "yeah okay you keep watch you can push the book yeah this person got to be someone you like papi this is like a loaner laptop so what all right it\u0027s 1:30 I think we\u0027re gonna get started so this is the software updates for an init of things working group suits welcome so this is the the note well you agree to this when when you signed up for the meeting and if you have any questions please raise those however we should point out this is new for this meeting at IETF 100 it was different for example the privacy policy has been added here so please review it so we have a few administrative tasks we have the blue sheets starting around we have do we have unit no takers are doing Steven bang heart is gonna are you still able to Jarvis cribe okay perfect so we need one more note taker can we have a volunteer if we don\u0027t get one all week another way thank you yeah if you could take notes in etherpad that would be appreciated we did - yeah yeah that would be fine all right so today we\u0027re gonna give a brief overview of the of the working group we\u0027re gonna spend some time talking about the hackathon we\u0027re going to follow that up with some architecture discussion we really liked to make some progress on the architecture today and then we\u0027ll follow that by by some manifest format discussion as well any bashing of the agenda ok so the working group status reports so we\u0027ve had some "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:03:05",
    "text": "activity since ITF 101 where where we held up off we\u0027ve been we\u0027ve been chartered as a working group so thank you to everyone who helped with that process we also held a virtual interim on February 26th during that interim we discussed a few things one thing being an itu-t SG 17 lays on statement that we had received they provided some some introduction to some work that they\u0027re doing there we discussed that work there really wasn\u0027t any specific action that was directed to the to the working group but we agreed to you know to continue to monitor the work that they\u0027re doing and to try to sync up our terminology where there are opportunities to do so right we also we also spent some time reviewing proposals for architecture and manifest drafts and we posted the the minutes from from that virtual interim so if you\u0027re interested in reading about what we did you can find them on the suit meeting materials page so immediately after the the virtual interim we started a working group adoption call on draft for an suit architecture which will conclude later in this meeting during the architecture section we\u0027ll be taking care of that business and also we had a hackathon project at at this ia TF and we\u0027ll be reporting out a little bit later about that activity so milestone wise we are in the process of adopting an architecture document which is our our current outstanding milestone and we hope this this meeting to make some progress on adopting an initial manifest serialization now I\u0027m sorry on adopting an information model and in completing the adoption on the architecture we still have some outstanding work to do on adopting an initial manifest serialization format so we\u0027ll we\u0027ll see where we\u0027re at on that during the manifest discussion so overall we\u0027re doing fairly well on milestones I\u0027m hopefully after this meeting will be you\u0027re pretty close to cut out so uh so that\u0027s it for the working group status I\u0027d like to switch to the hackathon report let\u0027s just test this this just if you "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:06:11",
    "text": "guys want to sit down there\u0027s still some space over there okay yeah wanted to spend a little bit of time to talk about the hackathon event and a few guys have participated here next slide so we had small groups over a number of people so I sent out an email to the list asking him whether any one of you is going to the hackathon and to work with us on on a sort of an implementational implementation and we had Brendan who was not on the on the picture but he provided input up front to this work and you see Alex myself Marcos who is behind from from an opinion hey me and Max from Texas Instruments and we worked together on on an implementation where Emmanuel who indicated on the list that he is going to put some resources aside for a riot OS to work on an implementation also David from llanera who unfortunately couldn\u0027t be here but he works on MCU boot and he indicated that he will also work in an implementation but they have a conflicting meeting unfortunately scheduled at the same time as the IDF meeting and so he couldn\u0027t be here I think it\u0027s in in someone Asia okay next slide and so what we what we try to do at this hackathon is first of all to provide some feedback to input to that working group and by starting off with a sign manifest so we used the Seaboard cozy encoding for that and I\u0027m sort of the digital signature variant we use ECDSA we had had to have a way to shuffle the manifest in the firmware to to the port we use this specific port the Freescale k64 F port and we use that you are to communicate over to that that device luckily we had with Max who has been a develop of bootloaders for many years so he obviously quite useful expertise to have on her in a group to put something together because otherwise that could be a little bit tedious task to write the bootloader in in in one and a half days um and so uh and that was verified there and then installed ok next slide those were the people I just mentioned ok we got a couple of things accomplished and probably the most important aspect here is the links at the end of the slide deck which provide you to ow sort of report and actually a formatted version which hey me put together is actually nicely readable it\u0027s a walkthrough so you can actually reproduce those results yourself if you want to which includes like setting up the development environments we used the "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:09:13",
    "text": "embed arm embed development environments for that that worked nicely we got the code working sort of like um as I mentioned beforehand the many first generation it\u0027s a bison code that Brendan wrote the bootloader which max wrote the UART communication but of course there\u0027s a lot of key generation in stuffing the keys into the right format that is also explained there Alex has worked on on an alternative to the UART communication for shuffling different moving a firmware around and the manifest where he used Laura I don\u0027t I don\u0027t see him now in the room but there\u0027s some information there as well and this is still the lower stuff as well as the manifest verification is fully completed yet we ran into some issues which I would like to report on on the next slide we\u0027re in Evelyn can you tell us that what I think we all know what a bootloader is what\u0027s a pseudo bootloader good good bye actually the bootloader by itself that\u0027s something probably for the architecture discussion as well that\u0027s also a somewhat complicated concept in some sense because in the in this case we um we didn\u0027t swap out we kept the the the image that we sent was only an example blinky image so we actually didn\u0027t copy it to flash but instead kept it in in RAM and then started it um so in that sense that\u0027s what I called this pseudo because in reality you would obviously write the new image that you have received to the flash somewhere start the device again and then jump to the new code and to execute that so that\u0027s something we leave for demo purposes didn\u0027t didn\u0027t do it before you go on I just wanted to mention for folks that are just coming in there are plenty of seats over here if you want to come to this side of the room yes sorry so why the bootloader is a sort of an implementation specific issue we ran into a couple of questions or some discussions on a mailing list which are probably architectural issues worse why - maybe document or point out and that when we talk about the bootloader code we people were referring sometimes to code that is a good program that is very small and not erasable it\u0027s like in ROM and starts the whole process and then the question is how does the device then use the the firmware image to start does it actually communicate does it have could encode India to communicate for example with ble or with you art or with USB or other protocols to fetch a new firmware if something went wrong do we have for reliability purposes multiple different slots so we can swap over it\u0027s mostly implementation issues but quite quite important from an overall design and and I think one of the drafts that we hear about later also concerns that "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:12:13",
    "text": "so there are pretty interesting and exciting sort of design decisions but and they are fairly complicated as well because you\u0027re really working low-level so we probably can touch on this you know in a site meeting Brendan is here who worked on our bootloader and as we get the some of the other guys who work on boot loaders I\u0027m hanging around here they can they can provide that information but it\u0027s a very low level stuff ultimately okay next slide so unsurprisingly like this low-level IOT development is requires a little bit of a steep learning curve what the most the most problems we were tackling and I think that\u0027s sort of a call to this group or maybe even to other groups in the ITF is we were we had this format discussion on asm1 versus hope JSON were Sasebo and people said oh it\u0027s tebow is the way to go and and cozy along with it and but unfortunately libraries are not yet there where we would like them to be for the IOT device we obviously use C rather than Java the Java library is quite good but the C library then needs to tie into the crypto an embedded crypto library and but currently it\u0027s the it works apparently fairly well with open SSL but open SSL is a little stretch on on such a device and so we needed some some other crypto which is of course take some time in examples and and all the functionality so it there\u0027s a lot of more work to get it to a stage where we can actually use it in a in a real production code so and since this is a dependency to get really moving something forward I I think anyone who\u0027s interested to make this really happen to provide reference code site like we have in other working groups I think it would be great to get together and actually work on something together something that also has a reasonable RAM utilization it\u0027s may be good if the code is small but then Mike please like even the Mike case of am so do you have a choice of a library of course we can we can choose whatever we want well there is only one so in that sense the choice in our hackathon okay yeah so um we I honestly think I\u0027d just wrote an imperative implementation but we had used the empathy Ellis for selfish reasons but but of course I other "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:15:14",
    "text": "implementations are a crypto embedded crypto implementations would be fine of course as well but it should still like as a minimum requirement it should fit on a device right we want to have not not only something that is small on the buyer but actually then fits on the device in RAM and flash as well Tom hutchman Hamburg yeah that\u0027s obvious I mean there are a couple of implementations for this I was just asking what would library you you actually you headed or what should we used cozy C so then the mark was correct me if I\u0027m wrong but we didn\u0027t actually find multiple C libraries that cozy C libraries that implement use embedded crypto and implement signing that digital signature algorithm name that it was only one we found and cozy see it\u0027s called cozy see yeah Marko\u0027s cooler yeah we\u0027ve been looking but the only one we found or we\u0027ve been aware of is the cozy see and we\u0027ve been have you using this because it\u0027s sitting on top of cnc bar and this system seemed to work together pretty well so we\u0027ve been choosing this as a start starting point but if people have other experiences or ideas of a cozy library of course you\u0027re open there\u0027s anyone in the room aware of any other implementations yeah well in any case I I thought it would be good to bring this up because you know like you hear in on a mailing list we had these all these discussions on what formats we should be used and we were told that cozy is sort of the right thing to do but then we when we get to get at the hackathon we didn\u0027t realize that oh damn nothing works that doesn\u0027t even compile so we got a little bit frustrated and I wish you were audience oh you could have shared our frustration um but the manifest functionality which we tested that was fine that was just the basic functionality and in futures like they\u0027re definitely other things that if you have students or if you for yourself want to participate like the post quantum crypto mechanisms with the hash trees that Russ had been proposing or also the use of group communication or a couple of these other books or multiple signing concepts etc etc that would be very worthwhile to experiment with so we can actually get hands on and feedback not just talking about it in or just writing documents about it the running code thingy okay I think that\u0027s it if there are volunteers that are interested in working on these kinds of implementations maybe we can like gather after the meeting and and have a short chat about that and it\u0027s also uh at least for the hackathon there was an incentive because we handed out boards and so if you if you volunteer to participate you get a board development board are you deep what so maybe maybe "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:18:16",
    "text": "that provides a little bit of incentive here all right yep yeah thank you to Hannes and and all that participated in the hackathon so now we\u0027re to um Julian are you here yes we don\u0027t have one thank you good afternoon everyone I\u0027m Julian from Huawei today I\u0027m going to talk about my proposal and a secure and automatic firmware update architecture for IOT devices in Cyprus the background of this proposal that the suit working group is working on defining a secure and interoperable firmware update solution and the existing I think the key security is a key feature of this solution and it is in drafts I mean proposed by Army and Cisco are more on the cryptography and interpretive aspects so this part is more on the available availability aspect so the reason why I want to propose this one is because the one of is that dialing are the dine Sabre attack the one of the root reason is that the devices are not updated in time so that they are hacked by with the default username and password by brute force attack and I analyzed some existing firmware update mechanisms like OMA DM and life with hands and I found that they are more on the device side which means that the user and arrow status as a trigger the device downloaded a from our images and when it comes to the idol status and then it starts a updating process this is honest I would like to ask you a few questions on this on the idol status um so the I brought a part of the the the text in there like with M term specification on the firmware update mechanism and put a state machine dia which has an idle state um and maybe that was confusing or misleading because it um because it didn\u0027t really meant "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:21:18",
    "text": "that the device wasn\u0027t doing anything or needs to be in a specific state but it was just a start state in that specific interaction how you actually get there to do the firmware update is depends on on on your design so for example in a previously mentioned bootloader in this case if if you don\u0027t have IP communication in the bootloader you somehow have to get into that state and so you would get the firmware image sent to the device using your favorite networking protocol in this case its co-op you get that and then you need to invoke the bootloader to go into that phase to actually analyze it and to do all the steps and then to swap out one image against the other one so that Idol doesn\u0027t really mean that the device doesn\u0027t do anything it just it just is operating it gets the update and then it needs to apply that and adapt it Brendan do i summarize that yeah correctly so i it feels that um i to me like reading through the document you got the impression that the devices don\u0027t do anything just sit there and have no operations while of course they always do something well if including sleeping and while sleeping most of the time and so so there\u0027s probably not that worry to express my my fault here clearly because you look a little confused ok so i nutshell I don\u0027t think this is some existing actually I think we\u0027re gonna go to the please go ahead and what I see and then things like that but that\u0027s generally not the model right I mean it server to initiate any sort of update right but the client is always in a little more I mean it will respond to any triggers or communications originating from the server side and that\u0027s what I think what you know the author of this graph here is right side okay thank you okay at the mic yeah does it also coming on at the state I\u0027m "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:24:20",
    "text": "working in the wireless product in the West they introduced a lot of other states for example in the 40 these are this a power saving mode for LT and amateur ham states also extended the axe in the 5g not they have work with introduced are seeing activity stays also they are also want to introduce something like a seek counsel resume and suspend on consume status so for them where is product there\u0027s a lot of other states to save the power on the yui side okay for for the idol status yet actually I propose two cases one is the smart meters and another one is that the ECU\u0027s in connected vehicles and what\u0027s in I mean the the project i\u0027m working in see that especially for the gasoline cars as easy use you cannot update easy use only when it\u0027s i mean you you have to stop ignite the car and rotate without doing anything and do the OTA services then I mean the idol status of the ECU\u0027s is I mean the human intervention thing not you know you can update the easy use when it is running I mean the car is running on the road that\u0027s another the other case are if if you want to see the ECU in the idol status with without a human interim intention then it\u0027s it\u0027s not possible but for now because every time when they easier goes into the idol status the car is also shut down I mean so um yeah that\u0027s why I proposed there this draft next side piece so in order to I mean to strengthen the automatic feature to update the devices in time I "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:27:22",
    "text": "prefer this architecture which the sower called the get up firmware images and manifests from the author and then the server can check the manifest to see if the to see which the device is or targeted by the update device and to see the urgency levels updating urgency levels updated and then this device and server - an update process this can i mean this automatic update can update the device in time with the least human human intervention and different devices have different are key updates urgency levels and different firmware images for the same device also have different updates urgency levels so my proposal is that we should leave a space for not only the device side but the server side could do something to improve the automation or automatic level of the this update solution next time please then in the updates process I think there should be three modes the first one is client initiated one are the client it itself pulls the latest from our information from the server periodically and I think it\u0027s more for the capable devices and the second one is a server initiated update and for especially for the constrained devices it pushes the latest firmware information to the device and once it gets the latest images from the author and the third one is a negotiated update the sower only notify the firmware image information to the client and then the client decides the update I mean I think this mechanism the third mode is we\u0027re really mature in the mobile and desktop environment yeah that\u0027s that\u0027s all for my proposal this is a favor from the for Mike so as a participant so I like this slide I think this slide is pretty clear and I think one of the so when I review the other architecture document I had some comments about some cases where I thought it was unclear I think this slide is actually a good contribution in my opinion one of the things that our Charter says is in scope is architecture but the actual details of the protocol "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:30:22",
    "text": "the transfer the stuff is out of scope but so the architecture has to be capable of dealing with multiple protocols that we\u0027re not going to do so I think this is actually a good taxonomy the current that the other architecture document that Brendan and Hannes is and stuff the example that it\u0027s sort of your previous slide is a short version of so section 7 the other document has this long example flow that fits into one of these three and it only shows one example right and it\u0027s a case that fits into the I think it\u0027s the client initiated updates the one that\u0027s in that one right now and saying there\u0027s actually a variety of possible ways to do it is actually in my opinion appropriate for the architecture and all three of these I think is actually a good way to express things I found this to be a useful way to express things and so I\u0027d like to see this type of taxonomy or whatever put you know rolled into the other document and so I think this is a good contribution I think this slide actually in my opinion does a better job in that part of the other document I\u0027d love to see this pulled in so so how does he first yes honest um the question for me was how much should the document the architecture document describe it\u0027s particularly considering the scope of the working group because there\u0027s a lot to talk about potentially and that could be informative but has little to no reassembling on what the group actually really does it for example um at least at the moment the chart that doesn\u0027t talk about how these updates are done using what whatever protocol it just says it somehow gets there and then that\u0027s where the show starts from him from a passing of a manifest and and getting this stuff updated also as previously mentioned like the architecture of the bootloader may also impact some of those things specifically if you want to talk a little bit about the failure cases because that\u0027s when when things get interesting so you don\u0027t break your device um and do we want to and that\u0027s a decision the group needs to make do we want to document those and or do we want to stay closer with what is it\u0027s worked on in a group but at the minimum I would expect that we would make clear on what what is currently being done and rather what is being dealt with elsewhere for example as you as you nicely illustrated with the light to attempt to emperor qin so dave taylor all three of the different contributions in architecture did cover some protocol like stuff and so since we\u0027re doing a manifest format i think the art job with the architecture document is to set sufficient context that you can actually evaluate whether the met whether the manifest format stuff actually meets the needs of the people that would use it and so in that perspective you gotta say enough about the protocol use cases without going into the details to say "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:33:22",
    "text": "why it would be relevant I think the level of detail that\u0027s on this slide right now is an example of what in my opinion is an appropriate level of detail to say look there\u0027s different ways that you might use it and then you can evaluate is this manifest format that we\u0027re doing does it make sense and all three use cases and you can look at that and say yep yep yep we can meet any of those and in which case a reef convinced ourselves that it really is agnostic to what the protocol details are so I don\u0027t think we need to we should be going overboard and saying what the protocol details are but if there\u0027s taxonomy x\u0027 along the level of detail is on the slide now I think that that\u0027s personally I think that\u0027s actually very useful to set the context so that within that lets us evaluate the manifest from it uh hold on one second we\u0027re gonna go remote and then back to the mic Raj Raj Patel from AT\u0026T again so you know the from an architectural perspective as Dave was mentioning I agree that his comment right but one of the things that you know more specifically we\u0027ve never at least in a lot of the IOT scenarios we never want the client itself to initiate an update right I mean a client can Chuck in and you know when it does check in it provides its current version of the software but you know the update is always controlled and triggered or managed from the server side right I mean you know the client never actually initiates an update and I mean in the context of a previous protocol like oma DM that have been used on the cellular your smartphones and things like that that is true right I mean we\u0027re in the client has a periodic timer and then it checks into a server and sees if there\u0027s a new firmware version and so on but in the context of IOT I don\u0027t think that you would necessarily want to really have clients initiate that yes just my opinion anyway but from an architectural if we are at the level of talking from an architectural perspective I think aftering this is actually good thanks thank you this is Brendan Morin so it seems to me from what I\u0027ve seen that there are a really wide variety of different distribution models and this may capture them all I\u0027m not actually convinced that it does and that\u0027s where I have to ask should we be capturing them at all the key point of the draft was to identify the separation between the metadata and the actual payload and the fact that those could be distributed separately what the exact process by which they get distributed seems out of scope to me just because there is such a wide variety of possible different mechanisms and if we start nailing down exactly which ones we expect then that limits the scope for innovation later on top of this work russ has Lee speaking as a participant when I was working on RC "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:36:24",
    "text": "4108 which is how to sign firmware packages using CMS I found that you had to do some minimal description of what the bootloader did or did not do in order to talk about anything and for example always has the capability to validate a signature would be one kind of thing we\u0027d say and I think those kinds of minimal capabilities have to be documented the architecture because for the Audi device is a I tested a lot of a toe States something like a sleeping State elaborates phase before the server say something notified to the plant I have something new to turn and they server first to make the user we have this in the CVP dacoit he was trigger you need to make the the ue we have fun asleep or have really status then the plant can talk if to say what I don\u0027t know whether this actually we make it the suicide or crannis at it we have is clearly here or not quickly responding to that honest yeah that\u0027s a that\u0027s a tricky thing and I think this is was what Brandon was alluding to because you very quickly cover fairly broad scope and and clearly for some of the cellular IOT devices that\u0027s an important question of like the device is sleeping somehow it needs to get wake up in poking up and there are different ways to do so for example an SMS a trigger or so and it device comes up and then interacts with the server to actually get some data whether that\u0027s application did or happens to be a firmware and but it\u0027s nothing it\u0027s interesting information and there\u0027s a specification there\u0027s this is documented in a specifications elsewhere and for example light within to him but the question to me is while interesting do be should we document these type of mechanisms should we talk about them in in this document and I don\u0027t know into which direction the group is sort of heading to on that whether they want to have a sort of a more illustrative document covering a wider range of topics including the the topics that Russ raised with the bootloader as well or not but it should be more a short and "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:39:25",
    "text": "more focused on what the group is charted to do today they favor participant I just want to give a quick example of something as to why I think this taxonomy on here is useful when we get to things like the information model discussion an example of an attribute that\u0027s discussed in the Brennan\u0027s document right now is the server location for where to get the firmware update looking at this slide this gives you enough information to be able to tell well for example I absolutely would need that in the third case right where the firmware image info comes across and the yeah is pushed to the thing and then he has to know what sure but I go to right be very appropriate for that but in the second case if you had a protocol that was on a second way there would be absolutely no need for that alright and so this gives you a way to evaluate that says okay well I know that we need to allow for this but it also must not be mandatory in all cases because it would be overhead and in category number two I don\u0027t want to dive into that example too much I just want to get in your heads why I think this is a useful prerequisite to discussing which things have to be in there and which things should be allowed to be in there but shouldn\u0027t be mandatory in there you got to have this frame of reference in order to have that discussion and that\u0027s what I find this useful for yeah for the Silurian story they say well notified the family permission all right I say that you could a server trigger the you eat then you actively connect to the server in such case the server provides such a funny information to the Yui site or cranny site in something easier used now is compared to the to the cleanser site solution the solution one so understanding does some different as it has suggested just a lot of combination of possibility maybe we do some very physical some physical solution put a link at the image then other solution is trigger or trigger to use this solution maybe this some 14 can I see something oh sure you know this remote in in my draft I let me take so very initiated update like as an example in some cases especially for the extreme constraints devices it is for the efficiency consideration it is not I mean it\u0027s not I\u0027m sorry it\u0027s not need for a device to know why should I update at any time the "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:42:28",
    "text": "server knows it that\u0027s hot that\u0027s enough the server just trigger the device to update yeah dishonest I wanted to respond to Dave\u0027s sort of remark I think I\u0027m at least the first two categories it\u0027s sometimes a little hard what that actually means because here talks about I\u0027m pushing the client initiated update for firmware but what about then about the manifest itself so imagine I have the server pushing the manifest but then the client actually doing fetching the firmware so I\u0027m not sure I\u0027m not sure it only talks about the firmware image notifies the firmware image info is that the firmware is that the manifest I think that we need to clean up the terminology and also yeah and also the trigger that was just mentioned is a trigger a survey initiated or is it like also the performance argument is a little bit tricky because item utley the performance hid will really come from the fact that you download the firmware to begin with that\u0027s a heavy heavy beast so yeah I mean we um I\u0027m not against including that description but I I think we need to work a little bit more on it for sure Robin Wilton I saw that this is kind of the same point I think I just wanted to outline maybe some cases where you definitely want three negotiated update and you might actually want to insist on one and those are cases where what the remote device what the client device is doing is time critical so for example in Prague I remember at the tech plenary one of the examples given for IOT in vehicles was that something in the vehicle should alert the driver when there\u0027s an emergency vehicle coming up behind them there\u0027s something that you don\u0027t want to delay while you\u0027re doing the firmware update so so the thing in the device in the vehicle has to not only know that there\u0027s a there\u0027s an update waiting but some something some component has got to make a judgment as to whether it\u0027s an appropriate time to engage on that update thank you this is Brendan Morin again so I wanted to elaborate on on three new modes that we have missed here because this is why I was trying to say earlier that we are limiting ourselves so you could have a gateway initiated update where the device is not talking to a server it is in fact talking to a gateway and it\u0027s the update is being initiated by the Gateway you could also have a pure initiated update which is would be the case in mesh distribution "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:45:29",
    "text": "you could also have a local storage device initiated update so where you know you plug a USB device into your IOT device and that initiates the update if we start describing modes we\u0027re going to have an enormous description of note modes by the end of it and I think that what we\u0027re doing is creating a huge exercise in documenting modes when it\u0027s perhaps not actually necessary so Brendan it sounded like some of those were actually sub cases of those three as opposed to a fourth fifth or sixth right how does the peer initiated update fit into those from the perspective of the client it would be server initiated is it though because the device may have dedicated communication with the server through a mesh whereas a peer initiated update isn\u0027t the same thing so that the that the point I\u0027m trying to make is that we\u0027re getting back into we\u0027re trying to classify things a lot and I\u0027m not convinced that that\u0027s actually going to be helpful in the long run so what I\u0027m hearing from myself and others and so I may be biased other chairs correctly right is that from the perspective of the client the first mode is that the client pulls both the manifest format in the image that\u0027s number one number two is from the perspective of the client something else pushes to it that both the manifest and the image and number three is from the perspective of the client something else pushes the manifest and it pulls the image that\u0027s the definition of one two and three and the other ones are sub cases to what that something else is I see a couple nods but in the room both up here and out there in the audience just as the person trying to take notes on all of this would it be simpler if we said self initiated initiated by other and negotiated that seems mutually exclusive collectively exhaustive that is what I\u0027m hearing thank you okay thank you okay um so we had another update of the document before the IDF meeting and they first started the call for adoption on the document so I briefly wanted to go through some of that text and it would there was this discussion that wasn\u0027t really resolved so I I would I would like to get your feedback on that and we also made some changes to the appendix do improve readability as requested during the virtual interim meeting and and I haven\u0027t heard any negative feedback since then so I assume that that has "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:48:31",
    "text": "been done okay okay next slide hmm there was some we had a fair amount of terminology discussion was also partially triggered by the liaison from the idea D that was mentioned earlier and because it the word few terms that seemed to relate to each other others that weren\u0027t necessarily overlapping um so this is we only have a few terms at the moment i clarify them based on the discussions there\u0027s the manifest which contains two contains the metadata about the firmware image and that\u0027s the one that is protected against modifications that\u0027s where we I mentioned this in a hackathon about the signature that wraps around it the firmware image itself it\u0027s a binary and may contain of may consist of multiple images maybe just a differential update as well and me maybe also from from early discussion maybe the entire image or just parts of it just an application or a stack rather than that entire image which again is different than a differential update so we didn\u0027t want constraint that further in the network okay but the manifest actually describes somewhat format this the firmware images it may be s correct but it may be Intel hex binary I mean who knows um um that\u0027s all so I left this terminology India although we had the discussion I made some alternative proposal rusts you you try and in on on that debate but we didn\u0027t really reach a conclusion on what like what terms we should be using and I I\u0027m also not entirely sure whether we want to align with some of the idea terminology on that topic so um would appreciate your feedback here so we had this also terminology to indicate that there\u0027s some party that science or creates the firmware image and science the manifest and a and distribute start together that will be a developer typically with the use of some tools maybe a maybe also a Quality Assurance Department who decides about the distribution of all of this maybe also an IDE then the device that is ultimately the recipient of that firmware image and it has to take that the manifest and also the form where to sort of ultimately make the decision on whether to install the firmware image or not and then we had all these untrusted storage in-between which sort of we had a separate figure on this end-to-end security concept and and we talked about this different distribution mechanisms a few minutes ago already okay next slide so I\u0027m not going to go too Suri\u0027s into n security discussion but focus instead of the new term the new figures that I have added it was referring to the itu-t terminology which relates also to the question of how broad we should document things um for example this sum if I "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:51:31",
    "text": "understood it correctly from Dave\u0027s explanation there was also this concept of a tracker sort of the server tracking the status of the firmware update which is something that we certainly haven\u0027t documented yet but so I I don\u0027t know how far we want to go there next slide we had also a couple of requirements in here which triggered some discussions so there was mmm there was the requirement to use state of the art security mechanism and and Marcus mentioned that we should indicate some some minimum security level so I indicated that based on what we used in the IDF but there was also the the the issue that came up with the role of boss opposed quantum secure crypto mechanisms particularly given that when we talk about these boot loaders which may not be updated in devices out in the field for a very long time so how do they was actually play a role here right now compared to some of the components the application components that use security that get ah but wireless mechanisms get updated very regularly where you can swap out algorithms as you need it versus the bootloader which will not have that possibility so that\u0027s something um I don\u0027t myself don\u0027t have an answer for so I don\u0027t know there\u0027s also are also Marcus raise this question on the state of the art mechanisms like what should what should sort of be the minimum to implement security mechanism P um how do you because we have also the constraints so we can\u0027t just have let\u0027s say one mechanism whatever it is easy de serious Abe if let\u0027s say AES 128 CCM implemented but then others want to do something else this do they always have to implement that algorithm also not clear on how that would work and also with the relationship to what the bootloader and that needs to do in in in general are that currently nothing in the document really talks a lot about the bootloader which Russ raised on the microphone earlier so um maybe we we need to think about that as well okay next slide so there was we added a few figures based on the discussions at a virtual interim meeting and specifically on the on the difference between are attaching firmware straight to the manifest as it gets delivered or as the next life in kids I\u0027m detaching the two as a delivery mechanism with weather manifest is provided or distributed in one way and firmware is updated or distributed potentially in a very different way and I\u0027m obviously those use cases have a direct implication on the design of the manifest format because you need to have the corresponding fields in there to make this happen okay yeah "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:54:32",
    "text": "then the appendix got updated to include some of these additional threats and user stories I won\u0027t go through them in detail since I haven\u0027t seen any any further comments on on those but I believe they they should be fine now good so in in in an in a nutshell so I heard from a previous discussions that we should work with the author of the other document that describes the different delivery mechanisms but it also includes some text on the bootloader mechanisms as far as it impacts the sign of the manifest format and also their delivery mechanisms I\u0027m not sure whether what the answer is for the state-of-the-art security mechanism and whether that\u0027s what\u0027s currently the document is actually a septa becoz maybe you have some additional views on that not everything said on a mailing list on that topic already um so you are you\u0027re happy with if the text I provided I suspect okay see if there\u0027s new Thomas any of those a couple of them that are useful to any straw people\u0027s attention to you and see if we have a new special here yeah so I had sent a review to the list the other day and said where the summary was I didn\u0027t see anything there that would block adoption there are things that the working group should do in fact one or two of them are things to direct itself called out that I add it into the list that says okay the draft needs to figure out what to do about X right and so those are things that the working group would need to do assuming that this gets adopted which is kind of that where I\u0027ll go to in a second here is to conclude that call yeah that\u0027s it so if you can scroll up so I\u0027m going to skip one and eight because that\u0027s part of a later agenda item when we talk about information model that Dave Walter Meyer is going to cover so I\u0027m skipping one at 8 and so I\u0027m going to briefly walk through just two through seven just to see if there\u0027s any comments here otherwise we\u0027ll list these as things that the working group needs to spend time on between now and the next time that we have intermediate your discussion of the list or whatever but in case so number two the abstract itself has this comment that says right now let\u0027s scope to be a symmetric keys and there\u0027s a sort of implied question of should it cover is there a need to cover a symmetric key solution or not okay and since the document itself calls this out okay we could choose to say we\u0027re going to rule that out and not going to work on it we can say it is something that needs to be done in Astra volunteers we can just remove statements "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:57:33",
    "text": "or whatever and so I thought I first asked the room since the document sort of did that nobody commented on that to say you people know that there are use cases because if there are the architecture document should cover them where a symmetric key cryptography is actually needed if nobody knows cases that they\u0027re needed then we could just remove that one sentence or whatever okay if they\u0027re needed that means we need some more work Brina Brendan speaking here yeah they are definitely needed from what I can tell and so I mean we\u0027ve already got some ideas of where to go with it so maybe it\u0027s just a matter of dating the document okay so then it becomes a work item that we need work as the document suggests that it should be done in the future but doesn\u0027t do it and if we want to do it in the same document that means a nice the same timelines okay we could say well we could do that in a separate version and do it in a separate document or whatever that would be a choice we could make but it sounds like right now your recommendation is it has to be done in the same document in the same timeframe before we\u0027re done if you think it\u0027s actually requirement that I don\u0027t hear anybody jumping up and objecting to that okay let it be noted that there are no objections to that opinion from the authors okay the next one is Hannes you already covered this one in a slide where it would be useful to describe the four roles in the context because I think that makes it be more usable by other words okay even if we say what we\u0027re concentrating on is the relationship between these two or three entities or whatever it helps us at contact so that\u0027s number three but since you already covered that I don\u0027t have any questions that\u0027s there um number four it\u0027s a little bit confusing as to what it means is only break it down into two questions one is about how much of the protocol you need to discuss and that kind of it\u0027s back another time which is which we kind of said as little as possible but only enough to actually motivate what the requirements are later on okay the other part is there\u0027s a sentence in there about the requirements for security and the question it which I think is intended to motivate why you need security like signatures in the manifest itself I think that motivation is that if there\u0027s some other motivation that behind friendliness to broadcast discovery that would be something we need input from the working groups I couldn\u0027t get anything else out about other than that one thing which I which I agree with I think it says like you can\u0027t use Ling clear security or transport layer security that should be you know cleaned up and said you may not be able to rely solely on that or whatever it is there\u0027s nothing to talk about here I\u0027m going to go on that\u0027s what that one was about yeah probably two aspects to this one is the distribution the firmware distribution to multiple different devices which could be elaborated on more because it\u0027s uh it\u0027s very brief yeah the other aspect is which is also touched on in the document is the question of in the use of encryption and then the case where the firmware image itself is are protected or encrypted with a key if a symmetric key and there is obviously "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:00:35",
    "text": "you want to have um in in some sense make it broadcast distribution friendly in that regard the text that\u0027s because it\u0027s only like one paragraph right now the text in there is a little bit ambiguous as to whether it\u0027s talking about broadcast delivery of the manifest or broadcast delivery of the image or both and so it sounds like there\u0027s actually cases for both but the language is little bit confusing so I think this one turns out to be mostly editorial if we understand if we\u0027re kind of in in principle agreement on what the intent is okay number five is the one that already mentioned with Russ which is to what extent we want to cover quantum resistance signatures where I think right now there\u0027s a bunch of people it would argue yes anything else you want to say about that Russ is - is it something that we think needs to be covered in our first version uh well first version no I don\u0027t think it\u0027s a blocking thing for adoption but I\u0027m advocating we pick a quantum resistant signature as the mandatory implement or I think the argument that I\u0027ve heard is if you don\u0027t put some if you don\u0027t put in the option now it\u0027s really hard to do it later once the device is out there because you can never trust your update right if you\u0027re if you\u0027re if you\u0027ve been hacked back by a quantum algorithm so the short form of the argument is from the experience of transitioning from sha-1 to cha three to six we know that\u0027s a five plus your effort so I got to believe transitioning from a elliptic curve or RSA based signature to a quantum resistant one will be a five year effort so if we don\u0027t put this in now there will be devices that are using those algorithms potentially when a quantum computer comes to pass and so if we want to sign the firmware that implements the next generation crypto with one that is not resistant to a quantum computer we\u0027re going to be in a situation where how do we get there from here I and I want don\u0027t want the answer to be we have to fizz we touch each device to make sure it got the quantum resistance signature into it that\u0027s the whole point of this exercise right blurb about it right now so the downside or the tricky part of that story is to know what we should like in the architecture document one could get away with very high-level description of the issues and that\u0027s and that\u0027s good and we haven\u0027t done that and there\u0027s some decks potentially in the in the workshop that I ought to workshop actually yeah I think he provided the potion but to finish that sentence but then when it comes to actually using a mechanism there it gets tricky because the performance of most of them is disastrous um that\u0027s true well at least a public key mechanisms that I\u0027ve seen are not "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:03:35",
    "text": "true not sure no okay that\u0027s good to hear but they are not finalized yet many of them is touched also not cheap and that\u0027s not true either okay so the in the CF RG the next session the crypto forum research group has is working on two hash based signature techniques and they both they have slightly different properties but the bottom line is they have very small code footprints very fast signature validation but large signature values and given this application where your anger diameter eyes the size of the signature across a firmware load this the large signature values is more acceptable than say signing a certificate with it um Peter called Enoch I have a question maybe picking up from what Russ just said so when I read this I was wondering what this is about so the explanation is great but it made me wonder whether that is not related to the general key rollover algorithm roll over and trust anchor management question and I didn\u0027t really explicit up explicitly mentioned in any other documents that may be a mom yeah catch for original point of this being on the agenda here is to say one of the things that should happen in this document assuming it becomes working group document which is a future slide as to that question if it does then this is something that working group needs to spend some time on as to craft because it\u0027s really if we believe it\u0027s a requirement for the manifest format that supports such-and-such then the architecture document needs to motivate that with a paragraph which it kind of does could be cleaned up and the manifest format needs to actually have a way to do it and so the manifest format is a separate document that we need to put effort into to make to make this algorithm or an algorithm be usable you\u0027re just saying that the mentioning of post quantum cryptography as a metaphor for for the broader thing is maybe a bit cryptic no pun intended actually so if you get that and I understand this is not solution space sure thank you this is Brendan and I think there\u0027s one other point to draw out here which is that the current draft of the manifest specification actually calls out KO\u0027s a as the signature container so it seems to me that if we\u0027re going to start talking about quantum resistance signatures the correct place to do that would be in the cosy spec go on number six the first half is editorial the architectural question is actually the mid one which is is it safe to assume that the device owner and operator is the same as the network owner and operator my personal contention is no that\u0027s not a safe assumption in all cases the document kind of convolute the "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:06:35",
    "text": "two right now and it would be good to be explicit and say device owner or operator which may or may not be the same as the network honor operator and so cleaning up that language unless somebody believes that oh no we need to scope into a case where it\u0027s always the same that\u0027s the architectural question if people agree that they may or may not be the same and there\u0027s no architectural question that\u0027s just an editorial point and I see Brendon nodding and that so unless somebody comes up to the mic and says no there\u0027s an architectural thing they have to be the same then we can go on and say this is just an editorial way like Michael Michael Richardson so and you ask the architecture question and I think the up to mean the architecture question is does the device do all of the determination as to what is an acceptable update or does the device mandated accept updates from a single entity which is one of the of things that you mentioned before which may or may not be the same okay and that but that\u0027s that\u0027s not to say whether the manifest can have you know really complicated statements the device may not simply not trust those statements until they\u0027re signed by the thing it expects I think that\u0027s an architectural question as to whether or not the device must do all the validation whether the device can anticipate help and and I think that that this matters to to the architecture and it\u0027s not to say that devices couldn\u0027t do them do it all right but that that they don\u0027t have to depend we don\u0027t have depend on that there I don\u0027t have an answer for this but I think it it Tweedles the question of owner/operator completely just as well no that\u0027s not an issue okay it\u0027s you can have as many owners and operators as you like as long as the device understands who its mummy is since we\u0027re in London I can use that refreezing the first part I think is prerequisites my question my question is sort of we had this discussion of the interim meeting and at the last Boff about the notion of counter signing and so you have the author of the firmware and then you have the the entity that says that is appropriate right and so we said okay there has to be at least you know two signatures number that was your owner operator the question here is is that okay or is there any keys a variation of the question which you kind of got to at the end is is there ever case we need three because your device owner is different for your network co-owner it is your application you three or is - sufficient if you can argue - is sufficient then yeah you can just say the device owner is the only one I need to mention I don\u0027t need to mention the network operator because I may or may not be but it\u0027s the device honor that trust if you care about a case or you may need three guys to produce if a then it gets to be even more complicated and do we care about that right I only know of a case that would need to right which is the device owner and the amour author I got that one if there\u0027s a third case it says even in addition to the device order authorizing stuff I need the network owner who may be different if he is different to also authorize that so I need to counter signatures that\u0027s a case I don\u0027t understand yet I think self-driving cars come there "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:09:36",
    "text": "because there are our updates where the owner the owner of the vehicle you okay can say I don\u0027t want to update right now there\u0027s such because I am going on a trip and I do not want any changes to my automobile while I go on this trip until I returned to my home where I can deal with issues and we all have this issue with our laptop don\u0027t upgrade your laptop of the day before you travel the IET up right I\u0027ll do it when I come back okay meanwhile the the owner of the vehicle is like this is a really important security update you need to apply it now or soon or something and then we have a third thing which is you know the department transportation or whatever that says you will not operate your vehicle unless you are at least at this state and the vehicle respects that point and so it won\u0027t let you go on the trip okay one or more signatures one or more and we use cases like you gave a use case for you\u0027re arguing that there\u0027s three two three I just made up three and I can we can easily come up with four or five so what my real question is is not shall it should there be three or four or in okay my real question is is it is it reasonable in the architecture that the device can say I only support one and I support off loading that trust decision complicated one elsewhere and I think that\u0027s an architecture question through the document I think already allows for the answer to that to be yes if you want it to be yes enough but that is one of the positive events then I actually act then I actually would argue that that the case of two signatures is is complicated enough already that it should always be offloaded and the device should only have to ever trust one and that anything comp more larger than one is equivalent to and see several squints out there constraining it to kicking out use cases I don\u0027t see people as faces in in for fat but that\u0027s my reading so well that\u0027s what I\u0027m saying thanks bye we\u0027re gonna go to meeting need echo first please go ahead yeah Raj Patel again so with the respect to the question of whether the device is owned by the operator right you know so you know you have scenarios where the device is not necessarily owned by the operator but it is any sort of updating to happen on the device needs to be authorized by the operator right so from a service perspective it is actually owned by the operator right and anything where of they have to be authorized and right so the device manufacturer for example might issue a Hawker update and latest firmware update for a device but if the operator is going to say this that a portion of firmware and I have optimized "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:12:38",
    "text": "that from where to be loaded on the devices that are currently on my network I don\u0027t want that firmware to be here send out an ID but it\u0027s not necessarily you know a binary situation Robin welcome hi sock I have I personally do not want the architecture to to assume to be based on the assumption that the operator and the network are the same entity and I have a kind of an imprint and an impractical and the in principle argument is that if you do that it tends to favor the walled garden model of proprietary IOT deployments and I think that something we\u0027ve learned from previous experience is that the interests of the consumer and the end-user tend to be better represented once technology moves beyond that wall garden phase and you get open systems I\u0027m so that lets the in principle argument the the the in practice argument is more to do with trust not trust and network services and it\u0027s about the ability of a third party to interpose themselves on the user\u0027s behalf between the vendor and the device on you know on the user\u0027s terms we\u0027ve we\u0027ve seen this with with personal data with services that can broker terms and conditions on behalf of the user relating to the use of their personal data by third parties and so that is a both an economic than a technical model where you want that ability for a third party to interpose themselves as a trusted broker on behalf of the user and I don\u0027t see that being favored by the the model where the architecture assumes that a unitary ownership thank you we\u0027re gonna cut the mic line here yeah Eric on mark so Michael brought up a few cases I don\u0027t think it\u0027s actually that complicated there\u0027s one thing that he brought up which is the be going on the trip example which I don\u0027t think is about the image or the manifest and whether they validly signed and how they\u0027re verified it\u0027s really about being able to control when they\u0027re apply and the notion of if there\u0027s some outage associated with applying a firmware update even if it\u0027s for ten seconds right somebody in that chain of control might want to say this is what I want to buy it on Sunday morning at 3:00 a.m. or you know when someone is actually watching it so I think that that\u0027s a piece that that we could externalize that way the notion that you can have somebody a more complex relationship well if the manifest signer is different "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:15:40",
    "text": "from the image signer which by the way the terminology doesn\u0027t currently allow because there\u0027s only one author but but if you have that well then you can say if you know the car manufacturer X get has something where they sign the manifest maybe some third party produces the image whatever the relationship is they can then say well I\u0027m going to take into account what Department of Transportation is saying so you can feed that in there saying that okay this thing must be applied for you to be able to drive past Sunday or whatever the rules are and you know there has to be some timing timing pieces inherits off but you don\u0027t have to say that device has to be able to validate more than a signature of the manifest and the signature of the event or images or right you don\u0027t need multiple signers of the manifest as far as I can tell externalize that stuff and make the upstream deal Brett I agree with the person to in front that I don\u0027t think we should assume that they are the same and you know artificially limiting ourselves to one or two signers may not prove to be long-term effective I\u0027m kind of short so I think Anna stand up to her shop though talking about the broadcast that delivery and motor converter Oh Michael I\u0027m worried about on a wireless network from the 40 will only support miracast the delivery not a supporter for the cost piece my understanding even for the poverty lavage is not active on today I finished maybe also only is supported mal caster no protocol supposed but anyway even me protocol or Marcus protocol is supporting a fixed network like Wayfarer and the markers in there in the 50 40 something we needed to be killed if if a map or a huge number of ue at the same time don\u0027t know the image Sintang finished the occasion at the same time access then love network were created a huge and singular neonatal network connecting to the network we instigated we need some introduce some agreed and delay in the you assad and make it a access the network or deliver in there some make another surge either the network yeah I think we don\u0027t want to go into protocol details like the difference between multicast and broadcast detection be agnostic but what is important that section is really if you need to be friendly to broadcast that means that the part that is firmly to broadcast can\u0027t really carry individualized information for a device that\u0027s anything that is per device has to be separated from the part that\u0027s bulk transmitted everybody and so that\u0027s a that is a constraint on the way that the manifest and images are packaged if you will so is the manifest contain only stuff in it "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:18:40",
    "text": "that can be sent to a large number of people or as are individualized stuff that\u0027s in there and that\u0027s the that\u0027s the constraints I\u0027m going to get in the manifest format and why it\u0027s important in here exactly whether it\u0027s multicast or broadcast or whatever is the protocol part and which is out of scope of the working group except for the parts of the constraints like I mention you have to know what the constraints are thank you so that the point of going through those was to say those are the things that we know of are sort of the open issues at least in the text reikus now if we have directions and some of those become each editorial making the text do that okay and so we had a call for adoption that we started after the interim meeting the draft was then updated to address the comments and interim meeting there are still some open things there although that was my I haven\u0027t seen anybody else\u0027s review or say other than yes I like the document but I was the only person that did the review and I just went through all of those my personal opinion is all the things we\u0027ve talked about are things that can be done by the working group none of those are prerequisites to adoption okay that was my my opinion and so here we said that the call for adoption of the last document the one that Mahana submit was up here presenting was concluding at this meeting and so we\u0027ve already asked the list and so we don\u0027t have to ask the list cuz that\u0027s been going on for the last week or so it ends now and so now we ask the meeting room to say okay so far we have heard support for adopting that document as a starting point and then rolling other information into it okay which we\u0027ve been talking about here as stuff that would go into it if we adopt it so now we will conclude the call to ask the room now is do you believe that this document is a good starting point for the working group okay and I\u0027m going to ask if you think it is a good starting point I\u0027m going to ask you to home and if you think it\u0027s not a good starting point I\u0027m going to ask you to hum and our area directors over there so she can tell if it\u0027s awaited okay all right so and if you\u0027re and if you\u0027re gonna hum know that I\u0027m probably gonna ask you to come to the mic and say why cuz nobody on the list has yet but when we do the home first okay if you believe that the document is a good starting point and we should go ahead and adopt it and then continue to work on it please hum if you believe that that document is not the right starting point please home I claim that that as a clear consensus and it has already been confirmed on the list and so the we what the next version of this should be a draft IETF suit and so are there any constraints oh yeah we\u0027ve talked about that one and there are some follow-on ones which I think Dave was going to cover next so yes so as a result of this will want Hannes and Brendan freed to host the next version this is draft IETF - so I\u0027m Dave waltemeyer so in preparation for this meeting the the chairs we\u0027re talking about we\u0027re reviewing our milestones and we realized that we actually have a "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:21:41",
    "text": "milestone around creating an information model in addition to an information model for manifests in addition to the data model work that we\u0027ve been doing so what I wanted to do quickly here is to give a brief overview of what the difference is between an information model and an a data model so the the relevant RFC in this case is RFC three four four four which discusses these two concepts and that RFC defines an information model as a model of managed objects at a conceptual level independent of any specific implementations or protocols used to transport the data so really at this level the the degree of specificity for an information model is really at an abstract level on things that an information model should be defining are you know the basic data elements that we\u0027re talking about whether they\u0027re required or not and what the cardinality of those data elements you know should be you know is one allowed or do you need to have you know three of them as well as maybe some abstract typing information like we\u0027re talking about you have strings or numbers or you know or those sorts of things but it\u0027s doing that at a at a level that that typically is not implementable what does do that sort of that lower implementation level is a data model so RFC three four four four defines a data model as sort of a lower level of abstraction that includes you know the implementation details so the idea is that an implementer you know someone who is writing code against the the data model would have basically all of the information described in the data model in order to inform that implementation and so the idea is that by defining an information model that enables a group to then define multiple equivalent data models or at least equivalent from the perspective of the information that they express next slide please so that brings us to I think this is not the I think I can cover it anyway so so that brings us to the question of how does this working group move forward as far as providing an information model for for a manifest I think one way of "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:24:41",
    "text": "looking at this problem is we just adopted a partial information model for for a suit manifest so so specifically looking at section six and I was at section six so so in the in the current architecture draft we have section 6 which talks about the manifest and provides some some high-level requirements for a manifest and we have appendix a6 that provides a few additional details so one of the things that we would like to propose is that since we already have this since we\u0027ve already adopted this draft maybe as part of the next step that the authors take is to break these sections out into a separate information model and to publish the original architecture and information model documents as as working group dress on this is honest um but that son Sofia um I was just looking for a little bit of guidance on what information model language should ideally be used so currently the figure is a sort of a kind of incomplete UML representation one could argue that UML is a reasonable information model description but of course there could be other things selected as well currently it\u0027s not quite there but English is fine oh that\u0027s an interesting information model right yeah so speaking as an individual I\u0027ve seen I\u0027ve seen these sort of information model efforts go go sideways when we start to talk about using existing data models to express an information model I typically found that where they\u0027ve been successful that we\u0027ve kept largely to human language okay that\u0027s yeah so just for doing in English is fine I think just what they\u0027ve mentioned before is things like what is being represented is it conceptually a number is it conceptually a a DNS name exactly how its encoded as there is irrelevance to whether your numbers are encoded strings those are all data model things right like JSON and codes numbers as a string right in the JSON all that is below the level so it\u0027s a number a string or at UID or whatever the cardinality at URL the cardinality is that mandatory or optional those things need to be answered but nothing about "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:27:43",
    "text": "the actual encoding itself yes Dave Kemp I\u0027ve been working on several standards where information models are expressed as tables within a document and having cardinality in particular English prose ism as good as at capturing all of that so tables or a language that can capture table-like information google protobuf has an an IDL that that is an abstract level even though they\u0027re encoding is fixed but that language a great candidate tables are great for such things hello this is Mike from University of Essex just a quick note on the data models recently there has been rabbit increase in adopting yml as a language it\u0027s similar to Jason and it\u0027s a very well human-friendly so just a suggestion for expressing data what I\u0027m more interested in is actually the relationship between information models and data models and coming from an ICM background that especially that you are decoupling the data from the information models so maybe a suggestion for the document is to include an example on like one or two examples about how information models relate to data models in two different possible scenarios not to say that they are specific to it so not the world such a misunderstanding but just as examples so one can see how they relate thank you very for 44 sort of does that and we don\u0027t actually have a milestone that says that we need to do a data model what we have to do is we have to do an information model and we have to do a particular manifest format which is a particular serialization and whether there and so I don\u0027t want to get into the discussion of whether a data bottle includes serialization or not we can avoid the term data model whatsoever any of in any of our documents only talk about manifest format and about information model if we want to you because that\u0027s all the Charter directions that we have to do yes that\u0027s actually true it\u0027s always confusing they the use of terminal between data and my department could be let\u0027s not use the term data bottle in this working group but the description the relation between any two independent models is the most important and that\u0027s what 34 44 right including a few sentences on that is probably perfect this is Brendan I\u0027m quite happy with the idea of having a full justification flow from usability and security requirements all the way through to the actual information model so I\u0027m quite happy with taking the the output of the threat analysis and so on and turning that into the information model yeah one of the questions would be well but in in the or is it the one that we were used on yeah certainly section 6 which is Lomas labeled manifest which is relatively short and section 8.6 which "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:30:44",
    "text": "one that has the long thing but all the manifest fields okay which is great certainly both of those would be sort of inherently information model most of the rest of the appendix are things that then motivate what goes in the information model it could be that we choose to say all of the appendix moves into the introduction part of an information model document or it could be that some of it stays in the architecture there\u0027s a bit of flexibility there to say which parts move in which parts would stay it seems to me that given the number of forward and back references it might be useful to keep them together that\u0027s right my personal opinion is that take section 6 and all of Appendix A put those in a separate document call that the information model document thank you with Dave Kemp I would agree that you know something like a property table would be a great solution but I also agree with the lady that just spoke making sure that we have solid examples that show how things are actually usable sometimes in a lot of the documents that come out of IETF or other standards groups it\u0027s really a significant jump to figure out how you actually implement and use so okay so I\u0027d like to do a quick hum just to confirm what we\u0027re we\u0027re talking about here so I\u0027m I\u0027ll do two hums the the first will be hum if you\u0027re in favor of converting section six and Appendix A into an information model document which will be adopted as a working group draft versus no-no which is we will continue to solicit information model documents using a traditional mean so if you would like to see the information model content in the existing architecture be adopted as a working group draft please hum and if you\u0027re opposed to doing that please hum seems pretty clear yes okay so we will we will for the authors of the architecture is it clear to you what what needs to be done to produce both documents I\u0027m seeing head nods okay okay so that\u0027s the one that\u0027s what yes so in doing that it looks like we will be able to satisfy adopting a manifest information model as of as of this meeting and our next major "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:33:46",
    "text": "milestones are to to adopt an initial manifest serialization format as a working group item or formats which is something that we still need to do in July of this year so at the next IETF we should be prepared to submit a manifest information model to the is G so we have some work to do there we\u0027re going to need a lot of document reviews right and we may want to focus some time during a virtual interim to have some discussion of issues relating to the information model and probably also or for any manifest serialization formats and then hopefully in November we\u0027ll be prepared to submit an initial manifest serialization format to the iesg for publication so I believe at this point that we should probably take to the list planning a virtual interact to start working on this oh okay next slide yes okay please go ahead so this is just a quick overview of the contents of the manifest serialization I guess I should say as it stands this was the one that was published in the third version of the manifest draft next slide please so the criteria that we use to to put this together were the ones that we\u0027ve just adopted as an information model the the format is designed to fulfill the usability criteria and to mitigate the threats listed in the threat model next slide please so for an encoding we\u0027re we\u0027ve been discussing a variety of different encoding possibilities the one that seems to be the standout is sea boar from the input on the mailing list so we have redrafted quite some time ago now the manifest format in sea bore and COEs a next slide please there what I just said is everyone happy now okay next slide please "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:36:57",
    "text": "so one of these stand up points that\u0027s not particularly clear in the the remaining slides in this deck is the use of sea bore maps so we\u0027ve treated them as ami noms however to allow for some flexibility in implementers what we\u0027ve done is reserved positive integers for items in the standards document and negative integers for use for customization next slide please so we have the version of the manifest format specifically this has been a bit confused in the past when I\u0027ve seen drafts of this there have been certain instances of people believing that this was specifically the version of that particular manifest but this should be relatively clear now I think next slide please the textual description field is a map of possible different descriptions that we have described four of them so far being a description of the of the payload a description of the update which is not necessarily the same thing a description of the vendor and of the model to which the update applies next slide please this is just a random value the the nonce two and guarantee that every manifest is unique next slide please there\u0027s been some debate about this one ideally this is a monotonic sequence number we\u0027ve called it a timestamp because that provides a convenient way of ensuring that it is a monotonic sequence number next slide please comments sure comments it stopped me anytime I think the controversy was whether this actually required real-time clocks on devices and in fact this is just for comparison purposes between two different manifests so it is a monotonic sequence number but a timestamp makes it easy to synchronize between different developers are we going to call out the type of timestamp and what level precision that timestamp is supposed to be a right Jordan what I have been using so far is a I UNIX timestamp I am open to suggestions as to whether that is appropriate or not I think all you care about is number is higher than the last time that the manifest got set that is absolutely correct yes it is launched and I was sending more than one update per second then that\u0027s fine and to your point about the real-time clock thing I think that the point is that the receiver just treats it as an opaque integer and only X locks on the sender\u0027s per second is that the receiver doesn\u0027t care whether it\u0027s a timestamp or not is just using it to compare for greater than here right that\u0027s absolutely right yes this is Hank but I totally get the "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:39:57",
    "text": "idea that a time is monotonically increasing and you\u0027re having a requirement satisfied here it is maybe a little bit complicated you lose time just not everything is the time sighs I think you should be able to make sure that you monitor the increasing your index if you cannot do that please do not do firmware and then also it is a big thing and you force people to use a special representation and I\u0027m building a reference model for time representation and it\u0027s awful and and time is very very complicated and because we can make many things wrong their entire clocks are are faulty so every second some works cannot do that even precisely maybe not the times them and it\u0027s big also dead lemon just to reinforce what Hank said the other thing is like you\u0027re using a time stamp to protect firmware that you don\u0027t want to get attacked and you\u0027re going to use time stamp that expires in 20 when is it 38 is a 64-bit it should be fine you into the 64 K okay so I sorry sorry so I just would like to second what you said before that if we use that it\u0027s a time stamp if it can lead to many misunderstandings and implementers might misunderstand it both on client and server side and if you just say that it\u0027s in more typically incrementing integer it\u0027s much more straightforward and safe in my opinion thank you thank you okay we\u0027ll we\u0027ll take we\u0027ll have to do some more work on that then I guess okay shall we move on yeah so we\u0027ve got conditions and directives these are intended to to encapsulate all of the different ways that you might decide whether or not a firmware applies to a device and then what to do with it once you\u0027ve decided it applies now right now the only two directives that are to find our whether you want to apply immediately or apply after sometime this is a list that probably needs some more filling out there are a few other ideas that we\u0027ve had on what kind of directives we might use but for the moment those are the two in fact there was one from earlier today which would be apply after a random delay to reduce Network load so that might be another interesting thing to add in I\u0027m sorry this is Hank again reading the just just from a very high view of the terms conditions and directives that I don\u0027t I don\u0027t want to be the bad guy here and I don\u0027t recommend to use it in full but it "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:42:58",
    "text": "brings eca to mind at the moment a lot of people are using easier the event condition action thingy and that\u0027s that probably what you\u0027re having here you have a condition and then you have an action you want to do it\u0027s your directive I guess so maybe look into that and align a little bit with that it would be less less less another we\u0027re then and this seems to be the the one point about having conditions listed in the way that they are and directives in the way that they are is that the intent here is that you match all conditions before you apply any directives okay there isn\u0027t if oh how what I\u0027m not I\u0027m not convinced about the the text on the right hand side and that\u0027s why I brought the EC I think because it\u0027s very complicated I guess yeah and and that your this source into the direction and maybe not make it complicated and something else entirely or maybe a line by the ECA either you have to decide how complex it want to be so Hank you you expressed an interest in having us a line with ECA and and you said we should align with that what is the that that we would be aligning to I mean there was one sort of working group of the code super that imploded on trying doing something like that so let\u0027s not do that and and there is a I think in an in yang there is a autumn control framework drafts a generic one that is using ECA in a very less complex way and and maybe look at that draft and and would like to refer that as the first reference comes to mind can you uh maybe send some pointers to some of these documents to the list I would yeah try this honest um constant had such esta to use the term claims here but in in essence regardless on what exactly the terms here the basic idea is fairly simple we want it based on the description of the architecture document we wanted to have our two it\u0027s the possibility to express that a specific update is only applicable to a certain device and somehow you need to shut that information in the Edit happens to it under here in this version the condition terminology is used for that and in then there\u0027s something that you take as an action afterwards so I don\u0027t think we are creating a very complex mechanism here hopefully specifically since we are talking about these constrained devices so this is not a arbitrary language that goes in here at there\u0027s all sorts of fancy being sent if you look at the four different conditions that we have defined so far or proposed so far that\u0027s really to nail down on which devices you want to do the update for this is hang "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:46:00",
    "text": "again then I will just just recommend not a quality condition it\u0027s a template set another set of attributes that describe a thing it\u0027s a description it\u0027s a thing description so so it describing the thing it\u0027s a vendor it\u0027s a class a device in my basically is describing the thing and there\u0027s a description one of the other conditions that we\u0027ve batted around which isn\u0027t in here yet is for example a minimum battery level that\u0027s required to be able to apply an update the state of a thing okay so we\u0027re going a little bit about context oh yeah that\u0027s before maybe is maybe that\u0027s before it\u0027s empty yeah I get that now better than before so that\u0027s before is a is a date based ah okay so then we\u0027ll do the best before okay it\u0027s a yes yeah go ahead Rick Taylor I think the word we\u0027re looking for is prerequisite the device must match the following conditions but I\u0027m avoiding the word condition what are the prerequisites to applying this sounds reasonable to me so best before I think is the example of the one that if you believe that these are conditions they should be checked by the device itself and if the conditions are ones that are supposed to be checked by the device itself which is one of the possible places that could be checked but if it\u0027s checked by the device I don\u0027t think the device can check that without a real-time clock and so that is problematic and so either you have to say that the best before is okay to ignore if you don\u0027t have a real-time clock or you can say that this is one of the justifications to use a different protocol that checks it somewhere else right either of those are valid approaches so thanks Dave we need a couple I\u0027m sorry Stephen okay aliases is a mechanism to redirect to other servers so if you have multiple possible storage locations or indeed if you are attempting to redirect a device on a different network where there are multiple manifests or perhaps counter signatures involved then this would be a way to provide that mechanism of essentially customizing a pendant manifest to an individual network or an individual customer set of requirements next please okay these 1000 do we skip dependencies yes dependencies are links to other manifests to handle other kinds of prerequisites and extensions being a effectively a derivative of the x.509 extensions concept so that if we miss something in this working group there will still be a place to put it "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:49:00",
    "text": "next please write the the payload info structure deals with the the actual description of the payload itself so you don\u0027t need the extensions using Seabourn CD DL and so any new thing you add into your dictionary is there the current to presentation is an array per me the current implementation is an array you can still add things to the array is it is it you\u0027re saying that\u0027s the order in the array yes I think that\u0027s a mistake okay keep going yes so there\u0027s a I\u0027m proposing one change which is that we use ranked your eyes for aliases because there may be a need for more than one possible redirection in any given network and evidently more changes that I will take into account hi this is the find a comment I don\u0027t know that\u0027s not from me I\u0027m relaying it I\u0027m remembering it but I don\u0027t know who said it maybe manifest will I manifests yes is that a reference yes that was the dependencies there was a dependency so that is the dependency is another manifest and not I don\u0027t know as some random resource okay I wanted to make sure that would you post something about your proposal to the list just to close that issue Thank You Marcos Cola I had just a comment to the initial question if everybody was happy with Sieber or cozy and I wanted to link back to what Hannah said in the beginning for that it would be very good that we can get some libraries or code which is running on constrained devices right because it would be very important you know if you gotta implement that to get a feeling of the footprint of what this takes how does it work on this contains two constraint devices in the boot loaders and now I just want to make this link back to what what Hannah said again I mentioned earlier maybe we can meet up here after the meeting to talk about how we might start to close some of those gaps so if you\u0027re interested please come up after the meeting okay so I think we\u0027re going to move on russ has a very important piece of business to take care of before we conclude kathleen could you come up please so you are probably aware that on Wednesday get the plenary Kathleen will be stepping down as security Area Director so the chairs were trying to come up with a suitably gift for this event and "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:52:04",
    "text": "we hope we have picked a suitable activity or gift for the second event Kathleen thank you so much for helping this group get started and there you go thank you very much okay I think with with that what we have how much we could does that anyone have any other business that they would like to raise before we conclude yeah does anyone want to come up and talk about about the library sounds good we\u0027re done okay all right thank you everyone if you haven\u0027t signed the blue sheets please come up and do so "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:56:03",
    "text": "yeah "
  }
]