[
  {
    "startTime": "00:00:05",
    "text": "hi everyone uh let's give folks a few more minutes to join my coach at John isn't here yet so hi Ori hi Eduardo Cedric Carson rich I'm sorry hey Steve oops I can almost hear you almost no no it works okay I'm not sure if that's I think it's set right oh God heideck hello harness hey let's wait two more minutes and then we get started"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:02:06",
    "text": "zulubus versus participant was it just that you're say that again what does it mean to be a Zool abuser versus a participant does that mean they're just on the chat part I was wondering about the same um I have no idea okay just curious yeah if it's just a chat it may be the whole thing may be not so super meaningful doesn't tulip wait was this one of the meetings that actually uh uh takes all of our text and turns all of our conversation pops into the text or is that just on the meetings itself the ietf meetings good question transcribing I think it's the ietf museum transcribes everything is there a big sense yeah but those are real humans right isn't it yeah yeah we still have some of those around okay John I think we are ready to go hey Hanks hey Charlie foreign so I'm going to write the notes again um today's topic is uh quite focused because we wanted to talk about the hackathon at the IDF meeting which is uh approaching uh it's uh next Saturday and Sunday and"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:04:04",
    "text": "so um John and I met before this meeting to double check on who is registered already for the hackathon you know there's very few of you are actually registered um so I'm wondering whether that was intentional alarm but there was a an oversight uh like I'm registered uh so is John um and I've seen Ray being registered but I I think Ori are you oh you are registered as well but you didn't indicate that you are going to do anything for skit is that true I I don't have any committed plans for the hackathon currently I'm sure I'll have lots of things related to skit that I I could could work on during the hackathon yeah that would be good um Steve what about you are you going to dial in uh I'll be there for the meeting dial in for the meeting definitely the hackathon I've just found that all the conversations are in person and trying to get people to connect through the box is almost overly limiting to the conversations that happen on site so I was gonna creative yeah uh dick are you going to be um on site for the hackathon or are you what's your plan so I will not be on site for the hackathon but I was planning to dial in okay but um you may you still want to so to dial into the to the meeting to the working group session or to the hackathon"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:06:01",
    "text": "I'm hoping to do both okay do you know that um like you should uh register for the hackathon um it it's uh free of charge and and so on and so on but uh it may be good to just uh in case you haven't done it yet um just indicate uh skit as a topic you will be working on and maybe you will even receive some links for some remote participation but otherwise we will work something out which is yeah so I can I'll go ahead and and register but I as I indicated I won't be actually on site that's okay that's okay uh but since you also put together the The Proposal it it would be good to have you um within Arms Reach and whatever that means in this case but yep yeah and I think you know I've seen what John John showed me how his his solution works the skid solution works and I'm very confident that providing him a payload for the FDA use case I'm confident that John could uh could actually show this in in operation excellent yeah Sean will talk about that a little later uh hanky um if I can find it actually I don't know where I stashed it because I have too much things uh I'll bring a meeting hour um that's a 360 degree table thingy as typically the hackathon tables are round tables um I can set it in the center of one of the round tables it's a little bit frustrating to be the only one in a uh Zoom meeting uh looking at a uh table where only three people said sometimes but um I think for interaction we have other tools so for the immediate action there will be an hour a hang supplied our assume and um and but we need another uh thing that we have to talk on and I think the ietf slack is for"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:08:02",
    "text": "example one of the things that we could utilize to uh chat uh and and sync or isochism actually uh on um on on the things we're doing right now at that weekend especially if you are in the U.S time zone I think slack is really convenient okay so I will um set something up so we can uh make use of this sort of like chat and video capabilities for remote participants cool uh okay Charlie what about you join uh I I actually uh I'm not gonna be able to make it in person certainly um and I guess I'm wondering is it going to be valuable to uh to to try to join virtually um you know I'm not sure what we're gonna I guess I'm gonna test Dix FDA use case is that the objective yes yeah um I mean that's obviously a very useful case that I'm interested in uh so if there's a facility to dial in I think it'd be worthwhile I'd be uh I'd be interested in doing that yeah what um I'm just thinking loud here about what we could potentially do is um like you up probably unless you're really implementing something uh you're probably not going to sit in front of the laptop and watch us write some code and so on all day long so maybe we can schedule a meeting at the end of the day or so end of the first day and then uh another one on Sunday so you can basically keep you up to up to speed with what's going on and maybe discuss some of the issues that would be really helpful actually yeah um I mean is it is it is there the thought that to be actual coding or would it be more of a uh sort of a"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:10:00",
    "text": "tabletop exercise or uh what What's the uh objective or output yeah uh and maybe maybe I let uh John briefly talk to that uh John do you want to say a few words on this uh yeah so definitely a coding exercise um not a huge amount of code to write because we achieved most of it last time and this is really in pursuit of getting that that use case implemented so my my hope would be that we kill two birds with one stone with this exercise one is to prove that you can do something useful uh based on the building blocks that skit provides um which means doing an end-to-end use case and and what I would hope to take is the document format from dick register it through the proposed standard rest API that's in the architecture into two skit Services that's my one that my company builds and the emulated one that's in the open source emulator uh and then it's verifiable so we've got the end-to-end use case proven um but also from a sort of spec and working group progress point of view what I'd then like to produce is a nice diagram a kind of simple box architecture diagram of the things that are happening in skipped components using necessary skit technology and the things that are happening in uh what I think we tend to refer to as a system built using the skitz components um because we have a lot of discussions about identifiers and public keys and access controls and searchability this idea of being able to look up things in the registry um and what I'd like to produce at the"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:12:00",
    "text": "end of the hackathon is yes working code but also help to disambiguate what is in and out of scope of skit in a complete end-to-end implementation and I think the coding might be difficult to do collaboratively over an owl but definitely guiding the use case and writing up that documentation and layering diagram I think could be very beneficial to work together with people yeah that sounds very interesting I guess uh is archivist going to be donating code to this or uh obviously there's a you know limited amount of code only in uh the skip uh uh archive if you will yeah so yeah so I know there's an Azure implementation and there's also uh I mean archivist is not that far off in a lot of ways from skit uh the way you guys going to be doing company-wise um so all of the client stuff is donated and as far as we found last time any discrepancies between our implementations and in things like go cozy and whatever um we just changed ours to match the standard so at an interoperability level um we're fully interoperable with the fully open source thing so anything going into a code integration as in code you'd put on another tool to call either register a claim or get the receipt whatever um is all open we we writing that in a separate repository under MIT terms um the folks like Microsoft have also committed to um we're not donating our back end um the object is just hard to say something that was not proprietary and open it up but it's based everything that you need to rely on is based on fully open consensus Merkel tree implementation so um yeah we're donating everything on the"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:14:00",
    "text": "client side uh and everything's not actually open is verifiable by open source things and we're moving more towards the standard but it takes takes time to take things that already exist and open them up but everything new we're writing is open okay thanks for clearing up appreciate it thank you dick do you want to pile onto that uh I do honest I just want to make the comment that the materials that will be provided by Rea is actually an open source uh XML schema called the vendor response file and uh I've been talking with Hank about how we can go ahead and gift that over to the ietf so that you know you can you can take that on as uh you know materials owned by the ietf so that would be donated as well if there's any interest in in having that available thanks yeah it may be maybe good to uh load that somewhere so we can all have it have access to it I'm doing the hackathon yeah the actual schemas online yeah the XML scheme is online I'll post a link to it okay do I have a list of those tools that are available right now um well uh I I put one link into the into the meeting minutes about this kit API emulator but um uh John you mentioned some other code uh in addition to that right uh that you could point to and I know already has some code as well so maybe maybe you guys could put all the links into the into the meeting minutes um let me send the link to the chat window yeah we can we can put them in there or um uh into well I don't know so so everything kind of stems off the skit emulator repo so"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:16:01",
    "text": "um you can sort of start there and if you just install all the python dependencies you kind of end up in in the right place because it's it's using um for the standard cozy library and things like that and in my back end I use go cozy because with golang but again it's all sort of standard open source but we didn't make that we're just making sure we use the sort of best of breed open source um so certainly I mean maybe it's part of the hackathon just having better documentation for that right makes sense I actually I've recalled uh that we created a separate repository as part of the or underneath the official IDF working group schedule and so we could um put the the documentation then there and then point to to the rest so basically documenting this hackathon and having pointers to the um like always code your code and and um and all the other things because um obviously that would also be valuable if we have um just a number of different independent let's say client-side implementations like people using different cozy libraries different receipt libraries and so on uh passes and creators and so on and so on I think that would also be uh useful if we could actually play around there as well that would be the interoperability test essentially um yeah I confess I was lazy on that one I recorded a video of it but I didn't write it down in text maybe we can do that oh you recorded the video yeah okay if you put it into into the chat window it's it's good okay thanks uh thanks dick for the link okay perfect so I think um we have a couple of spreading blocks"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:18:03",
    "text": "already and we'll obviously try to put these things together and if we are lucky everything works out great um my experiences that uh there's still a little bit of gluing work that needs to be done so that will have to follow okay oh right uh Roy thanks for joining Roy are you planning to attend the IDF meeting or end or the hackathon so at this point no okay do you want to attend remotely yeah it would probably do remote for skit definitely that's for sure okay okay um what about you Cedric I I stopped in my list before I reached you so I will be remote for the skid session and I was not planning to add on the hackathon unless there is a plan for remote participants know I think the only registration to the academy is foreign yeah well the for the hackathon you can also you can you can decide uh whether you want to be on site which of course is preferable but you can also join in uh remotely which actually I did last time uh for the last IDF meeting I did that um and it worked fine like I accomplished something no I would be happy to join for some sessions of uh uh but I think the key there would be to have an agenda so that uh I know when to join and when we can yeah uh and we're just knocking that I don't I haven't found a way to register for a"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:20:03",
    "text": "remote participation to do that um but uh yes I won't be able to cover that time yeah and uh yes yeah um I guess Christina is going to be there as well so is she is she going to like she didn't join the the meetings is she going to participate in the like hackathon also I'm I'm confirming with her this week but yeah okay actually one of both of us are going to be there okay cool um yeah so in in I think John and I will have a uh a discussion about how we best uh schedule some sessions for the remote participants because even if we provide the possibility for you guys to like contact us at any point in time um I think it would be it would be useful to do kind of a short status update and uh yeah there may be maybe issues to discuss and maybe you have some ideas and maybe you have a chance to contribute something yep okay perfect um and there was uh and Antoine uh is someone who I miss uh he participated uh in the past but he kind of dropped out do you guys know whether he would be uh joining so I'll discussed with you don't win before yeah so but uh like me uh he will UHF and I don't uh"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:22:00",
    "text": "okay that would be a remote okay good uh excellent so maybe maybe uh okay um Eduardo what about you yeah I'm not sure yet mostly because also for timing difference being in San Francisco doesn't help me from Germany sure yeah but for sure if you set up something like the the one time meeting or like discussion for uh final architecture that one for sure would be helpful for me and maybe also my other question was regarding admission not admission policy but I don't remember the name at the moment sorry yeah registration yes thank you registration policy if it's something like included I did not really got it from John idea let's say if it's something we wanted to push this arcaton or not personally okay uh uh okay uh this at this hackathon like we will um set up the like the demo that uh uh dick described or like that use case and then we will see what what we actually need uh what pieces are missing and whether we need to well maybe maybe everything is there and we are just happy at the end of the day uh that would be good good to know as well right okay but then I will follow up with the the building blocks and the stuff that we're doing but coding wise I'm not sure I can follow directly just like depends on the time here but yeah yeah yeah there is um yeah I have to check actually myself what the um the example code is written on"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:24:02",
    "text": "it's I think this kit emulator is okay okay yeah well but uh of course you could you could uh that's the beauty with a standardized solution you can like um swap out uh one implementation against another one and that should still be fine right that's the that's the whole point yeah hopefully yeah typescript one would be great if somebody wants to write that [Music] okay um good uh John do you want to um briefly go over the sort of like the demo layout uh into like what we discussed previously like what you explained to me on how you think uh this should best be done uh yeah maybe let me just grab a a slide that can help um help explain it this one I think yeah here we go so let me share that PowerPoint with everybody yeah because when I hear the the question that was just asked I think um registration policies certainly was I think we've made lots of improvements in the last two weeks but it was a big um topic to cover and I think um covering it is still a good idea but I'm I'm not in a great position to complete an implementation of something there whereas I am in a good position to"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:26:01",
    "text": "answer some of these system level questions that have been raised so that's why I've picked that um some reason okay it doesn't want to let me share my screen what is that do yeah [Music] that okay the mission denied no good um okay I'm gonna try and just explain it because I can't share my screen and I think we can't put images into the chat can we so um so the basic layout that we have today is [Music] um the emulator in in the skit Community GitHub essentially makes two different binaries it there's a thing called flask for anybody who knows python things so there's a little flask that sets up a server and it's all local so you can run it on a very simple Dev machine or laptop but it creates a service that sits on the far end of a socket so it's as though it's a cloud service or Ledger and then there's a client that you can use to make well-formatted rest commands for um for skit and that obviously both of those pieces the the client sender and the service receiver are based on the messages in the proposed rest API in the architecture document today um so you run that thing and when you run the service you tell it which backend you want to use and at the moment there are only two options um but we would hope to have several options uh in in the not too different future so there's one that was donated"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:28:02",
    "text": "by Microsoft which is using the CCF algorithm um and it's basically just a a quick emulator but it works and it accepts claims and it gives back receipts or you can use the archivist backend which um also accepts claims and returns receipts but using our production live Merkel tree transparency log rather than a local emulated one and um the the beauty of the interoperability test here is that of course any client implementation doesn't need to code any specifics for the back end in so you just write to the skit spec the code is the same no matter what and it's a matter of configuration on an instance which of the registries you go to and obviously you can even change you can go to one registry for one type of type of information a different registry for different types of information and as we've discussed you know maybe for certain important or very globally or long-lived things you might send things to both um so it's a nicely sort of client API level interoperability there and then when you send these things and get the receipts back whether it's the archivist back end or whether it's the um the the CCF emulation the receipts are fully verifiable offline so you've got complete and consistent Merkel tree inclusion proofs for your claims that you can verify with the regular open source cozy end in my case consensus Merkle tree um code so that's the state of the art today it's nicely separated it's got nice interfaces it's got good interoperability and it's got client standardization so what I'm hoping to be able to demonstrate and as I said sort of make some progress on the spec at the"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:30:00",
    "text": "same time as code is to answer some of those questions about um things like searching The Ledger recovering receipts that you've lost querying indexes for the latest one whatever the latest one might mean um so specifically I'm not not to touch registration policies per se but to be able to discover things like what's the thing in this feed with the highest SVN um because the security version number stuff is has been interesting so what I'm hoping to prove with that is to show what things are not needed to ever be in the skit specifications because they're not building blocks but they can be added on top that's an important question versus things that really do need to come down into the spec and be formalized such as the long-lived identifiers that we've been discussing um and and any sort of tweaks or pokes that people would like me to look more or less strongly at in that um in that layering I'm very happy to take that input so uh John so you will be looking at the query functionality I think that would be very useful because we talked about this at several meetings uh so far um so that so that I'm interested in doing something on the did on the um the dead web method and like exercising that type of flow um and maybe documenting some of it as as I'm trying it out so I don't I don't know others have other topics they would like to look into or whether they want to jump on some of those that uh for example John just outlined okay Hank what about you uh I don't think you you mentioned anything yet"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:32:01",
    "text": "yeah I'm typically um writing a molecular text as as I normally do um there's one thing I want to highlight here um not as a implementer but as a topic and then we were we were attentively discussing a uh a resolver response that's in sibo say it again resolvers but they did resolve response uh in in sibo format um that seems to be kind of a relatively low hanging fruit and we were always a little bit on the edge on do we really want to use the web do you want to need our own and then and and I think the consensus was reused as much as you can and now that already provided this all this text um that says yeah well resolution and uh dereferencing is not the greatest uh specification ever and so we have to rephrase something here um maybe that's also we might want to have a look at the discussion about so I wanna I wanna float that topic at the hackathon and understand how people feel about a um a response for it uh here in this context that is Siva format um it might again be a low hanging fruit but I'm not entirely sure and I think that's that's one of the tasks and I've on the list for the account to find that okay um do we have some other implementations of the receipt because that may may also be useful because the client we want to have the client verify the receipt and so we we have a sort of receipt functionality receipt passing functionality on a client Maybe do we have the since you and Ori are working on the receipt specification do"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:34:00",
    "text": "you have some a list of implementations um but I have an implementation of the current um cozy uh cozy proofs draft which supports consistency and inclusion proofs and I use that implementation to create transparent statements on the client and so as far as I'm aware that's sort of in line with uh the architecture but you know the specifics of how you get to a skip receipt or still and it there's sort of two parts to that in skit and both of them need to make use of cozy envelopes in some way so you need the rest API to support the Cozy envelopes and then you need the client to construct the transparent statements from what it gets from the rest API right I'm thinking up like um basically circling a little bit back to the early discussion like we obviously have the code and the skip skip API emulator uh repo but um that's sort of like one specific implementation and I was wondering whether there are other um libraries that we could kind of drop in for example instead of let's say the the client as you said like like for the client consists of multiple different pieces but maybe someone else has um the different pieces in a different language and so for example like there are many implementations out there of uh cozy for cozy sign for example um but when it comes to passing the the new work that you've been doing on the on the on the receipts and with the Cozy"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:36:02",
    "text": "proofs draft that's a different story right and you that's new work so it's not available um good to be so yeah do we have some other topics we need to discuss anything else you would like to to bring up I guess uh because it was it ate a lot of time in the last hackathon like a kind of preliminary discussion about uh identifiers for artifacts identifiers for my parents statement mind statements and policies because we spent a lot of time at the last hackathon talking about that and so I wonder you know are we going to do that again is there have we found a kind of good Edge for that box do we want to just leave that box as it is and and spend our time on other things this hackathon and you know come back to that eventually um if we try and do too many things we won't make great progress on any of them so potentially coming up and then we could have like a several very hard topics that we're trying to address all at once"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:38:00",
    "text": "screening the way to point to each other so it seems pretty important I was actually gonna bring up a different topic but I'll just do a A plus one of that okay what's what's your topic uh just that uh usually the uh skit session is later in the week and we wind up taking a portion of the hackathon and side beatings the beginning of the week to prep for the session the you know the presentation the speakers the talking points and everything and the session is on Monday this time [Music] good good point uh yeah I almost forgot the discussion with John but then I forgot uh about it yes we need to um like for those people who are there and at the moment it seems like we are talking about uh Ori Hank uh John is there uh Mike Brooke is there and I think um in this kid session in person nobody else is that is that correct at this point I think that's true yeah okay so um so of course we can so we need to find out and as you've seen um John and I posted uh um a first version of the agenda with essentially leaving the names of the speakers empty um and so so that's the one of the questions on how we should best populate those those entries on who who should be on the hook for working on the on the slides and giving the the presentation the status update on at least uh the architectured argument the use case document hasn't seen an update so that's another topic we should"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:40:01",
    "text": "be talking about whether that's uh essentially finalized and and we don't need to to do further work on it or maybe we need to do it but haven't had time because we all our energy was with the architecture document so it's it's really up to you guys happy to help since I won't be on I'm not I don't think I'll be on site at this point so I was trying to not offer uh help where it better to be done in sight since this has got to be done before I'm happy to help facilitate some of that stuff you know for next week actually when is it yeah okay excellent uh Roy do you do you want to say something about that topic too well a slightly different topic you were supposed to be finding a home for the discussion of company identifier we decided where that was going to go I wanted to use the IDF meeting and as an opportunity to talk to people about uh who have more experience than than I do um to get a sense of what they would be doing um so yeah so that's that was my plan and come back to the group um either during the week of the heart of the IDF meeting or shortly afterwards with uh with an idea or a plan what to do next about this okay because I put out a proposal where it's less problematic to have identifiers figured out before then and give us some breathing room that's why I said hey if it's going to go somewhere else let's figure that out yeah but I definitely haven't forgotten it I read through the email discussion um it was there was a lot of good good material India Point us to what other groups and organizations are doing so so"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:42:02",
    "text": "really interesting um but yeah I I don't know I don't have the answer right now so I I need to talk to others who work in that space or worked in that space in the past so the reason I bring it up is that if you're going to use pgp keys then potentially the configuration of what identifiers to trust will change the identity registration policy on the skits on The Ledger quite often which means this identifier and how to track it in the receipts becomes much more important if you think it's it's very slow changing you've got some room to to maneuver but if we think we're having identities at it on a high rate we're going to need to cross this bridge sooner than later um to fully understand you right um it's a very good point um I don't think we would be able to to address this issue at the hackathon itself I think there would be yeah I'm pretty I'm fine with that I'm just letting you know that hey there's an interconnection between these two that have to be careful of yeah definitely definitely uh Steve your hand's still up yeah sorry it's down I noticed in the meeting minutes"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:44:12",
    "text": "okay okay so um big thank you Hannah so quick question on the hackathon will VPN access be allowed sort of like a participate as a client side a consumer to query the archivist or John's server-side implementation um I think we could just give you so in the past there was a facility to enable VPN to connect um but I think it would probably be easier to for example in John's case I think it's running the back end is running in the cloud anyway right yeah so I think the right way to do it would be um we push you know I obviously I'm happy to do most of the lifting but anybody who wants to participate and and actually push code we should just be making very regular commits to a branch on the current repo and then we don't need any special network connections because it'll just work uh from from wherever you are I'll um I'll get you instructions for that dick so you can you can play with it yourself and I'll put them somewhere where everybody can see it yeah that would be great John if we could do some testing beforehand uh you know I can give you a payload that would roughly equate to what an FDA medical device manufacturer might submit for s-bomb in particular and then I can do the consumer side the FDA side and draw that material down from the registry Parson yeah thanks okay that'd be great thank you"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:46:11",
    "text": "Hank other things um yeah so um the uh there's a different working group chartering that's which is Keith's friends I want to bring that up uh I I think a lot of us think that uh We've overlapped to some extent I assume from the newest Charter text they will Define um three algorithms for example or any kind of transparency algorithms in any case so um so that's interesting to us there will be overlap if there is a representation as a formal overlap and I think that is something we want to do at the hackathon if there any kittens people there um that we uh I don't know Hudson town and sorry and uh and um and and try to get into better dialogue with them because I think that was not rather successful until today yeah I think this is a very good idea um as you have seen from my frustration a little bit on uh which I shared on the mailing list uh these various attempts that we've made to reach out to them and to have them uh um participate that one of our calls which are obviously happening frequently so there were a number of opportunities to to discuss this um that didn't work out so so hopefully the IDF meeting itself uh provides the next opportunity um or particularly the hackathon itself um because clearly there's an overlap it's a different use case of um this in quote transparency service so yeah I think"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:48:01",
    "text": "that needs to needs to happen and I'm seeing that positive in in both ways uh that I think there is something for them to reuse but maybe there is also something for us to to benefit from because they have some additional privacy requirements which may be um may not exist in in many other areas but it's still maybe useful to see how this um gets Incorporated foreign why do you do you want to add something no I'm I'm trying to think through how we're going to do all this stuff but yes I I think I need to read through the key trans and and look at the overlap the last thing we want to do is bifurcate or confuse people yeah I would that would be unfortunate um yeah Cedric do you want to say something about the overlap uh not necessarily on the overall app but on what we can do at uh at the next ATF so I think uh can you wait to discuss with Keith hunt uh uh during that question would be great but uh we need someone on site to be able to do that otherwise we can be at the official recession but the bandwidth will be more limited yes I think we agree and we discussed that before they have some specific need for privacy and uh but hopefully they can reuse a lot of the format and definition that we have so uh so there is no opportunity there"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:50:02",
    "text": "yeah I'm checking whether someone from that group is uh is at the hackathon key trends I don't see the name keytrans showing up anywhere yeah okay uh so um maybe maybe we need to um organize a site meeting for those who are there in person we maybe need to schedule a site meeting with them so I put that into the meeting minutes to to see because I my quick search uh didn't lead to a success on the hackathon participants because the topics the topics are also listed when you search when you go through to the hackathon registration page you can see who is registered already and you can and there's an indication of course that's not completely um filled out unfortunately but there's at least many people indicated what topic they will be working on and so so that could be would be useful always um but I will add this to the meeting okay um about the preparation for the slides again so um Steve you said you want to to do something uh well you can um do something but uh you're probably not going to do everything alone because uh no and I won't be the I won't be on site to be the speaker and even finalize the deck the weekend before but um yeah so who who um who volunteers to be"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:52:03",
    "text": "the speaker someone has to talk about it and it won't be John and myself right so Hank well I can always serve as uh this is saying uh I can always serve um fall back of course I'll be on site and I'll be um talking to I guess all the work parties and and um I'm if there's already a uh a a set of content being prepared before the hackathon that's super great I'll be uh basically in transit uh starting tomorrow or tomorrow I will just skip out of day job and then and then fly out and then we'll re-manifest three subdivate and and San Francisco on Friday so I might not be the best person to trap uh this week but uh being on the hackers on site I'll be able to uh um see through all the things that we have accumulated and then uh could have presentation from that I think that's possible yeah yeah we and we could potentially also split out different topics and have also involved some of the remote presenters and and uh definitely have you hang I could also Imagine uh Ori if you have a chance to speak about um the text that you added in the in the pr I think that could also be useful for some of the participants because that topic hasn't been um discussed for too long so I think that may be useful too I'm I'm also guessing that the numbers a number of people are new to the group uh so giving them a little bit of a um sort of a abstract or introductory description of what what we are doing"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:54:03",
    "text": "also in light of the the hackathon exercise so maybe that's also an outcome of the hackathon that we have some a kind of a description of a complete scenario on how so if the different entities interact and how the different um pieces of the work fit together Sean maybe maybe you could or um talk about that during the hackathon uh slot yeah I'm happy to do that one it might it might actually be helpful um with the aims of the of the hackathon to kind of make sure we stay within our Charter and also technically layered um I don't think there's any problem with the chair presenting that sort of thing so I'm happy to do that yeah we like I can easily see how we are able to sort of have a wide variety of people presenting some people from remote uh some others obviously the ones who are there so good okay that's I'm not that in many minutes good okay good uh any other topics a link in the chat to an article I wrote you know there's a the national cyber"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:56:03",
    "text": "security strategy implementation plan came out last week and the first Milestone deliverable is on iot cyber security labeling and that's due uh that work is due in um in September by September 30th of this year so I I point to point out that I trust registry could also be useful in that context as well thanks okay interesting yeah but um this uh I think it's new so it's this is the um what does labeling in this case mean for iot so uh uh you probably can take a look at the article but Finland has a program and singular Singapore does too uh for cyber security iot labeling and now the U.S is going to create uh they're going to put in actual regulations for iot device labeling and specific to cyber security related insights to provide consumers some insight as to a trust Readiness of iot devices so that that's what the concept is thanks okay I definitely have a look at that makes a lot yeah and anyone who would like to provide feedback I'm open to feedback if you guys see something you'd like me to adjust in that article I'm happy to do it if you think it will help um you know adoption for skits cool right okay thank you yeah yeah you're a very prolific writer uh you write things faster than I can read them um [Music] that was what I was going to say as well um implementation and I haven't gotten to"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:58:00",
    "text": "it yet but uh I do imagine there are a bunch of supply chain things in there that could be useful um I'm pretty sure though that the Finland system is probably not going to be the one uh that uh strikes me as more intended for sort of Renewables and we're looking at something kind of different I think for the iot side in the U.S uh again just my impression uh without a lot of detailed reading so far but I still think Dick's point is well taken there is a great uh opportunity here for skit to be implemented if we can uh you know gather the data that is needed for the supply chain Integrity initiatives and store it in one place that to me is the huge value and just one editorial comment uh I don't know if we have looked at that closely enough the operation of skit and how it would work in real life we've spent a lot of time on uh you know the uh encryption and the pki substitution certification receipts all that stuff we haven't actually done a lot with operation in real life for simulated real life so I would urge us to turn to that as soon as possible yeah yeah I agree with Charlie in this case I mean the world is moving around us the supply chain is not a green field opportunity it's a it's a it's a moving Target and so when these opportunities present themselves like this labeling scenario in the FDA case um I think anything we can do to show that we have a a viable solution to to the need and of course you know of course it's imperative that the the the skit definitions of how we how we ensure the Integrity of the trust registry and the process is vitally important and I think that's what we have to be able to show in the architecture documents and any"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:00:00",
    "text": "guidance we offer for implementation is that the material you'll get out of a trust registry is Get Trust registry is uh is trustworthy and that's vitally important thanks yeah so can be more important than the authentication of that data if you have a label for example uh that's going basically you're gonna you're gonna instantiate skit with the information the label and then print out the skit uh for the label and that's all self-attested and doesn't require any kind of certification or authentication or really anything um at least not the way it's envisioned right now so we've got a different kind of use case that we've uh made skit ideal for it can be adapted to this supply chain and labeling concept and should be in my opinion but I think we do need to start thinking about how do we get the data in there how do we print it out so that it can be pasted on the side or some representation of it can we paste it on the side of a camera or an elevator or whatever it is I I think we're 100 agreement Charlie this is uh this is a great opportunity to show that what we have is actually going to provide real use to Consumers right that's right I have to drop out join another meeting but uh thank you all for the discussion and hopefully see some of you uh in person and and a few others uh as remote participation and remote participants at the hackathon okay thank you all right thanks everybody So Long John will be in touch okay thanks everybody take care I gotta"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:02:00",
    "text": "go as well bye-bye thank you"
  }
]
