[
  {
    "startTime": "00:00:08",
    "text": "hi we would like to start in a minute because we only have an hour so are you jabber scribing what I mean you\u0027re sort of the default jabber scriber if you don\u0027t want to that\u0027s fine would you I as far as i know yes I don\u0027t jabber so oh and our minister says there\u0027s already four people there so okay okay okay let\u0027s get started cuz we do only have an hour um and um hi so here\u0027s the agenda I\u0027m going to give a brief overview which is what I\u0027m doing now um I\u0027m going to go through a roll call of I\u0027m oh that\u0027s right I keep forgetting or in Chicago I\u0027m going to do a roll call of that I\u0027ve already collected and I\u0027m going to zip through it really really quickly you\u0027ll see why once I get there so that\u0027s another 10 minutes on mark Nottingham is going to give a ten-minute talk about third-party services will have a little bit of time for clarifying questions after that but even though that might be sort of a lightning rod we would rather not block down on that because will immediately go into how do youhow working groups use github that\u0027ll be Martin Thompson and then we will definitely have time to talk no one has given me some any presentations on issue so it\u0027ll mostly be what we would normally call a mic line and we\u0027ll be out of here at ten minutes after six and we\u0027ll have much more to talk about afterwards um but this is where we\u0027re going so um this Voth is in the general area um because it\u0027s for all of things so thank you you re Thank You Alyssa um be very clear here this is not a working group forming "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:03:08",
    "text": "bought this is a hopefully one-time deal where when you have more questions and ideas afterwards you\u0027ll talk to each other we have a mailing list which is at the bottom of this slide and but there is no intention to form a working group we are discussing two documents that are already out there um so there will be more discussion of them but there\u0027s no idea to have a working group out of this so why we\u0027re doing this is that we want to have many people have said oh I\u0027ve heard about this or we\u0027re using github a little bit in our group or I want to know more and things like that um and uh sort of the idea is to is to socialize it I\u0027m this is sort of the old school kind of off where we\u0027re actually supposed to just sort of say Oh your internet i\u0027m interested in that um so here\u0027s the obligatory humorous slide because people have been asking me you know how do you pronounce that all of those are valid pronunciations in english and capitalization counts somebody actually asked me about what gift up is so which is perfectly reasonable cuz they didn\u0027t know what get was someone actually earlier asked me about why should they join linkedin and it\u0027s the same thing capitalization counts so I will uh I will this is the next hopefully 10 minutes is going to be a whole bunch of slides being blown at you these are our all of the working groups that when I put on the mailing list I asked you know what are you doing what\u0027s your level and such like that these are the ones who responded so it\u0027s an incomplete list on the idea here is not for you to write down all the notes of what I\u0027m saying but to when you see if you\u0027re interested in using github in your working group and you see a working group that either you\u0027re in or that you know about make a note of that so that you will know those people and such like that all of this is also being discussed on the mailing list but this is a way for you to know who\u0027s doing what and for whom it\u0027s not working necessarily um github is a tool there are other tools out there and so some of these some of these slides in the roll call will talk about how they\u0027re doing that and why um but so again just look at these are the highlights and I will zip through because really what\u0027s much more important in this discussion is the next two presentations plus the discussion at the end so in alphabetical order um Acme uses it they oh I\u0027m sorry so one of here\u0027s another acronym for you folks it I for I meant to spell it out earlier is PRS pull requests if you\u0027re not familiar with github this is a github specific feature um acne uses pull requests to make changes even within the document authors that is they use pull requests the document authors use pull requests to track among themselves what they are doing and why they try to track all the issues on the mailing list and the course the discussion is on the list I\u0027m anima uses it for some things and it\u0027s mostly just "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:06:09",
    "text": "a simple you know repository depository site kind of thing geo Jason um part of the reason why they used this is the community was using github before they came to the IETF which is a good reason to use a tool if you already know how to use a power tool that\u0027s that\u0027s a good reason to use that power tool and not to go back to hammers um the HR pc has all of their documents including the documents like for meetings and such on github they noted here that the repos actually owned by one of the co-chairs this is a funny question that you have to ask is when you create a github repo or a working group who owns it who doesn\u0027t own it who gets to change things and such like that so they noted that the repos owned by one of the co-chairs um and they also notice noted that there\u0027s no single place where issues are being tracked that of course sucks but it\u0027s also common even in groups that don\u0027t use github HTTP biss the poster child um so all working group and I say that and we will have to the next two presentations are from people heavily active and they don\u0027t agree on on its use in HTTP pissed but all the working group drafts are in a single github repo all issues are tracked their on they also have the working group homepage there so when you when you go to working from home page you\u0027re actually end up on github you can tell they really really like this um the materials in the agenda stuff are also on get up so they pretty much are using this as the home place for everything and they have for quite a while and for those of you not familiar with HTTP bisque they just pushed out maybe a year ago a large raft of documents that all had a lot of interconnections and they use github also to track the interconnections um so there\u0027s a whole bunch of IOT groups um that uses use github for their documents um and one of the things that\u0027s common here with them is that because a lot of the iot groups interact with groups outside the IETF it turns out that having all of their stuff or having a lot of their stuff on github actually makes it excessive more easily accessible to people who are outside the IETF who don\u0027t want to be on our mailing lists and such like that and so the open connectivity foundation ocf seemed to like that so that\u0027s that\u0027s a thing to note and music are using it a little bit but the working group isn\u0027t quick everything happens on github because quick as part of HTTP biz nope I didn\u0027t say that I didn\u0027t say that oh yeah yeah yeah so yeah so that was the second humor slide but um and a few things that aren\u0027t on github they say they are moving to github so again very very active use for quick RTC web they said yeah most the docs are and github TLS specifically said some but not all the documents are there on TLS 1.3 something near and dear to many people\u0027s hearts um they are using the github "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:09:09",
    "text": "issue tracker and pull requests extensively meaning that if you say I want to see this text they really want to see that as a pull request in github and to track things that way and the TLS working group also has a couple of other drafts and you know not so much that they\u0027re using github on that trans has just one one draft on it I mean humorously here they actually track the issues with track which is the IETF sponsored tracking that only a small number of working groups still use but they\u0027re using github for the document itself so that\u0027s a split use um web push sort of normal some of the drafts are in issues are in github discussion on the mailing list okay so that was it for the roll call and I think I did that under 10 minutes um so again the idea there is if you saw a working group you are interested in and they might have more information they might have experienced go find them um and let\u0027s move forwards I\u0027m sorry oh yeah there\u0027s probably other like I said at the beginning there were ones who just didn\u0027t you know say anything but and some of those will some of the ones who didn\u0027t say anything will also have interesting side notes so we\u0027re not trying to you know collect a completely composite list here but we want this to be useful for all of you so are you running to the mic okay quickly Alex have a nice it from you so i just want to mention the icy energy the research group also using github for some of the dresses okay so yeah so that\u0027s another research group they\u0027re using so let\u0027s move on to you know how working groups are allowed to use third-party services um i pulled this pretty much directly out of the abstract so that mark could take is time to get up to the mic and now i will switch to mark slides please collect your printed out internet-drafts in an ietf journals and put them in a pile and let them on fire please oh wait sorry that\u0027s that\u0027s the wrong am sorry thank you mine are not nearly as well designed as Martin\u0027s that\u0027s right because you don\u0027t know yeah okay go it go for it yep okay so we\u0027ve been using github in HTTP uh the working group for for quite some time I think we were the first or at least one of the first to use github and certainly one of the first to use it so aggressively I should have known that being in this room it\u0027s cold and people want you close to the mic do you want me to like okay you tell me to stand on my head I\u0027m going to say now um so in in in the process of doing that and then replicating you know that product that "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:12:09",
    "text": "that tool set for the quick working group which which will just started up more recently and a couple of other working groups that I\u0027ve been working in the one thing that I\u0027ve noticed is that you know we we have people come up regularly and say well but this is the way we\u0027ve done it before and are you sure you can do that or I want to do it this way and that\u0027s that\u0027s a very reasonable response when I first started using it for HTTP i went to my area director who i think at the time was mary and said is it okay if we do this and he thought about it we talked through it a little bit and he said yes sure and that was great so i had a little bit of air cover but you know that was just an agreement between me and him and we talked to the working group about it it seems to me that it would be nice to have a more structured approach to what you can and cannot do when using these third-party tools because this session really isn\u0027t just about github to me even the people who are just using github often are using things like CI systems and that\u0027s another third-party tool it has its own set of considerations so to to my think next slide let\u0027s go to the next line so I thinking you know what one thing we should be talking about in all of this is what are the foundational principles that we think about when we use a third party tool like github I use tools and services kind of interchangeably here because we don\u0027t really have a terminology for this yet um and so you know that\u0027s good for the people who are new to the working group or who want to engage casually and they\u0027re used to engaging in other mechanisms in the ITF in that they\u0027ll have more assurance that this working group is operating in a way that they can easily understand that they\u0027re using tools in a way that is you know equitable and also it\u0027s good for the working group who wants to use these tools because you know you need some amount of air cover you need some sort of guidance that you\u0027re doing this in a way that\u0027s a reasonable for the IETF if you mess this up it is it can be very bad if we use a tool in an appropriate way then you know and people feel that their disadvantage of the process that can break down the entire process and the guarantees we have being in the standards body so so having some rigor around this I think would be good next slide um I did not try to address specific tools or practices or give general advice in this draft because really documenting those principles is all I wanted to do I think that once we figure out what they are they\u0027re relatively long lived and we can put them in a bcp or a comparable document and let them sit there whereas the advice about using github in particular is going to evolve pretty continuously for a long period of time and it may be that an RFC is the best up but for that it may be that a wiki is the best at but for that we can talk about that later so next slide please these are the ones that the draft talks about and in the vest ITF tradition i\u0027m not going to regurgitate the draft to you if you\u0027re interested in this you can go and read the draft it\u0027s not very long but it\u0027s just a list of high-level principles of the things we look for when we want to use a third-party tool to make sure that we\u0027re using an appropriate way and "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:15:11",
    "text": "that\u0027s really all I had uh I can talk through these a little bit of folks want but that was the proposal that I made no no Paul said that this is not a working group forming boff I think probably to do something like this we would need some instrument that was appropriate to come to consensus on what those principles are but I would did want to get it in front of people any questions especially clarifying questions now bigger questions for later but clairol in question is she okay we still have certainly some time yeah I 30 volts um you know one of the things is that what what how do you define working group use is something you know if for example like you know there-there\u0027s for the DC working group we do use github but we don\u0027t really you know use it in a broad working group context we use it more for the two co-chairs to sort of work together and have like a single place to put information and things like that um you know and we have used it for like a few documents where there was a group of authors that you know needed stuff so you know and we didn\u0027t really think about oh this is going to be a big issue because you know we put these are just tools that were we\u0027re using um so you know how do you define a working groups use versus sort of this not private use or you include that private use in this right I kind of you know when you ask that two things come to mind one is that if a participant you know would reasonably think that they need to interact with that tool to participate in the working group that\u0027s using that tool and the other is if you form a hard dependency on the tool where you know you have significant investment in that tool and if it gets taken away one day then you\u0027ve got a problem as a working group but that probably means you\u0027re using that tool to because we make it you know we it\u0027s publicly readable it\u0027s just the people that can make changes our control because these are all you know they are sort of IETF related work products and things like that so and to be clear these these lists this list here I don\u0027t think it\u0027s a particularly high bar I can\u0027t imagine that anybody who\u0027s curling using github is can have a significant problem with any of these ok Eric fine can you just give a brief definition of what you mean by recoverability I mean that if for example using github uh if they were to plow into the ground tomorrow and lose all their data or I now get sued in submission that you\u0027re working groups work is not lost right okay thanks or if they started charging 40 million dollars per user or something you know Kyle rose um not just work but history right it\u0027s not just not just the output but overall the discussion in the pull requests and whatnot yes thank you "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:18:13",
    "text": "great thanks thanks Martin swap here creative slides they\u0027re just pictures so um part of the point of this draft was to act as a target so hence the slide so mark was talking about the larger context we talked a little bit about other tools but obviously at this point the primary tool that we\u0027re talking about is get up I want to talk about the specifics in a little more detail here and I\u0027m not actually going to talk about the drafter a little while because I think though Paul did a great job of the introduction here I want to sort of talk about some of the philosophy that sort of goes behind this so next place mark of the history I believe that it was the first working group that actually used github in the sense that you had to in order to participate in any meaningful way you had to use the tool and and that\u0027s something that was new we were tracking issues there but we weren\u0027t actually doing any discussion but it meant that people had to visit get home to get the state of the working group and that was that was really sort of the first time that we did that and as an editor on on those specs I used github pretty heavily and we saw a lot of contributions there that was successful so i\u0027m a bit followed and when we have a long roll call already you probably only covered like a quarter of the working groups in that I don\u0027t think of all the people here would indicate that there\u0027s something more than the mere eight or ten that you actually had there so next so the question about what it is that we do here and how we do it is kind of important we talk a lot about the what we do and why we do it but the how is is kind of critical and move I think we have some reason we\u0027re good processes for deciding what work that we do when forming working groups and how we select chairs and editors and all those sorts of other things that\u0027s pretty well understood now but this part the next part and I think we can we can talk about improving the process overall next so the underlying principle here that we\u0027re working on is we that I\u0027m looking for is I would like to like us to start building RFC\u0027s the way we build software and thinking about it in some of the same terms not not necessarily all at the same terms we don\u0027t necessarily want to pick up all of the baggage that we had there but start to think about it in the same sort of terms so next and I "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:21:15",
    "text": "think that the target that we\u0027re looking for here as an organization is we want high-quality open source software I mean that the ioc\u0027s that we develop our essentially as open as they possibly could be and we\u0027re looking to meet a certain bar of quality next so does it actually mean um yeah that we don\u0027t necessarily we\u0027re not we\u0027re not looking for ISO 9000 certification here or anything like that we also don\u0027t build software that meets it so that\u0027s okay right um my trainees got a date on that but really not and but some of the principles they\u0027re actually do apply in terms of do you have a reproducible process do you actually understand what process you use to produce the output that you have all those sorts of questions come in next so to some extent a lot of this relies on the degree of quality assurance that we have and we have a bunch of processes in in place that that allow us to control the quality of the output that we have and we have cross area review teams directorates and and the likes we use a tenets to sort of do this at low level basic checking Shepherd\u0027s automation but we actually see some working groups are taking this a little further than this and I think that the the working groups that are producing yang models are actually pretty far I had a lot on this they actually have tools that take the the schema documents they have and turn them into the textures in the documents they have automated validation for those things and pretty good tool chain around those sorts of things and I sort of previous hackathons and some pretty impressive work in that area so um listen there\u0027s some interesting things that we could potentially be doing in that service packs next um so one of the principles that I\u0027m particularly fond of is this is the this notion that you continuously about validate what it is that you\u0027ve produced and and this is something that I\u0027d like to to get in the process some of those people who are using some of the tools that are available for github are actually now taking advantage of the fact that the document produces valid text every commit that\u0027s something that I\u0027ve worked on we can enable that if people are generating pull requests against the quick spec you will actually see a little red mark down the bottom if you\u0027ve done something wrong and it\u0027s not able to produce a valid document out of the the changes that you\u0027ve made and so that\u0027s that\u0027s valuable that keeps the process nice and smooth is essentially grease on the wheel but it\u0027s a pretty "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:24:15",
    "text": "low bar to me there are specifications in this organization that actually include code not a great deal but some of them a lot it would be nice if that code actually compiled when we ship it and ensuring that that is continues to remain true is something that would be interesting as well the fact that the code is correct is probably something that will be hard to do but the tests don\u0027t actually need to sit in the RFC but they might need to exist is my suggestion there and another thing that we often run into particularly in some of the more complex documents that that produce lengthy examples I\u0027m thinking in particular here sip hour or some of the male examples or those documents that have a large amount of XML in them for instance it\u0027s really nice if the ex the examples in those documents are actually correct based on the definitions in the documents and those people who are using schema language languages to express what it is that they\u0027re doing can take advantage of automatic validation and the underlying principle here is keep it short make sure that you learn about this thing quickly next so this is my very crude diagram showing how it is that we produce a document at the moment our major forms of feedback into this process are the two big orange lines those happen after we publish revisions to drafts and they happen at meetings and it tends to happen that next slide that the feedback cycle is about this long and you are here now right welcome thank you for participating we thank you for joining us once every four months for this oh that\u0027s kind of bad our next slide the real validation we get for these things is when people actually implement and deploy them turns out that doesn\u0027t happen anywhere near often enough one of the reasons i think that the HTTP to work was successful was two things one is that we reduced the four-month loop to effectively a two-month loop and the other was that we did this implement and deploy thing was it the third meeting that we had twitter com running it or something it was crazy yeah so so I\u0027ll repeat what Mark said we were childhood at the beginning of the year the implementation draft went out in June and it was deployed in august 10 "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:27:18",
    "text": "implementations at that time not ten deployments but yeah and we\u0027re sitting in it at an interim discussing some changes and someone said oh yeah I\u0027ll have that on twitter com tomorrow morning and we\u0027re like okay maybe slow down to next line so part of the problem here is that we have humans in a loop in order to turn a specification into code you need someone to actually write the code and it\u0027s not usually a trivial task the hackathon is a huge improvement in this regard we\u0027re actually getting some really good feedback on this on processes and development net VC neatly avoid this problem by making the code the specification and opus did this the same thing I wouldn\u0027t recommend that for everyone so to get back to the crux of the issue fast early feedback is something that I\u0027m looking for in and that\u0027s patching those early phases so that we can get the feedback cycle happening a lot quicker and that is when people discuss particular issues having text to go with that discussion is often extremely valuable and I\u0027ve found that those discussions in working groups where there\u0027s a pull request associated with them and text associated with them tend to be a lot more efficient and effective and even if you\u0027re not doing that simply having access to the editors copy of a document that has been updated with whatever the editor is currently managed to do is a huge advantage it means that those people working in the working group who were actively involved are tracking the discussion and the current state of the document is as close to possible as is possible to the current state that in everyone\u0027s heads and so you\u0027re not dealing with a four-month-old document that doesn\u0027t reflect where everyone\u0027s minds have have gone in intervening space next on a completely separate topic it also turns out that venues like github have other people sitting there already people who never come to one of these meetings or would not be inclined to but nonetheless drive on by and send you a poor request and that has been surprisingly good it saved me a lot of typos I have to say that much and what\u0027s more it\u0027s really easy to handle these contributions because they come in the form of all requests and all you need to do is check that it\u0027s saying and press a button and that is quite a powerful "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:30:20",
    "text": "thing so the question was how does that work with the blue sheets I\u0027m not sure how this also so you\u0027re concerned about ownership yeah um so we now know well actually we only have a couple more slides and then we do have plenty of time so maybe we can talk we can take this up after after that next place oh um one of the things that has been usually useful we found particularly when we\u0027ve come to the end of the process and we get start to get wider review from people new people start coming into working groups implementing these things they ask questions and they say why is it like this and we can we now have the tools available to us to go back find the issues that we were using identify the discussion that was happening it\u0027s a lot easier to do that with with an issue tracker rather than trying to search through mail archives and you can actually see why you made that particular change and who made that change and that\u0027s that\u0027s a pretty powerful thing as I said threading in context is kind of important and I find that having a discussion in context has been quite useful and quick so we decided at some point to move from the model where the issues were merely being tracked in github to actually allowing substantive discussion on github and that\u0027s been pretty pretty valuable too and as I said minor changes are much easier to handle so you avoid typos because when you make a pull request people comment on and say look you\u0027ve got a typo there and you fix it or if the typo escapes that that phase you get a pull request and most of the contributions from drive-bys have been simply clarifications fixing grammar realigning the the stupid ascii art that we\u0027ve been forced to draw those sorts of things and so it\u0027s not the problem that Paul was concerned about that\u0027s not being an issue thus far but it\u0027s certainly one worth discussing I think that\u0027s all I have oh yeah I\u0027m supposed to remind people of what\u0027s actually in the draft next is it basically says well what it is how to decide to use it what to use it for it says some of the same things that mark strife does although I think marks draft sort of covers it more cleanly particularly with the principles that is outlined it does have some more specific advice on how to how to manage "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:33:21",
    "text": "things and also some general blathering about very thinks it was never intended to be published as the the stocks at the front indicated it was meant as a target where we were someone was threatening to have a working Boff and feel like I was going to say wreck and ruin and there was a threat of having a buff with with no documents oil no substantial targets for discussion and I thought that that was just not on so I put this together mmm thanks to a layer for actually like fixing it because it was a dire state before she fixed most of that so it was pretty bad let\u0027s be frank so that\u0027s all I\u0027ll blathering in there and it also has one other thing github is not available over ipv6 so the community can shed it here so actually Martin and Mark one instead of people saying things to me and you running up you shine why don\u0027t you guys just stand in the pink box together and he\u0027ll answer you\u0027re so cute together in the box so this is only resident and by the way just just as a point we have about 15 or 20 minutes um just and I assume we\u0027re going to fill it with the bike line um do pay attention to we do have a mailing list um I\u0027m sure this is going to generate stuff for the mailing list but feel free to Mike line for about 15 or 20 minutes mark thanks so this is Pete Resnick I I think i\u0027m not going to say anything you\u0027ll disagree with particularly here but it struck me that what Martin you described as the way that the process is going and gotten much better due to use of github is exactly the way the process was when I started but it was because back then mail and usenet were the ways that we collaborated on stuff and so the switch to github is simply we\u0027re starting to use the ways that engineers are collaborating on stuff again and the only thing I would a then as sort of a direction is let\u0027s not go through this process again where we get stuck on a tool because all of us in this community love that tool and then when new people start coming to the community look at us ago using that stupid tool um some sort of agility with our about you know our use of different tools different ways of working together so but that continued to plug into at the end of the day we have something stable that we can point to and say that\u0027s what we mean for now as the standard and by the way just Pete even though you have been here forever you didn\u0027t say your name and we do it okay I\u0027m sorry I didn\u0027t and yeah we do have a "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:36:22",
    "text": "minute taker so yes please sorry I missed it Micah bishop so I will say the HGP working group being my first working group coming into I kind of saw this from the beginning and I didn\u0027t know the old process but I wasn\u0027t familiar with github either so it has been surprisingly good to collaborate there although I had to learn get in the process the thing that has been most frustrating to me particularly now that I\u0027m a doc headed or in quick is we don\u0027t really have an agreed way to reach consensus and so we and we continue to have this I ATF process that consensus is on the mailing list consensus is not in meetings consensus is not on github and so we have something like a hundred ish resolved issues and quick and we have formal consensus on one so with my quick working group chair hat on co-chair Lars is out to see about to say we don\u0027t even have it on that one we we just we just started uh as you know I put out a call for consensus about a week ago on how many were there to me way too many issues so we have been feeling our way through this process and i put a link on to the jabber which is another way that we communicate here at the IDF another two memorials business to our contributing document which is a we we started this in HTTP working group where github allows you to have a file on the rep oh that is automatically shown to people or linked to people when they create an issue or do certain things on the repo and this is the terms of contribution and you kind of evolved that over time to be you know this is how you participate in this working group this is how we get to consensus in this working group and if folks are on the jabber channel I\u0027d I\u0027d encourage you to read that because that reflects how we\u0027re working right now in terms of getting to that but I think your your feedback there is is good that makes me more concerned about the state we charted quick in than anything else well I\u0027ve really just want to see in whatever drafts wound up being produced here if it\u0027s a bcp or whatever is consensus still determined on the mailing list and if so what is the flow oh I\u0027m just going to say sorry all right are you happy with the way we\u0027ve currently documented it for quick that\u0027s the best we\u0027ve got right now yeah the thing that frustrates me with quick is I feel like we\u0027ve gotten into a process I mean admittedly only and wrap 02 of we have all the proposed resolutions in this draft speak now or forever hold your peace it\u0027s never like that it\u0027s always if we get more information and that has a broad definition you can reopen an issue Ted Hardy I chair rgc web and acne both of "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:39:23",
    "text": "which use github in very different ways and one of the things i\u0027d like to point out is that i think its point about don\u0027t get caught in a tool for all time needs to be extended slightly to understand that you may use different tools not just for different working groups but for different life cycle points in a working group and i\u0027ll point out that an HTTP nobody suggested going to github while we were still in the here are these three candidate drafts stage right the leader you are in the process the more appropriate the github style of we already have the structure and we\u0027re making contributions to it etc the more natural that feels at least to me and if you\u0027re really still at the stage where somebody may need to say nope this whole approach is wrong they\u0027re not going to do that as a as a giant PR emptying and replacing a document they have to do it as a new document and so there\u0027s a yeah it\u0027s been done Richard points out to me thank you for the enzyme ace so Ted Oh found out that the w3c does this on occasion we therefore my chicken draft and on yes I was it was excellent but the point is let\u0027s not either get stuck on using this particular tool or assume we have to use the same tool through the life cycle of a working group but as it may very well be that this is a very useful tool for authors in the early stage and then becomes a working group a tool as the after adoption when things get get later along and that sort of evolution should be part of how we think about it as well hello I\u0027m binoculars so I like what you what you wrote right having RFC producing RFC the same way with your software so you mentioned the yang tools and explain what I\u0027m doing there and what my main pain point is so what I\u0027m doing is that every day I\u0027m looking at all the drafts the new ones I run a tool to extract a young module then I validate this then I report the errors to the to the authors now what\u0027s happening is that the thing which is very stupid here is that we\u0027re asking people to create the yang module to insert it into the txt file which is posted and extract it then I report errors on the lines and then the lines under the same one that the original one because you know extra lines whatever because the footer my biggest issue here is that we should distinguish the draft from something which is in there like a module emit some code this one if it would be in github that would help me a lot I happen to have an unsubmitted draft on that that I will submit after this meeting it\u0027s currently on github it\u0027s currently "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:42:25",
    "text": "on github you can read it there you might have trouble finding it in the hundred or so repositories that I have but it covers the issue that you\u0027re talking about and I think one of the ways that github and this setup can actually help with with your problem is that you don\u0027t have to extract the module from the text document because you know that the authors of that document were generating the module validating the module then inserting it into the document and you can be really reasonably sure that that process was followed properly because it was all automated and I can show you how to set that up I actually have a draft in the TLS working group that has a markdown file that says please run the following test cases in NSS and it scrapes the test cases for test vectors and then generates the draft out of that that\u0027s fine what I\u0027m doing with yang is that I have even commercial tools to validate those right so it would be right all sometimes impossible to just say this is the list of things that you have to to validate so I believe that the ITF should take the highest priority to separate goes to 0 if that that is the point that I\u0027m making my draft it yeah okay for some definition fixed where we means Joe and I hi Dave Crocker um so I I get the degree of adoption that has already happened and that makes moot any concerns one my Gray\u0027s about whether it should be adopted so any comments i\u0027m going to make aren\u0027t raising that question even if they might sound like they are we stuck with text only for rfcs for dramatically longer than anybody would have thought was a good idea and we didn\u0027t just do it because we were encrusted in it there was a facility with it and an ease of access an accessibility that was profound and Liz and in spite of the fact that we\u0027re now using XML as a base we\u0027re actually producing text documents and and I\u0027m amused by the fact that the HTML version that we produce is only a slight variation of the ASCII version we don\u0027t even use pretty HTML to the extent we could um this conservativeness in transitioning over to more powerful and more complex tools is something that we can forget the benefit of um the barrier to entry with github compared to the barrier to entry of generating forgive me a text document is huge so the benefits are significant but we can get lost in in the the enthusiasm of that "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:45:27",
    "text": "forgetting that we\u0027ve just raised the bar for entry um I don\u0027t know where to go with that concern other than up here raising the flag about it and some of the comments being made I think reduced to we need to figure out more careful discipline for using this that doesn\u0027t i say more careful i don\u0027t mean that people are doing anything wrong i think that we\u0027re not necessarily thinking carefully enough about the selectivity that we might want to have and there\u0027s any number of comments that i think fit into that view i\u0027m suggesting that we we take a beat in thinking about it more carefully in this i I\u0027m assuming this event is actually in the in the service of that goal isn\u0027t very much like we\u0027ve put a fair amount of thought into that so I\u0027d encourage you to look at the link that I gave that on jabber we\u0027ve been very conscious to make sure that someone who does not want to use one of these tools has legitimate ways that they can participate in the activity and I\u0027d actually push back on your characterization that we\u0027re raising the bar for many many people we are dramatically lowering the bar that shows that we\u0027re getting implementers and users who otherwise don\u0027t know how to age with us because they don\u0027t want to sign up to a fire hose of a mailing list able to come in and use a tool that they\u0027re very familiar with go in and talk about their issue and then get out and and and to add to that the the process by which you you produce a text document that the submission tool will accept is torturous if you don\u0027t have access to tools that help you in that process and we do have some pretty good tools now that allow you to do something as simple as rights and mark down and throw it at the wall and it tends to stick at that point as opposed as opposed to bounce off and hit you in the face okay thank Joe Hildebrand I just wanted to point out one more thing about the contributing document that you\u0027ve got it does i think have a link to the know well in it and i just wanted to point out that there\u0027s really no way to either send a PR or file an issue without having seen them the the note well so that\u0027s for the people who are concerned about you know blue sheet style issues that\u0027s at least one of the mitigations for that and we can track you back to to your account on github if you send a pull request or file an issue actually Michael before you start a you said blue sheet show who has not signed the blue sheet okay witness ms room so- michael richardson can you go back to the diagram with the circle the last the last iteration circle with a really tight loop you\u0027re asking me to do significant things here okay i think "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:48:28",
    "text": "your document maybe it was in this one it was in the previous one oh there we go yeah that one that one so the answer is yes i can thank you so um so something that that I think that is a big deal um is that despite the lovely Miss of the green loop on the loop through the meeting still exists and it\u0027s a I think I think it can be a little bit jarring to a design team that has been iterating quite quickly for instance the inanimate strap design team we had weekly conference calls and we actually aruna while we\u0027re not using her make file we\u0027re using one that we found simpler and less capable more suited to our stupidity that that that we were doing that and it was great and I said very consciousness that oh my goodness we\u0027re going to go talk to a working group half of whom hasn\u0027t read our document of course and so it doesn\u0027t know what changes we\u0027re talking about and why we changed our mind six times between each Tuesday right of our meeting and so I think that\u0027s is that this is the part of the problem that we have between say for instance where day Crocker is and this is that we\u0027re iterating an awfully fat awfully fast there and that\u0027s good but that we have an impedance mismatch with a larger group and this kind of thing so one of the things that i did is i would actually publish an awfully long email you know 500 lines or something long which was our notes of our thing and i would try to condense our diffs and awe and things that we did back to the mailing list and now and then there\u0027s someone pull something out of of it right in the middle and there\u0027s a big rat hole there that they\u0027re want to talk about and that\u0027s good because they paid attention to read that far and I think if you\u0027re not doing that then you\u0027re probably making a mistake and you\u0027re causing in penis mismatch and so that\u0027s I think the caution that that we need to figure out how to make that a common activity yeah so I found that in in this situation it\u0027s it\u0027s really almost crucial in some circumstances to take that the changes that you think are significant and take them to the list and and just just move them across their say I\u0027ve opened the following pull request we\u0027ve had some discussion there we think this is the right way forward and describe the pros and cons and you\u0027re thinking and how you got to this point in a concise email that identifies that issue and I found that that drawing the larger group into that particular conversation does a lot to validate the designs earlier rather than waiting for the right eventual explosion when it when people go hey and ends in that\u0027s the origin of my rant a few weeks ago about being shy about posting your internet-drafts because there was this fast cycle and is "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:51:29",
    "text": "it can we just post this now before we pull we processed this pull request that\u0027s controversial let\u0027s get the thing out so that the diff tool can really clearly say to people and here was the controversial change between version 4 and version 5 and there are other stuff between version 3 in version four was editorial nitpicky blah blah blah we reformatted this we moved some text here we did that and just do that and not wait till the Monday or two weeks ago to do it or when week ago and I that\u0027s why that\u0027s what is the origin of Iran because I was actually trying to get my co-authors in some cases like can we just publish this already and their reluctance and in some cases academics who just wouldn\u0027t publish a 00 until it was perfect and like oh come on you keep changing your mind can we like have some points so I can point that the thing i like the version 3 versions ago not the version 6 get commits under hash ID blah blah blah whatever right and I just wanted to build to do that so I think that\u0027s that\u0027s what I want to say is I think this is wonderful and I\u0027ve been doing it for as long as you have you know for my own stuff but but that we got is still respect the rest of the loop I think we\u0027re still finding our way on the right pace to publish drafts at one thing that you actually brought to mind was that I find we don\u0027t need design teams as much with this process that the github issue has actually become little miniature design teams that self coalesce and you don\u0027t need to have this formalism where you break off and then bring something back hilal this from and speaking of some experience in the WTC of work doing github one of the things that has not been mentioned is the actual properties of a bug tracker one of the things we did was we switched from bugzilla to get hubs is your tracker and it was very clear from the ease of using it to tools that less is definitely more so I\u0027ve come to appreciate this and most things in building process which is that often the best process is the one that isn\u0027t there switching switching points is there such a short line behind me and consensus on issues has very frequently in our contexts been the mailing list knows that the issue has been raised the mailing list knows that there has been a resolution and the two people who really care i agree with a solution that\u0027s a very practical way of measuring "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:54:29",
    "text": "consensus and this works fairly well with github issues now this doesn\u0027t fit the description that this and the RFC is that the IDF lives and dies by that I think it\u0027s in practice quite useful what we should be sure of is that anyone who follows the work cannot claim to have been surprised if he has fun he has read read the standard means of communication as long as he cannot claim to be surprised he I think that the point of consensus has been preserved even though the RFC\u0027s Rek about it so Keith before you step up to the mic we have five minutes left area directors Alyssa or yari do you have anything that you want to inject since we only have five minutes left okay okay great sorry go ahead then okay keith moore i\u0027ll try to be brief i do have two points in no particular word when the slide was up there that says we want to develop documents like we do open source software my first thought was but good open source software and a good standards document really have very different characteristics and the tools that you use to collaborate affect the product in in both good and bad ways I actually think this is a great idea I want to see it exported I\u0027m not trying to discourage use of these tools but a good standards document in my mind has coherence and that means that editors have gone through and made decisions about what to include and what not to include and often a standard is better when it has fewer features and one of the problems I\u0027ve seen both with collaborative collaboratively edited documents and with open source software they had a lot of contributors is creeping feature ISM and I don\u0027t think that\u0027s a good thing for a standard so I\u0027m interested to see how you can you know take the process and use these tools in such a way that doesn\u0027t contribute to creeping fig tourism and standards yeah just just to respond to that Keith I\u0027ve worked in a number of different standard or standards organizations and this is probably the one place that I\u0027ve been that doesn\u0027t suffer from that all of the other standards bodies that I\u0027ve participated in have massive problems with feature creep and I think this is just a sim product of the maturity of the people involved and and the the culture and the discipline that\u0027s applied to the development of the standard I don\u0027t think it\u0027s got a great deal to do with the tools I\u0027ve seen the w3c work on on "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:57:30",
    "text": "things they use github they use a very similar process to what we\u0027re using an HTTP beers and yet they produce sometimes documents that are just as creepy as you can imagine yeah i I don\u0027t I don\u0027t believe me p by the way I don\u0027t think the tools necessarily i guess i would say that the extent that we have that coherence it\u0027s because there is a document editor or a small number of document editor who are dedicated to making that happen I don\u0027t want to lose that okay and that\u0027s actually something that my document talks about a little bit I didn\u0027t mention it here but I should have which is that one of the properties that were actually getting is that the editors become custodians of the document rather than actually being responsible for writing all of the text and that is a huge advantage for editors particularly being an editor on a number of those documents um but you still have that that level of editorial review nothing is quite um second point is that any time I\u0027ve ever had to try to like assess this sort of mental state all the ideas and the decisions taken in this kind of thing and there\u0027s been multiple sources of this information that were in disparate places it becomes a problem so I think doing it when everything was done on the mailing list you knew where to find all this stuff it was all on the mailing list if you have some things in github and some things in a bug tracking system that something\u0027s Allah mailing list I think that potentially becomes a bigger problem so just something to think about and that they will end up in my inbox anyway everything ends up in my inbox anyway so it\u0027s all the same to me so now it\u0027s worse it rapidly running out of time so if we get very very much directly as the one I want to echo back the contribution or like a blue sheet one so I think you already mentioned that the github is has a facility to specify contribution guide which you have to look except in which is standard for all of the this open-source software you have to accept some contribution guide in order to contribute and the second one I like github get up is a great tool but i\u0027m not sure that the recoverability for issues and pull request is either possible or available at this moment it is possible we do it okay so and we\u0027ll have so if you come to the mailing list there there will be discussion on the tools to do that so cohen-chang a fan of all this and think you can solve these problems easily I think that you need to take the IPR problems very serious and that many of us are being sued right now over a lawsuit that were largely turn on whether somebody was in violation in bc 78 or not and it\u0027s a lot of money and it\u0027s going to be traced back to actual people and wednes blue sheets it\u0027s easy to do in this year you dear there\u0027s a community you know that but when it\u0027s you know XX 27 on github it\u0027s really hard to correlate that with a real persons name so I I want us to move to those types of tools and take things from people that maybe we never meet in "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:00:30",
    "text": "person but I think that we have to be able to actually address the the legal issues that come out of that as well yeah so yeah so the w3c is it true is good but it typically didn\u0027t write and we\u0027re moving to a time where we\u0027re hoping it typically does well as Martin said that the pull request we\u0027re taking now tend to be drive by spelling checks when it\u0027s a meteor feature they have to get more involved in the discussion itself well all I\u0027m saying is I think we have to get very seriously looking at this experience of a fort of educating our editors on what\u0027s major and what\u0027s not magic major okay at which I suspect that from Martins look he doesn\u0027t know and then the other thing is is looking at the the what for the ones that are major what what is our bar so w3c has a very clear one right and they understand it they have tools that enforce it we can have all those things i\u0027m nots just so we need that i\u0027m not i think these are problems we can solve easily I\u0027m just saying we need to solve any cuts so so I\u0027d like to push back just a little bit on that I think I agree with the general sentiment all we have right now is an email address from some participants true we also have the same in github when someone makes a contribution that I actual material contribution we we have the same just not even necessarily not if they delete their github account because we\u0027re involved in one of those know you actually you actually get that in them in the metadata and it\u0027s recorded in my district even with the email just I don\u0027t think it\u0027s the email address that was necessarily important in here I mean I\u0027d like I mean I use fluffy that I i I\u0027ve her but even though often mind yet San Francisco I think that often we do through the community process of participating in meetings know who the people are and no and makes somewhat different and that we\u0027re trying to make that more remote and accessible to more people it\u0027s a good thing but we need to trust that right and we\u0027re over so pleasing quite Lou burger another way to ask that question is how does the ITF respond to a subpoena to information on github okay so thank you you too and we have some closing remarks please uh yeah hi Alyssa Cooper so I thought this is a really fantastic discussion thank you all for initiating it and all of you for contributing I\u0027m trimming on the list I think you are now we\u0027re just sort of chatting about what are the takeaways in the next steps and it sounds like there\u0027s really a few different categories of potential future work here or future areas of exploration so there\u0027s this at the level of the principles which is kind of encompassed by marks document i think that\u0027s that\u0027s one thing there\u0027s i think questions around four working groups that are looking to upgrade their tooling or start using github more but aren\u0027t really using it right now there\u0027s obviously a lot of experience now in the IETF and I think there\u0027s questions to explore about how do we make it easier for new people different people who want "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:03:31",
    "text": "to adopt or you know learn from what what we\u0027ve already learned how do we make that easier so there\u0027s part of that which is about best practices and part of it which might be about some tooling that we could provide as the ITF so that\u0027s another the third one gets to Martin\u0027s going to think about the sort of philosophy of how we develop documents and four groups that really want to be more on the cutting edge or experimenting with that sort of thing again are there things that we could do help or make that easier or make it more acceptable in the community or in the groups that\u0027s that\u0027s another one and then lastly I do think there was this question raised both bye bye Mike bishop and by Harold that is a little bit thorny or about you know does the does you know potential adoption of a new tool by by some parts of the community imply anything about how we should think about how we gather consensus and how we make decisions and should the mailing list still rule the day that\u0027s obviously a question that needs a lot more further deeper thought I tend to think that even if we you know go down the path and have a good discussion about that from the tooling perspective we always want to make it such that people are able to use the tools that are comfortable for them I don\u0027t think I don\u0027t hear anybody arguing for let\u0027s get rid of or you know prohibit that any tools that we already use which i think is good but we\u0027re mostly talking about adding and you know adopting different models for different crowds but I do think that is like a process point that if people want to debate that then I encourage you to take that to the to the mailing list we\u0027re going to keep the mailing list open and I think for all of those areas that I just listed probably further debate and discussion on the mailing list is is the right next step if people think there\u0027s other things we should use except for the consensus question I think that that one yeah and I believe people would agree with me that should be on IETF general but i think the how do you do it but I\u0027m sorry so we could have it on this mailing list but then it\u0027ll all get repeated on IETF um yeah I don\u0027t know I kind of like when these things start smaller and and then and then go big especially because it\u0027s so it\u0027s so bound up with the issue of the tooling right like that\u0027s why people want to talk about it it\u0027s not just because they got second so another channel is then even though this mailing list is called IHF and github it it is somewhat at this point ietf and tooling that seems to lean towards github yeah I mean I think it\u0027s the name is okay for now people want to change it but it\u0027s a lot of the focuses obviously I\u0027m gonna so yeah so you know please keep contributing on the list and keep the debate going that\u0027s kind of a next step great thanks and keep talking among each other again part of the reason we did this was so that y\u0027all would like you know recognize people from other working groups and stuff to get hints and stuff like that come to mailing list and whoever has the blue sheets please bring them up thanks "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:06:39",
    "text": "thank you sir I\u0027ll looking for simply they say yeah that\u0027s fine but religion yes right we didn\u0027t give Crocker enough time to do that so I forget how do with svn right oh yeah absolutely no no so I use now i only use a google for svn and if it doesn\u0027t work there then fuck it I need to use it next enough like right right and so I have this gooey called cornerstone that I paid sixty dollars for at some point and that\u0027s all I know about svn now because it\u0027s like trying to do I pearl and 5 i\u0027m not say up I have to leave them on another computer yeah second blue sheet somewhere I just mail them to me at five thanks thank you by the way skillfully people are using it because it\u0027s our food because the lines are just have a seat very good thank you it wasn\u0027t in the first business I\u0027ve done everything you\u0027re getting loud bang other things I dms right in the saloon yeah it\u0027s always it\u0027s fucking bitch both that\u0027s about it some of it is so some of it really is the pull request which github really does well but some of it is also this outward face of the ring by I or these other people know it and such like that and which you would never get if you hosted it yourself yeah but they\u0027ll already thought week why else oh yeah yeah the deal big deal on the amount recoverability many everyone mentioned it but how many walking groups that\u0027s something Luke you\u0027re almost ready are using commas active right right yes that that one will will bite us on us I\u0027m sure see I left that I don\u0027t "
  }
]