[
  {
    "startTime": "00:00:05",
    "text": "good times since the last meeting yes it was a great fun actually excellent hello hello and how are you good sleepy excellent uh we are we are still Gathering so I will uh let people gather for a few more minutes I mean a couple more minutes um just to let people know uh Michael has been wrestling with a migraine so uh he will not be joining us today so uh you have me and we never have you both at the same time lately I I think we I think we do have uh meet Echo records with both of us all together together so so uh that's that's the uh that's the only thing that I would uh uh mention mention about um okay just to make sure everybody has it uh here's the link for our notes for people to uh log into and uh and uh add yourself as a attendee down under roll call if you look for that um and we do have a good uh looks like we do have a good turnout too so thank you all for that"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:02:00",
    "text": "and oh foreign and you announced yourself as delayed Spencer Dawkins uh yeah pretty much yeah it's a bit um I don't know what's the right word um would have done well as Halloween I guess laughs well I was impressed that one of our documents was submitted on Halloween but um so they're always inspiring as long as it's not the first of April because people can get ideas very much so yes um I am going to if this is okay um share my screen [Music] um and that will take just a second to get organized just so we know what we're looking at and this one uh just so people like I say just so people can follow along um I will go ahead and call us to order and uh and uh welcome everyone and uh put up our usual administrivia part of the agenda um and uh see uh so"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:04:02",
    "text": "as remote like I said we're we're and we are talking about uh the proposed virtual interim uh meeting dates for 2023 later in the agenda so letting everybody log in and uh the draft minutes from the previous meeting although they are accessible for people who know how to look uh we're only distributed like two hours ago on the mailing list so uh if it's okay we will uh we will uh give give people a chance to look at those before we approve them yeah I saw them earlier because they weren't early on a mailing list but uh they were on the I don't know where the minutes are but wait a minute usually are yeah so yeah well basically so basically the best place to look is if uh um Michael and I both take minutes uh in the uh headstock that I'm showing now so uh you know if you open up the if you open up the meeting notes for uh any meeting uh you see the completed stuff that we submitted as as uh minutes so um but like I said I don't want to necessarily lean too hard on that um foreign so one thing I wanted to do at the uh beginning of our our time together was uh talk about the proposed uh 2023 meeting dates um I sent uh some proposal out on the 29th of"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:06:02",
    "text": "November and there were a couple of data errors basically like you know I had a couple of them that might have been like the the date was Thursday of the right week but you know instead of Tuesday but that didn't change the possible conflicts which are uh here um and uh the current plan uh that I wanted to talk about with you all before we requested these is we would move our March meeting into April 4th because of uh ietf 116. uh that we would cancel our July meeting that we would move our November meeting to uh the 5th of December and cancel our December meeting like we did this past year um are there any other uh Steve said uh looked good to me on the mailing list and uh are there any other things that we should be aware of uh before we uh turn in the list of uh of uh meeting requests I have no objections cool uh I did have I so this is a Spencer question about uh any plans for in-person uh no time to wait in 2023 that might might change might change our plans like uh has happened a couple of times and then I know this I know this may be early for them but uh people you know you guys are connected so uh well connected so uh we don't have a date for uh no time to wait next yeah not yet okay um so we we made challenge maybe October November we don't know uh we'll see when"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:08:02",
    "text": "we have a the date okay so um oh does this look good for Spencer to turn in the requests and then we'll you know if if there's any if there's anything that comes up we would manage that conflict like we always do and uh just so the working group knows when I start typing like I know what the answer is as I'm asking a question that's just that that's not me telling you I don't care what you think it's just me trying to get ahead on the notes so uh if there are objectives on the call this would be a great time to make them are we supposed to be good now we change the dates for the ietf for example so okay so the ietf so the ITF dates uh because those have uh hotel reservations with them there are contracts with them uh a couple of years in advance some some of them they're very unlikely to change so um I don't know I don't think should we change our schedule already for these dates um only uh so if for okay so like for this one uh which we would usually have as"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:10:00",
    "text": "March 28th is that highlighting okay um that's mostly because uh that that meeting is in the Japan time zone and uh both Michael and I are likely to be be on site so um it would you know it would be the middle of the night for us and we would not be at our best so that that you are asking a legitimate question about uh why that you know why we would why we would change the our dates to accommodate that another question is do we already change the dates like it seems the 28th of March won't be okay so we can decide now to put it on the 4th of April yeah that's that's what I'm that's yeah I'm I'm go I'm going with this uh you know with the uh current plan that I had in the minutes so yeah so yes uh moving Marsh to April 4th and uh moving the November meeting to uh the first week of December but uh and canceling cancel canceling our July meeting so I will I will uh I will I will I will turn it I will turn in the right set of of uh requests before before uh uh we get going so yeah excellent and thank you for correcting the uh boxing day thing I like I say I don't know how I managed to pick the wrong date number uh the the wrong day number out of the week that I was looking at if inbox in days and leave a thing in the UK we've never heard of it anywhere else uh Canada also so so that so uh so Michael would be uh affected but yeah that's where it comes from um"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:12:00",
    "text": "so cool so uh Spitzer will submit the request yes excellent um and uh for the working group status uh update we have a lot of drafts that were expiring and have now been submitted you know with a you know with update with that you know have been resubmitted so that they are active in the data tracker and thank everybody for that and uh let's see um and this one here yeah the Flack one uh is actually uh Spencer needs to correct this I'll do that well I will not do that while you are watching um this uh the the thing with the thing with that slack is uh that we have uh finished working group last call and uh Spencer just needs to do the the shepherd write-up on the on the document uh so that should be happening that should be happening soon it just wasn't going to happen this week so uh so uh and matroska we are also waiting for uh ad evaluation uh so um those two documents we are uh waiting on the next step in the publication process um and like I said thanks for everybody for um for posting the updated uh working group drafts I wanted to ask people what are we focusing on next now that petroska and flacker leaving the the base matroskus back and Flacco are leaving the working group well my trust care we have two options"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:14:01",
    "text": "either the codec document or the tag documents I think the codec documents is more important but it will also be a lot longer so I would actually appreciate the attack parties are so long because there will be a lot of discussions about attack meanings and uh the details about tech and for me the codec part is more important yes I think the codec is more important but I think it will take less time for the tag because there's like I don't know 30 codex and we have to go through each of them uh while tag is mostly done we're not going to rewrite them if anything we have to just change the documentation so I would rather focus on that because it should be faster and that's my opinion and of course we can do both at the same time because I don't expect actually to have a lot of work on text but I know maybe BJ omia but other ideas on that well anyway that's my opinion we do both at the same time in parallel yeah like we did dbml and Metro scale at the same time and it worked fine yes we are totally independent so we we do well yeah so for f everyone it is still um yeah I have a lot of people that is they are very happy with uh ffv1 version"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:16:00",
    "text": "3. so for the moment uh there is no uh not a lot of work on before but we still want to to focus on V4 at some point foreign stable about what already exists [Music] yeah just to test another urgent right now right yeah sorry we just we still want to to work on ffv1 sure yeah it is a matter of time okay cool and that and that's helpful for me and Michael and uh for our area director just to know what uh what to expect uh we probably we we probably should be updating uh uh the uh dates the dates on on these uh and which we can do by email uh and I'd like to have uh uh when Michael's available also okay cool um Steve you you had asked the question about uh a document that would handle ebml lorata and uh um and uh so for for people who are"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:18:01",
    "text": "following along we have five reported irada including six technical uh we have proposed texts for all nine Narada thank you for that uh and we did have uh you know like I said just the one question from Chris about uh whether onearada should be uh combined with another erotic or not that that question would be interesting if we did not do another document at some point but uh if we do another document we'll have to you know we'll have to make we'll have to decide what to do that anyway so um Michael Michael's suggestion on Halloween was uh yes we should start the uh 79 uh sorry 8794 Abyss uh now but not rush um and so I wanted to ask the question um do we have a sense of when we would be likely to uncover more errata uh I'm assuming I'm assuming that part of the process of uncovering the nine we found so far uh has been people using using uh ebml and then uh having questions I I don't think we can say when because basically the win before was when we finished the matrosca document if we find something that is a problem that didn't happen so there was some reports from the ebml RFC from people who read the document and tried to implement and saw some things we reached these two steps and I think"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:20:00",
    "text": "from now it's one it's less likely to have Errata now okay cool um do we do we want to go ahead and um and this I I this is a question probably for uh me and Michael but uh um but basically the Spencer will uh discuss uh adding a milestone for this with Michael and with uh with Murray uh rid oh so cool um and then thank you for that that's very hopeful for me um I wanted to uh ask what people's Impressions were uh about the in-person in-person meeting um at the at the uh had no time to wait but uh because I was the only person who I think I was the only person who wasn't on site um well uh let's let's defer that until uh Michael's available if that's okay cool um so like I said uh matroska we're waiting for Murray's 80 evaluation uh the last time Michael and I talked with him um we were Mike Murray said that this was like the next document that he has to do any evaluation for so we we are at the"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:22:01",
    "text": "top of his list and uh we need the we need the shepherd right up for the Flack uh draft which is at the top of my list so uh for both of these uh I don't know that we have anything to talk about on the call um are there we said we said we're uh deferring uh V4 uh ffe ffv1 uh V4 4-bit yes here and uh do we have any other business uh well I do have one question okay okay there are two PRS against the flux specification document still on the GitHub they're only small and little minor things okay and I didn't publish a new um a new document because I thought what's only only small changes and uh but well we haven't had any more changes since then when do you want to meet to publish a new document I don't know whether you already started reading or whether you can look at them and well what should we do with these um okay so Spencer's Spencer's opinion on this is uh if these are small changes uh I'm fine uh with you uh with you you know with you waiting to do the submission um"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:24:01",
    "text": "just in case I just in case I see anything that I have questions about you know that that way that way you'd only have to do the submission once uh but we will need we will need to do an update uh when we request publication you know the next step basically so after after you see my uh Shepherd report and if there's anything we need to talk about there and we resolve anything we need to talk about uh at that point it would be good to do her vision okay yes I was just wondering whether it would be uh is a workable situation for you when there are these two changes that aren't in the documents and there are only really minor gotcha yeah so okay that was all cool so uh is there anything else we need to talk about um about matroska I feel an issue about the time code part Steve can you check it a bit more uh a bit when you have some time but there is one pull request but it is an addition so it is a bit different and there is the the Issue Number 682 I would like but Steve can review if Steve can review it it would be a great"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:26:01",
    "text": "because uh it is not clear about the example uh provided in the mattress aspect yeah six eight two uh I put it in the chart so there's maybe a small focus on that uh it is a bit per bit I think to focus on so not something we could do now I think but just yeah Steve if you can check it yeah okay I will and and so the question is does this need to happen before the response back is published it would be great because the example seems weird to me so um I would like to have uh to be sure about the example in The Matrix spec is fine okay so you just say that this is not blocking uh publication uh it would be good it would be good to our resolve that right is that right cool and uh Steve is that okay for you to uh to take a look at that yeah sure okay ready oh excellent is there anything else we"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:28:02",
    "text": "need to talk about remember the way that document is part of the codec document not the microscale document so um yeah is that blocking for the current documentary yeah oh you were saying that is 682 on the codec or on the mains back um additional mappings so yeah not the main spec too okay so not blocking okay and I'm sorry I'm sorry I'm sorry I'm misunderstood that so that's on the Codex pack no no it is uh it is me [Music] so it is on uh on the uh addition uh the additional mappings so not the codec it is another one uh okay I don't know uh this one we it will be in inside the codec uh document so it is less urgent okay the link on where it's uh it's integrated in the document that's in the codec file okay okay excellent excellent and thank you guys for walking me through that just to make sure just make sure that uh everybody understands what we're you know what we're talking about that maybe just Spencer understands what"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:30:02",
    "text": "we're talking about you guys know you can uh type corrections in the minutes too right I'm not offended [Laughter] you should do it so well [Laughter] I see [Laughter] um is there anything else we need to talk about not for me no are we all good yes cool so like the other good news I have for you all is I don't think I gave Michael the migraine so uh I'm expecting to see him back in January yeah but uh I hope you all have a wondrous winter holidays of whatever flavor you might celebrate and a wonderful beginning of your New Year we'll see we will see you all on the mailing list [Music] happy holidays by excellent all right bye-bye foreign"
  }
]
