[
  {
    "startTime": "00:00:20",
    "text": "Okay. To this. Okay. So I think that we we we can start. So we come to the drip session Daniel? Yes. I'm here. Okay. So This is an active meeting. The not what Applied for it. So think that's you if you are not familiar with it, get to yourself familiar with the all I would say the the various is there. The agenda that we have for today, so We have a short introduction from from the chair about the current studies, then we have a report from from two about the the current issue we have for the this summer the simon then we have an... And and documentation a update from from andre"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:02:00",
    "text": "and then we go to the two working group documents the first one about the authentication and the second one on the race. And then we'll have... I would say, open optimized for open discussions. For Yeah. So for the brief discussion, the objective we have is to I would to have an overview of the current open issues and then to check when you document will be ready for the second work last call And for the registry to to make sure that we are ready for the dennis the review at least for in in coming in the coming. Yes. So just as Eric, any for. Do you have a minute taker? Yes. That's two to tax you as to. You so. Yeah. Thank you. Thank Thank you, Rick. So this is for already ridiculous status. So Congratulations for the working group, we have another Rf which is published. So thanks all the orders authors on older reviewers. We have also the arch, which is also sent to the editor. Thanks you all. Thanks also for I would say, Eric for his support and moving this forward So unless there is any on the agenda, it's let we proceed. Two? Okay. So a number of things that happened in the outside world since we last gathered face to face The first one there, there's a there's a company called On Technologies, which is a vendor that has a Uas traffic management software product and a number of other things. They were awarded a contract by the Faa to demonstrate receiving broadcast grid and pumping it into network grid, which is exactly what we call crowds red"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:04:04",
    "text": "in one of our independent drafts that we hoping the working group will adopt. That kind of validates our belief that this is an important thing to do. Then in December, As approved the terms of reference for new work item to do device to device certificate based communication security framework, for on unmanned aircraft systems, and they came up with a new term a two x know, we're all familiar with V two. That then got expanded to v two x vehicle to anything. But now has decided that an aircraft is not a vehicle, which is a surprise to me. And in order to distinguish aircraft to to other staff communications. The new term a x has been invented So then in January, the first meeting of this a x working group in As kicked off. We're meeting on a weekly basis on Thursdays, And we are really carrying the flag for standards that already exist as opposed to As needing to reinvent wheels. Then let's see. Also in January, Ans published this thing that they update every six months It is their gaps report on what standards do we need in un aircraft systems? Oh, by the way, that is the new term of art un aircraft systems. Mh. And, you know, we We wanted to do that, well, I don't know, two years ago? Yes. But the rest of the air aviation community said, no. No No. No. No. The term is on unmanned aircraft systems. But now they've turned around and said, no. Un crude is a better word. So okay. So should should we need put your document you you determine right how? I think we should think we should stick with unmanned until we complete the basic set of drip drip documents for consistency mh. But then once we've completed authentication and the registry architecture"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:06:01",
    "text": "I think going forward, we may wish to adopt the term un. I like it not because it is politically correct because but because it is closer to accurate, Right? With an air taxi for instance, you can have a passenger on board. So it is not unmanned. It's just the pilot isn't on board. It's include. But even on crude is not completely correct, but so far no come up with it completely. Technically accurate work. Anyway, the whole antsy thing, it's about what standards do we need that we don't have. And so Bob and I periodically contribute to the updates on report and keep them informed to what we're doing here in. Let's see. Then in February, Adam took his drug receiver application and field tested interoperability with somebody else's. Sending unit onboard aircraft, we got some remarkably long ranges really surprised me, but the range was extremely inconsistent. It seem to even depend upon humidity and air temperature. And then just yesterday, bob Mo presented drip at the first meeting of Iq ikea trust framework panel, and Bob is with us So cutting him some Slack because he's getting no sleep because he's participating in you know, like, twelve hours out of twenty four and the I another eight or hours out of twenty four in Montreal. Okay. So we still have this about whether we need to develop some kind of a means of compliance document. That's kind back burner at the point until we finish the basics center drip documents. And hopefully, they will serve. And drip will be demonstrated to the. Us Federal Aviation Administration in their big Ut field test immediately after Adam and I get back from here, and there are Us agencies which I won't name who are rushing forward to to at least field trial if not deploy drip, even though ink is not dry on our standards documents. But you'll notice that I keep saying the Us this and the Us that We really need more participation from outside the. Us here within the drip"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:08:01",
    "text": "working group. Meta if you would advance the slide please. So how does how does all this external stop guide what we're doing? Well, initially, As fundamental document thirty four eleven plus the rules as we understood them from various civil aviation agencies around the world drove our requirements, which drove our architecture, which is now in the editor queue and drove our definition of our entity tag, which has been published. The authentication documents in working group last call and I guess it's I need the second working group last call because it's said to have some changes. The registry documents are at this point still all Adam. They're not drip working group, and I what say No. The architecture has been adopted, but the individual technologies implementing it have not. And then floating on here on the right are what I'll call the second round drip everything that's in black and green and yellow is what we need to just do unmanned system remote identification in a trustworthy manner. Whereas these things are red are how to then use unmanned aircraft system identification information to do useful things. So please urgently review off and help other stuff. Okay. So I can still wants an observer from my Atf. And we haven't come up with one yet. So if anybody wants to step up, and kind of represent Jeff, two, I trust framework panel, it would be great if we had somebody. Also S one I can to act as a registrar for the red specific session Id types and specific authentication methods. Now we're already covered on a session Id types because it was baked right into the standard. But on the Sam codes, we need them. We need at least three. And there's a process that's laid out in f three four eleven for getting them, with that process"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:10:00",
    "text": "hasn't been stood up with an actual registrar. The good news, although it is unofficial good news from Bob, like two hours ago or so is that he talked with a key guy there at I in Montreal, and we are We are to expect to see movement from them within a matter of days I hoping days isn't three hundred and sixty four days, but we shall see. In case it proves to be more days, then we can continue accommodate because this has held up the drip train for many, many months. Causing some embarrassment. We've also been talking with Diana about... Could they backfill here And, you know, we've got a lot of confidence that I knows how to do this. There some non technical sensitivities in In k them and so on that have driven, maybe doing it a different way. But anyway, The Ip prefix for the initial red application has been settled in the published Rf, that essentially with help from Jim Reid settled the Dns Apex question And Diana has unofficially agreed to to be the red type register if As asks them do so because I can't can't move quickly enough. So I have goes it a letter which is currently being reviewed by some folks here in the room. And if it's okay here, And if I care doesn't move within another week, I will pass that to the powers that be an. And that's all I have unless there any questions on these external technologies. Thank you. I see Jim going to the mic. Hi. Reed question on the issue of the observer from the Yeah. You mentioned about representing the, is actually to represent the As a body. Or is it just to represent what the Is doing in this space? And what great the rules and what sort of commitment that's going to take is it physical attendance Meetings or"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:12:02",
    "text": "participating conference calls, what does that ob observe rule actually entail? And what does it mean what do you mean by representing the idea?? So I ikea has stood up this trust framework panel for the higher aviation ecosystem, not just on crude aircraft systems. Manned aircraft, airline reservation ticket counters, the whole nine yards. Right? And so they want an expert from It in broad issues of trust in networking. So not just drip. And this would have to be appointed by Ia but Ia is gonna need, you know, a volunteer to to consider appointing Okay. I think team the dear directors may be going have some small insights on not Yes. So but if you don't mind we jim forward on this one. So nobody speak for the Atf right, except all of us together. So that's given the Ib role is basically Ib in charge four years? Mh So it could be a liaison. Just to be clear. So Nobody one can engage the atf. Right? Not even the past. Yeah. Right. Yes. So from a nomenclature standpoint, what what we would call this person is a And what the Ikea will call them is an observer because they will be a non voting member, but expect to be a subject matter expert who can contribute to the discussions. Thanks all. Yeah. But kind Okay. There we go. This came up today's meeting We have a presentation about post quantum computing as impact on the P, for aviation. And the problems with that. So discussion of the It of activities in post quadrant computing came up in the discussion. The input from what they're doing for post computing would be a serious interest. To this body. For one thing. There is also discussions in terms of"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:14:04",
    "text": "of of trust in networking. So there's going to be of routing issues and other things which you come up. So this is broader in participation of the Ie etf work which she hits on this large trust framework that I ikea is developing for all of aviation. That's for the stuff up in the air. And the supporting stuff on the ground. And the people. We had a presentation, which was done on the the electronic passport process which has been using Ldap for the past fifteen years it's now moving looking at moving off of the Ldap as a back end directory for electronic passports and then electronic pilot license discussions got pulled into that as well. And and and trust in terms of of of a software representative of things that a pilot could have on their ipad or phone for their electronic pilot license. So there's much broader discussions in the trust framework related to activities which We have been working hard effort for many, many year's decades that that will have direct representation and advice to I. Because remember they're looking at thirty year time frame. Anything they set out to do today, they'll be probably maybe in five years. And then the... And then when they stand up, just like the of electronic passport, they can expect it to run for fifteen voice start talking about what we do next. So that you. Thank you but for pushing all of this information. Okay. That's it. Thank you. That case too for presenting this this. We will move to the next production from andre on the floor yours."
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:16:02",
    "text": "Hello? Can you hear me? Well? Yes. Okay. So next slide, please? So we have developed in of university this open source system to implement various parts of trips. Which was already presented it in the last meetings, so we have a minute aircraft broadcasting things so wifi to four two five. Hub server, which is using Android application to pickup up of signals as well as the registration interface and kind of flight recorder using, you know, have. Next slide. So our Android application is based on open drone Id and background compatible so it also pick ups insecure drawn broadcasts. It has been published on Google Play store for a few months now. So you can download using this link and currently there some tense, but looked thousands of. And we need more users to try it because it doesn't show up currently in the public search. So you need to use this link and we prefer to be more easily accessible. So please try it out. Next And the biggest program, the... Progress we have likely was with actually using Bluetooth two five because The previous was quite quite raw, but using this Usb five hundred plug into raspberry actually able to you use it in our test as well as on the right side you see this black box, it's called new unit of computing. X eighty six architecture, and it's also has built in bluetooth five. So it it works fine if our and increase ranges just up to one. Two kilometer for for detection compared to do for. Next, please."
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:18:02",
    "text": "And another major result from last event. Was this big study on how to implement Deepgram registry using a combination of inter involuntary file system and So it's not currently directly following the the group proposal, but at least shared with document already with Reviewed it and might get some good ideas how to to use it in upcoming specs. Has been already presented publicly, but to look you. Published it will be a pdf from this you mentioned, but it's like a working prototypes. We we used with smart contracts to actually very compliance, for example, if Gdpr so the data be added than removed to this registry and so next This is our primary experimental platform on Matrix three hundred drone as you see there swiss new unit of computing sitting on it 5g modem and it's, like, integrated to the drones sensors and and battery, so it's quite this experiment because it's six architecture, so it's easy easy to run our court melissa directly there and we are currently testing five probably in this approach maybe some kind of crowds sourced Id future. Also, we have started the formal verification of Drip protocol and from, for example, some possibility free play attacks. So we are still revising this study and maybe we need to in future provide patch to provide more freshness in our protocol messages so it's not subject if to is kind of attacks, but"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:20:01",
    "text": "I think in For some product protocols like Tls one free, formal location was quite successful and a new a lot so hopefully, we'll have help to progress in future. Next And we are having this twice a year of you speak lunch where we can test bronze flying in there in the second. Big area and for example, this may be applying another session where we focus on to five performance because before it was some problem with hardware we're using that. And we hope to also confirm like, maximum ridge depending like, a temperature river and so. So quite interesting to measure. As well as integrate this bluetooth and and another broadcast to the common platform that shows always devices it's also drawn boats commercial aircraft drones, everything should be, like on a single platform. Next. So basically, that's it. That's how group. Firefly five flying the drones in the backyard. And there a more backup slides later, leave some links to our git software and also some other details that we presented before. Thank you. K. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you, Andre. Russ, Hi, Russ. Can you back up to the Cameron fraud So he's found a problem with objective agreement, you didn't have enough freshness I think you said. How is this being fixed? Well, so far, we are improving this marine model and also we are looking at potential things."
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:22:00",
    "text": "Protocol, but seems in the way we are kind of broadcasting Hat and we are maybe haven't even like timestamp or anything the message it might be bit. Hard to fix let's but we have started. Okay. So I'm unclear whether you think you found a problem in the protocol or you you found a problem in the model of the protocol. Well, it's as you know it's a interactive process. So you don't know yet either. Is that what you mean? I can forward you a papers so that you give check the. I'm just not sure what the working group supposed to do with what you've reported. Well, currently, the protocol is already published the sec, so maybe best we can do is to to think of an editor or or some kind of future version in the standard process. Right. Well, we've seen updates to other protocols when flaws have been found. And so if you found the flaw, we ought fix. Yeah. But agree... I remember if you had to discussion last time, So and we say that's we did to notify, I would say, when you presented the similar sale results, that's if there are fixes or modification to be to be done existing documents or even the one that are published that will be I would say something which is really important for the working group to to consider and to pursue. For the heads stop, this is all out of scope of the working group. So did not we will or do that in this working room, but we will figure out with Eric where to to them if this is related to to to to to hit. So you take again on the fore all of this. And we come move to the next."
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:24:01",
    "text": "Let forget that. Because I will. Alright. So I'm gonna get into the meat of the group of we're doing here. So about authentication in the registry documents, which are now on dash thirty and eight. So as stu mentioned the, I Ceo relationship is still in a to be determined state, but we have two plans to move forward. One is an un stick via, where we would backfill into As. Offering to As the I is willing to do the work. And setting up an Mo and all that good stuff to get that on stock. That's if is A wants to do it that way. Otherwise, if they continue to want to spin on ic ikea, which is hopefully only a few days away. Not three hundred sixty four. We could pull from the experimental private use section of the point but that would mark our document as experimental. And we'd have to go back and visit later when an actual registrar shows up and we actually have to do allocations of the code points. So option two is absolute last resort, we don't want to do it. If it all possible. So that's where we are on this. Things still gave us a good update on where we are on that front. Next slide. So authentication went through some cleanup mostly some back and forth because of the experimental stuff I started putting it in. I gotta pull back out. So text was cleaned up in some various places some field ordering were changed in the wrappers. Due to matching some endorsement stuff that was in the registry document. As we have been learning slowly. And one big thing that has happened is that there were very hard references and regis in the authentication document. The document for auth as a whole now is much more standalone. Which I'm much more comfortable with and I think the"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:26:00",
    "text": "the chairs are as well. So we can get it through Is g's kind of its own thing, and regis will reference it. As a back reference to basically, like you need to provide that format. That is only used in authentication. So if you wanna see anything on the latest location there's an At w branch on Github. Was not merged in because I literally merged it in it. Two Am last night, Japanese time. Or pushed it. So But the dash thirty is on the data tracker. Next slide, please. So we're gonna get into some registry stuff. So with regis, the new section was added to the document the introduction section, Section two point one, which is supported scenarios. And it effectively lays out the four scenarios in registrations that we want support. The first and most obvious one is for deaths. Because it's a document about debts. Wanna be able to register them and look them up. So course that is why we're making the document. The other three are all around serial numbers for unmanned aircraft systems and putting them in Dns and getting look ups through them. And there are three different ways this happens, either bear linked or generated. And I'll get into a little bit of what each one of those is on the next slide. So with serial numbers for those who are unfamiliar, it's actually a standard Ans Cta twenty sixty three a, it's free. Can go and download it. It's a twenty character max with four characters being assigned to a manufacturer one character being the length and that's a hex character and then up two fifteen characters being an identifier. It's a thirty four character set as shown on the slide, and the manufacturer code is assigned by Ic ikea. You basically just email like chaos, say I am a Uas manufacturer,"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:28:00",
    "text": "give some proof and then they will give you a four character code from the space. And then you get to do whatever you want with the fifteen characters after it. That is the bear way that the serial numbers work. The other one is you can yeah. Go back one. No go back one. Minute. Sorry. So Go forward one. There we go. The second way this works is a what I'm referring to is a drip serial number that's linked basically, in Dns, we point a Anti bare number. To a debt. And this could be done by a manufacturer or a Us sas. The final way which is actually done in R c ninety three seventy four. In four point two, is taking a debt or an I. And encoding it into the serial number format. So they are linked together. Or encoded in a translation of each other. It's a slightly different character set. We remove two characters and everything is defined in ninety three seventy four to do that. And when you do this, obviously, Dns things apply because there's a debt in Dns. So let's go on to the next slide. So the big thing then before this meeting was Apex. What were we going to do? And I sat with Jim for about two and a half hours Saturday. We've been talking back and forth for a number of weeks through email. We have agreed on these two apex. First off, ip six dot arp, is the required home for any resource record that is associated with a debt because a debt is a hierarchical hit and hard hit. Is an ip v six address. And you never reverse it and you put in an Ip six dot arp. Done. And the document"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:30:04",
    "text": "very clearly at the moment. I think it's a... I said it is a must must never come up with any other and mechanism for a debt. And put it in Dns in any other Apex. This can be changed I will solicit working group input on this. But that was the start I started at. And Me and Jim were comfortable starting there and then in it as we moved forward. The second Apex is for serial numbers. And this one is a little bit more complicated. Because we make sense to put in dot arp. Its infrastructure in a sense. We're basically doing an infrastructure lookup of a name to get some information. So upper kind of makes sense where it goes, but what is the sub domains who owns those sub domains? We believe I can on those domains, because they're the ones that have the root of the manufacturer identity. For that serial number. So we are proposing s n dot dot k dot arp Apex for serial numbers in Dns. And there would be a basically a reverse format that would go there where can be made just like Debts wood. Obviously, other sub domains of a dot r could be made because I ikea with the on that domain space, but we don't specify find anything, it's all out of scope this document. But in the diagram you see here, you can see all of the different serial or serial number, but Uas us identity types. That exist and the ones that we are clearly saying are out of scope and one that is in"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:32:00",
    "text": "scope. And I am willing to take the interrupt from russ. If he wants to come forward because I want feedback This is me and Jim putting a stake in the ground. And maybe hammering it in about two feet. Have you had done any coordination with the Iv on this? No. Bay dot. There there's been nothing done Jim, if you wanna say something on that front. Yep. Formal first. Ross there's be more formal discussion with the About this. Okay. Thanks. Yeah. You have some casual conversations Okay. Yeah. not to the point of says. This is what the the the second level name should be, but it's just more to agree principle but there be there should be some sub under the upper for this scoop. Sorry talking talking to the. Thank you thank you. That makes it easier. Yep. We have had some internal contributions just confirm that putting this under something door arp would be the right thing to do. But the mechanism for to say what that something should be and how we make the Ia b divert needs to be done. And still not taking place. Please Just add to that Davies, Za. go ahead. All the allocations under that app are purpose based, not to entities. So probably more of a nomenclature issue. And I think the thrust of what you're trying to accomplish is is is on point, but the actual Yeah. This one is completely just to have something to point out for everyone to point in. This is kinda what we're thinking if the words change, I don't particularly care. And you say something that it was in the draft and I have removed it from the draft. Which is controversial, so I will say it. Rather carefully If another h hit prefix is allocated,"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:34:00",
    "text": "for say Iot There could be the precedent that iot o dot arp exists. Much like uas s dot Arp exists. That is a thing that I have contemplated. I wrote down and then I removed because it's controversial. In some ways. But you're you as you say it's a purpose. Right? Uas is one purpose. Iot is another purpose. How much do we wanna deal with this? And also on all of this, we're talking about ic ikea because I care is the the one organization that pops in my head that would want to own and have authority on this. Right? This turns into what we need to interact with these organizations and get them to agree on it. As well. And what do they want to name what? Be like, what do they want that to look like? How they want that relationship to work? No idea. Yet. But we should start opening the floor discussion to that. I'll do Jim first, I think. Yeah, Jim. Thanks, Jim. The issue here we're trying to deal with this stuff in the relationship with E has lots of similarities with what we had to do with ended the dinners twenty years ago. The things are slightly different terms of implementation in detail, but it's still broadly speaking the same fundamental principle. Which is an international treaty organization in this Kc has oversight a control of this space for the serial numbers. So they have to have administrative control or effective administrative of control over how that is going to be expressed in the Dns. And the email case which is do with telephone numbers, the It had effect of administrative control, but other people take care of the details underneath about the Dns was organized for that"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:36:00",
    "text": "So one of the conversations that we will probably have to have fairly soon is with here is how with foresee seek any kind dns and infrastructure for these apex being organized in the rings and the probably be things that they have to do but fitting her numbering and the dna scheme for that. We support just speaks of lot cut paste from the existing documents. I would the imagine but the fundamental principle there is that we as either the For the Id don't want to get into discussions. This is something that just strickland responsibility they are so control over although technical control might go to some other party that's blessed the key to do the stuff. And I will add to that because I see Bob's in the queue, and I'm gonna let him go. I will say before that, is that I ikea already has an Mo with. We believe in some sense and there has been rumbling of other domains and other things that they want. And this has zero to do with any of that. Anything that's coming out of the T p for my kale. This has nothing to do with it. This is completely new relationship between I atf and I for this specifically. It might get rolled into the T p stuff But at the moment, it is not. So they're two very clearly different worlds. Bob. We have the discussion about the I k dot arp pro whatever it is that arp back in London with with the number of members Ia, These were informal discussions And there was at that time stated interest, in being able able pursue this. So we need to restart those discussions now that we have and and get this on more formal basis but Jim I and new Adam spoke with Wes and others"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:38:00",
    "text": "about this subject. So this will not be the first time of bringing it up. We now to need to start those discussions with the Diabetes this as Rust indicated. Right. Alright. So next slide. So out of the discussions I've had in the past week with a jim, we have come to the realization that we might want to actually create a new resource record type. Originally in the documentation in the document, there were three resource records we were using The hip resource record, a search resource record in a ne resource record. And as we continued down the road of talking about this, Jim asked the logical question of, it's not hard to make a new resource record type. Why don't we just do that? And I said, why wouldn't we because it's one record lookup it's defined in the spec what you need to look up. You just go instead of having multiple look ups into Dns putting burden on the Dns constant queries. So to the working group one, is this something we want to do. I think it would definitely benefit the architecture for regis. And the Dns. And to what is in it? For the moment, I have basically done a super set of super set of the hip resource record. Adding stuff for each hit. But is there anything I'm missing or anything we want to add a remove from the hip resource record. I have informally talk to Cars about... Could this be put to sea. He's like, there's nothing wrong with making it sea bar. So we might actually format it as Sea bar. I yeah. I hear all laughing in the back. So"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:40:04",
    "text": "that's an option that we can pursue. And this also will removes a big question I had on endorsements in that they were originally gonna be putting in their resource record and we're were using an o id an oi and we'd have to get an and that's all gone now. It's just part of the new resource record type. And I will... Like the floor open at a record. You you may want to consult with Dns people about the agility or absolutely of you know, Dns servers being deployed in the context where you need them. Mh. I think new record types should be much more agile now to be added, but depending on which environments you work with that may not be true. So The alternative is to use text record. Right? And then the question is whether the encoded That's well, what I mean, if if if you don't like then, it's fine. Right? I just wanted wanted to say, right? If you have if you have trouble to get the new resource records, deployed in time for what you need. Right? Even if it's just the workaround around. Right. Thank you. John needs here. If you tell us, if you want really annoying dns person say chocolate my latex record If you really want to another pearson say, chuck it into a text records you just don't like it. As far as the the agility concerns you mentioned, this is an no brainer. There's a late process for getting you out types you say fill in the template plan. It goes for the next payout review. And that can typically be turned during in a couple of weeks. I think that's more than enough The other I can see you then harvest, how is that going to be supported in with fourth of because of service. And again, that's a more brainer. Because most was already analysis standards, which is how to deal with unknown na types So this has been deployed for a long long term. Most of the could are internet already"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:42:00",
    "text": "ports this. So therefore if the new tape is not moving, will will how to handle it. And then we're talking here about a closed system which just say to do with web identifier. So you can pretty much guarantee that any of the entities are doing these dns ups inside this drip space. Are going to understand about this new if that's the path we're going to go down. And just another can about this new type what... I don't know myself of thinking about here is that when you're looking up the doctor decimal sort of the the never reversed Ip six address under ip p six dot. You're not gonna look for a Pt record as you you do for conventional Ip six address, you're going to be looking for this type. Yes. Eric So eric green here. I wouldn't mind if everyone is doing, like, me putting you. Themselves in the queue first before talking. Right? Small thing. Yeah. More important, when you ever a the version, which you think it's turbo please ask director treatment I mean more than requested in a direct review of it. Yeah. We're we're definitely it's at the end of this. I So next slide, I believe. So endorsements went through a little small update change. The Cd l was broken. Because I didn't know how to write Cdl. I know how do write Cd because I found the tool that let me actually tested it. So that's fixed. And I par down some of the appendix I options because it was really bloated and a lot of them weren't being used. So that's been done. A question was raised amongst myself in do to make sure that we align ourselves with other work that's doing similar stuff, I e rats and x five zero nine, we wanna make sure that this kind of aligns would be nice So term terminology structures etcetera?"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:44:00",
    "text": "Now the last point is a contentious one. I don't know if it logs in the architecture document for regis, It's the place where it's landed over the past two years. I'm re raising the question if this is a separate document. It doesn't need to be, potentially. But I'm re raising it to the working group. Just in case. Eric is that you again for this or is that from before? I'm asking the working group if the section about endorsements in the drip registry architecture document. Benefits being a separate document in that part a it. I see pros and cons, obviously, but I'm not quite sure. And it's and asked a couple of times I'm asking the working group again. I don't know how we feel about that because it's another document in the queue that would then have to be aligned and don't how we feel about that as a group. That was that question's is coming from. It doesn't need to be answered now. I'd like it to know, like, two weeks. That would be nice, but So that's where that question's is coming from. Do you have anything to say? Okay. I think for for example, we have to wait until we have mercer version of the the the other of the documents. There's an imbalance between the experimenting parts to. For example, if you you will define it using in your type. I I don't about Jim do we need a a track for the defining new one or just expert preview review will will be submission for for it. Okay. So okay. Yeah. But Okay. So let's wait that that you have a little with a multiple version of the of the contents"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:46:00",
    "text": "Yeah. At least it's been raised and potentially useful. Do I wanna Bob Yep. Well, please I was take it to three questions yesterday, by a o, about the alignment of our endorsements. With the trust framework work for their their P and So such that We we fit very well into their certificate I sick. This is really in many regards a no brainer that some regis will want, want to be a serious part of your With x five zero nine So I literally you pulling checks out of the The certificate policy that I has and putting it into this draft for covering that but there is a a agent Ikea part that if what we're doing, are these endorsements there So like x level nine, we really want to fit within the Governance model for the endorse servers. So that's an oversight on and other the process of the endorse following what is typically done in a certificate policy. I don't think it's hard big stretch to do as I will be taking checks out of the certificate policy slide it into. Okay. That's it. Okay. Thanks, Adam. Can you tell it again, could you please go back to the slide on the domain you're presented Thanks too slides mike. Yeah. Thanks. Okay."
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:48:02",
    "text": "Something else we need to think about, but it's primarily I think could be an issue for. Is that we're going to be putting identifier for these devices in the dominion fee. And that will probably end up being a matter of nash law a national regulation, not necessarily something that here can decree for everybody. So we wanted a conversation with the here about how to do some kind of administrative demo allegation, maybe some technical delegation... Underneath these prefixes so that for example, the decks that issues for the devices that used United States. A around kind of operation control of the Fe e or for the other respective national additional authorities to comply with the local laws about protection in privacy and all these other things that may come into play. We'll need to think a little bit about that, but we need to have a conversation with the ke they think this is the right idea about what they would want to do And if I can go back to the example, I was talking before to about email one of the reasons for using an international treaty issue for is that they know the appropriate contacts in each respective country the Doesn't Let's point. Right? And if that was to happen with I ikea, you can almost guarantee that the outputs of the T p, the trusted framework panel. Is what's governing and driving this with the x five nines and all that stuff. So we collide again. You can go forward back to forward one another one. Yeah. Okay. So this is next steps and timelines at least in how I'm seeing it So first off is cleaning up section six. This is about the differential access stuff I our. Or. That. It was... Section checks is the the various different use case processes. So I gotta clean up"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:50:00",
    "text": "that because of the endorsement changes and the Dns changes. So that's a work item that I'm working slowly through. I'm stepping through each one very carefully. Section sevens about the differential access stuff. It makes more sense to be after the D section so will just be a section reorder. Because that's where it is and it needs to be reviewed in word smith's. A lot of what Jim just said about, you know, national delegation for Iq ikea. That is where that kind of fits in. So that's very much where that will be. Obviously, leave the resource record type, development and allocation, there might be a separate draft associated with that as a common courtesy after the expert review with the form. Jim is said he would start the process and work our way through it. We just need the working group to consent on some things that are in it. Breaking out of the endorsements. I going to agree with med We give us some time to get the draft a little bit more mature and then go from there to see if it it's ji correctly. And if it isn't, then maybe pull it out. If not we leave it in, and it's fine. The next piece is the x five zero nine And this is something that this is a two Am Adam mu. So take it with a grain of salt. The x five zero nine work that Bob is doing and I in the T p for ia o, is being back ported into this document. But we don't know the timeline for that. Should this x five zero nine stuff be pulled out into its own document? If doing it for the endorsements, why would we put x five zero nine in there? So that is more of a alignment thing that know, why would we pull endorsements out and leave x five zero nine in? I think it would make it lot more agile for Bob. Right? Bob doing stuff with x five zero nine and T p. He's back porting it into It off as needed, having a separate draft to do that un sticks us because we don't wanna be in an another sticky situation with Ic ikea with the T p, waiting on x five zero nine stuff"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:52:02",
    "text": "to try to publish this document. I don't wanna go there. So anything to avoid such a hurdle. I think is good. But I will leave that to the working group to decide. And then finally, some Regis for various items. It's really just keys for data models and Cd. So I need to work my way through that. I would like to have something for working group last call probably by one eighteen and then within a couple weeks, hopefully, before one seventeen, will get this document squared away me and jim that we could throw it to the Dns directorate to get an early review on it. That is everything with trees. I open the floor for someone to throw to me. Does that me. Or tell me I'm crazy. Which I am. Yes, two, please. That crazy. You're. Thank you. Just wanna draw some parallels. Just as in a hybrid crypto system, we frequently use asymmetric crypto for certain things and symmetric crypto for other things. And there was... Bob mentioned the quantum concerns up at Ikea. I also slipped into one of the drip documents discussion about how we might wanna use quantum resistant long heavyweight keys for long term keys. That are gonna get reused many times as kind of roots for short term session keys that can fit into these small small packets. And this also goes to the whole idea of x five zero nine certificates versus our own bespoke"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:54:02",
    "text": "drip endorsements. Right? I think these are all these are all parallel concepts. That we're not suggesting that we're gonna try to jam x five zero nine search out over broadcast rent that that would never work. If it would have worked, we know it wouldn't never come up with bulk endorsement format. Right? But we may need to graph our sub of these compact endorsements onto a larger Ikea trust framework panel tree that is all x five zero nine. So that's really what we're talking about with regard to the harmon and and similarly with rats. Right? At some point, people are gonna wanna to know, not only whose aircraft is that but they're gonna wanna know some attributes of the aircraft the computing system on onboard the aircraft or the computing system that's being used as a ground controller or whatever. And so we were trying to figure out alright, Well, how does that plug plug into this. So there's a number of things that we talked about that that may have seemed better very disconnected, but that's that's of the idea. Thank you. We weave with the story. I open the Floor to anything anyone wants to say or comment suggestions, anything. Please read the auth draft please read the registry draft even in its current state. It's a constant work in progress, especially the regis. Reviews are more than welcome. Yeah. I will it back to you within a couple of days. Yeah. Just one I would take one comment of the proposed timeline. Yes. So if you understand you that we wait forwarded Dennis, the review tell... We are close to the working of last calls. Yeah. That was me... I didn't think about the dns review that is definitely the next thing that needs to happen can confer with the Jim offline if the version that we that I pushed is enough to do it. I said offline, but"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:56:03",
    "text": "sure. Yes. It's it's be discuss now. May I I was was gift was used mic time. Okay. I'm using my dns dot hot. I'm center you can send an id turns at any time. And we'll take a look at And fact we got lots of documents that are sent to director of getting content at all. So you don't have to wait the last call. And the rationale the having is direct that is to get a reviews of documents so there any mistakes or errors in the Dns release content, get fixed before something in the document. Becomes very close to a final standard. And if family's is fun wrong and they didn't ask text Over and then it's very good. Okay. So so we agree that if we can send this the conversion so far happy sending dash o eight to the Dns tomorrow and letting them. Yes. So if I understand well, the the new rf idea is not yet in this it is version. It is not not. Yeah. What what what I would really suggest that you just modify the document to just record the rationale, that me that the three the proposal that that you had and the recommendation to go to the air type, out d the archive and that just leave the recommendations. up. That the review or can come That's what you want. It's Okay. Then it is there and in there. I just... I just call it a hit each hit resource record type. That's all it is and I remove all references to other resource types in the document. So Yeah. Yeah. But it's not explicitly this has we need to create a new one, and we're gonna call it potentially each it. It will have stuff in it. Yeah. That's important. But recommendation to create a new one, it's it's really one which which say instant some model for the rest of the work. So making that more visible in the... I can make a note. I can make a note and push up the dash nine that just says note a hit resource record type is a new rush resource record type that drip working group is proposing to create four percent stuff. Okay. So once that version is is out, we will send it this to dennis the review"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:58:00",
    "text": "is not a challenge I we say what you have mentioned jim, but it's it is better to have more eyes. So that's really for the sanity checks. So will do that, we will also some interrupt interim meetings for for this purpose that we can progress provide and not wait for the the next identify for the... Yeah. That is... And that's not we'll I would want in terms. Okay? I want in terms for this. Definitely. Yeah. So Daniel, do you have any further looking who share with with another team, No. No. That's fine. Eric? He's happy. You wanted the room? Okay. So if if there's no for that we we can absorb here. Thank you. Thank you for all the work doing. You will literally have the new nine in the next twenty minutes. Okay. That's great. Thank you. So have a little my laptop right now. Thanks, everyone."
  }
]
