[
  {
    "startTime": "00:00:06",
    "text": "oh good afternoon good evening everybody um I hope you can hear me can someone just confirm whether you can hear me or not um miteka is pretty good uh I can hear you Rick excellent thank you Ed um so yeah good afternoon everyone welcome to the uh dgn interim meeting I I have an apology to start with as I mentioned in the chat uh I was on vacation last week for two weeks and I picked up kovid on the way home so I uh I'm a little bit groggy and I'm still making strange coughing noises which is unpleasant for me and I will attempt to mute my microphone before doing so um I'm also going to rely quite heavily on Ed to do um a fair amount of the talking today um and that's my cuticoff Ed do you want to just take over for a second with some of the admin trivia and I'll um I'll get around to sharing my screen Etc so again as Rick said welcome to the interim meeting we had really uh two things that we wanted to make sure that we covered and the interim meeting is a little bit less formal than the typical working group meetings uh in that we don't have uh you know PowerPoint slides to go through because I think really what we want to do is focus on uh the ipn uh internet draft uh that Rick has uh put up there were some comments coming from the mailing list as to ways in which we wanted to update this uh we we did not put out a new version of that and honestly putting a new version out you know the day before a few days before the interim meeting probably doesn't make a lot of sense so the the plan uh was for us to take really the bulk of this meeting and walk through that document that document in addition to proposing an extension to ipn also"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:02:00",
    "text": "has a section that tries to capture some of the concerns that were associated with not extending ipn based on the mailing list and use that in a screen share to talk through what we think should and should not be incorporated if there is time remaining on the agenda we do have a little bit of an update to talk through on network management but we can also do that at ietf 115 the the really the bulk of this and the success criteria for us is making sure we we make some decisions related to ipn naming uh today so that's that's what I've got thanks um so just uh for sort of General um administrivia uh so this is an ITF meeting so this is covered by the ietf note well we would normally show this on the screen but um frankly as Ed said we haven't done any slides for this because we didn't seem that particularly useful but you are now formally warned this is an a standard ITF meeting and therefore covered under the no well please go and check the note well on the ITF resources page if you are not familiar with it if someone's feeling particularly efficient could they post a link to it in the chat uh there is a meeting uh note taking tool as ever built into meet Echo please feel free to use that if you wish to make um some minutes on this uh although the recording of This will be made and automatically and will be available after the event for people to uh watch again but as Ed said we're not being particularly formal about this but it is an official IDF meeting um what I'm sharing on the screen at the moment is actually the raw markdown of the draft uh so I published uh two versions uh co-written with Ed um simply it's not entirely my own work although I am probably the primary typist"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:04:00",
    "text": "um I write it in markdown because it's really convenient to edit but it also means um we can make live changes now so what we thought we'd do is almost Workshop this document because although it's a personal draft at the moment I think it might be a good candidate for working group adoption very happy to receive feedback and make comments within my own working copy at the moment push out another copy and then we'll discuss that at ietf115 to see whether the working group does like it whether we're willing to adopt it that sort of thing so what's quite important to remember here is although both Ed and I are chairs of dtn we're also authors of this so um when we're talking about this document we are very much personal contributors to the to the working group these are personal drafts and you should ignore the fact that we happen to chair the working group at the same time and we promise that this is not a conflict of interest and we're not abusing our position of power to flag away for our own opinions um so one thing I do want to draw out um first off is I'm going to do a show of hands because I quite like the show of hands tool in this to just to say how many people have actually read the draft and I and I pushed out two copies um uh back to back about 24 hours apart so I'm gonna just say either copy uh uh the reason for for asking that is um it kind of gives me some indication of how much background to do of 10. oh I'm watching the numbers roaring up which is great so um so three quarters is what I'm seeing at the moment so nine out of 12 which is pretty good um I don't put me on hand up okay"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:06:00",
    "text": "so of those who have not read the draft well now this is an open question I'm running out of breath already Ed do you want to give a little summary for this while I mute myself and have a cough if that's okay I don't think we need to spend too long summarizing this and then I I'd quite like to get into some of the the Q a one of the observations made was that the original ipn naming scheme um or the current really I should say ipn naming scheme because this is a proposal says that the the ipn uh name is uh the two Tuple of a node number and a service number and and there's something very good and powerful about uh the fact that we could represent a named entity as a single integer as a node uh and enumerate therefore entities in the network uh the observation was that when that individual node number represents something that has meaning within a locally administered domain then the control of that and the allocation of those numbers is uh probably manageable but if we wanted uh to extend this to be more of a global uniqueness than having a sim a single flat number space for nodes may become very difficult to manage and so we looked at other things that that tried to tackle these similar problems one of those other things were things like mac addresses or eui 48s or eui 64s or or whatnot and and one of the ways in which this was sliced to be more scalable was the introduction of an organization number or or a numbering Authority and then node numbers are relative to that numbering Authority which would turn if adopted which would"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:08:00",
    "text": "turn the ipn naming scheme instead of into node number dot service number it would turn it into something more like like numberingauthority dot node number dot service number and then there are a couple of different uh flavors of that so really the the fundamental questions here are whether a single flat node numbering namespace can work in a global distribution uh and if not then is the idea of tagging organizations as a numbering Authority the the thing that gets us a more scalable solution so so that's really the purpose of the primary purpose of this document and then a secondary purpose is to go back and make very clear that for bundle protocol version seven there are Registries associated with the use of ipn and the organizations for node numbering and service numbering whereas it's a little bit uh people have expressed confusion to us as to what Registries to look at for what purposes yep go ahead Alberta things that reconnect um is it time for Q a now or absolutely yeah yeah awesome thanks um you know first let me start by saying um you know thank you for putting this together this is a great you know a great topic for this question I have a very very generic question that's why I raised my hand um um you know early on is it there any urgency to discuss this and let me elaborate is there any impending event uh organization that is working towards this the reason I'm asking is because this is a very fundamental change um so one to understand whether the approach here would be for hey let's make sure that we analyze and reanalyze these versus no we need to move fast because of X Y or Z just trying to you"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:10:01",
    "text": "know understand a little bit and the situation so I I can certainly jump in uh briefly on that and say uh fast is a certainly a relative term so I think fast and in this case is there is a question as to whether or not an extension to ipn is is useful and then what that extension would be with the idea that uh putting something through working group last call in November and then getting it through a standard process in subsequent meetings it probably puts us on an arc of many many months uh not many many uh weeks so that that's my initial comment but I also see that Scott is in the queue so maybe he has a comment on that uh my comment is uh actually not so much on that it's it's on the question of whether a flat numbering space can be used and what I would offer there is that clearly it can be used and I think the the um uh the the draft uh explains um how it you know based on um node number ranges that are assigned to to [Music] um to numbering authorities um is a is a mechanism that is contemplated in the current um Registries the the question really is not whether it can be used the questions whether it's desirable and and I think the advantage of um of adding additional structure to the uh to the node naming in this scheme is"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:12:05",
    "text": "compression you it enables a very small node numbers to be used by many different organizations without requiring um that every node number of the 16 bits long and I think there's a there's a real performance advantage in that in that in that header compression is the idea for cbh in the first place um um but I think that that's the the uh Criterion we should be using for determining uh whether or not to go ahead with with this idea is uh is the operational advantage that you get from the header compression can I just jump in to answer Alberto's question for a second um my reasoning for for kicking off this document uh and we were talking about timeliness is is there some pressing need to get the uh to look at some of my perceived issues with ipn I had started to within the context of of the updated Charter for the working group we're looking at naming and addressing lots of people started to discuss this I know myself I looked at ipn I had a lot of side conversations with people who were using ipn and through my investigation I I started to uncover that there was some confusion about how to use it successfully there wasn't really a consistent document which pulled it all together so although I am unaware of any pressing industrial uh or big space mission that is is going to require an update that some breaking change to occur I think it is timely to do this"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:14:01",
    "text": "work now if there is and I believe there is uh the need for a bit of clarification and perhaps a bit of enhancement to the ipn encoding um I think now is a very good time to do it before the working group gets further into uh naming a dressing forwarding let alone touching routing so that that was my personal reasons and and my answer to Is this pressing things out things we got a and ahead I I appreciated um and the reason you know I was asking the question um was also to you know I think one thing that would benefit um is to you know look at the specific examples in the upcoming you know in their coming meetings because I think there's some I wouldn't say confusion but I don't think there is General agreement into you know how much of these uh authorities gonna be used for um you know forwarding versus you know um you know how how you treat that in a in a multi multi-agency or multi um you know organization scenario so examples would help a lot at least to you know to me and the work we are doing and just to make sure that we fully understand the scope uh so yes you make a very valid point there which I probably should have called out and Scott yes I can see you in the queue sorry one second this whole thing is about interoperable Behavior so this is It's kind of under the remit of the ITF the itfs about interoperability between cooperating parties if you want to use ipn for your own purposes within your own closed system and no that don't need to talk to anyone else great knock yourself out you don't need a standard for that you can go and go and have fun bundle protocol threshold 7 will work beautifully for you use your own naming when you want to interoperate it starts to become important and all the proposed changes I've made in this document are to make that interoperability easier to administrate easier to manage and easier"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:16:00",
    "text": "to use so so interoperability is the key point and yeah I I will make a note to do some nice worked examples although I don't want to talk about routing Scott go ahead go ahead uh I I just want to um uh agree with you that the time to make these changes now I think the the sooner we do it the better off we all are if we're going to do it at all we want to do it um at the beginning and not have to um wait until after this in huge deployment using um the scheme where it's currently uh defined so I think doing it now makes a lot of sense um and I also agree that while I think the the specification of the ipan scheme in RFC 9171 is clear what is not clear is what registries you can use to do that that node number assignment because they are labeled cvhe which is not correct they refer to the wrong document that kind of thing clearly needs to be straightened out and I I think it's certainly time to do that so so that's a very valid point again it's got sorry um we had a conversation with uh zaheda rad about how to update that registration because we we had noticed that the Iona Registries were called slightly misleading things we'd had a number of questions the correct way to update that in I ITF world is to publish a document so we kind of knew we had to write a document anyway and that that was a great way to to drive us to say well actually if we're writing this anyway let's try and address some of these other points it might be the case and I'm perfectly open to a suggestion from from the working"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:18:00",
    "text": "group to say actually Rick make these two documents one which just addresses the Iona registration naming thing and bring in this whole subtle allocating Authority business and these these extra extra dotted uh authorities as a different draft we can debate them separately that is an open question I I it's just text I'm not that precious about it um Joshua do you want to go ahead can you hear me there we go yeah yeah so um is there any concern uh with the general um size of allocatable node numbers or is this strictly a people kind of wanting structure to put on top of it instead of just a simple flat Network so from my perspective because of the way seabor is encoded and Carson is on the call and he will correct me if I make a single sepal error here numbers less than 23 can be encoded in one octet as soon as you have integers greater than 23 you start to need more octets quite quickly so that that results in a race for low numbers and if we use a single numbering space and and as it stands in RFC 9171 You've Got 2 to the 64 bits to play with with the first come first served access to that numbering space if you don't if you're not the first if you're not at the head of the queue you have to have overly long encodings in order to interoperate with the lucky people who got the shorter encodings um and that's the main pressure oh it's one of the main drivers I saw to say well actually by using a a different way of encoding effectively as a prefix architect as a prefix number"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:20:00",
    "text": "one dot 1.1 and 2.1.1 is still both quite nice encodings and tries to avoid that race to uh to be an early adopter and to grab the grab the low numbers uh that then is this might not be something anybody wants whatsoever but I'll go ahead and throw it out there uh would it be a possible option to extend the usage of the report to Eid to effectively also um act as your Authority uh identifier at which point the ipn scheme stays exactly the way it currently is uh and then uh if you need to or want to do more of the low number system or whatever then you could use the report to Eid uh to establish effectively what the authority is and now you have your Degrees of Separation there okay what I'm specifically envisioning is uh kind of along the lines of with uh a different type of thing that's being worked on the uh IMC or interplanetary multicast stuff with the idea of having your Edge nodes uh or inter-regional routers or whatnot that you would effectively have a named singular Edge router that could quote unquote be in the reply to Eid space and then you have your separation between networks and you can again use your lower ipns Within without necessarily having to cover that um are you going to make a very quick comment and I've seen Ed has immediately jump to the queue on this one and I'm going to shut up for a second I know where you're going with this I think"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:22:00",
    "text": "that leads you in the direction of bundle in bundle encapsulation I think you're absolutely fine to do that but that's where you're effectively tunneling from one addressing domain to another addressing domain and having to end cap and Decap on the way through I think that will work very well uh so effectively what you're doing is Network address translation rather than extending the address space to allow for a single homogeneous interoperable address space I think it's it's something I've I've certainly discussed with Scott and a few other people it's it's quite a nice way of doing other things but it's Network address translation rather than extending the address space to allow everyone to do it without that that extra CPU work um Ed do you uh want to jump in or Adam you've got a comment so I can jump in uh real quick first um but what I would say is uh to agree with what Rick said but I would also be hesitant to redefine uh in an RFC 9170 one way the meaning of the report to Eid it is certainly the case in some Network architectures that the report to Eid would have some administrative um um relationship with the bundle Source uh as well but that is not necessarily the case uh and and if we were to draw that distinction with a characteristic of the report to Eid and some sort of Authority or administrative domain I I'd have to go back and check I'm concerned that that is a New Concept in what that field would mean and I don't really want to change the Behavior Uh of of bundle for that purpose but maybe Scott will correct me because I see him just jumping up as well quickly you can jump in front of Adam but I will try to speak very quickly uh just that that uh I think having a single"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:24:00",
    "text": "um uh naming Authority indication in the bundle is probably not sufficient because the source and destination might have been named by different authorities so I think each each um endpoint ID is going to need its own um Authority identification if we're going to use this mechanism and I don't know shut up but go ahead Adam throw my hand and while I like the idea of combining it maybe having it separate so it's like yeah we're making this change this is really easy really fast it just goes through because we know it needs to be done and then we can dig deeper on the changes to the schemes that's all I had to say so I I would I would just I I'm I didn't leave the queue so let me jump in real quick because I'm still in the queue uh a question that I have about that is the decision on whether node numbers are under the auspices of a numbering Authority or not might determine uh the node number Registries that you have so in in the draft that Rick is projecting here there is a quote unquote registry for node numbers but I think it just says they are all reserved uh with the idea that they are reserved not standardized because they are under the auspices of a numbering Authority if that is not the design decision then then really if that is the design decision then we need a registry of uh of authorities not a registry of node numbers or node number ranges so so that may um that may impact whether there are two documents or one uh the design of one is going to clearly impact the design of the other"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:26:01",
    "text": "the other thing I wanted to mention so that was a comment uh the the question here is just to repeat a question that I'm seeing come up a couple of times in the chat which is sort of again a fundamental question of do we need to extend the existing ipn naming scheme or do we Define a brand new ipn scheme or a brand new scheme and call it something like extended ipn and I think that that was also addressed here but I will simply call out that that question was asked and maybe we can talk about that based on what's projected on the screen so so can I answer that so I I put a uh I put a a discussion points at the bottom of this document to try and capture the answers to some of those questions and I absolutely agree with the question so I I had a draft which wasn't published called ipn3 to sort of capture the fact that oh we've got a sort of a a three Tuple of of address and it's it's you know it's perhaps different fundamentally if you think about the processing that a receiving bundle processing node does when it receives an ipn a number either a yeah either an ipn3 new scheme identifier or an existing scheme identify with a different arity for the Rarity different dimension for the for the array that makes up the Eid itself the behavior is identical it just hits an error case one octet later so actually you know and I suggest reading this I don't I don't really want to read it through but fundamentally goes oh I've got an Eid either don't recognize the scheme because it's ipn3 because I that didn't exist when when I started when I went into service so therefore I don't recognize it or oh it's an ipn scheme that's great how many dimensions are there to the uh to the ipn thing three oh I wasn't aware that such a thing existed same error so I"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:28:00",
    "text": "think functionally there is no difference so the only reason for having a different scheme well I can't think of a good reason to have a different scheme rather than it gives a sort of pleasing acronym but I think it's actually worse than saying it's just the ipn scheme that's my argument it's not a great argument sorry go ahead Joshua uh so I would say this is probably just personal preference here but uh from my standpoint uh where I work with uh the Marshall space flight center and the ISS uh it would be more frustrating to have to try and figure out how to uh fix our systems to allow for both uh options than it would be to Simply uh say that this new scheme is legitimately just a new scheme so I I guess towards kind of a uh maintaining interoperability with Legacy elements yeah a little bit there go ahead Scott uh that's actually the the the sort of uh issues that uh I was um focusing on uh in the email that I sent out yesterday uh proposing that um uh that we can uh Institute this change to the scheme and um uh limit the impact on existing implementations uh if the um if the sizes of"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:30:00",
    "text": "authority numbers sub Authority numbers and node numbers uh are restricted in such a way that you can transform um the a uh an authority unqualified Eid into a single unassigned long long integer uh for internal use within the uh within the implementation just by uh you know slapping everything together with with some good shifting um that would limit the impact on implementations to just uh uh parsing and construction and um and and and remove the need for um operations internal operations on uh on endpoint IDs to be modified to have to deal with import IDs in the form of structures or arrays uh rather than simple integers so I I think Josh I think your point is very well taken um but I um I think Rick is correct that that if if we can uh readily and simply um modify the existing IBM scheme the the impact on NASA and the impact on on users of of the various existing implementations I think can be minimized and it gets us into a a an interoperability future where NASA is not excluded from the broader solar system internet just because it doesn't know how to parse and and deal with the endpoint ideas"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:32:01",
    "text": "I think that would be that would be a a particularly bad impact of um making this change so I I'll just jump in uh and say two things uh one is uh that you know Josh when we talk about existing implementations uh the question there is are these implementations again assuming uh a local administrative Network right so one of the things that I see in in this document this proposed extension is that a a two Tuple uh ipn uh address a name is still valid you can say ipn 1.1 uh and the idea is that the the uh the organization is assumed to be locally administered so if if the idea is that there is a relatively small um you know uh deployment of that then then there may not be really any changes required if in that Network you're still using essentially a local administrative domain for backwards compatibility however if your node is 4 billion and you want everyone in the world to know that 4 billion means you that becomes uh perhaps more difficult to to manage and maintain in which case uh I am not against uh you know Scott's proposal to say are there reasonable thresholds to put on things with an eye towards uh whether or not that enables efficient Coatings I I certainly see standards make decisions uh based on what may or may not entice firmware implementation or other kinds of implementation so I think that that's a valid discussion that that should also be had so my two"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:34:01",
    "text": "points uh my uh my uh deep concern here is that I I really I want us if possible not to do something that will make it uh prohibitively expensive for NASA to participate in the broader um uh in the broader solar system internet with this uh in this interoperability system that the uh the idea that uh maybe uh SpaceX and blue origin and uh Jackson everybody forms the solar system internet and and NASA cannot be in it because it doesn't know how to deal with um with the um endpoint IDs that everybody's using I I think that would be a great fitting um I think that'd be bad for what they've been trying to do for the last 22 years so I'm just going to jump in just before you Joshua story I should I should put my myself with the queue here I'm being a bad citizen um I'm going to say one thing I don't think the status quo is satisfactory so I'm I'm going to flag wave here to say there needs to be some change relying on allocations in the cbhe registry which were for bundle protocol version six for bundle protocol version seven implementations and just assuming that that's that's not going to work it's it's there's a lot of supposition that that's the right way to go and it's it's not built on any solid foundation so some sort of clarity has to occur um whether that is a new scheme or an update to to IPM specifically I prefer the latter but I think one of"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:36:00",
    "text": "those two options has to occur doing nothing I don't believe is an option go ahead Joshua yeah I would 100 agree with you on that point uh and again uh there are probably some ways that we can mitigate some of these things uh just internally uh for the ISS stuff but one of the things that uh inevitably even though as a developer I can um deal with the uh realizing what's going on in my mind uh from an operator's perspective I know inevitably on the ISS we will end up having to combine usage of BP version 6 with BP version seven and there it's minimal but there is a certain amount of worry from my perspective that uh using the same ipn nomenclature to Define two separate uh ways of how it's supposed to look might enter some slight confusion there it wouldn't necessarily cause a giant issue but I can foresee that happening at the very least and again it's important to remember bundle protocol version six and bundle protocol version seven are not wire compatible so even if you're trying to name things the same using the ipn scheme you're never going to send a six bundle to a seven device without doing some sort of end cap Decap or some kind of bridging gatewaying translation something is going to have to happen and given you're having to do that anyway doing name translation as part of that I see that as a viable price to pay so I I every time I've gone through this oh isn't this going to break back compatibility with bundle protocol version six it's that there isn't you"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:38:01",
    "text": "can't send you can't handle V7 bundle to a V6 node and expect anything rational to happen that's my camera any form of compatibility there between the versions I'm just saying simply from a perspective of a operator on the ground that barely knows what they're talking about when they say dtn if they see a V6 bundle and then happen to see a V7 bundle and that name is different they have no idea what the heck that means that could lead to confusion and again it's not a very high issue necessarily it's just something I wanted to throw out there as a it will most likely happen if this is the way we go forward so is that acceptable or not go ahead let's go uh I just um I wanted to um say something about the point you brought up a few minutes ago about requiring some change and I uh I certainly agree that we have to do something about changing the way the Ayanna Registries are structured so that so that they accommodate um the the um the the the definition of the ipn scheme as presented in 9171. uh I I don't think that necessarily entails and changing the structure of of the scheme specific part uh but as as I've said a couple times I I see value in doing that and I'm I'm all for it um if we did not do it I think you know the the flat every every um every node number is is uh uh 64 bits"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:40:02",
    "text": "that that can work and what it does is it disadvantages uh people who've got a low a high high range of node numbers they spend more bandwidth and there's there's clearly an operational disadvantage there and I think it's worthwhile to try to address that operational disadvantage I I think it's um it's not that addressing that is mandatory in order to get the system to work but I think it is desirable operationally for adoption of the standard so I'm well as a stunned silence and I actually agree with with Scotland I'm gonna raise one point which appears to have slipped through reviews um so we've got it quite caught up in node numbers and naming authorities for the nodes one piece that existed with the bundle protocol version six versions of ipn so the cbhd 6020 and and 7116 and I I God RFC numbers um in those previous rfcs the administrative endpoint was always service number zero it was a must and in RFC 9171 BP version 7 it was a may be zero and one thing that I did put in this document was saying the service number should just be the administrative endpoint service number should just be zero for everyone has anyone got any reason and I'm quite interested in Scott is his reasoning here of why it was a may be zero and if"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:42:02",
    "text": "anyone objects to why can't it makes so much sense for zero to be just the admin endpoint it it makes I would have to document to give you an answer on that but I my dim recollection is the intent was that the administrative endpoint uh is always the serious number is always zero I I think the language in and I'd have to go back and look I think the language in RC 71 is that the administrative um and endpoint a service number um it either is or must be zero and therefore the administrative endpoint may be a node identifier which which is correct right it may be a node identifier and there may be other node identifiers right yeah so so the the this this is a a language and wording thing we all agree on what we want um and and we can do something about uh clarifying the language but but I don't think there's any disagreement here that's good to know because that leads me on to the second point which came out on the as part of a mailing this discussion which was um if we agreed that an ipn ignoring the the naming Authority prefixes you've got the node number and the service number my understanding was that no that for all eids on that device you all ipn eids on that node would have a common November I'm not sure that's ever written down anywhere that that is correct people have pointed that out and and I've thought oh my goodness that's true uh I the intent the intent was it let me take a step back and say if I was starting from a blank sheet of paper"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:44:00",
    "text": "I would say that nodes are identified by a node number possibly an authority qualified node number period I would make node numbers first class Concept in the document and and construct eids from them and say that the node number identifies the node period uh we have not done that so that being the case uh we we could do something at some point to say uh and we and all of the um all of the uh ipn scheme endpoints um uh in which this node is and which given node is uh is a member um shall have the same or should have the same um [Music] it may be that that's like you know closing the Barn Door after the horse is gone right it may be too late for that I'm I'm not opposed to it but I'm not sure it's doable that is the intent the intent is the the the the the node identifier whether it's qualified or not is um is is the identifier for the no in the ipn scheme it's not the sole identifier for the node anyway because the node can be identified within the dtn scheme as well so um we already have the notion that a single node may have may be identified by multiple different uh eids um so it's not um it's not something that you can assume that everything is going to be this node because the the node may be a member of a dtn scheme endpoint ID as"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:46:00",
    "text": "well um uh yeah yeah no I was I was very specifically talking about ipn scheme yeah DTM multicast I I agree that this would be desirable and if it's something that that uh that we can do um you know sort of logistically and you know um in terms of and procedurally then then I'm all for it uh I'm I'm just saying I'm not certain that it is and and and I'm not uh certain that it has to be a big problem but so so talking procedurally I think if we're going to make a change to ipn we try and Tackle all these things and don't have and then close the lid on ipn for at least five years I don't want to come back to this in two years time and say oh there's another update to ipn because at that point everybody from an implementer you know the NASA guys the Jackson guys on this call are just going to say no we've lost all faith in whatever you're doing IDF if we can do that in in this document for example that I'm perfectly fine with it sure does anyone else have any queries comments uh requests for clarification good ideas Stuart there you go Stu join the queue go for it so um I'm kept quiet because I've had nothing to contribute on the specific points under discussion but I have another point about the draft as a whole I'm not going to pretend although I have read it with some care several times that I fully understand the draft are all the termifications um because my involvement in the DTI and working group hasn't been sufficiently deep for the last several years um but I have been involved with the host identity protocol I can hear some of you groaning um"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:48:02",
    "text": "drum for 20 years and almost no one has paid any attention to him um but recently in the context of unmanned aircraft systems we've gotten some traction using on an extension of his host identity tags hierarchical host identity tags as the drip identifiers and this brings a host of benefits which I will not list for you now um and upon reading this draft it appears to me that with the draft as written I probably could take one of Bob's or Regional assigning authorities and declare it to be a naming Authority and I could take one of his hierarchical domain authorities and declare it to be a local sub you know naming Authority and I could use his orcid V2 modified uh H hit construction procedure to create the hash and use that 64-bit hash as the 64-bit uh piece of all this and have full compatibility between this naming scheme and the hierarchical host identity tag which I will point out is also an identifier not a locator and I think it is very important that we subsequently address the concept of resolving identifiers to locators but that is a separate issue and we're focused here on identifiers so I'm going to repeat my plea the people who are not already familiar with host identity tags and the recent extension this hierarchical host identity tags take a look at our drone remote identification protocol working group documents and see if you agree with me that indeed we would have compatibility here and I think that is um uh stipulated as germane by virtue of the boss for time variant routing which acknowledges that we are concerned not"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:50:01",
    "text": "only with spacecraft but also with unmanned aircraft systems slash rant thanks Stuart uh unsurprisingly for those who know me and Stuart we have discussed some of this and uh yeah that's where some of the ideas came out of conversations with Bob so yes it is quite nice that you can embed um other methods of allocating numbers uh within the uh prefixing scheme however I think it is quite important to remember these are just methods of allocating numbers and at the discretion of whichever Authority has the permission to allocate into a certain uh area that's that's as far as it goes um I think I make some commenting here about not reading meaning into um what these numbers are but I will review to see whether that made the cut Scott go ahead I'm rambling having um a variety of uh ways of assigning numbers in perfectly fine uh I would be a little bit concerned about um and using the the tags that are 64 bits uh in length because uh would seem to be that might defeat the purposes of um uh of separating out the authority ID and and thereby um and and saving uh bandwidth um but um that that point aside I will step out of the conversation"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:52:00",
    "text": "okay so I I just to jump in uh I was gonna actually say something uh similar to what Scott was saying in that I agreed that a numbering Authority and number uh in ways that make sense to it is a numbering Authority but I think we need to resist the temptation of applying any sort of global meaning to those node numbers uh if that's a method of assignment that's terrific but if we start overloading that and saying uh and now I'm going to that must always be the key or something like that uh for for EPA you know nodes in general to operate off of that that starts going back to coupling in a in a more problematic way uh that was my comment uh I guess with with chair hat on I have a few questions because we're getting to the end of the hour of it seems to me that um that an extension of the ipin scheme as the ipn scheme uh is is something that we are generally on board with and there are some questions associated with uh how that would happen so so I wanted to know uh and really Rick what you thought as well of just putting up a few quick polling questions uh related to this or really just asking if people are are concerned and then uh the other is to really understand if there are any final comments on this this concept of thresholding I I certainly understand the desire to have an internal representation uh that is is helpful uh and and restricted in some way to 64 bits but what I'm what I'm going over in my head is is that an Ianna restriction uh or is that uh like a ccsds restriction if ccsds comes back and says my numbering Authority is one and that's certainly less than 32 bits to represent and I will allocate my node numbers and such so that I get this compression is there is is does that does that size restriction have to be"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:54:02",
    "text": "um on on the bpv7 as a whole or is that a tailoring that is done for example by ccsds and the reason I say that is if you look at some of the Blue Book uh profile adaptation for bpv7 um they would say that ccsds will only process ipn uh URI eids and not dtn URI Eid so there's already a concept of things we will support and things we won't support and I'm trying to figure out what side of the fence thresholds would fall on sorry Ed I've lost what you mean by threshold can you explain that in a bit more depth to me I I think I missed the supporting conversation only that and this was an email that Scott had proposed uh sent to the mailing list to propose if numbering authorities are capped at 32 bits and uh sub organization IDs are capped at 16 bits uh and and node numbers are capped in 16 bits then the combination of numbering Authority sub ID and node number would always fit within 64 bits so you could pack them into for example a 64-bit unsigned interview and that has some implementation advantages um I would suggest that that's probably a more radical change uh given that the RSC 9171 and the and the bpv6 stuff um the predecessors all had that that 2 to 60 to the power 64 range in fact I think the original ipn schema given it was text had an unlimited number of of digits on on these numbers ah yeah I I can see I could see good implementation reasons uh I think in the in the body of the text at the moment I I think under the uh the authority numbers I think I've I I suggested that uh any numbering authorities with a number larger than 2"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:56:01",
    "text": "to the power of 16 so 65 536 should be private or experimental so these would never be registered these wouldn't be available for registration um kind of allowing people to use them for their own purposes and not expecting them to be interoperable in any particular way I think had would have the side effect of delivering what Scott is asking for without saying it must so so enforcing through uh registration rather than the new forcing through rules in this document if that makes sense uh I think it forces through a registration works fine for limiting the size of the authority numbers uh if it is still possible for the Authority number to be 32 bits and the and the assigned node number to be 64 bits then that that you know breaks interoperability with any implementation that that can modifying expensively to handle node identifiers as structs or arrays so I um I I think there is again going back to wanting to try to preserve the applicability of of dvn to work that has already been done in NASA and and not just ccsds but uh other other entities that are using the existing implementations for the purposes maybe terrestrial and maybe space I think I think it's desirable um to avoid that and I think it costs nothing because I think it is expectation that that either an"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:58:03",
    "text": "authority number or an assigned node number by node number signed by an authority needs to be in excess of four billion I I agree with you uh speaking frankly I'm I was trying really hard not to update RFC 9171 with this document that's the most compelling reason I had not to start bringing in rules like that because I really didn't want to change 9171 because I think the the perceived impact of updating bundled protocol version seven Even If all we're doing is correcting some of the number ranges for ipns in a very specific small section I can imagine various space agencies just throwing their hands in the air and discussed at that well if it if it required modification of 9171 then um that then I'm um then that I think I'd I I would agree that we want not to do that but it seems to me that by uh changing the um the the the scheme definition in uh in this document um if if this kind of change does not require a modification of 9171 then I don't know why um imposing uh size limits on the the elements that are defined in this document would require modification of 1971. there's a problem I I I I take I take your point um and it may get as far as if this was to be adopted and hit iesg and the the IR the IDF RFC editors they may turn around and say actually this does do an update and and we can work through the politics of that I I I'm very wary about"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:00:01",
    "text": "altering a specification in order to manage um existing implementations that predate the update I mean yes there's always work for like compatibility to make sure you don't break everything but ah it would break everything you know that's that's the deal right it would break everything this is I I think this is uh somewhat existential right I think well if you require that for interoperability all node identifiers have to essentially be um um 48 bytes up to 48 bytes in length then um that I think the uh I think the problems are significant right because you can have 64 bits yeah yeah right right yeah yeah I'm doing the character yes um my counter argument is I don't think any of the existing implementations are interoperable oh no that's not true at all the existing implementations are interoperable all over the place with themselves within a single time they're interoperable within a lan because they're using a single naming space well they they happen because that's all there there is right now but but that's but but they are interoperable in that if they're uh if there are no numbers are uh are taken from the cbag no number of allocation uh ranges then they are totally interoperable it's not an issue"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:02:04",
    "text": "right I'm watching the clock I'm I'm I'm also mulling over what you've just said Scott I'm I'm going to stop speaking um we are out of time ladies and gentlemen I hope this was productive this was very workshoppy and very conversationally um I know Scott put a post onto the mailing list I did not respond to I'm going to take an action to put a new revision of this draft out um I'll take you on board all the comments that have been made on the mailing list while I was on vacation and the latest comments and I will get that out pretty promptly and hopefully get more conversation on the list at this point and um see what people think if somebody Scott maybe wants to start uh actually Scott has started a thread about um that reducing the bit width of of some of these components in order to meet the whole thing fit within the existing 64-bit address space interested in people's comments on the list of that otherwise Ed do you have anything you want to add otherwise I think I'm going to do the wrap-up and thank you um nope other than please please keep the mailing list the goal here is to enter itf-115 with uh with this uh with agreements so that we can get this thing through working group last call at the next working group not been adopted yet so that we can get it through adoption and working group if we believe it is needed as soon as possible going back to the beginning of the meeting where we said this is not something that should languish for a year otherwise uh thank you all very much for your patience and before me Techo just kills us because we're five minutes overdue uh thank you very much uh can I say a personal thank you to carsten for uh the uh markdown tool I'm using for um"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:04:02",
    "text": "this cram down RFC tool it's very very good those of you who've never used it before big personal thumbs up on on that cast and thank you thank you for my own news only you could tell it's a tool that's been written by someone who has a need to uh to write rfcs quickly in markdown it works really nicely I've never never doing anything with any of the other XML stuff so I'm now waffling now um thank you all very much I will see you all in London ietf115 hopefully in person um um hopefully in person if not virtually uh and let's keep the conversation going on the mailing list thank you all very much I sure love you and leave you thank you all"
  }
]
