[
  {
    "startTime": "00:00:10",
    "text": "this is coming yeah we hear you john i'm glad to see i'm not the only one with open pcs all over the place i don't know if i would say they're all over the place there's one or two i've got 15 in the office at the moment every now and then i clean up my background but it doesn't stay cleaned up for very long yeah i've got like 15 pcs and two routers and then three racks worth of stuff in the garage i think uh most of the stuff i have the uh temps in my garage are too cold for them i know they they decided that my house was a good point along the route as a backup fiber route so i just kind of became a lab you're one of those huh okay well i've got into my garage now 400 gig of bandwidth you uh you know mr losberg"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:02:03",
    "text": "and if i don't i'm just waiting for the optics and i'm gonna just because i can shoving four by four hundred gig well i now know if i ever get a bad audio from you it's not the fault of your connectivity yeah no the connectivity works just fine it's a last centimeter problem i i also reserved an entire 10 gig wave to myself going up to the uk because it's not like we're short of them and 100 gig nicks in every machine in the house so it is already past the hour um i was hoping that martin would join as well uh at least he said so when i talked to him when we talked to him about an hour ago um so why don't we start anyways we have uh i sent an agenda on friday there's a couple of things in there that john is going to cover around um shepherding and about solo behavior those should go relatively quickly we also have two more things that uh we're going to add uh rashad says he wants to talk about yang modules and requirements of yank for gang modules in the working groups he's gonna"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:04:00",
    "text": "be a little bit late uh to the call so we're gonna start with the other stuff and then we're gonna come to him whenever he he shows up um if we're at a point where we can start that discussion and uh jeff haas is going to talk about um a i'm going to say discovery protocol and he's going to show some slides we're going to go from there and have a discussion in here but because before we start all that you already saw on the video andrew olson who is now offline so all that 400 gig times for uh massive bandwidth didn't work okay he's back so andrew as you may have seen is the new routing ad or will be the new routing ed starting in uh march at the next ietf so we wanted to of course welcome andrew and dedicate some time to for him to introduce himself and if you guys want to ask questions or uh make fun of his blip and connectivity there with those 400 gigs um to his house then [Laughter] so um andrew if you want to say something or we can open the mic and we're just saying welcome to the to the team thank you yeah just firstly um thanks guys i you know it to me it's it's an honor to have been selected for the position and i'm looking forward to working to all with all of you um for those of you who don't know me i work for an operator out here i'm based in nairobi um in kenya so um nicely situated in the middle of the time zones um being the game for well a long time since i was working full time since i was 16 four times since i was 12"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:06:01",
    "text": "coding a couple of languages etc and now i run an r d division for the operators for the operator that i work for so we spend vast amounts of time implementing drafts as they come and watching for the new tech etc so that we can implement it so i tend to read the stuff anyway and i really am just looking forward to working with you and getting to know you all um and anyone got any questions for me you know anytime day or night i work really strange hours so i'm pretty much awake 20 hours a day so yeah feel free and that's me great so uh if anyone you know wants to ask anything take advantage now that he's not yet you know anything feel free if not um you know his email is somewhere you can always get a hold of andrew any of us at any point so um john i'll turn it over to you and you can talk about your topics okay uh it should be fairly short um at the last iatf uh we had a suggestion that that had come out of the sort of joint planning with the iab and iesg about um you know let's please remind our our uh participants that um you know the note well is not just about ipr it's also about uh maintaining a civil or sometimes people say professional sometimes the word professional is uh considered to be unclear but anyway uh a civil environment for people to do their work in um"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:08:01",
    "text": "and i think we're mostly pretty good at this um but uh over you know we're sort of trying to pay more attention to it and over the last couple months or something have noticed a few things that i maybe in the past i wouldn't even have thought necessarily about flagging but um seemed like they were worth mentioning um and it falls under two categories one is um criticizing basically ad hominem kind of uh comments like saying oh your your proposal is ugly or you know my my esteemed colleague you know has come up with various hacks um and it's uh it's unnecessary it's uh it's uncivil um it's it's a form of of insult and not um a substantive criticism and i think that when our participants start moving in that direction we it's our jobs as chairs to say please find some way of uh discussing the the substance of the proposal and not just throwing insults and if all you have is an insult maybe just remain silent and the other thing is we are all adults here and sometimes we use adult language but different adults are comfortable around different kinds of adult language and um so it's it's sort of almost embarrassing to me to say um that we should probably try to keep locker room language off the mic but i think that we should um because um you never know who's going to be made uncomfortable by that and i think that's"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:10:01",
    "text": "you know that's fair we we shouldn't say you have to be comfortable with swearing in order to participate in the ietf so so those are two things to you know help um remind our participants of during meetings and that's it for that topic now pause here in case anybody wants to add anything or question anything otherwise i will go on to the next one um which is going to be super short because we uh the iesg has been doing a revision of the shepard write up template which hasn't been touched in a good many years um and i thought that was going to be ready and published by this meeting but it hasn't been um so i guess this is mostly just in terms of a heads up that that is coming and um you know uh keep it in mind for a future meeting um the the just a a small preview the the other apart from the existence of that and maybe going down it you know looking at the changes uh the other thing i wanted to mention is it's i think if i remember right i'll always been sort of in theory considered to be a best practice to assign a shepherd um you know by the time of working group last call if not before and um one thing that came up during the discussion of the the red up revision was gosh wouldn't it be nice if the shepherd started to do their work either concurrent with or even prior to the working group last call um"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:12:00",
    "text": "because um you know a lot of the the items that are on the um shepard checklist are also relevant to things that the working group should be reviewing um so it seems like kind of doing the work in the backwards order to say google go through the last call have the entire working group review the document then have the shepherd review the document to my knowledge this isn't commonly done but i would like to put it out there that maybe it should be done um and i'd be i'd be interested in hearing comments either from people whose working groups actually do work that way and start doing shepherd review prior to working group last call or concurrent with or i'd also be interested in hearing pushback from you know know john actually we shouldn't do it that way for reasons um and i will take that either on the mic right now or uh you know on the list or unicast or any way you want to send it but please please at least think about that luigi please not hearing you i i heard the word i once do you hear me yes okay sorry um i think in the past we we touched a little bit the shepherding part and i think if i remember correctly we discussed that it would be a really good practice if we assign shepherding or shepherds to the documents actually before the last call actually helping in polishing the the document because we complained a lot in the past about the fact that um documents get out from the working group and the quality some sometimes is not the best with even"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:14:02",
    "text": "like like still sections market to be done and something like that so really really someone to help doubters to to to polish and follow the process not that we do it actually now my working group it is a bad habit but [Laughter] i i think this is a good idea that's it i wanted to share this thanks thank you yeah um i i guess a related point is just i mean on the subject of shepherd recruitment um i know that it's you know very common for chairs to just take on the shepherding job themselves um and i i just want to point out that it you know it is a useful way or potentially useful way to bring people into the process is to say oh you you want to become you know sort of more involved in ietf leadership here's a really good way is to shepherd this document for me um and you know the chair can still review and participate in the shepherding process but maybe not have to do all the work themselves so you know a point to consider especially sort of in tandem with the um oh you're interested in in being involved shepherd something for me and by the way um maybe do it during the uh or prior to the working group last call okay thank you that's it for my topic um unless anybody else wants to contribute a comment i don't see anyone else so um jeff i think we're now ready for you you're going to share some slides is that true but before i move forward can everybody hear me [Music]"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:16:02",
    "text": "i don't know about everybody but i can hear you look out second here as i find the right slides okay [Applause] there it is can somebody see my slides yes we can i see i see them you might put them into a presentation mode okay let's see if that actually eats my screen or not yes that indeed ate my meat echo screen which is why i did not do it all right sorry never mind so no it's fine just tell me if there's any chat messages i won't be able to see them while i'm in presentation mode okay so uh jeff jeff chuck jackson yes uh what we are seeing now is four thumbnails ah thrilling i hate microsoft i blame microsoft for much we don't have enough time for that um okay so what is this this is a request for some generalized discussion and you know maybe this will lead us to a buffer or something else or maybe somebody will just say this is a solved problem no we don't need to do anything here one of the things that i've been seeing uh over the course of sets in my work uh much of it bgp is that uh we have some need for what i'm going to be calling a generalized capability discovery tool and you can swap the word capability for feature what you think about such things i think depends on what technology suite you're sitting inside of so what do i consider the problem i think that one of the headaches we have to deal with regularly especially"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:18:01",
    "text": "as our technologies continue to mature and add new stuff is that incrementally deploying new features is challenging in a network yeah we all know this we try to avoid flag days and as a consequence we have you know portions of our network that do or do not support you know some new capability some new feature and part of the problem is you know what's sort of the minimal threshold to get something deployed you know whatever your definition of deployment means and for technologies that uh require you know sets of boxes to be connected together supporting the same feature to get this job done now do you know are these boxes actually connected in such a way and if they require interaction with external devices like a controller especially for programmed cases does the controller have sufficient visibility into what's going on the network to get this job done so very clearly routing protocols have a lot of the stuff that we're looking for now we do see this in a lot of protocols in terms of what they do for incremental deployment but the more generalized case isn't necessarily dealt with as part of that and programming i think is you know one of the key things that leads us to the problem but it's certainly not alone picking two easy use cases uh maximum segment death depth was a bit of discussion that we had which led to two very simple rfcs you know the general idea there is if you're using technology for no steered traffic maybe using mpls your label stacks can be the tool that you want to get the job done but since many devices don't support arbitrary depth for a label stack well that becomes problematic now how do you know if you can steer something through a specific node in your network if it has a limited stack depth and what is that depth and knowing what that is"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:20:00",
    "text": "at some point in the network maybe you can adjust your technology to do the appropriate thing i'm having a specific example of this sort of headache with php flowspec even the sort of very boring core rfc type stuff isn't 100 supported in some cases so the easy example of that is a lot of implementations don't have support for doing matches on the dscp fields inside of ip packets or being able to set them and the consequence is that if you're doing flow spec in a deployment where the b3 routes are just being sort of flooded everywhere to all flows by capable devices well it means that since flow spec has implicit rule ordering if you don't support match kind of field or it ignores matching in the field your filtering intent may not be done as you expect and that can result in things like the traffic getting thrown away because of you know how flow spec is being deployed or maybe that's intended to be your safety bar and stuff that's allowed the pass through based on given the scp may not be getting handled and we're starting to see that headache creep up as we're starting to add new flow spec features we've been sort of on pause as we've been doing the update to the original flow spec rfc and that work is starting to creep forward again so easy example my employer has a feature that allows us to filter on the contents of packets rather than just simply the header fields well what happens in your deployment if your devices don't consistently support this it's not reasonable for them to it's no heavy duty feature so how do you figure out in your protocol how they deal with this so that's some discussion we've had in idr as an example so motivations for the more general conversation now we do have mechanisms for you know what we need is mechanisms to discover you know the devices how they're hooked up together where their capabilities are and you know as we all know"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:22:00",
    "text": "routing protocols do a lot of this stuff for us already depending on you know their flavor and picking easy example igps are usually in an excellent position to share a lot of this type of information you know they have here's the device here's the topology that they're hooked up into and you know the protocols are very extensible you can stick more and more stuff in there which means theoretically you can just sticky note all of your appropriate you know capability information in there that could be carried across your entire network but there's a very obvious reluctance to try to do that because it overloads the igp itself and sort of degrades its core use case picking a different example bgbls does a lot of the same sort of things that the igp does different encodings has the advantage that can be inter-domain has some of the same encoding overheads uh that igp does um but the nice thing is it's not an igp we do have the flexibility to stick more things in there and you know we have a lot of opportunity to use that as an extensible thing and this is not to say that phblos is the answer it was just a useful talking point about stuff that we do have that can potentially be repurposed there so the question becomes what do we need is it one of our existing solutions know for this uh do we need something brand new or maybe this isn't really a problem it's just all in my head this is where i pause and open up the discussion one of the reasons you know we we've done this is because it rides on top of all the machinery in the routing protocols right and the secure you know the securities there everything's there so i don't think inventing something i'm not saying whether we should limit this to you know one way of doing it but i"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:24:01",
    "text": "don't know that i would think some inventing something new would be a good idea it would be you know years and years before it was done for one thing and we have uh the requirements right now right or at least i don't know if we have the requirements for everything that's being proposed but we certainly have drafts that that purport that we do that's that's what i'm saying yeah and i agree with you and know sort of hitting john's point in chat which is the pointer to the judicial xkcd you know uh cartoon you know nice thing about standards is there's so many of them we can certainly add one there's a lot of pressure to maybe do it in existing technologies and i think the concern i have is if you if you push to use an existing technology you're also running into the politics with the technology yeah just pick up the igps just because you're the speaker now we we've seen this conversation over and over again of this is a cool thing to do but uh please don't stick this in igp it doesn't help the core use case so we keep on running into these sort of mismatches andrew yeah so from my perspective look we use a lot of bgpls a lot and it does seem to me that ls if you could find a way to get information into it would be a very good place to put this the problem then becomes how do you get the additional information into ls and particularly because the ls deployments out there are pretty inconsistent as it is with what they carry um in in my experience so to me this almost seems like the ideal solution would be to use ls we needed to distribute you know into domain or whatever else"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:26:01",
    "text": "but then you still need a mechanism to get the stuff into ls and you don't want loads and loads of ls speakers so it's got to be distributed somehow and i think that to me is where it comes down to because the ls makes sense but how do you get it in there and and that is kind of my sticking point yeah i totally agree with that um and of course us has its own sort of standalone use cases so you know for some networks people might object to having all those extra states stuck onto the beach building uri that carries around the stuff for ls but one of the nice things about bgp at least for this type of use case it's possible to have multiple instances of the stuff running that don't necessarily cross with each other you know as an example there's a vpn flavor bhpls that would let us have basically a standalone instance for you know the state declaration that doesn't have to live in the same use cases for other things to use ls for so the protocol is capable of handling that again i'm not saying ellis has to be the answer but uh i guess one of the other observations here is you know maybe an indirect a functional point that needs to be solved as we work on this thing if we decide to pick up the work is yeah we need to have a generic way of getting stuff in and out of it um those of you spent a lot of time in a lot more modern software development environments are used using message buses that are key value stores maybe the answer is uh we have all these things that are used to pass around topology like ls we have basically uh k structure k values that we want to attach to things well maybe the functional requirement is we need a way to glue these things together so it's very easy to get a streaming version of what's the capability set attached to the network"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:28:00",
    "text": "joel did you want to take the comment to mike yes i might as well um if we that there's a real question well if we want a way to get to this information and collect it then we obviously have to distribute it in the igp but we have to distribute it in the domain not necessarily in the igp we have years and years ago demonstrated one can take the igp information distribution technology pull it out of the igp even create some collectors so the topology doesn't have to be the same as the igp topology and use it to manage information now the problem we used it for which was nhrp turned out to be irrelevant that happens you can do that but then i stop and think about it if i really want to distribute this information and i need it collected is it really better to define a new protocol to do that or should i just put it in the igp so it's a trade-off i mean if we want to do it clearly we can but we'd have to do something different it's just a trade-off that i think we need to keep in mind but we do know how to do this it's not like it's magic i understood again it's one challenge of not overloading existing use cases i think ls has a little bit more flexibility to carry additional stuff without necessarily being disruptive ac would you want to follow up on that yeah i i've been one that's been kind of in the middle especially when it's when it's not a big volume of information or it's a node property where i'm not or or interface property that's a really small amount i i have been but i know we have our uh strong working group members who are against anything that isn't used for routing or segment routing or or whatnot that goes into the igp now in both isis and ospf isis they went ahead"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:30:02",
    "text": "and finished it ospf i'm the main offer of it we do have we do have uh a completely separate mechanism that makes use of of of of the igp but it's nobody's been really interested in implementing it i mean i haven't pushed that's why i haven't pushed it forward it actually even supports the concept because you don't need it it has nothing to do with forwarding you can even support uh remote neighbors without tunneling and then you see you could have you could have topologies much like bgpls where you only had to uh advertise the stuff to the people who needed it but we haven't had a lot of people excited about it and i understand the lack of excitement the problem is we we've had a lot of use cases that seem to want to use this stuff but we almost always end up seeming to solve it within our own technology domains you know because the example we have well not only that they don't want to use something they want they just want their application ah let's just put it in the both the router capabilities which is you know both isis and ospf have those and just for this one you know this this is this is this is something everybody needs anyway and people have said this is something everybody needs when it turns out it's just a few uh select routers in the domain they still try and push it forward maybe if we had more maybe if we had an unlimited offer list and we could put these people on the transport ospf that's what it's called ops transport instance they would all be happy to support it okay that was the technology i didn't know that was there and it was worth adding to the bucket list uh john so a few comments let me start by riffing"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:32:03",
    "text": "that one of the problems we have i think probably in trying to um replace expedient but maybe not you know ideal technologies with with like you know quote the right thing unquote is that you've got the question of who who goes first right um you know you may you could easily imagine some kind of a dialogue that goes like you know it's not ideal the way you're you're trying to abuse the um ftp or bgp or whatever protocol um you know please use this uh this fully generic one instead you know the answer is uh you know it's incredibly unfair that um that you're insisting that i have to to go to this uh huge amount of extra trouble to to get this new protocol implemented and deployed whereas um you know everybody who came before me didn't have to so there's a real chicken and egg problem there um [Music] the second kind of closely related one is um touched off by what joel was saying about you know it's it's relatively easy and expedient to add these things um to the the igp or or again to pgp um and it's kind of the straw that broke the camel's back problem that we're talking about right it's like every now and then it gets asserted that uh that the campbell's back is going to be broken um if we keep putting unrelated but but easily added things into it right i remember well over a decade ago it was it was uh um being claimed that if we added one more thing to bgp the internet was going to stop working um it hasn't stopped"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:34:00",
    "text": "working yet and we haven't stopped adding stuff but um the the argument still has some validity um and final point is that i think we're kind of talking about inventing a you know a dump truck protocol right a a message bus for everything that isn't part of you know core ib igp or core bgp um but still needs to be distributed right and um my there's a little bit of a marketing problem with that in that i i fear that people may react to that as like well my thing is important so my thing should go into the igp my thing is not you know the dump truck protocol is for unimportant things so so none of these are insurmountable but i think they're all you know kind of organizational or psychological things that we have to consider if we're actually you know wanting to make progress on fixing this problem which we haven't yet agreed that we're going to try to do but exactly the whole point is that they try to figure out do other people see this as a problem worth solving and sort of hitting andrew's point from chat you know telemetry is a way to get this stuff out every one of our protocols has some way of listing out its optional features that's how we incrementally deploy our individual protocols but right now there's no way to basically query you know all the nodes in your network what are your lists so i can build these things up and you know that helps me with uh all the different types of problems that are on the slides so you know theoretically you know an example of a very lightweight feature for doing this sort of thing is everybody supports some flavor of standardized telemetry where you could poke a port get the full answer of here's the capabilities list in a nice standardized data model and all you need is you know give me the list of all the devices in the network that i can ask this question to"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:36:01",
    "text": "so that's that's an option but it again goes to yet another protocol in the mix and as you're sort of hitting as a point yes this is a dump dump truck protocol it's intended for who knows what it has a use case i've given but the interesting challenge is going to be i think is the key one the ecosystem problem if i have a bhp implementation that's probably where i'm going to want to put the stuff if i'm doing igp work maybe that's where i'm going to put it so that's why i leave that perhaps we need something else it's not so much that i think we need something else the question is how do we actually maximally address the problem if we decide to do it and what ecosystem does it live in so i feel like the questions are slowing down this was not intended to be a comprehensive thing this may turn into something like a buff if we decide it's a worthwhile problem to solve this is mostly to draw your attention to you know being a potentially interesting thing and you'll go from there thanks jeff um so i guess for now we're done with your topic right and uh we'll come back if we need to at some point so um now next we have uh rashad who's already standing at the mic um and um go ahead richard yeah can you guys hear me yes we can okay great thank you um so this is i mean i don't know how much to say unless uh i mean except it's a question um so now that i mean most of the yang in the routing area have with the initial yang anyway have been published as rfcs or wilson brfc bis"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:38:01",
    "text": "um so the question really is when we write start new documents what should we do regarding yang for those new features or whatever of the protocols so i think at the minimum me as a contributor i ask myself the question should i be adding yang to this document you know whether it's for manageability or whether it's needed form from a security perspective to limit how or to limit the attack surface or that kind of stuff so that's as a contributor and then got me thinking as a you know whether as a co-chair or you know for the whole area is that a question we should be asking for each document should we be encouraging it or do we not care or that's basically the question to the group is he i certain i if somebody uh put the uh put the yang in a new document i mean i certainly be supportive of that but i don't know that we should require it some of the some of the things we have it's hard enough to get them you know get them reviewed implemented and everything without putting this additional bar on it and it reminds me a lot about bug commit criteria or feature commit criteria in if anybody's ever i know a lot of you have done mostly ietf for your careers but if you've ever worked for a vendor and you know about this uh people who don't do any commits they keep putting additional criteria to commit a change or a feature and all these things and the thing is everybody ends up getting exceptions anyway because they don't have the skills to do that"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:40:01",
    "text": "it's too big a it's too big a thing rather than uh you know dividing it and conquering it so i don't know i don't think we should have a hard and fast requirement for this and it all depends on the size of it you know you want to put it in one document uh and require it you're going to really delay what's already a little bit of uh you know a slow process to get things published yeah so i'm okay with that line of thinking but at least i'd like the question to be asked personally as opposed to well yang is a pain so let's not do it jeff idea is not quite to the point of having its first full version done for the bhp model but it's getting darn close once that's done it's still only going to cover a core set of the features and i think that's pretty much true for most of the big protocols that we got modules for you know i don't care which module you pick it's probably not 100 covering all the different incremental features that are in there so this partially goes to the question of what do we do about all those gaps now is it expected at some point the working group picks up and sticks those all the models optional extensions and that moves into the carry-through piece that you're asking about if you're writing a new feature should you require them to actually do that incremental bit of no work and is it fair to ask them to do that if we have uncovered pieces of optional code yeah i mean if it's if there's big gaps then definitely that's a difficult one to push unless it's really it okay it covers you know it belongs to the core set of features you know in extension to that with which you mentioned but yeah i"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:42:01",
    "text": "can't disagree there alvaro thanks rashad so i you know it's hard to um you come up with one answer that is going to fit everyone of course so you know there are requirements that we have with with drafts and rfcs where we need to have uh you know security considerations and you know things like that we can't not do security if we're going to do something at least we need to consider security right when we're doing something to me your question is more should we consider management a requirement not necessarily a requirement in terms of you can't publish your extension unless you have management because i agree with ac in that um you're putting too many requirements is gonna delay it's gonna not have the feature come out uh maybe the functionality is more important in the short term as long as there is some work that is coming right as long as the module is is is going to come and um you know some approach like that right in in requiring management just like we require other things but allowing publication in a staggered way um is what seems appropriate to me of course it depends on the working group right as you know jeff just said you know bgp hasn't published the main uh module there's a lot of catch-up to be done there are other working groups um role for example monet that don't have even yang modules and and where yang might not be the right place the right way to do some of the management in those types of environments but uh so you know in my mind we sort of need to go back to every working group"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:44:01",
    "text": "trying to decide with a strong push towards requiring the augmentation or the you know putting all the all the new features in the modules at some point yep makes sense i mean i agree there's no one answer for everything you know it's just what my concern was that it being yang you know we've done i mean itf routing area we've done so much effort spent so much cycles on doing yang for the past few years that it'd be okay we've done it let's move on and then we're going to have this huge gap again you know this growing gap uh that was my concern and that's why i wanted to bring it up ac you know you know and i think i know you've reviewed a lot of them and you know what uh what the models in routing look like and a lot of them are pretty complex you take the bgp the ospf or the uh multicast ld mldp uh model there they are not for the phoenix part now i don't think everybody who wants to submit a proposal is gonna be able to modify them i mean this is are we gonna are we gonna keep them from doing it i don't think we can do that like alvaro says they're just uh too much and the last thing i want to say about this is we have started doing augmentations to pick up some of the features we missed either because they weren't they weren't far enough along or we were too far along in the review process for the main module so some of us some of our some a subset of the offers have some augmentations for features that we miss and will we ever be right in step no we won't but we're trying to"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:46:00",
    "text": "you know do the best we can with especially the important features okay don i'm just going to say um i think it depends on the size of the of the yang that you want to do if you're doing a a draft and you do a small you know addition augment or something that may be fine but what we're finding in the ieee with um yang in there is you have the the yang modules may be changing faster than the text is so you've got this problem that an updating problem of um you know once you've included it now you've got a different maintenance cycle on it so that's the thing to be aware of okay yeah so all i wanted alvaro is bring it up have a discussion all good points so i'm good so see that um yeah it seems to me that your question is important and um you know what i would like to to propose i think we all agree that you know one size doesn't fit all and it it depends and um the other working groups are at different places of the of the cycle of getting uh the module trying to catch up of working some recommendations um i i would suggest that we need to um you know take the take yank seriously and and have uh a plan or or be aware of the potential need for something um and every working group is going to be different so what i want to ask each pair or or group of chairs is to think about what this means in your working group"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:48:01",
    "text": "and it may be completely different from what a different working group needs just because of where you are but at least you know consider that um rob wilton in the isg makes the point of asking for every draft that is produced what about management and where's the egg module and many times the answer is well we don't have one sometimes it's nice that we can actually point to something that it is going moving as fast as the main draft but you know that at least we know the working group is working on something um he um the fact that he asked is just you know a question is an unblocking question but here's something to keep in mind that that you know there's other people outside us who are also thinking about this okay thank you so um we ran out of agenda it is still 12 to the top of the hour if anyone has anything that you want to talk about please do so now nope okay so uh thank you everyone for being here uh this was recorded so it should automatically be posted somewhere um hopefully soon and we'll see everyone in the next chat at the beginning of march thank you so much"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:50:01",
    "text": "you"
  }
]
