[
  {
    "startTime": "00:00:04",
    "text": "okay good afternoon hopefully you\u0027re in the room for the grou meeting at IETF 99 if you\u0027re not you can go to whatever room you\u0027d like to be in or stay here and back be fun somebody in the back please close the door lock us in thank you very much and we\u0027re gonna need to gather up a jabber scribe and a note-taker we can\u0027t go anywhere until we have a jabber scribe and a note-taker Jen no you could just take it in email and send it to me directly if you like so I think that means we just need to jabber scribe because jared is gonna do double duty thank you very much we still need a jabber scribe okay where did he go I thought it was 5:40 it started it\u0027s 5:40 - oh you mean give people two minutes all right we have a "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:03:07",
    "text": "couple of spare minutes so we can wait for Joe there you go it\u0027s already updated okay yo code up so we have a ya prescribed I am I don\u0027t have a jabber account so please look for someone else okay we still need a jabber scribe then our hopes were on yo but if it they\u0027ll be the gyrus cribe oh thank you very much build the rescue now we can get started okay so there\u0027s the note well you\u0027ve seen it just lost meaning you saw a different one sorry I\u0027m Chris this is Peter we\u0027re chairs have to see today hello we\u0027re Andy hi Jay we have blue sheets that we\u0027re going around please make sure you sign them so we get a big giant room like this next time we have a scribe and the jabber person that\u0027s great for the documents yeah oh great we have three things that ended up being RFC\u0027s one of these is not even yobs thanks to the working group people and to the author\u0027s themselves for knocking these out quickly relatively speaking current slides are all our current documents we will get updates today so those are that will cover basically all of our active documents between these RFC\u0027s that happen between last meeting and this one and the presentations today "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:06:07",
    "text": "so without further ado I guess we can go to presentations start with yo your up such you\u0027re calling Oh as a reminder who weren\u0027t people who weren\u0027t here last meeting or another meeting today please stand in the pink box if you\u0027re presenting you can feel free to hold onto the mic or stand and stare at it except to you we have a clicky click with a laser pointer on earth I\u0027m job Snider\u0027s NTT communications one of the four offers of the BGP session calling draft our first in this presentation briefly cover what this calling thing was about then reflect on the changes between last meeting in this meeting and then proceed to the end of the presentation the purpose of this draft is to mitigate negative effects of maintenance related to BGP speakers this covers both maintenance of BGP speakers themselves but also layer to operators that might be present between the BGP speakers we\u0027re targeting a BCP status because we want to encourage people to put this procedure on their art piece when they negotiate with peering partners or transit providers or internet exchanges that they have a uniform source to point at this is what we like this is a good practice please implement this in the documents we differentiate voluntary teardown and involuntary teardown voluntary teardown means that if I as a BGP speaker as I as an operator of a BGP speaker wants to perform maintenance on a link or on a note I will start a procedure to do and part of that procedure is to shut down the bgp sessions related to the link or the note and it\u0027s voluntary because it\u0027s out of my own solution in the case of internet exchanges though we\u0027ve come to observe that even though internet exchanges can very dutifully email maintenance notifications to their participants a vast majority of participants ignores those maintenance notifications and as such may be negatively impacted by the internet exchanges maintenance so the mechanism that is described in the second half of the draft involves involuntary teardown where a internet exchange will ensure that the bgp sessions are forcefully brought down on behalf of their participants and a number of internet exchanges have been doing this for a while and stories from the operational "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:09:08",
    "text": "world seem to indicate that this is a successful approach and it in fact prevents packet loss so this is the voluntary example if I operate network one router a and I know that I\u0027m gonna do maintenance on the link towards router B I can just shut down the beach peace session wait for BGP convergence and then proceed with the impacting maintenance in the case of involuntary calling the above three boxes represents the internet exchange they are layer 2 devices it\u0027s via these layer 2 devices - BGP speakers have a BGP session with each other and because of that bgp session they are exchanging packets now if the internet exchange operator inserts layer 4 a co onto the relevant link they can carefully call the BGP control plane traffic between router a and router B it will take a number of seconds between 90 and 180 on average B or router a a router B detect that keep a life timers where the whole timers expired and they\u0027ll tear down the session and start reconvergence here\u0027s an example of what such a filter may look like I believe this is an example on Juno\u0027s but in essence the trick is that you filter bgp traffic in both directions in and out on the affected ports you limit the scope of the ACL to the peering land prefix that is used on that particular internet exchange you must not forget to also do this for ipv6 and you really limit it to just the bgp session this ensures that any traffic that keeps on flowing because they have not yet discovered bgp session is down remain unaffected what has happened since the last ITF meeting is that be the graceful shutdown mechanism has increased in popularity there is now a number of implementations the draft has been fixed up and polished and somebody sped on it and it was ok so that can be now used as a reference by the BGP calling BCP and we\u0027ve set out to solicit feedback from internet exchanges and for instance one internet exchange where this was discussed on their members-only mailing list it appeared that there were a great many voices in favor of mechanisms like this so overall we have not yet observed an instance where people said this is wrong stop that roll "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:12:08",
    "text": "it backs stop doing it on other internet exchanges it appears this is becoming more and more of a accepted mechanism so with that in mind and not many changes between the last meeting and this meeting I would like to ask the chairs to consider last call working group whole forest documents and that\u0027s my update kill Fidel arcus I think this is a great document if you\u0027re going to issue a last call on this it probably might make sense to issue a last call on put the documents including the geesh at 1:00 and progress them together I think that is an excellent suggestion they definitely belong in the same corner okay I think we\u0027re Beauty they were priority Prague last call but let\u0027s take it a list and we\u0027ll have got the g-shot presentation next there\u0027s no more comments thank you thank you I\u0027m giving an update and BGP grasp shut down session I start with a one slide summary because it\u0027s been a quite a long time since initial work five years so sorry we want to be able to gradually shut down a busy bee bgp session which mean we want to reduce a customer\u0027s impact some of traffic inform the operative point of view we want to be able to ease scheduling of maintenance operation thanks to go where you think there was a impact how I want to do it we want to make some kind of make before break behavior in both autonomous systems so in both direction of the traffic and we do that by initiating a BGP pass exploration to search for the packet pass but in the meantime we keep using the older Meola pass so when we finally found a backup pass we have two paths or see old on the new one and we can update the fever in place meaning and we never removed with a key prefix sorry but we just changed the sin except it almost status update so far with faith for the last five years the draft has been a stable let\u0027s say or as never change basically as a draft has waited ready but who everything for dependency and "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:15:10",
    "text": "some other draft the goal was to get non-transitive a well-known community in addition to the transitive community that we already offer but after five years we decided to stop waiting on solar months ago we issues ero seven version which is a same one but without non-transitive community so then we had multiple review on commence on the raft so many things to do reviews reviewers and actually specifically Java so to summarize as I mentioned are multiple too many editorial changes another one more technical is PGP community so giad community is not removed anymore so it keeps it being propagated within the autonomous systems on possibly in the world internet second technical change is the local proof is also change on the SBR itself where before we were charging it everywhere except on the SPR also thanks to job we had a nun we added a non normative appendix with configuration examples so do it we have a few CLI if you want to add a few lines with your favorite implementation whether a cylinder or service provider is feel free to to send text so now we would like to ask for working on glass core it has been a long history in grow working group more than ten years I believe No multiple lives on multiple set of commands we have two implementations for more than five years now it has been deployed in the few I put in my systems so we believe that we want to finish your job so it\u0027s the free to comment era as I now during the subsequent let\u0027s go job I\u0027d like to point out that since the mechanism uses a well-known community there are actually much more than many more than two implementations on almost every HP speaking platform you can implement facilitating this feature in in three or four conflict lines so I would argue there many more implementations good to go good good good comment actually you can you can implement that behavior using CLI with no impact on any implementation for the to implementation I was referring to it was a an automatic behavior to change the local price uncensored community "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:18:10",
    "text": "before sending the notification so it\u0027s automated behavior but you can do it by yourself or by tools okay all right that\u0027s all I think yeah the both documents are ready for last call will go ahead and issue that on the mailing list based thanks for getting it updated and hello it\u0027s our little chanter from my entity communications a little closer much better so yes I wanted to give an update up on these two drafts that we have together with surveillance team from Cisco break up from ITF 98 so in RFC 78-54 we have you know we are limited to you know actually being pre and post policies and our proposal with this into new draft is to extend it to you know having local rape and other about pre and post policies right I think it\u0027s in rudder intuitive and so what are the diff so and if you need more information about this like use cases and all the things we discussed in ITF 98 at the end of this presentation you will find that backup slides to recap all of that so what are the disco in the first draft we have expanded a little bit on the complexities if you want to try to have local rape information out of the existing Audrey being you know implementation of BMP so as especially what we said if we expanded on the fact that you need a kind of a middle box a root server in the middle by which you are you know doing a BGP peering with this middle box and then from that one you have BMP Audrey being pre policy to travel the information to the BMP collector want to say something yep okay what else let\u0027s go okay to ask questions now or should I wait if you can wait yeah please it\u0027s a and in shortly and "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:21:11",
    "text": "then we expanded also on the pier up till via the type tree that we that we proposed so that type tree TLV would be to pass vir vrf name or via raft or a table name and things like that and we said I mean we should go to 255 255 chars string with a default global and the row distinguisher so it should be zeroed out and then we had that this is maybe the most important change this section 5 4 2 on granularity because at the buff in ITF 98 there was has he was speaking about potential state compression so we added some wording around that and then the d f-- about the other draft so the other about is that so first of all we have two new co-authors from Tencent and who away I think it\u0027s fair to read to capture the situation that there was a competing graph or a very similar draft and then essentially now we are all on board with this district here and then there has been a lot of recent discussion on the mailing list about the peer group so there was like a lot of peer group versus per peer information and as you can see over there I think I am myself a lot into you know we should not go for one or the other but we should go for both we should keep it open as I was commenting actually myself on the mailing list I think we come for a drop from a draft that was very much scoped in what it could do and we should not go do the same mistake again so we should provision for all the possible scenarios and then leave the implementation specific thing the implementations stage and so we were proper together with the other co-authors we would propose something to you know as simple and oh so to be open to both senators and to keep it simple and the proposal is to have another period TLV where essentially you can define the name of the peer group essentially and we do some finished so ready for the first tomato so sorry reiterating capital arc as I said Cisco I no longer work for Cisco you know you mentioned adjectives out and local rib a lot of implementations that I know does compress the ribs so as to save on to the memory have you done any analysis to say does this increase memory now that you want to send the data out both for the local rip as well as edge it about "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:24:12",
    "text": "or what are the implications of the memory that\u0027s a good question yeah we didn\u0027t do any analysis or anything like that I think you know we can say that memory is cheap so we should not I think you can say memory yeah yeah yeah I can say that yes jeffires so again you know echoing comments I\u0027ve made the mailing list already I do believe that both cases of peer group or update group does Jacob likes to remind us and Cisco speak and also pur pur have situations where they absolutely make sense so if you\u0027re looking at adding than coding forward happy to let you do with the work inside of the draft if you\u0027re not willing to do the specific peer group case I\u0027m happy throughout micro draft out of it honestly I think you just solve logs at the same place into Jacobs point there\u0027s a lot of cases where you just simply need or want for peer so no it\u0027s that\u0027s the thing that makes sense the memory considerations that no we\u0027re just brought up is actually one of the reasons why the peer group thing is a potential interest when you don\u0027t care about sort of using this as a telemetry tool for the peer peer data partially because in some implementations effectively what you would have to track in order to keep even mildly stateful data is sort of the equivalent of another full rib out view / pur pur monitoring stage yeah and the amount of memory that this can take to do this and disdainful yeah is obnoxious yes it\u0027s actually one of the biggest no consumers of memory and most BGM systems there are hacks you can do if you don\u0027t care about duplicate updates and one of the things that I think would be good to actually address their about document is what your opinion on duplicate updates are because these cases to some extent to cover what you actually see on the wire but you know sort of we led a discussion the mailing list just the behavior that you\u0027re going to get off the fact that this is a monitoring mechanism it\u0027s low priorities in cases there is massive state compression you\u0027re not going to get exactly the same set of things and it\u0027s prioritized ribbon versus low crimp vs. we\u0027re about very differently than PGP would be because it\u0027s all going over the same tailpipe yeah means that sort of a consequence that know the the freshness of this data is really questionable so yes absolutely so I wanted to let\u0027s say take a couple of your points here so let\u0027s say still on the memory part that K your Patel was also racing you know I I I would tend to say that instead of doing you know analysis beforehand of what would be the impact of course there "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:27:12",
    "text": "every vendor should do that and whatever you know I write software myself for many years and I know that when you build something that is very flexible or that you want to keep flexible I do you have a trade-off you cover a lot of scenarios that maybe is what you want and on the other hand of course you have to put some boundary when you implement things right so let\u0027s say you have X amount of memory and you not truck more than whatever peers or peer groups and whatever due to the actually CPU or due to the memory available and things like that I think that should be documented by the vendor at the time of implementation right that would be my take right so and I would not try to constrain that at a draft level so that that\u0027s all I\u0027m saying so it is all you know the like ten pages of documentation when you write something we when implement something rather than you know closing it at this stage and the other there was another point wanted to take but I lost it sorry it sort of briefly go back to the the memory stuff so even aside from whatever does to implement this stuff just sort of from a BGP theoretic standpoint the state asking for is they were about so it\u0027s going to be whatever the rib out cost is a per vendor for the pure pure version of the price no our case we happen to be you know fully stateful you know it\u0027s quite a lot of duplicate updates but it does to the very memory intensive other implementations go for basically a sequence number journaling system and in those cases the replays they\u0027re potentially significantly cheaper right but that said it\u0027s still the you know their cost of a rip out right there are tons I still have a few more updates er work to be done and then you follow up on the mailing list yet next meeting yes yes in fact that the TLV with a peer group that is a proposal that we are proposing now but it\u0027s not captured in the draft yet so that is definitely something that we have taught and then after that as far as I\u0027m aware we addressed all the older concerns that were raised or that have been raised so far okay thanks very much thank you so with that that concludes our agenda for this session so we get you out a bit early enjoy the rest of Prague thank you [Music] "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:30:26",
    "text": "[Music] you "
  }
]