[
  {
    "startTime": "00:00:26",
    "text": "Hi. here. Just making sure everything looks good out Yeah. Are you guys set up? Yeah. I can set up. Perfect. Awesome. Alright. Thanks. How was Oh, So that's Yeah. It's this it's up at the top. So we can start showing No. That's If it's Yeah. That's that's that's the show of hands. Yeah. No. It was actually Oh, oh, the queue. Yeah. Disart here, Right. That is Okay. Okay. We'll take that as unanimous consent. Thank you."
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:02:00",
    "text": "Sorry. The the tools have changed a lot since I was since the last time I shared something. So I'm finding where all the buttons are I think we're good. Alright. Excellent. Okay. I think we're good. Hello, everybody, and welcome to whimsy, at the, they they threw us into the very first slot, a working group slot, at least, here in IETF 119. So welcome to Australia. And, First off, everybody note the note well well. If, you're unfamiliar with this, it basically means anything that you contribute, which is things that you say in the in the line or in the mic line or on the list or Are considered contributions to the IETF. Those are, potentially recorded and made public. Likely to be because, we already do have a notetaker. So assume that what you say will be considered a contribution. If you have anything that's covered by patents or other restraints like that, it's up to you to divulge that. And if you don't, well, that's there's a whole bunch of legal stuff there that says that's your fault. I'm glazing over this a lot. Please, if you're interested in that in the details of what all that means. There's a lot of good information in there. And ultimately, Don't be a jerk. Be nice to each other. And, and we will get along just fine. So, this is our agenda for the day, we really dive in, I wanna encourage everybody please, scan the QR code or sign in with the on-site tool through the agenda. There's a link there. This is how the secretary knows how many people show up in each So if we wanna have a correctly sized room, in Vancouver, this is where they get the numbers from. You don't show up in that list unless you scan that code at least once. During"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:04:01",
    "text": "the space here. Also, this is going to be the only way that we're gonna let you get to the mic and actually say so, please, everybody scan that. And, Alright. So let's dive in. Murray, I already got a comment from the AD. A quick administrative point. AD I'm your sponsoring till after plenary, Wednesday, and then Ori will be taking over. Oh, okay. Is it too late to change that? How much money you got? I already owe you a beer, so I we're okay. Just a reminder, all of this is going in the record. So yes. Yes. Yes. I know. I've known Ori for ages. It's we're we're all good. Thank you, Marie. So, whimsy, is the workload identity in most multi system environments. It was also a multi what? Multi service environments at one point as well. We will accept both. And, we are pronouncing it, whimsy. I am, firmly a believer that you can't dictate how people will pronounce an acronym in the wild. So You know, that's that's where we've got. So congratulations, everybody. We're a working group. I want to extend the particularly huge thanks to Yaron and Joe for, chairing the ball helping run the effort of, getting the charter in order. It was no small feat for us to go through all of the hoops to get chartered, be between, between the last meeting and today between Prague and now. And a huge thanks to, the ADs, Marie and Roman specific lead to, really help us get through that process. And, yeah, so here we are. Name is Justin Richard. I've been around the IETF for, a while now. I've, been able to edit a whole bunch of different documents, mostly in the security area. I've also done some working standards organizations outside of the IETF."
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:06:04",
    "text": "I have previously chaired a working group, version 1.0 of cozy back in the day. All of the tools have changed since, I was last chairs. That's while you'll occasionally find me, like, fumbling about the buttons, but we'll get there. I, work with a variety of different clients as a consultant and, And, that is way more dressed up than you will probably ever see me at an meeting in that headshot photo. Right. I'm Peter Castleman. I am your cochair, or the co chair for whimsy. I'm an identity centered enthusiasm, mostly working in the OAuth, working group so far. And, this is my first time. So looking forward to make some great standards and solving some of these very important problems in the workload identity space. And thank you, everybody, for bringing your yourselves and helping us, address this area. Thank you. To clarify, this is Peter's first time as chair, not First time ever being at the IETF. Just to in case you were a lit a little nervous. Alright. And every working group needs a logo. So we ask AI to help us out. And, honestly, I'm not sure we can get better. This is It it it just it keeps giving more the more and more you look you look into it. What's that? It was intelligent that it made this. I mean, I can't really argue with we are the working cloud, working flawed. Rather, I Yeah. Let's Yeah. That's I was wondering what the, what the transcriptor would do with that. But, anyway, So if anybody has an idea for branding, feel free to do that, as a project. Drop it to the community, but, this is This is certainly something. Now that we're a working group, though, we put a lot of work into getting the charter in order and"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:08:00",
    "text": "pointing at some initial stuff. Now is when the real work actually begins. And, now is when we actually have to start pulling documents together and figuring out what it is that, that we're gonna be delivering here. So to start us off, We need a basic idea. This is the workload identity in multisystem environments group. What is a workload? There are a lot of exton definitions out there. The one we're generally going with is, because this is the tax that we agreed on, as part of the charter is that it's a running instance of software executing for a specific purpose. Now I fully expect this definition to be augmented and refined and all of that as the working group moves on. But this is kind of the baseline of where where we're starting here. And the idea here is that when you're going and deploying a system in cloud environment these days, you're gonna have a lot of little pieces that are talking to each other. Each of those pieces probably does one specific thing. This is, very common style of architecture. And so each of those is going to be a workload and they're going to be tied together into a system that actually services, various requests, and things as as they go through the system. Right? Right? Right? Right? Right? Right? Right? Right? Right? Right? Right? Right? Right? Right? Right? Right? So then what is workload identity? Quite simply, it's a means of identifying a workload in a way that makes sense in that context. And really, ultimately, it's this context of workloads that real is what makes the stuff that we're gonna be doing in this working group different. Different. Keeping in mind things like I not only wanna know who's calling me, but I might wanna know who called them to call me. Like, what was the chain of things that came through? How can I, maybe look at that from an auditing perspective late later on? When I'm crossing a security boundary, does that even look like like? Which gets us to the next part of our name and definition, What do we mean by multisystemenvironments? Well, that means that the problems that we have and that we're that we're dealing with, they don't start and stop at cloud Boundaries."
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:10:00",
    "text": "We need things that work across, systems as well as things that work inside systems. So it's not good enough to just, stand up a CA and assign everybody certificates and then and then go home. We are interested in, the types of problems that go beyond that. And, this This slide's been, been tried it out, a bunch ever since I, proposed this at, at dispatch Was it last summer? And the whole idea here is really that these workloads and these systems that we see, it really is turtles all the way down because one thing that you're calling may, in fact, be made up of a bunch of submodules that's calling other submodules and there's just a lot of complexity that's built into systems these days. That's just kind of inherent with cloud environments. Long honor the days when server meant a physical computer is sitting on a shelf somewhere plugged into an ethernet cable. You know, that's that's not the way that, we build scale and deploy things. By and large. Alright. So, I like to think the kinds of things that we're doing here as solving problems that are unique to these workload environments and contexts? Oh, I thought okay. I was making sure Mead echo didn't die over there. No idea what's going on. So solving problems that are unique to the workload environments because when you're spinning up all these services and they're talking to each other and need to reason across that, then that's some pretty unique stuff. But also, looking at general problems in the unique context of a workload environment. You know, identifying a crawler, a a a collar across a single hop, That's not unique to workloads. But when that collar may stand up and then, spin back down in the space of a couple of microseconds."
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:12:01",
    "text": "That adds some interesting, interesting challenges. Richard. Okay. We're by and large gonna focus on the identity and security aspects here. And, but here I wanna point out, we are in, the app occasions area. We're in art. We're not in sick. But we are going to be, having strong liaison relationship with it's this is going to be a security focused working group. Even though we're not in the security area, and we are focusing on this one particular vertical. So you'll see a lot of cross pollination between, those kinds of things. And finally, we want to really make sure that we are bringing a lot of lessons learned from outside. We know that this is not a greenfield space. People have solved a lot of these problems out there in the wild. With their own versions of duct tape and bailing twine, in a lot of cases. And in ways that are highly contextually specific and not necessarily you know, abstractible. One of the things that we wanna make sure that we're doing here is paying attention to what's happening out there. In the wild. And bringing those conversations in and making sure that anything that we bring out of this working group keeps that sort of more global context in mind. Mark, is this For Okay. now? Richard? Got it. Sort of to kind of briefly concern, confirm an understanding about scope here, because I feel like I've heard you mention a couple of different dimensions. You know, identities when we talk about identities and workloads, there's kind of provisioning aspects. How does workloads obtain the identities And then and then presentation aspects about how those identities get presented to other things. You know, provisioning things tend to be more their own things. And, you know, presentation stuff tends to get integrated with applications. So I just wanted to confirm that, We're trying to address both of those in some sense here?"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:14:02",
    "text": "Yes. More so on the presentation side than necessarily Okay. Focusing on the provisioning side, a lot of the stuff that we're doing is going although touch on that, which I think is actually Yeah. A little a little bit in, in the next slide is what we're not doing. And, one of the most important things I think that this working group needs to keep in mind though is that even though we're not focusing on solving those problems, like s bombs and whatnot. The stuff that we are gonna do is gonna touch on that. And, and, like, this is what provides the context that makes the stuff that we're working on here unique and interesting. Mark, Oh, okay. No. Just a couple more in in the intro a bit. Anyway, I'm not gonna know kind of where the boundaries are on what it is that we're we're not trying to solve. The way we're gonna go about this is that, it during the chartering process and, sort of the months leading up to you today, those that have been on the list have identified a set of, you know, sort of small focused key deliverables to start. And we're going to be developing those into a set of RFC track documents, But also, and especially for things like the use case document that was submitted as an ID, curate resources that are non RFC track. Things that, will help the working group and Pardon me the wider community, really figure out what, what the shape of this space really looks like and, and the things that we care about. One of the most important things about this space, though, is that, we want to make we remain a discussion forum for the larger workload identity community. Which is to say that the things that we'll be talking about and, sort of, you know, addressing"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:16:00",
    "text": "In discussion, is gonna be beyond necessarily the things that we're going to be addressing as actual working group artifacts. And, And finally, we're gonna make sure that we, are are, Have a strong liaison relationship with a lot of related groups, So then comes the question if somebody has a great idea, and it's not a working group document. What do with that? We're gonna be taking the approach of, You know, if there is a space that actually fits it, because Wednesday's touching on a lot of different related areas. If this is better as a rat's extension or as a get extension or an OAuth extension or something, Then We should really be encouraging people to make sure that stuff fits in the appropriate place If we're filling gaps in those other protocols, we wanna make sure that we are working closely with those protocols. But in the spaces where, we're really kind of between things are not really well aligned. With those, we wanna make sure that, we actually do have a space to create new work here. And so that's really, we're trying to do, look at those things in, in a lot of different ways. Alright. Alright. I wanna reiterate here that, even though our deliverables as we've proposed them, today are limited. Our discussion is not, our deliverables are focused on HTTP, and that's a deliberate choice. A lot of workload stuff runs on non HD thesis There's what, Grpc, Kafka, and probably a bunch of other weird proprietary stuff that I don't even know about. We wanna be able to talk about that kind of stuff. We wanna be able to consider that as we're looking at solutions. And so if something is specific to GDP or even specific to a particular version of HTTP, then that needs to be an actual choice of the solution."
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:18:04",
    "text": "Does this mean that we can't work on general things that generalize across different delivery mechanisms or different crypto containers? Absolutely not. But this is these are the bits that we've signed up to work on and make sure we deliver now. And so we need to make sure that we are delivering those even as we build out the community around these larger goals. And, finally, We need to keep in mind as a working group that as we start to deliver good and interesting stuff, That's how we get permission to work on more stuff. We we don't get to, claim that we're gonna solve all of the problems right out of the gate because we haven't proven that we can solve any problems yet. And so you know, we've, we've got a few things targeted that will, bring up at the end of end of the session here. That, are really gonna kick us off. If you're not on the mailing list, please join, whimsy@itf.org. It's the same mailing list that we had pre working group. Because it really is a fantastic acronym. I cannot take credit for that. Roman and Joe, I think. Right? Yes. Can't yeah. Was confirmed. We do have a GitHub set up. There's nothing on it we don't have any working group documents we will be doing most of our working group work between these two resources. between the mailing list, as is tradition in IETF, and, also on GitHub for doing a lot of you know, issue tracking and, and document editing and with that, I am actually going to Step down, and we have No. I should have kept the The agenda up next. George. Please come up. I can put your slides up. Unless you wanna share from your thing? Okay."
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:20:00",
    "text": "yeah. Oh, Let can go to the next slide. me know when to change the slide. Yeah. You you can you Okay. So my apologies for not having more slides to try and sort of explain all this there are some talks in the past, but, I'll try and go through the the main The main point here, transaction tokens is work that we're doing in the OAuthworking group. The the concept here starts with the with an assumption that oftentimes the authorization model, of things outside your perimeter. Is different than the authorization model internal to your perimeter. And so there's this sort of transition between authorization boundaries. And and then if if you're doing a transaction, Right? So let's know, maybe you have a instant messaging client and the authorization model of the client different than what you have internally, and I'll give it more detailed example in a minute, then then when you transition the the perimeter, what can you do internally to act actually make things better. And and the reason for that is oftentimes our our perimeter environment, have a couple of different kinds of models. Right? You can have, like, everything inside the perimeter is able to do anything else, right, which hopefully most people have gone away from. You can have sort of machine to machine based sort of security, like, I'll authenticate the district machines allowed to call other API at this other machine, or workload in this particular case. But, the the actual elements of the transaction are are arbitrary. Right? There's no sort of binding, as it flows through. And so this was a way to, how can I basically get something internal to my perimeter that allows me to bind aspects of the transaction that should throughout the call chain that, Justin described in his slides, through the system?"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:22:01",
    "text": "So that's kind of the the thinking. And If you think about OAuth, is where this sort of has been originating I tend to have oascopes of, like, you know, I need to be able to read my mess information. I need to be able to write stuff into my messaging information. Internal to the perimeter, the transaction that I'm doing might be add Fred to the know, colleagues working group or know, make sure I get a notification whenever George sends me a message. And those are much more fine grained, right, so your authorization models are different. We can act with transaction token. You can basically effectively down scope from the OAuth model that you have in the client, something much more fine grained in internal to the system. And this is not necessarily there are lots of people that have done similar things and have proprietors, you know, within their own implementations. I'm not saying this is, like, new, not something new, but it was a way to try and codify it from a standards perspective. Another use case would be an email system where you're getting inbound email 3 and you basically want to bind the, the the inbound email address, to the transaction so that as it goes through spam, you know, the spam system and the antivirus system or whatever, you can't actually manipulate the delivery of that particular message. So transaction tokens basically codify, like, What's the subject of the transaction, which could be a machine or a a human What's the context of the request of the transaction request? Things, you know, that could be things like IP address or or a device that made the request or any other things that could feed into other authorization aspects you have basically are there other aspects of this particular transaction that should be remain immutable."
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:24:01",
    "text": "And then the the expectation is that internal to your system, instead of passing all this other data, you basically can just pass the token when you invoke the next workload. API or or or service. Sorry. Oh, great. So transactions out to themselves or sign JWS' today in the spec. By the way, that link should point you to draft 01, which got published yesterday, We, There's also a key element of this is the request workload. So in order to get transaction token, you need to have indicated the the service that's requesting it. Part of this is is that, transaction token service. Part of that, the purpose of that is allow for some level of authorization, right, is this requesting workload authorized to get a transaction token for this finer grained purpose. So it's not trying to solve the authorization problem, but allow for the ability let's say for that, transaction token issuing service to call a PDP, and, you know, do dynamic authorization as well as static authorization. And then finally, It And this is something I think as we work through this, we can decide whether you know, there's other models, but I the transaction tokens are intentionally not intended to be center constrained, because generally, in a center constrained environment, you have to go get something that's unique to you every time. There is a pathing mechanism supported in here. So, like, if some if between what was it, Bar and calling the next gateway and the other group of Justin's diagrams."
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:26:00",
    "text": "You wanted Barr wanted to get a new transaction token, the padding would stay there's a little bit of the pathing piece there. I'm not sure it's The right piece. Right? We're still in draft 01. But the the intent is that the most of our systems, transactions are very short lived. Right? I mean, probably less than a minute. And so the the the hops back and forth to some AS to get a new center constrained token that you can pass to the next one, adds a lot of performance implications, And, and this is still adding substantially increasing the security of of an of a Trust boundary, even if it's using Barrett Hook and So I'll pass there. That's the summary, the spec is Not very long. It shouldn't take it's a pretty quick read. And, obviously, we're happy for feedback here or in the OAuth working group. Alright. Speaking as chair, to be clear, this is a draft that is currently in OAuth, but it is definitely relevant to what we're doing here. And, there may be some, additional coordination, which we'll get into when we start to talk about the specific deliverables. So, Not seeing anybody on the queue. Any questions or comments, Richard? Since nobody's, I'll give people time to think there are other questions. Yeah. I kinda hate barat tokens. I I'm a I'm a center constraint enthusiasts. So, I think I I but I appreciate the need here for something that you can pass through multiple layers. Just wanna suggest that you you might consider, like, more of a a chaining thing. You could have layers of signatures. That could cover them down in it. BGP sec has these these sorts of designs, not that that's a, like, widely deployed thing, but, like, it may be worth considering whether you could have center constrained things here."
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:28:01",
    "text": "And, and just arrange this few more signatures to make the chaining mark Thank you. Yep. Okay. So they're fixes. Yes. Justin? Speaking as individual. So, one of the interesting things in the workload space is that the notion of sender is, not nearly as well defined as it is outside the workload space. Because you may care about the sender several hops up. You may care about center just for you, you may care about both. And so I'm, really just to, just to add to what you're saying, definitely is something that is very important, but this is to me, at least, one of the things that makes the context of this working group a more specifically challenging set of problems than we would have outside Yeah. I I appreciate that there is that ambiguity. I think error tokens, reinforce that ambiguity. Yeah. So I think one way this working group might be helpful is to elaborate and try and help clarify things. How things might manifest better in some in certain workload cases. And have clear boundaries. Excellent. Thank you. Ron. And can oh, okay. Sorry. I was just gonna say I don't know how to remove people from queue, but I just found that button Excellent. It's it's if there's a bunch of work happening at the moment in Deakin for email, delivery, which is very similar to this in a lot of ways. You have multiple systems that don't trust each other, and you don't know what the source system is one thing we've discovered looking at how D Kim works now. He said, if you're going to sign anything, you need to not only sign the past, you need to sign where things are going as well. Because otherwise he can replay that workload"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:30:00",
    "text": "to a completely different system. So soon as you start looking at signatures across something, you need to sign something that can't just beat. Cut back and replayed. Alright. Thank you. And Peter? Chad or individuals? As Individual. So just one comment, I think, on the strain, central constrained nature. I think something else that Might also be interesting to think about is not just constraining to a sender, but maybe constraining to a transaction. Right? So I think there's different ways in which we can limit things like replaying. And maybe it's not just about the sender, but there might be other kinds of findings to consider as well. And this is all work that think we can explore in this this working group. Share add back on. Yeah. So Hey, Paul. Yeah. I was just, gonna respond to the earlier comment about I mean, one of the keep things here is that the transaction tokens are, you know, short lived And so we are less concerned about replay attacks, here. And I don't know how it does this work, but know, that's that's probably a differentiator here. Thanks at all. Alright. much. I think that's, I think we've drained the queue. Thank you all very Okay. Next up. I think Kelly is gonna be presenting this Yes. Do you wanna control or use something? Oh, wait. You can select. Yeah. I can yeah. Thank Alright. Hi, everyone. Kelly Bergin. We're here to talk to you a little bit about identity and authorization chaining"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:32:00",
    "text": "across domains that we're doing in the OAuth working group. Fine. Okay. Yeah. I'm headed on it. So if I, yeah, you recognize the diagram, things to Justin, for for creating this, it's been very useful in in in our explanations here. So you got a resource owner who has authorized the client to get an access token from the authorization server in its domain and then it presents that, token to the resource server in its domain, the the big box is the resource server side our our services of that resource server. And the the final, servers may want to know, some information, who is the resource owner what authorization did the grant What other entities were involved? And what authorization did they have? That makes sense. So, part of the problem that we're trying to solve is, well, what happens if, the protected resource, the resource server in the in the 1st. Trusted domain needs to access 1 in a a second domain with a separate authorization server. Next. And that final service within that. A resource server will want to know the same questions, the answers to those same questions. And next slide, we want to think about this, in an OA say. So there's an authorization server Each domain has its own authorization server. And So we need to get the client, an access token that it can use for the resource server in domain too. Bye. Ex Alright. So, the concepts that, that we've got put together"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:34:02",
    "text": "for more please. Yep. Oh, you got it. Oh, thank you. Alright. So it's a it's a 3 step process. Based upon standards, the existing standards within and in OAuth, we're gonna use token change and the assertion framework. The high level description of how the client goes from getting, it has an access token for use in its domain, but it needs one for Trust domain 2. So it's going to exchange the token that it had for an authorization grant. For the AS in, trust domain too. It'll then use that authorization grant to get an access token. From trust domain 2, authorization server and trust domain 2. And then present that to the protected resort or to the resource server in, trust domain too to get access to the resource. So this is what's in, the draft right now. This is a high level overview, that sort of the the sequence diagram explains, you know, where does the token exchange occur, where does the authorization grant occur, So, generically, there's gonna be a client in what we switched to domain a now. So there's a client in domain a, who needs access to a protected resource in domain d. So if, the client doesn't already know the authorization server. It can do discovery. Didn't exchange as the token for an authorization grant it then presents. To the authorization server and domain b, gets the access token yet. Access token to get access. Next, And we have 2 specific cases of this, one where the resource server is acting as a client."
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:36:02",
    "text": "And in this case, the the resource server may need to get some, of metadata about to protect the resource and domain fee, And then it follows the, the, the same pattern. Right? It exchanges the token for the authorization grant, presents it, and then gets there's a second one where the authorization server in domain a access the client, next which And So here, says The client is now an authorization server It can generate its own authorization grant. Right. It doesn't need to go request it. It can it generates it. And this it's sort of what we call the internal token exchange. Right? So it it's generating this assertion grant, based upon, the information that it had before. And then you follow As before, you present the access token to get access. And this is it. I was I tried to be quick. If there's Time for I mean, there's time for questions. I wanted to make sure we did have some, but This is the basic proposal of what we're doing. There'll be more details in the working group on Wednesday. I just wanted to give you a high level overview right now. Alright. So I do wanna say once again, this is, work that is existing in a different working group, but very much related to kind of space we're looking at here. So, with that in mind, anybody have questions or comments, for this piece of work. Alright. I'm not seeing anybody in oh, Richard? Richard is Yes. Thank you. Appreciate that."
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:38:01",
    "text": "So so, I apologize. I'm coming to this pretty fresh. Seems like there's a presumption here that something in domain that there's some Broker, if someone has prearrange something to domain based, like, be Yes. There is some sort of relationship. And Where is that swing point? Is it like the authorization server and domain a that has pre, you know, gotten some new capabilities in domain b so it can, you know, it if you Yeah. There has to be some sort of trust relationship and also some agreement on formatting and things like that. There does have between authorization servers to be the to to make this happen. Thank you. Alright. And Roy. Probably wins. Thought through what would happening with GWT tokens or cv CWT tokens in this flow from a to b. Did they get stripped or they get carried through? We are restricting ourselves to JOTS. Okay. So but the the But it the answer is no. You haven't figured it out, or you We haven't thought about it. I'm sorry. I'm actually curious, Roy, can you tell us more about the question? Why? Why did the question of stripping come up for you. Or stripping of the tokens, The question is whether the tokens are unique to the the first domain, and leak information into the the bee germane. And it comes into question of have we thought through the barriers of Oh, of B, going back out to a with with data exposes some stuff. I'm just concerned that we need to think through some of the But discussions we were in the previous one versus this one of leaking bear tokens and things through the workflow. Okay. You wanna follow-up? So, so we are, thinking about, adding cinder constraint mechanisms to to the, to this document, not to the transaction, talking about the"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:40:02",
    "text": "aren't. I see. Oh, sorry. Kelly, you had a No. I just thought that was done. No. I see a question, aren't. Do you wanna Yeah. Actually, I wanted to talk about the the things was just raised. So We have a section on a claims transcription. We're going to put detail, who's in contract controller. What claims get transcribed to the other trust domain? So in the first step where the client extranches, It's access token to an authorization grant for the other domain the authorization server can have policy in place to decide, decide What sort of claims gets transcribed. Into the piece of information that gets sent into the other trust domain. Right? That can be translation of user IDs stripping claims, all that sort of things. Good. Thanks, Arnd. I'd see anybody else in the queue. So If are interested in this, Please we can we'll continue the conversation. Oh, often again, This crushing of trust remains being relevant, I think, to the work we're doing here. So you, Kelly. Right. Right. Right. Thank you And before we move on, I wanna realize that I I well at. I realized that I cut Mark off, did you have something to add? Okay. We're all good. sure. Cool. Just wanted to make Alright. Okay. And next up, we have gel."
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:42:05",
    "text": "Alright. Hi. I'm a Joe Saloway And, along with, harness And, yaroslav, we've been part, working on a initial, attempt at a Windsor Architecture document. Go to the next slide. Yeah. We'll just gonna talk briefly about kind of where it's at, what we've been aiming for as as goals for this, document and maybe what's in the steps arc. Kind of One of the important things is we do have the draft up on GitHub, and we've already had some folks kind of put up some PRs and and make some issues up there. That, you know, are very helpful. Because without, community input, This is gonna be you know, we we really need some something collaboration. But next slide. So for goals, we kinda have, you know, just a few small things like terminology, is one thing we're trying to align on in the document. Justin. I've already mentioned know, we have some concise definition for workloads, but there's a whole lot other things that we've talked about. During the formation of groups, from context, to just even the notion of identity itself and and what that that will comprise, for for us is is something we'll need to discuss. So there are we'll we'll I'll talk a little bit about send the document now. But, the the other area that I think is is very use for us that we wanna focus on is kind of the security properties that we're going for. Looking at the threat model for the environment, we're building to and then deriving security requirements and security considerations from that."
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:44:01",
    "text": "So we kind of understand what it is that that we're building. One of the problems I think we have today with workload identity and and, systems that are in place is it's not really well understood. What the properties that people are going for, And then also once they've kind of deployed something, what properties they've gotten. So I'm hoping that we can Make some progress in this area by defining that better. In in the architecture document. Perhaps this Might be a separate document at some point, but I think right now it makes sense to to keep it in this document. And then, know, obviously, we wanna talk about architecture where we get into the different types system components, and and how they interact. Next slide. So this document's in a very early stage. You know, so There's we're looking for, you know, more contribution to kind of get it, get it going. We can just kinda go through the next slide, which she'll talk a little bit about you know, what sort of terminology we've all already having the document you know, we workload, defined something about a context. There's some notion of identity sees and agents and attestations. And and part of the thing we also see that like a terminology like, attestation, there are different groups that are involved here between, say, what the way IETF uses the word asset station and the way spiffy uses the word as a station means slightly different things. So there's some kind of Reconciliation of some of this terminology and figuring out what we mean when we say it."
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:46:06",
    "text": "Let's go to the next slide. So for architecture, we really haven't sketched out too much but we have talked a bit about you know, the initial identity establishment and and what that looks like largely because we already had some documents, relating to this so, so, was a kind of a natural thing to do as a you know, how much of these interactions would be you know, something we would standardize. Is, you know, up for a consideration. But certainly understanding how this information gets there makes it makes a difference in in the security considerations you may have. But, you know, There's some discussion of kind of, service authentication also on context propagation and some cross boundary issues, but it's all very, sketchy at this point. Next slide, please. And then in the security considerations, there's just some outlining of you know, threats on traffic intersection, information disclosure, and workflow compromise but there's probably many other things that people are concerned about and and, I know Peter, I think, has put some additional issues in in the tracker for us to look at. Next slide. So next steps, I mean, the the document is also you know, need some general cleanup and alignment in in various areas. And then there's just lots more that needs to be done. I think we'll leave, you know, questions on adoption for for later. But certainly, we'd we'd love to have, more reviewers"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:48:01",
    "text": "and more people collaborating on this document I think we will try to get a new revision out soon at least to kinda clean up what's there. Because it's kind of Looks like it was written by 3 different people because it was. And and that's fine, but we we ought to have it a little more. Coherent. That's all I have. I guess one question is many people have taken a look at that document? 1, 2, 3, 4, 5, 6, 7, maybe 8, 9, 10, so or so. It's not bad. Any questions? I just I wanna make one quick clarification chair here. Looking at, adoption is later today. Actually, we're going to be talking about that later as part of this meeting. As to where this is. Not later as in 3 months. Just to clarify. chair or not chair. Peter? Last Non chair. Question about oh, I should I I need to walk? Okay. So, a question drove you mentioned, writing down things like security properties or security promises, are you also thinking about doing that specifically to facilitate things like formal analysis, like, I kind of just curious to get a sense of how you're thinking about that formulation of the security properties. I mean, formal analysis is something I thought about, but, don't have enough background to informal analysis to know how achievable that would be with this type of, you know, a fairly complex system, more thinking about in kind of,"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:50:03",
    "text": "A less I'll say less rigorous security analysis or less. Formalized security analysis. I guess it's not rigor. It's more of the formalization. To to understand what what pieces Do an in that. Know, where we're putting our trust in and things of that nature. I wouldn't object to trying to move to a more formal definition of those things. I I think that could be really good, but I think it's also potentially a lot of things we'd have to due to get there. Richard. Yeah. I just want to postpone the idea of having this document. Thank you. Elaborate these, you know, the security guarantees we're after. I think that will help. Clarify, in the way that architecture documents verify stuff, you know, the, you know, the architecture clarifies what we intend to build. The security goals articulate what we tend to achieve that way. I I think it's not crazy to think that, formal models could be useful here. I've done a little bit of a modeling of access control systems, using standard formal modeling tools, and it can be super helpful and, both finding vulnerabilities confirming that that you're getting what you're getting. So and Good. I don't think what we're gonna capture, I like, complete a formalizable thing here. I think we could get get something that's concrete enough. You can kinda look at a a formal model and just say that, you know, this is articulating basically what we want. Yeah. I think even if we just define the things are that we want, that would give us a up to getting towards the former model. Yaron. You know, Chip, a quick reminder that in addition to security considerations. We're also supposed to have privacy considerations. And of course, even though this is about workloads, we will be carrying privacy sensitive information, like All over the place. Yep. That's a very good point."
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:52:05",
    "text": "Mohammed. Yeah. Since formal methods were mentioned, would just like to mention that we are also working on with the cocoa project KPS, which would be very relevant. So we have expertise there. We are trying to formalize the security properties of the protocol KBS. And we can help, also for the protocols that you have. Okay. Can you can you maybe type just the name of that activity in the Yeah. Sure. Thank you. Sure. Sure. I will write in the chat. Excellent. Thank you. And I'm, I would actually encourage you to, drop a note to the list as well so that there's, More record there. Yeah. Sure. Thanks. Any other questions or comments? Right? Alright. Okay. That's it for that queue. Honest, you're up because I went in the wrong word Yeah. I will be brief. Oops. A lot to break things. Okay. So Just, short update on the best current practices for this workload identity. I spoke about document that is on the slide, at the last IETF meeting at the PAF, In the meanwhile, we have had a sort of, obviously, we spend a lot of time on working on the the charter decks and and deliverables and everything that relate related to the to the formation of the working group."
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:54:01",
    "text": "But we've also sort of checked interest in specific items, including this one. And so our authorship expanded, but we didn't manage to submit the document, in time for a deadline. Just going to talk a little bit about, what we've been thinking about and and Nippy. Hopefully get your feedback as well. So, see a couple of new names here. For example, yeah, I was love Eduardo, aunt, Evan was also, you know, our conference calls to give us a little bit of background on spiffy spire. Okay. Next slide. So this is what I, just set next slide. A short refresher, but it's currently in document. It's, somewhat narrowly scoped, you may remember still what I said at the last meeting where you may have even read the document So just very briefly. Two slides Next So this was, work that was motivated one. by several of us looking at Kubernetes and how it used JWTs As, sir, or provision JWTs into workloads. And it did it in a in a way that was unfortunately a little bit ambiguous, so that there was ensureability suffered between different implementations, Specifically on the way how the claims in those JWDs were populated and then, later used which is specifically, you used an extension this RFC 7523. With the shiny name JWT profile for OS2 client authentication and authorization grants. We've heard about OAS and and some of the work. So probably many of you are familiar with that."
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:56:00",
    "text": "And there's, an OS document, and then there's a profile in OpenID Connect And that's where some of the misinterpretations come from because some implementations, Oak MOS authorization server implementations, just implement a variant of OpenID connect 4 Also, for OS usage, which is kind of a little bit weird. Anyway, the document talks about what you should be paying attention to when sort of populating and and passing the claims Next one. And here's, diagram, architecture diagram on how this information flow actually looks like and relates a little bit to what Joe has been talking about earlier and and even earlier, Richard had brought up that issue on the left hand side of the diagram you see does flow on how these, JWT or identity or credential and depending on, how you want to call it, gets provisioned into the workload Kubernetes in this specific case, uses its own terminology here. And when that information gets populated into the workload. There are different techniques to do so. File system system in environment variables or, for example, some API's domain sockets, for example, And then those tokens get then exchanged against something that, was just presented from the work in OS to actually then access, services within that local, environment services that are running on other workloads here referred as resource service. Which is a separate exchange that, this specific document doesn't talk about. It's sort of So there's one part where the provisioning happens and that life cycle management and not a part with the actual usage internal to the different the workshop environment. Okay."
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:58:00",
    "text": "Next slide. So Okay. So the currently is really narrow focused, very much in inspired by Kubernetes and talks about this JWT. So, Richard Barrett Dokun's, doesn't go into Like, how would you provisioned and Managed. Kind of the Bob tokens, the tokens that are have a a key, associated with them or X Five for Nine certificates like, SPFID would do. SPiffy has these 2. It has the JWPs and the X Five Four Nine. Certificates. So it only focuses on a on a subset of those. The question is, obviously, is that a good scoping, the benefit or the the plus on a plus site of this narrow focus focusing is obviously that we could finish such a document much faster It's obviously something that people use today out in a while So they would immediately benefit from it on a negative ordered I don't know, negative, but, the downside of, narrows copies, obviously, we would be we would have to deal with the other token types in some other documents or or not at all or depending on what the whatever the group wants to work on. A proposal that was made up or that was, brought to us in the conference calls that we had was to also look at the or compare the different techniques for passing these tokens into the workloads themselves which approach should we recommend? Or obviously, the pros and cons we should at least list the pros and cons, which are currently is something we We are not doing right now. Could also argue that, maybe that belongs into belongs in the architecture document"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:00:02",
    "text": "more than in a specific, PCP, maybe also impose depending on how depending on how you phrase it and, how widely scope, the architecture document is the domain sockets specifically, they give you a lot of power because it's a directional communication, you have sort of, like, all sorts of information flowing back and forth and changing of tokens and, sort of managing the whole life cycle of them. Yeah, and we talked the last item is something we talk about later anyway. Okay. Richard, do you have any comments? Alright. Yeah. You know, you shouldn't just focus. You you really should be using send or constrain thing. Sir. No. But as No. for this for this No. No. I understand. But, yeah, for the BCP framing, I think if that's, like, right, the scope you've articulated here is okay. Right? Like, We can we can at the same time, say, like, the best current practice, Given what is currently out there today, is to do certain things, you know, handle your jots, right? While at the same time working on stuff that is more oriented toward send their constraints So I I think that's okay. Yeah. Def definitely. So, like, the So as I said, like, in spiffy, you have, both you have the X549 certificates and the JWTs. Actually support for post, but not concurrently. Can also argue that both are, post use provisioning post would be valuable because they could potentially state a different layer. You could use the 5 for 9 certificate for mutual DLS at the lower layer between neighboring nodes but then to do the JWTs, potentially with what Deepak at the at the higher layer"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:02:01",
    "text": "That would be one possibility, for example. But it's I've I don't think this would be the current best practice, to be honest. Yeah. So just stepping into that as chair right now. Right now, the deliverable itself is framed as a BCP. If there is additional work that, would be looking at you know, defining new new protocols and things on top of that. I think we would probably consider that a different deliverable, but very much within the general the general reach of the working group, if not necessarily something that we're doing right now. Diego. Diego. Yeah. That's that's Mother of curiosity because I I have done under the impression that it's a little bit ugly for the BCP when we don't have the architecture on the other pieces, Yes. Hold thought. We'll go over the thoughts around, that the nature of the architecture document and how this group has been discussing it today. Okay. Looking at then, to me, me. They seem that they are very close and probably would be could be, merged, but that's I I don't know because I was not in the in the origin of everything, so I'm not really am not aware of everything. Yeah. So, hold that thought. We in in the next section, we are gonna be going to each deliverable, and I think we will come back to that question. So I I encourage you to ask that again. Once we, once we go there, Thank you. It's it's it isn't I wanna be clear that that is an important question how documents fit together and how this working group is going to be addressing them going forward. But a lot of that is, part of what we're gonna try and figure that out today. On on one aspect, though, the relationship between of order distinction between a PCP and the architecture document, which is informal in nature, the I like, from the experience of"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:04:03",
    "text": "work on other architecture document, they are more high level and not, sort of don't describe a specific solution, but they, instead, sort of try to publish it up and introduce terminology and the things that Joe mentioned beforehand So I wouldn't expect an architecture document to go into the details of hear the claims that you need to populate in a in a JWT and how they actually go in and go out and get matched and so on. So I think putting the content in there into the architecture document doesn't wouldn't it be a right to me, like, in terms of what I would expect to read in an architecture document. So I see them differently, but obviously there's some relationship, like even my struggle with writing the slide on how do I call the notes is obviously something that, would be nice to have some clear terminology on each sort of real world deployed solution today. Uses different terminology. And so trying to come up with some more generic terms would be useful. And, yeah, Evan, Hey, folks. Can y'all hear me? Yep. Awesome. I think I'm who the one put in the chat too. I think I'm the one who've kind of called out this local issuance documenting these local issues matters. I do think that we should there are a handful of them, and they come with different pros cons and there's nothing out there. Right? There's no way for people to kind of reason about when they should reach one. So I I do think it'll be valuable. The capture somewhere That said, you know, and and spiffy kind of looks at identity separate from credentials multiple credential types proving a single identity. Right? So like the certificate and jot the simultaneous actually does work. And and this issuance mechanism is also kind of decoupled from the credential type. Right? Because we're talking more about, like,"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:06:02",
    "text": "for it and and this kind of stuff. And and so you know, my feeling is that maybe it does kind of belong in architecture. There is, like, some kind of current practice text as well. But it is certainly like a lot broader in scope than the first bullet point, for example. And I don't know if it's broadening the document to to take him this piece. Did you wanna respond to that? No. Yeah. I don't know. Okay. Myself. So Alright. Yeah. That's totally fine. Okay. Write this. Nobody else in the queue, and I think we're Just almost on time. So Justin. Sorry. I gotta find the right feedback somewhere. So that was That stopped, whatever it was. Okay. Yes. Yeah. I'm just keeping an eye on the chat. I see there's discussion about BCP or not BCP. I didn't know Richard or Pete, if somebody wants to maybe just come to the mic and explain a little bit about your thinking behind the differences between those. Alright. This is Peter Resnick. BCP's procedurally are a mess, because they're one step things that get full standard kind of approval. They're they're just weird in the process. Really, there there's this thing that used to be called applicability statements is a horrible name for them. It's basically saying you can have things on the standards track which"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:08:00",
    "text": "describe usage and and all that other stuff, make it a proposed standard, make go with the other documents. You can either have it as part of one document or separate documents but but BCPs in the IETF are just an Icky thing and they get used for all sorts of stupidity and it's probably just better to call it an AS if you don't like the name applicability statement, but just put it on the standards track and and keep it there and put it with the rest of the documents. K. Reverend. Sorry. What was that, Marie? What yeah. What Reverend is what Oh, okay. Got it. Thank you I I thought I misheard that. Alright. Yeah. I missed that Richard. That reference. So Vito is just Wondering if the upshot of that recommendation is just to, like, and this set the intended status field in the data tracker to propose standard. And not PCV. Okay. But Yeah. please. Microphone, And then call it whatever the heck you want. Right. I I mean, it's just that BCPs in IATF Land in procedure earlier, just stupid. Alright. Yeah. Best current proposed standard it is. Alright. Yeah. So with that in mind, the charter as, as accepted. You know, we, by the ISG and hashed over a lot by, this crowd. Again, thank you to everybody who put into that. Has a bunch of deliverables in it. I'm gonna do now is I'm gonna go through each of the deliverables as they're written down in the charter. And basically add a little bit of commentary to each, and then we're going to come back to them and discuss them. So I'm gonna just go through all of them at once so that we have all of those sort of in mind. Then we're gonna come back and open the mic for each of them to discuss. Clear on procedure."
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:10:01",
    "text": "Awesome. Alright. So So First deliverable is about securing service to service traffic. So this is a, typically something Jose based that is proposed to protect a set of HTTP call. So this is Jose and HDEP Suites. Specific, very narrowly scoped in terms of the deliverable something that works within a trust domain and also across domain. So, Now those might be different, the way that they get instantiated, and the properties might look different. The idea is to have a solution that can be applied in both spaces. The document is intended to, support identification of microservices and cryptographic binding of the token to the caller's identity, Richard, We got a thumbs up. And also, optionally binding it to the overall transaction. As I mentioned in the introduction here, one of the things about workloads is they they come with this sort of know, long transactional context that you don't see in a lot of, sort of traditional, token and sender constraining systems that we need to need to think about here. So it should support associating pieces of that context with the token, including, but not limited to user identity and all that other stuff. The goal of this deliverable is to have both a token format, something Jose based, possibly a, a profile of jot is the intent. Including binding the caller's identity. In that format. Oh, and, usage of the token. Sorry. That as I was reading it. The next bit, is local issuance of token. We struggled about how to, how to actually capture this succinctly. What this is really about"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:12:04",
    "text": "is, the ability of a component inside of a workload system in order to get its own token in order to call another system. So it would be able to generate a token. Within its own context with a limited authority. Without having to call a, a token exchange system without having it handed to it by the environment. Harnes, is this a clarifying question. Okay. So you you started with, previous slide and set the first item? Is is it the first? Because it's the first in the slide, or is it the first? Because it the first one to be finished Well, it's up to you guys to finish it. So, I mean No. No. I mean, It's do you you make no assumptions. You just put them in a random order. They're not in exactly a random but, the they're also not in a order, strict delivery order either. Okay. That that that is an important clarification. The I will say the 1 the one that is not in a random order is the textured, and I have that last for a reason that we'll get to in a moment. So, anyway, this is about you've got a piece of software, and it can make its own tokens within a specific limited context. Now that context might include incoming access tokens or incoming identities or you know, certificates sent to it or whatever, But the point here is that this is about you've got a thing that can make its own tokens that can kind of sign its own own tokens. Next up is token exchange. This is something that needs to go call an external service, deliberately call an external service, and say, I have one token and one set of contacts, and I've got another, and I need to get something else. To go out there. This is specifically targeting, how do you get this And this whimsy token?"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:14:00",
    "text": "Which was the first deliverable at security boundaries, possibly based on the, the OAuth token exchange document as transaction tokens is profiling today. And, in addition to, specifying sort of how we would expect people to do this token exchange. Profile a small set of, sort of exchange profiles. Between, one flavor of known token in context to another. Next up is token distribution. This is Again, naming things is hard. This is, really along the lines of what Haunas, was talking about in his second closing bullet point of when you're delivering tokens, outside of this active network context. It's coming in an environment. It's coming in on the file system because people actually do that. It's coming in through some other mechanism What does that mean? What are the security properties? How do you use it? What should you put in a token like that? What shouldn't you put in a token like that? That type of thing. And finally, the Windsor Architecture. This is a document to define I mean, I mean, you guys, Joe, I think it did a much better dot job of going into detail about this. But common terminology, on attestation identity, a threat model, and architectural components, and composition of those components. Specked, the whimsy architecture to be a monolith. Nor do we expect it to be, universally applicable to everybody's workload setup. The diversity of the community that's, that's already started to join the conversations is showing us that people are taking a lot of very different approaches, to to how workloads are handled. Some of those are radical differences. Some of them are subtle, but"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:16:04",
    "text": "differences. And, it's going to be the goal of the architecture deliverable to capture as much of that you know, compare and, pull abstractions where possible. And, ideally be able to pull out, scenarios that describe where each of these make sense. Where you would apply and not apply. And that type of thing. And, ideally come to that for interoperability. Now one of the reasons that, I put this point last to you, Haunas' question, is that, in the run up to this working group, there was a lot of discussion about which of the deliverables we thought would be, better suited for you know, early in, rather than later. And this is, to, basically, to finally get a background to Diego's question, We are expecting the architecture to be descriptive of sort of the other environments and the other work and not prescriptive, sort of defining everything and leading that. So That said, The proposal, which we're going to call for adoption in a moment is to start work on the architecture alongside all of this other stuff, but not expect that not expect this to be finished before we deliver anything else. Taking my chair hat off. Speaking as an individual. I personally think it would be a fool's errand for this working group to go down, the rat hole of trying to figure out what the grand single architecture of whimZ would be before we actually try and solve the specific problems inform that architecture. Which is why it might feel like it's a little bit backwards where we're we're hitting point solutions before we have an architecture. A lot of the reason for that is that there are a lot of point solutions already out there."
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:18:01",
    "text": "There's a lot of stuff that already exist. This is not greenfield. And so the architecture is something that we will need to describe and grow out of these evolved systems, as we go as we go forward. Yeah. Ruslov. You've got a question. Yes. And just, sound close to the mic. So folks online career. Absolutely. I have a question about architecture being a living document obviously, we can go, I guess, through endless number of is that Goes enough? It will not be a living document. But It it will be an it will be an RFC targeted document with a publication date in the future. Let me rephrase my question. given So that, Wimsie will evolve over time, and we will accept more Eventually, more use cases, But architecture should be published. At some point, we need to have line in the sand. I wonder will How should maybe current delivery be called whims architecture 1.0, Similarly, how this is done in all. So then Once that is delivered, a new use case are adopted, we might be working on 1.1or2.0 or whatever. Numbering scheme happens to be. Oh gosh. Go ahead. As chair. Predictions are hard. Especially about the future. And so a I think let's first get to the first architecture document and have that finished, And I think if at that point, it appears that we need a follow on, an IRATA, an update. Let's Let's figure it out at that point, but maybe let's first get to a place where this is a problem."
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:20:00",
    "text": "Yeah. And, also, OAuth is not a great example for how properly version things. I see Okay. Yeah. so there's 1.01.oa Well, which is not compatible with 1.0, but kind of is depending on which part you look at it. Then there's 2.0, and there's 2.1. And it's, yeah, I don't I'm sorry. This is I I could Brent for a long time on this. My, as chair, though, my recommendation to the working group is aligns with Peters, and that's Let's write the document as the Windsor architecture as the artifact that we have. And, if we have, if we can agree on what a versioning means, for that, and, and we want to treat this as being able to pulp publish multiple RFCs that update and obsolete and all of that over time. That's something we can figure out as we work on it. That said, I am a firm believer in that, IDs are cheap. Draft numbers are cheap. And, as as we iterate and change this. If there's more that can go into this as as it goes, then that's a, mechanism that we should be using. Alright. So George. Oh, thanks. I can see that. So, obviously, overlap between some of the documents that we want to produce What's our sort of thinking for you know, dealing with that in in in, you know, our best ways to handle that, or is it just like, make sure the sync you know, we've got good cross pollination or whatever. I think we need to be thinking about what that looks like. The other part that I think was useful in what you described here is that"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:22:03",
    "text": "maybe this comes up specifically in the architecture is to look at where are the boundaries between print, aspects of what we're trying to solve you know, transactions are probably at a higher layer than then let's potentially call it work load identities, though, they're related. And, and then know, how do we sort of connect the the boundaries? You know, or the layering. Not quite sure of the right words to use here, but I I kinda feel like we're starting to talk about different conceptual things, And being very clear about what those are is probably something that should go in the architecture document and then that will help you know, if we look at the actual specifics for, you know, protocols and things of that nature. Alright. Thank you. Great points. Alright. So, At this point, we're gonna go back through each of those deliverables because as a working group, It's our job to deliver documents. Yaron, you're giving me a look. Yeah. Sorry if it's premature, but my sense of document adoption is you need to have a document first. Before you can adopt it. Uh-huh. And in our case, we don't have that money, for example. So talked about the document. It's still on GitHub, which means it's not an official ID yet. Oh, it is? Yeah. Sorry. You're premature. correct. Your question is Thank you. Thank you, though. It's an it's an important question, but, yeah, no, it's it's something that we definitely need to address. So As we start talking about how to apply documents to each of these, and we're gonna go through each of these deliverables. I want people to, keep the following things in mind."
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:24:01",
    "text": "First off, the deliverable to document ratio is not necessarily 1 to 1. You can deliver a deliverable in multiple documents. You can times deliver multiple deliverables in a single document. Depending on how things get sliced and diced. So a lot of these questions of, like, oh, wait. Is this BCP actually part of the architecture? I don't know. Maybe it is. You know, that's that's something that we should figure out, as we start to actually build out, the text. Second is that, please keep in mind as we're considering all of these things that all its starting documents are not final. It seems silly to say it out loud, but, the number of times that, that in, you know, my my time here, I need to remind people that the starting document is really just to get a stake in the ground that we then move beyond. And that's that's a really, really important thing to It's not gonna be perfect. It's not gonna be complete. You know, there's gonna be holes in it. One of my personal favorite 00 drafts, had to do security in it. And, and, like, that just that warmed my heart. And, but that's okay at this stage. So With that in mind, And I think that this, starts to also loop back around to, to George's question, gonna go back through things. I'm gonna start with the 2 that we actually do have documents for. First is the Lindsay Architecture. As Joe Presented, we have an ID that's been submitted there's been active work on GitHub. We have, initial authors. And so the, question to the working group, is Would we like to adopt the whimsy Architecture document. And just a procedure question, because again, I'm a little bit rusty. Do I call for,"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:26:00",
    "text": "adoption of the document and then adoption of the starting document separately, is that all one? Advice from any charity. It's all one. Yes. The choice has to be The choice has to be done on the mailing list. Murray, the area directory. You can, of course, call for adoption on a you can open a document as long as you have a document to attach the call to. Gotcha. Okay. Thank you. Alright. In which case, going to get a sentiment for the room from the room, rather. Sentiment for the room is your own business. On You're creating a poll. Yes. So I'm I'm going to create a poll. Just to get a sentiment of, people in the room. First off, just a quick show of hands who here, again, has red or at least skimmed the whimsy architecture. Yes. You can just maybe. Other people can object, but I think that I think you can just start the call on the list. That is the request for consensus. So that's you can you can start the call now without having to do a in the room, because you're gonna decide whether to adopt that document on the list anyway. Right. Or you can hear him if you want. I'm just saying that I'm trying to trying to speed things along here. No. I I appreciate it. We're We've got time. You can also short circuit things. Like, if nobody here likes it, then you can skip the call. Let the man do his call. I q. n Yeah. Sorry. I'm just getting the, Getting the link 1. Alright. Alright. So just to get a a sense. Do we want to, adopt again to be confirmed on the list. The whimsy Architecture draft document as the starting point"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:28:03",
    "text": "for the whimsy, architecture deliverable. Alright. Well, that's going through. Yeah, Paul, I see Paul's in the queue. While folks are voting, Yeah. I just wanna bring it up. So, so while the polls still running. Paul Otis, not the AD for this group. I find a bit curious that now 24 people have voted yes, and we only have ten people who said to write the document. Yeah. I'd There, yeah, there are This is this is a re okay. Fairly remotely attended. There's 74 people total Okay. Okay. And then where am I? I mean, duly noted this is all to be confirmed on on the list. For, I'm gonna close this poll, though, From the chair's perspective, Did you wanna add? I see, hence, hence, do you wanna get in the queue or you're in the queue? Yeah. Maybe that was super obvious, but but the question who read it was for the physical room. Another hands to it, so I think these numbers can't be compared. Yeah. There's there's gonna be some potential misalignment there. Good. Sorry, Hank. I just wanna confirm that I understand your concern, you're saying that the wording in the poll suggests that the physical room or No. No. No. No. Beforehand, someone asked, did you read it? And there was a ask to the room, the physical room, not the hands to it. And so Right."
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:30:01",
    "text": "And to the room asks are not comparable. That's all. You know? Yep. Okay. Yep. Exactly. Alright. So, looking at this, this will be, we will do an official call for consensus on the list. But the occupant in the room is that there seems to be A lot of people who are either in favor or don't care. And, Nobody has registered a negative opinion. I want to wait a beat to see if anybody wants to come to the mic to say that this is not a good idea to start with this document. Where we're all together, I will take your silence as agreement. Sorry. Sharing joke. Anyway, We will we will do the official call on the list, obviously. If you Raise your hand during the meeting. Please still speak up on the list when we put out the call for consensus because that's the record that actually counts. And, thank you. Joe, Before we do that, do you want to do that a quick revision, that you were talking about, the cleanup revision or do you wanna start with the version that's up there now. Okay. So, yeah, I was gonna repeat the, the response was that, we'll do a quick cleanup revision of that. And, and get that out fairly quickly. And, and then bring that updated version to the list. For a call for consensus. Awesome. Thank you. Alright. Next up. I can have the slides up on this while I Can you Oh, can you not move the side's own?"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:32:00",
    "text": "Sorry. I thought thought I could. Alright. I Next up is, adopt this for trucking Alright. Next up, again, show of hands in the room, which is not comparable to, the poll numbers we're about to see. Who has read the, the token BCP draft that, harness product, product, product, product, Rad or at least skimmed it. I don't believe you had us. Alright. Go ahead. Not yet. Okay. Because I'm gonna start the poll. Yeah. I wanna if I go through the next one, if we just do reading It takes too much time. Alright. So, we are now going to, to put up again, to get a sentiment from the room, whether that document is a good starting point for working on this deliverable. With the notion that, again, things might get folded together. They might be refactored That's how these things work. And by room, we mean people in the room and attending online. Yeah. Sure. You that is that is a 100% correct. That is us that's feeding back. We have to watch that."
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:34:02",
    "text": "Alright. I would like to invite, It's definitely a much less, strong signal here. I would like to invite anybody that has a, something that they wanna raise about why this document shouldn't be start to, go ahead and join the queue. And, anything that we should discuss here. Again, this will be discussed on the list. You're on. So initially, the, the deliverable was tailored smallest to this document. But then there's been several discussions of extending the scope of what we mean by, BCP recommendations whatever. I'd like the scope discussions to settle down Before we go off and tell the authors you wrote about Kubernetes, but now we want you to cover ABN see as well. And make sure that everybody is aligned before we adopt a specific document or a specific team of editors Alright. Thank you. Alright. Alright. Or it's still incoming RAD. I think I think the document could could go through some revisions. I think security considerations could be flushed out a bit. And I think the, the comments on the VCP, piece and just the overall framing of the document it like, maybe there's some opportunity to kind of massage the text a bit more and kind of pull it together. And I'd I'd like to see, you know, a couple at least a a revision that accounts for some of the feedback we got, you know, in the room today. You, Ori. I do wanna remind you that to do security is acceptable. It's a starting document. That said, if there are"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:36:01",
    "text": "specific things that you think are missing in terms being a starting point that would, be detrimental to it, acting as the starting point, that's that's the type of thing that I wanna make sure is actually captured. It's definitely not ready yet, or we just like, hand it to the AD and make it an RFC and we'd all go home. Yeah. I I I was Harnes. Go ahead. about to head in your in the same direction, It's not yet asking for working group as call. It's it's just the adoption. Do I remember, Choe and I remember, Bernard DiPaova, chairing Radix, and they are Adoption was, COVID not to file off from a working group last call. You basically have to work 3 years get the document adopted into a state where you basically only has a few editorial errors anymore. I think but I think I I don't have a strong opinion on this on this PCP versus other thought, other state of the document. I don't think it will impact much the the rest of the of the content So But it's up to the group to decide what, like, how to frame the document in terms of the, the type of the document. Alright. Thank you, Evan. Yeah. I just wanted to Kevin Gilman Sparrow. I just wanted to kind of, you know, put a plus button Erin's comment. I You know, and I think this was evidenced in, you know, the presentation that on a scale for the First bullet point is talking, like, kind of a query specific about, you know, Jot and Kubernetes and, like, There are certain kinds of in very in variance in that environment, don't exist in others. Second bullet point was more general or on issuance, and there was a"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:38:00",
    "text": "It's kind of like where does this part go? My feeling is that the document as it exists today is is fairly it is fairly narrowly scoped purposefully or around that first bullet point. But this slide as as written token distribution is is the more general version. And so like, you know, before adopting, I would probably want to know, which is the shape that we're going for and and maybe right size a little bit. I just Thank you, Evan. I do wanna just step in as chair for a moment in that this document could be one of several documents that fulfill this deliverable, and the working group should keep that in mind. It does not need to be a one to one mapping. Yaron. Yeah. So so now I'm I'm even more confused. So, I'm totally with the with Evan on we need to decide what the scope is. I concur less about the BCP versus AS versus whatever. But I think we are saying that we are adopting this document as the deliverable number whatever this is. 4. As a starting point for this deliverable, I think it is not ready Even as a starting point, for this, until we define way as a group define the scope. Alright? Thank you. Alright. So, What I'm taking from that is that as part of the call discussion on what the appropriate scope of target scope of the document is going to be. Whether people are looking for"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:40:02",
    "text": "A document for the specific narrow scope for the wider scope for something else and let that inform how people are are, discussing this for adoption. What would, would framing the question like that again, on the list where we've got a little bit more flexibility. Would that, help clarify the kinds of things that you're doing. I'm looking specific specifically to Yaron. And a bit to harness. So I would suggest that when we put the question to the list, if there's a possibility of having 2 or 3 documents address. This deliverable. Let's put it out, explicitly. Sounds good? Okay. Okay. So that Yep. Yep. Okay. So rolling back, Token exchange. This is a this is one that we do not have a whimsy specific document for At this point, So We are going to throw it out to the group here. And by got a document? No. For, really, though. Does anybody want to, want to take on putting together a 00 draft, that might address this or start pointing in the right direction or something like that. We will also call the list. But today, we are looking for people to say, hey. I would like to sit down and and, try to see what this shape what shape this could be. Corey? Alright. Or Cecil. I just wanted to ask, like, for this document, like, you may we got had presentations from the OAuth group of relevant work within OAuth. I'm wondering if there's been any discussion around Now,"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:42:00",
    "text": "why is it that this piece of OAuth work isn't good enough? Is this one of those cases, or could someone with additional context may be kind of say, oh, like, you, you know, you totally read that wrong. This thing is is not a thing that Owath has ever even considered. Or just, like, some additional context, and maybe if someone hears that, they they'll say, oh, I I can do the draft that'll actually pull that apart. Okay. It may well be that the, you know, some of the work like, like, the transaction token draft may either be a template for, or it may just be the thing that that we need here, but I think until we see something written down as a proposal, we you know, we don't really know. And so I think the first thing is is there a proposal we can look at and then reason over whether it is sufficiently different from what we could achieve or get, from the transaction token draft, for example, or identity chaining root. Oh, it's point identity training. Yeah. So But, yes, some of both. But the fact that it's arguably bits of both might might actually be part of part of that discussion. So if, if part of the proposal is moving documents between working groups, I do not know the procedures for things like that. Obviously, it would require a lot of coordination. Bit bit bit bit bit between not only working groups, but also areas, in in our cases. But if that is if that is a proposal that the working groups and the existing, authors and chairs want to consider then, then that's something that we should put on the table. George."
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:44:01",
    "text": "George Fletcher. I guess for me, this feels a little bit underspecified. And it's it's kinda like We know that we will probably need something in this space, but we really don't know what which feels like way early to even start working on a document. I'd love to sort of collect what we think the core problems are From this work group's perspective, in this space. And then it would be a whole lot easier to say, Yes. We can leverage these bits of identity chaining or need something completely new, or if we could just get the identity I can't speak identity chaining to make these few small tweaks, then we could just use it outright. But none of those options are really Under it's not We don't know how to take any of those options without having a little bit more clarity here. So I guess that would be my recommendation is to try to get more clarity from the list around around what? Problems are in this space, and then we can probably make some better decisions. Thank you, George. Yahislav. Yeah. I'd like to, second that, I think in addition to or specific cases, in terms of training, there is also a potential, challenge that we would need to resolve of well, whimsy token is not necessarily auth token. It it it it could be something else. It could be spiffy. It could be X Five Four Nine certificate. And, translation of that on the boundary. Of some boundary, would would be an interesting challenge and also security and privacy considerations might come into play in terms of token exchange again, at the boundaries. So I believe those use cases are certainly worth a dedicated document, should that be a single document, or should that be multiple documents. I don't think it's clear at this point. Thank you, Yaron."
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:46:03",
    "text": "Some maybe 2 other procedural ways of looking at this. One is, your good old, design team. You could set up a design team to talk about token exchange and come up, with ideas and eventually maybe come up with a drafted draft. For token exchange. Alternatively, The way I was thinking about it at least initially is that the architecture document and the architect a team. What's Dive. Into exactly the right altitude to decide whether, for example, RFC 8693, does it for us, and we're happy. And, and we can skip this, deliverable altogether. Or whether there's 2 or 3 missing things, they could list those 2 or 3 missing things. And then we could start, work on this, but that means that We're waiting on the architecture team To go there, So what I am hearing as chair is yaron volunteering to be part of a design team and I I actually do want to teasing aside. I actually would like to, ask The folks here and anybody, and anybody online is anybody, willing slash interested in being part of a design team to dive deep on this for a limited period of time, and then and then report back to the group as to what this might look like. If if so in the room, raise your hand, in Okay? Yeah. We've got a cup we've got a few folks in the room. A few very tentative hands. This is not commitment to, to write an edited draft. This is to discuss and see where things are, is, we've got aren't plus one on, on"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:48:02",
    "text": "chat as well. So I, I think that's enough to put out a call to the list to get whether it's a formal design team or just make sure a bunch of people are looking at this. Get something together on this one. So Alright. Cool. Alright. Walking back one the, local token issuance, is, you get to make your own access tokens. And, and be your own security boss. So, again, this is one we do not have a document for. This this also happens to be one where there is not to my knowledge, an Exton document that really talks about any type of best practices, Even though a bunch of people are doing this. Which is terrifying. George is coming to Mike. Did you have? Oh, okay. Feeds back. Sorry. George Fletcher again. In the sense of documents that may or may not be findable in the way back machine the Liberty Alliance produced something called Shifts. Which I don't remember exactly what it stands for, which was about how do how do you convey basically authority to produce tokens from a central IDP to a client. And it was more for offline use cases like we need to my my, you know, phone needs to be able to create a credential or create a token and present it in some context that's, you know, disconnected from the internet, Sorry. I'm but there is probably some work there that it it it is conveyable here because in the same context, you want to understand what authority does the local issuer have to produce tokens. Alright. You, George. Can I ask if you, if you can"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:50:02",
    "text": "possibly dig up some of that Liberty Alliance stuff or at least a reference? That would be helpful. Okay. Thank you. Whatever you can find. At atat Alright. So I'm not quite sure what action we can take on this immediately. It sounds like this is something that the working group needs to figure out a little bit more about what's out there. Richard? Yeah. Just cheering from the floor a little bit here. Like, there's nothing that says the working room needs to have All of it's all of it's deliverable. It's probably the same time to Oh, Yeah. Some stuff can just hang fire. Oh, yeah. yeah. Yeah. Yeah. We're good. I'm just trying to get, so Part of my goal from this meeting is figuring out which of those were, like, ready to start getting whacked on with axes and which aren't. This one is feeling a lot more like it's not yet. And, finally, protecting service, service to service traffic. This is one that, at least the, conversations going in. Seems to be a lot more Sort of concrete pieces to this. Parts of this do look and feel a lot like transaction tokens. In the OAuth world. So I'm just going to, unless somebody jumps right on the the queue here. I'm going to say that we should, take a similar approach that we did to the that we are going to do with the token exchange and ask a handful of people to Go. Poke this a little bit and, and see what's there. I really it does seem to feel like those, those 2 kind of not exactly fit together, but They're a little bit related. So with that, gauging, just, in intent of participation who would be willing to be part of"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:52:04",
    "text": "a team looking, looking specifically into service service traffic. Yeah. Garin, Garen, Joe. That's on us yet. Few folks. More in the back, online. Any anybody online? Evan 2. Okay. So importantly, not just the same set of people. So that is That's great. That is that is good. Alright. And, so Those are that's the full set of deliverables that we've told the ISG that we're gonna work on at some point here. So looking across these, it feels like We've got, a solid start for At least one Ironically, the one that we think will be delivered latest. So who knows? Who knows? This is this is an adventure. But, the chairs have been taking notes, and, we've got actions to take on on just about all of these. And, We will follow-up all of that on the list. And with that, we've got a few minutes. So any other business Atul. Richard, nothing? No. Yeah. Hi. I was wondering, Justin, you had talked about that sort of bag of tokens kind of thing is that gonna be something you're looking on in this in this working group. So, in short, it is not among the working group deliverables at this time, though. If somebody else wants to pick up that work and and, and"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:54:04",
    "text": "see how it fits into what we've said we're gonna deliver because Personally, I think it fits well in the server to server traffic. Milu. Yeah. I would be interested in solving that bag tokens problem. of And so, you know, I can I can work with Evan on that, I guess? Okay. Yeah. So the other thing I want us, I want to say is that one of the things that Peter and I want to encourage in this working group is that if people have good ideas that are related to the stuff that's beyond just what the working is working on. Write an ID. Let's have the conversation. So let's build the implementations. Like, we really want whimsy to be a very powerful forum for all of these kinds of things, even if it's not stuff that is a working group track deliverable at this time. Right? Cause this is a very there's a vast set of things that we could do here. And, that the the the token bucket thing might be that at some point. Are it might not. But if there are people are interested in iterating that. I think, whimsy is a perfectly reasonable place to have those conversations Even though it is an ID, individual draft, not a working group draft. We actually want to encourage that type of, that type type of discussion and engagement. To the point with it, that is actually aligned in the charter. That we will we specifically will to hold the whimsy list as a forum for things that are outside of our deliverable list. We were very, very adamant about making sure that that was part of our charter. So, so, yeah, Atul, I encourage you to do that. Thanks. Alright. Thank you."
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:56:00",
    "text": "Alright. Any closing thoughts? One unrelated to whimsy. We've been asked to remind Please wear your badges while walking around in the facility. I see a few people in here whose badges are hidden. Sorry. That's, but I've been asked. Yeah. My everyone. Yeah. Mine mine's down there, so I don't jingle in the chair, Mike. Same same error. But, yes, Brian, you've wanna come up to the mic. Jingle bells that becomes I'm I think I'm confused maybe on scope of the service to service traffic stuff. You've been you kinda portrayed it is potentially similar to the transactional token stuff and maybe building on the tuck in bucket and stuff. Now, previously, Peter, are you at talked about something depopesque for, like, doing more of a a proof of possession type token based service to service authentication. And maybe it's just me, but I'm kinda confused about the direction of or the hopes out of that deliverable. Yeah. So Or does that even make sense? No. No. Just I just wanna get the text back up. So I think One of the things that we talked about, that Justin and I talked about was, you know, again, is this There might have to be multiple documents here, and there may have to be, my belief is there are some really tactical near term things that we need to get done. And it may be that we look at one of those or that we'd look at an approach that maybe looks more like the depop approach. Right, where we have proof of possession with a proof format that we can easily distribute. Or use but And that might be one of the deliverables that can be combined with something like transaction tokens or other drafts. But I think it's a, I think what we're looking for is proposals"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:58:02",
    "text": "that, that we can use to sort of maybe even decompose the problem. It doesn't have to be one document. And I I would love to I would love for us to maybe Yeah. That that problem about the the problem around central constraining tokens. I think Richard brought that up several times as well. Finding some kind of way to make it so that I cannot take and lift one of these tokens, steal it, and replay it. That is something that I'd love to see some proposals for for sure. Alright. We have 2 minutes left, Hanas. Yeah. I someone mentioned De Kim earlier, and I think there's actually a good of it good body of prior work in the IDF on doing that type of application layer security across multiple hops, Dick him SIP stuff messaging. They all have a similar pattern where you Traverse multiple hubs who modify something along the way that you cannot just protect. So you need to be extremely careful on Which field to include? If you include too little, replay becomes very easy, If you con if you include too many, it becomes unusable. And so there's a there's a fine line you need to dance here and the if identity people would probably tell you, like, how tough that was. Mhmm. And so going to be interesting. Thank you. And finally, Oliver. Yeah. I have I have one question. Do you believe that this would the sub especially the subs service draft fake, identity management and all this stuff could include 0 trust, or do you think that would be out of scope? If this working group can agree on what 0 trust means, then I think we can answer that question. And that is not just me being you know, pity here, I think that we actually would have to agree on"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "02:00:02",
    "text": "what we meant before we decided whether that was in or out. Okay. That's fair. I I I wanna say that a little differently, maybe. I think a lot of the technology and building blocks that we have where we are developing here are key to creating least privileged access type in, architectures And that maps you know, fairly closely to things that fall under the 0 trust marketing moniker. But, yes, so I think what would be here will be incredibly relevant But maybe we should just stick stick to things like least privilege rather than the 0 trust type. Yaroslav. We're out of time. Sorry. So Thank you all very much. We'll see you on the list. And, welcome to whimsy. Let's get to work. Thanks. Oh, laptop. And they all hate it. Sub"
  }
]
