[
  {
    "startTime": "00:00:04",
    "text": "um or a beverage of your choice they're exchangeable if you've already got spanish beer i can see in the chat so super thank you for volunteering if anyone wants to head over um to the new hedge dock uh site that we've got to help take notes that would also be appreciated as well thank you bronn so hopefully everyone's got their audio set up okay um and you can see the slides as well that we're projecting so if either of those things aren't showing for you and you can't hear me then uh maybe refresh or follow some of the echo troubleshooting stuff that we've got going on okay well we're at 12 o'clock so let's get the party started welcome to itf 112. um the dispatch working group art area virtual meeting the first session of the week as always delighted to have you here i'm kirsty payne one of the co-chairs of dispatch and we've got uh patrick mcmanus as my other co-chair here as well so we're gonna run through um the note well particularly because this is the first session of the week we'll just spend a little bit longer on this and it's a reminder of all the itf policies are in place throughout the whole week and that includes this session and a little reminder of the its patent policy and the definition of a contribution and participation in bcp 79 so do read that through and just be aware that by participating in the itf you agree to all of these procedures so um have a read through the anti-harassment procedures the code of conduct copyright working group procedures internet standards procedures patents participation and of course the privacy policy you will have agreed to this when you registered for the meeting but just to make a little note of it now especially note really well and so we're just going to highlight these few things um as a new push for this itf so you might see this in a few other working groups as"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:02:01",
    "text": "well please really take a moment to look at the guidelines for contact the anti-harassment policy and the anti-harassment procedures those are all the rfcs and links on the slides which you can find on the meeting materials in the echo or on the dispatch page as well and if you have any concerns about observed behaviors please talk to the old woodsman team they are there they're available if you need to confidentiality confidentially raised concerns about harassment or other conduct in the itf it's really important that we um have a creative um maintain an environment that where people can be treated with dignity decency and respect and that allows us to do our best creative work so those who participate in the itf should have behavior according to professional standards and appropriate workplace behavior do not engage in harassment and if you believe you've been harassed like we said please raise it with the ombuds team okay so move on to um a little bit about virtual meeting participation this might be your sixth virtual meeting at the itf it might be your first one but just as a for your awareness this session is being recorded so please use a headset you can add yourself to the echo queue to speak and say your name before speaking so you'll see that on the top left of your screen there's a little hand with a line through it if you click that that puts you in the queue and then the chairs can call you forward or the presenter can call you forward in the queue um and then you'll see a few kind of buttons along the top you can start your video and you can share your audio as well we ask you not to share your video unless you are speaking just to help others with bandwidth issues um side discussions in jabba that you can see on the left of your screen in that chat they're fine but please do consider bringing important points to the queue for the recording and for those of you that remember in person meetings you don't have to worry about blue sheets that's all taken from the meat echo roster so we've got some useful links on this slide anything about meeting materials and stuff like that"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:04:00",
    "text": "are on the dispatch session pages um but here are some meet echo links specifically and places that you can take notes find java and how to navigate meet echo through the rest of the week as well so with that kind of bit done and we'll look at the dispatch virtual meeting that we've got going on today so here's our agenda um just nearly one minute to go to finish this sort of status and the gender bash from chairs ladies we've got a couple of items this morning in dispatch and just to mention and the media over quick item in the art area which is new kind of a shout out but um the timing there is unfortunately not right it will just be after at the end of the art area meeting and we'll just sort of do a quick mention on media over quick but that item is new and those slides were just uploaded this morning so do um take a look at that if you would like to participate in that discussion it's just for info really so that's our agenda we'll just pause in case there's any comments on the agenda or gender bash i've already bashed the agenda noting that the time's not right but more comments are welcome otherwise we'll get to it okay so with that then we'll have our first speaker so it's map and byington i'll stop sharing slides and then mapped if you would like to just click the button and we can share our pre-loaded slides and you can click through that if you're there yes i'm here hopefully everybody can hear me okay can he sign great so shall i click that button in the upper left to share slides yes please so there should be pre-loaded slides you should see yours there"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:06:00",
    "text": "great super probably yeah we can off you go great thank you so much kirsty um this is my first participation in iutf so it's a pleasure to be here and hello from the west coast uh bright early in uh in the morning um i'm gonna be sharing our internet draft for secure credential transfer this is a protocol that we've designed to first of all highlight the problem statement itself which is the ability to share credentials securely between devices so in the modern world more and more credentials are being stored securely in users digital wallets rather than their physical badges or cards some use cases do necessitate sharing of these credentials from one person to another so for example you may have a vehicle and a digital key on your mobile device that allows you to unlock and operate that vehicle and you may endeavor to share this credential with a family member or a friend or a valet however today no secure method to share these digital credentials exists and moreover it doesn't exist in a cross-platform and channel agnostic capacity so the goals for the design here would be that the sharing mechanism should work regardless of the type of credential so it could be as i mentioned earlier a key to unlock and drive a vehicle or it could be a key to access a hotel it could be a key to access your own home your single-family home or multi-family home there are a variety of different credentials that this should work for this also must work for symmetric and asymmetric credentials so i'm just going"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:08:01",
    "text": "to spend a few seconds talking about this um a symmetric credential would be something akin to a my fair desk fire applet uh my fair desk fire is a very popular technology in the access space for corporate offices hotels sometimes even transit around the world and then there are asymmetric keys that are used one example of an asymmetric key would be um the iso one eight zero one six specification um that's an asymmetric uh credential and then also digital car key credentials are asymmetric as well there's the ccc the um uh car the connected car consortium uh public standards body that specifies how these keys work for vehicles that the vast majority of the oems uh participate in and that's how those keys work across different types of vehicles um we also endeavor to have the sender retained ability to manage credentials that they've shared so that's a very important feature here if you've shared your key to your home or your vehicle and you wish to revoke that share you should be able to do that and then we also want the ecosystem to support any mobile device operating system oem that adheres to the standard being proposed here so this should work between devices running apple's ios platform or google's android platform or any other mobile operating system that chooses to um participate in in this standard i'll also just touch really quickly um a couple of folks in the email group had some really great questions and i just want to touch on one of them really fast on this slide which is um the ability to actually share these credentials themselves on mobile devices these credentials are stored in what's called a secure element"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:10:00",
    "text": "um the secure element is a tamper resistant piece of hardware um they're almost always single threaded and uh part of those secure elements is that it's impossible to extract a credential or or uh it's you know extremely difficult to extract a credential from them that's part of what makes them tamper resistant instead of something like a physical card that can be stolen the high-level solution that we've been proposing in the internet draft includes a new type of server called a relay server and the purpose of this relay server is to establish quote unquote connectivity between a sender and a receiver and the idea is that the relay server is a simple mailbox and fully decoupled from the credential provisioning and registration what i mean by that is let's pretend you have a sender that currently has a credential provision on his or her device when you share that credential the relay server is acting as just a pipe for some data to travel between the sender and the receiver once the receiver receives this data it will likely need to contact a server which is typically the credential authority in order to actually provision a credential in other words it's not the credential itself that is sent between sender and receiver it is some metadata or some seed data some authorization data in order for the receiver to be able to procure such a credential um the relay server also from a privacy perspective should only receive data that is field level encrypted and then some high-level metadata for the receiver to be able to uh understand what it's what it has just received some of the design requirements here include that the relay server should not know the identity of the sender nor of the receiver uh so in the internet draft there are"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:12:01",
    "text": "some additional uh complexity listed for having anonymous attestations to authenticate the sender um that don't disclose the identity of the sender this relay server also shall not interface with any other server it's purely used for transport between sender and recipient and in some cases vice versa back from recipient to sender as i mentioned all of the sensitive data over the relay server is field level encrypted ensuring that the relay server cannot see what is being shared and the sharing should be able to be initiated or occur for in any communication channel this could be email this could be sms or imessage or a whatsapp application this is a high-level diagram that i'll spend a few minutes walking through just to have a visual of the flow that i've discussed i'll start by describing all of the actors that are in the white boxes and then i'll talk about the flow itself so in the lower left of your screen that's the sending device that's the device that uh ostensibly already has a credential provisioned on it uh that wants to share to the the box in the lower right that is the receiving device in the bottom middle there is the communication channel itself this could be whatsapp sms email or anything else in the middle of your screen is the relay server that is this new actor in the ecosystem that that we've been proposing transport the data between sender and receiver uh there are a number of reasons for the relay server i'm hoping we can get into some q a after the uh slides and talk about it um the metadata required to provision these credentials is oftentimes fairly large maybe 500 bytes or a kilobyte and that data obviously can't travel in a single sms message um it would also be very confusing to the user if they saw"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:14:00",
    "text": "you know binary data that was encoded in hex or base64 traveling in their actual message channel so by sending a url in number three that points to the data you can have a much better uh experience for the receiver with the data actually being procured from the relay server in the upper left of your screen device operating system manufacturer server and then same thing on the upper right this would be a server that's owned and operated by apple if the sender was an iphone or an apple watch or by google if the sender was an android device uh and then vice versa for the receiver so it's basically the operating system on the mobile device whichever company uh builds that operating system and operates it would be that server that you see there um in the middle top of your screen credential authority so when you look at these types of credentials there's almost always a remote credential authority that is issuing these credentials and this credential authority typically is the only entity that can issue them so for example if you were sharing a hotel key uh that credential authority would be you know for example the hyatt company as one example i mentioned earlier why you can't just send a credential from the sender to the receiver you also can't duplicate it you can't clone them these are all security primitives of the secure element on the sending device the credential authority would be the only entity that can issue a credential so the basic flow starting in the lower left and going up with number one the sending device is effectively reaching out to the credential authority through the oem server and obtaining effectively a bearer token um authenticating to the credential authority as the sender that already has a current provision credential that credential authority will mint a new bearer token and store it and send"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:16:00",
    "text": "it back down to the sender um and then the sender is going to be wrapping this data up um sending the data to the relay server the relay server will generate a url for the relay server itself the uri will be highly defined in the specification the url could be whatever the relay server wants to that might give spatial locality for bandwidth depending on where you know folks are in the world or load balancing you know if you want to have different shards and then the sender will send this url over the communication channel down at the bottom here to the receiver the receiver will download the data from the relay server and uh provision or register this credential against their own device os oem that then goes to the credential authority exchanging the bearer token for a newly minted credential um it's also worth noting we were thinking of using open graph as a data structure for the contents of the link when an http get is called on the relay server open graph is a very popular standard as i'm sure a lot of folks on this call would be aware that allows for rich preview it's very prevalent on messaging applications on social media sites especially when you share for example if you find a restaurant on yelp or some other type of website when you share that with somebody else there's typically an open graph preview that's rendered with an image and some text and that way the link looks nice on the receiver's device we do intend to make use of that to show what the sender is sharing with the receiver um i think i think with that that's the the basic presentation that i wanted to describe for how it works i know kirsty mentioned that we do have a little bit of extra time today which is great um i know there were some questions over"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:18:01",
    "text": "the email group from eric and from others i'd be happy to answer those or um if we wanted to take some questions from folks in the chat um again this is my first participation in itf so i'm not sure what the best place to take q a from but i would i would be happy to answer some questions hey matt this is patrick um i'm christie's co-chair here going to help run the queue during this part of the discussion so um great i wanted to start by thanking you for bringing this to the ietf um i really appreciate it there are a few very interesting elements here and we'll see um whether or not folks think this is an appropriate ietf work item or not um but either way i do appreciate you bringing it in a reminder to our group because it is the first meeting of the week the goal here is to figure out the right home for the work we're talking about not to resolve any or all issues identify all issues and resolve them here during the meeting but to figure out what the right group of people the right form it is um to work on so matt i do have one question for you before and feel free i see pete's in the queue feel free to join the queue we do as matt said have a little more time than usual um with a light agenda so uh we won't be too strict on staying into our time window so we can do some discussion of what's in the draft as well as its outcome if it's helpful in figuring out the outcome so matt i do have one question before we get started um just what is the sort of state of the technology described by this draft is this um conceptual and all change control will live with the iatf if the iatf chooses to adopt this work is this something that's already been deployed and there's some constraints around that that kind of thing if you could kind of give us some flavor i'd appreciate it yeah absolutely patrick um i would say it's somewhere in between we have there have been meetings um uh between some companies um around this topic so far so one of the"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:20:00",
    "text": "topics here has been this is a cross-platform sharing mechanism that would need to be adopted by for example the vehicle oems and so we have been having some preliminary discussions with both the device os oems as i mentioned before so that would be google and apple um and and others and then also the vehicle oems because there is currently a sharing protocol defined in the ccc standard that we are um actually uh proposing to um remove and reference the ietf standard for a more global and cross-platform and open channel solution so we have had some discussions with the ccc body as well um and so there's no there's no the feature is not launched yet um but we do have plans to build something uh like this and we will um you know obviously would love to take feedback and and make the solution better from the ietf group but there are concrete plans to implement a solution that satisfies the goals described in this in this presentation okay thank you for that uh would you like me to open up the queue or would you like to address uh any of the comments from the mailing list first i'll leave that up to you um i think eric uh roscorla hopefully i did not butcher your last name had a number of great questions maybe i can touch on those really quickly and yeah he is in the queue as well um i thought you might want to address ted's comments i know ted cannot make the meeting yeah i would love to i was unable to find ted's comments is there any way that you have them or um all right i look into that they may have just been sent to the chairs i'm not confident so i will read those back in a few minutes for us but when we open you now for the sake of time uh pete you're first"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:22:12",
    "text": "pete can you hear us all right philip why don't you jump over repeat in the queue and we'll come back to pete okay yeah um why not use saml i mean like it exists as a standard it was designed to do exactly this um i i may not be familiar with that can you describe it a little bit uh it's an oasis standard it's um it has its origins in uh peaks uh basically started off with the rationalization of the pkix architecture uh put into xml so it has a an assertion format that's extremely flexible and its application was to authentication and authorization and it is widely used in enterprises including apple and google it's the way that uh pretty much every piece of enterprise software will talk to and pretty much every other piece of enterprise software under the covers where a needs to authenticate to be there is a binding to html and the web of course but you don't have to do that you can do it um you can't do it without i've not been involved in that uh world for well over a decade but uh it it does exist it is widely supported it's all existing code"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:24:03",
    "text": "i see i i think at least in my opinion the the format of the messages in two and four the contents of them and and even how authentication works you know is not i think i think those could vary and we could debate that absolutely i think the the main architectural piece that i'm trying to um highlight that i think there's a gap for is that the messages can't be sent directly from the sender to the receiver the credential itself cannot be extracted from the sender and sent to the receiver and we need some kind of a of a server that relays messages to and from the sender and receiver to get around certain communication channel restrictions and so i'm i i would be open to researching different formats of messages in two and four um uh absolutely but but i i think the main architectural piece here is the presence of the relay server and how the how the sender and the receiver use it if that if that makes any sense are you doing it in jason but uh i i would look at the uh assertion format it was designed to be a completely uh flexible system originally it may have been it may have ossified into a particular uh niche but that was the goal but anyway okay understood i will make a note and look into that sam you're up matt thanks for bringing to us um this looks like a set of problems that i've been thinking about in the context of web then um which i've characterized as selective permissionless delegation and i posted that the solution to it will also potentially"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:26:01",
    "text": "address the device recovery loss and migration problems that said when i look at what you're describing here i i don't see a way that it works with hardware-backed crypto stores like a a yuba key some other hardware token where you don't then drill a back door into it to get the crypto key out i'm not hearing you describe that this is permissionless i'm hearing you say in the case of the auto folks that you need the auto oem to get involved um and i wish i were hearing that as a requirement and i'm also not sure i'm hearing an answer here for revocation i i've used the word or the require this word um selective delegation um i think we've been talking a little bit here about revocation but i don't see that answer so well i think there's some there are interesting problems here i would love to see progress i'm not convinced that we actually have that you here have the problem statement worked out never mind a good solution for it so maybe the best suggestion is a buff to work on the requirements um and i'll turn it back over for responses or to stephen i appreciate the right answer to the dispatch question even uh yeah so so i guess kind of like sam i think there's an interesting area i don't think the internet draft particularly or the presentation indicates that it's yeah the problem statement is fully worked out yet and it sounds like this would get very complicated particularly with managing credentials after you've shared them or or or transferred them so i'm not first if it would turn into a buff uh but i do think that there would be need you know if this goes forward"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:28:00",
    "text": "and i would like to see it go forward there should be work on the requirements um i'd also be one other thing is i would hope we don't start working on things that assume there needs to be there absolutely needs to be an operating system overlords like an android or a ios involved in the game for it to work at all it should work on the internet without those kind of setups got it thank you so much sam and steven i i might just take a quick minute to respond to a couple of those things um on the revocation story when you think about revocation with something like this once the receiver has provisioned a credential you have to imagine that that relay server and the communication channel no longer exist right because the sender only has the ability to send messages to the receiver over text or email or whatever the communication channel was and they could be totally different operating systems the sender could be on ios and the receiver could be on android and so from a revocation perspective all of that will be happening through the credential authority itself so the credential authority knows both of these credentials that were issued to the sender and the receiver the credential authority is the authority of those credentials and it understands the link between them uh given that the sender shared with the receiver and so basically the idea for revocation is that if the sender desires to revoke the credential it would send a message to the credential authority asking to revoke a specific share or send and from that share identifier or send identifier the credential authority would both be able to look up the receiver's credential and be able to perform authentication on the sender to see if the sender was the entity that shared with the receiver in the first place in that case the credential authority essentially has to keep a graph of of shares on its side and"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:30:01",
    "text": "all the revocation the authentication for it needs to be performed by the credential authority which is the only authority that really bridges the gap between the sender and the receiver um and and so that was kind of my answer i think mostly to sam's question um but these are all great comments i'm also taking notes here on my side thanks matt ecker thanks for thanks for the talk um so i think you know let me start with the dispatch questions which is i think that like as other people were saying i think it's pretty hard to reverse engineer the requirements out of this um document so that's the place to start is the requirements and then we can talk about what you know what the design um there seem to be a bunch of important requirements they're driving this design that i'm having trouble like sort of understanding how you got here um uh so in particular like i guess given that you have to um you know i heard this point repeatedly about how big sms messages are um but given that what you're actually doing is giving a token which is then used to redeem at the device oem server via the credential authority i'm not sure why this can't be small um uh i think you know generally like what i notice about this is you seem to be solving the easy problem which is once you've established a secure channel how do i get data across it but the problem with this the difficult problem is how to establish a secure channel um and so i think you know first to sort of assume like sms is like totally secure seems like kind of like not a great a great place to start um but any case um i think certainly be interesting to talk about working on this but i think the place to start is um you know with a pretty clear statement of the requirements case um and then we can talk about the design space which may be larger than you have got it that makes sense eric thank you and thank you so much for your comments and email um those were great as well i think i think the on the requirements i uh sounds good i hear you i will try to document them further um on the small token the the bearer token that's obtained from"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:32:02",
    "text": "the credential authority needs to be somewhat polymorphic or at least be allowed to be for example you might have a credential authority that doesn't want to store the token in non-volatile storage and thus might need to have a digital signature applied to it that they could verify themselves when the receiver gives it back to them things like that and so i think the size of that token will be relatively small but maybe you know maybe up to a kilobyte or two depending on what key was used to sign it um or if if they want to store it then of course it could probably just be a uuid and they don't need to sign it um i think i think in general the experience for the receiver is important and if you are a receiver receiving an imessage or an sms or an email you you probably don't want to see a bunch of bits and bytes in there and and that token needs to have a number of things in it also notably it needs to have information required for any device os oem to provision this and so you might have apple specific data or google specific data you'd all of them would need to be present to invoke the right api in number five to actually provision that credential number five is not standardized um and then lastly on your comments on secure channel totally agree sms is obviously not a secure channel i think in general in this cross-platform cross-channel solution we've effectively deemed recipient binding a non-goal and effectively an impossible problem you would need you know global directory system with all different kinds of channels in it mapping to public keys so you could do field level encryption to them and that just doesn't exist in a cross-platform cross-channel capacity today um i think we we do have a number of security mitigations that that we've thought through in terms of a low ttl on the relay server for this particular share uh device binding in number four the"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:34:03",
    "text": "idea being a receiver sends a uuid up in number four when it first obtains the data and that kind of binds that receiver to that relay server the main security mechanism is the entropy of the url itself the url will contain 128 um uuid and it's sent over this channel um the channel itself may be insecure but uh the receiver will be bound to the relay once it first invokes that relay upon receipt of the message and the url itself will be very challenging to guess because of the entropy inside of it those were some of the security primitives that we had thought of although i totally agree that is one of the weak security points of this design is the communication channel itself i mean yeah it means i mean i guess i don't really want to try to break down the design um um so i guess um you know um uh you know like all those things depend on the channel right the channel isn't secure then this game over so um um like in any case i think i i get uh um so i guess i would make two points um as i said first of all i think it'd be really helpful to like a lot of requirements um i don't mean by the way a document with like a list of like you know r1 r2 r3 what i mean is a description of the setting and description of the things that you think um are kind of the constraints to operate with and then we can debate with those constraints are important or not um so um i guess with that said um like um i am pretty sad about this session that what has to happen here is that the sender has to generate a thing which is acceptable for like every possible kind of receiver um that seems like the point of standards does not have to do that and that seems to have an incredible set of lock in to the incumbent on device manufacturers um which is the point steve i think stephen farrell was racing so um like i think if we're going to do this what ought to happen is there's one message format which you send and that message is important actually process by everybody and they have to change not that we have like some sort of thing where it's like i have to i have the standard thing for android and ios and whatever because that means if i roll a new operating system basically i'm host"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:36:04",
    "text": "thanks all those yeah that was a good discussion thank you i'm going to move on to richard next i just wanted to give folks the heads up that i'm gonna hit this powerful lock q button i got in front of me um in a few seconds so if you'd like to get into the queue uh now's the time to virtually stretch your legs and get over there um but uh so uh richard barnes i'm sorry rich richard brunson's next in the queue you're on the list though thanks patrick um so just to hit the dispatch question first um i think this is probably about the right size of work for a small working group it's i think it does mirror the working group as opposed to going somewhere else just because it's a fairly discreet subject area and a non-trivial amount of work um i i don't think as well as several other folks who said i don't think that the clarity is is quite here yet with regard to what this group will be doing uh and what problem it would be solving so i think we need another iteration on that um but this seems i think there's probably a worthwhile thing to work on here um that's kind of where my my substantive comments are it's like i i i'm a little confused on a couple points the trust like this this question of um trust establishment has been raised a couple of times i think is i was a little troubled um by these assertions just now that the the communication channel um is we basically assumed to be insecure because um you know if if there's no security at the bottom uh zekker noted like there's there's no security in the rest of the system either and so basically all we're just doing is inventing a fancy uh compression scheme um so i think we need to be super crisp on on what the uh you know what we assume about that communication channel what we assume about the relationship between the sender and the receiver is i think there are probably some options here in terms of things that have a reasonable user experience and uh do achieve security on that communications channel but it will"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:38:00",
    "text": "require a little bit of thinking about how to align the use case with the the security technologies we have available um a quick question um i'm a little bit curious why this is this mechanism is focused on credentials it seems like this could be framed as a general mechanism for syncing uh private data across different instances uh within a security within a particular security boundary um so i'm a little curious why this isn't a general sync protocol why it's quite specifically focused on um on credentials and finally the last point i had which i think well i think rich was going to cover pizza along i'll put that off so yeah that's what i got things got it thank you very much richard um i i fully concur with your last statement there this this really could be generic um i don't think it would be a great mechanism per se for sync in terms of ongoing persistent synchronizing of data between sender and receiver typically in those scenarios you want a much at least in my opinion you want a much more well-defined authentication authorization story between sender and receiver and who can sync and who can push in this case it's kind of like a one-shot send where you kind of lob this thing over the fence to the receiver that they can then kind of go provision and it's i mean obviously you know a bearer token the idea is that whoever has possession of the bearer token has the permission and authority to go off and use it and so i think i think you're right that it's it's much more generic than just credentials but i don't think it should be used for like a persistent sync mechanism that's like an ongoing you know you know sync of data um totally hear you on the lack of clarity i think that's been mentioned a few times i will work on putting together a better kind of user story and requirements um documentation for that"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:40:00",
    "text": "if i may like as you're thinking through those requirements i would think um i would focus a lot on kind of the security assumptions here um who knows what about whom um with confidence um and things like that who is trusted to do what i think you've captured some of that with uh talking about what the relay server is trusted to do and not to but i think highlighting those kind of security assumptions would be really useful yeah the problem statement we started with was really um you know if you imagine sharing a photo let's say you you snap a photo on your phone um you you know typically device oem um you can click a share button somewhere and it you know it kind of says hey you know how do you want to share this you want to share it over email or sms or you know apple has um airdrop you know those kind of things the idea was something very very similar to that making it as easy as possible and as seamless as possible to share a credential like a hotel key with a loved one or a family member uh just as if you were sharing a photo and um you know wanting it to work cross-platform that that's kind of the problem statement that we really started with um and with the sender being able to revoke and view who they shared to and all those kind of things and the short ttl single you know single redemption we didn't think that the security channel it's uh excuse me the communication channel itself needed to be all that secure because if it's compromised you can just revoke the credential and share it in some other way but but i will save some of these comments and responses for whenever we establish the appropriate working group cool colin so uh two different points i want to talk about uh one one with spam and one was just what we need to standardize here and but let me just start by saying thank you for bringing this i really like uh just the way you've been dealing with all this i know how frustrating it"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:42:00",
    "text": "can be to deal with getting a new group of people up to speed with what's no doubt years of thinking going into this so um bear with us and help us get to the thing so with that said let me jump into the the big picture here um i'm in i mean like we have this problem with how to standardize and move things um we actually need to move credentials between devices and video conferencing things and stuff i wear my employer i mean we use ultrasound for the communications channel that you have there which is even lower bitrate than sms i mean i i'm really strongly in favor of solving this problem but the problem is not standardizing the relay server the problem is standardizing this whole slide that you have the slide six i feel very strongly we need to figure and that doesn't mean that every one of these standards can be done by itf or whatever it is just but we need an overall solution to the the big problem of of your title right which is how to transfer credentials from sender to receiver i'm strongly in favor of that but if all we need was the relay server here i mean there's many things we could use i mean there's many iot messaging but i mean there's a ton of technologies that existed over time that allow us to effectively expand out a link to some larger data and do what the relay server thing is here that's not that's not the problem you're really solving so i think when you think about the requirements and the solution i'd i'd really ask for us to talk about the whole problem here not a teeny part of it so i want to you know standardize you know the syringe that moves the drugs around and the drugs here such that we have an interoperable solution i mean what we need to be able to say at the end of this is you know if two different devices both implemented this they would be able to securely exchange credentials not well they could both talk to the same relay server but they're all the hard parts are ignored right let's not ignore the hard parts let's do the whole thing um i mean does that is is that a reasonable scope you're willing to deal with sort of hitting this whole thing thank you so much colin i think i think i really appreciate your comments um and questions i think you're i think you're spot on"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:44:00",
    "text": "the part of the the challenge here is that when you look at the major uh device os oems like apple and google they they have existing provisioning apis and rails to get secure credentials into mobile devices for years now um and if you look at you know credit and debit cards and transit and and um you know car keys these things exist in production today and part of the complexity here i think is um the way that apple does it in the apis are completely proprietary to apple and the way that google does it and the apis are completely proprietary to google and so on and so forth for you know for different device os oems and so building a system that allows you to exchange these credentials and standardize those vertical legs there right number one and number five to your point would be fully ideal and be a much more comprehensive all-encompassing solution but the background compatibility story and the level of effort required to standardize these apis would be absolutely monumental on the order of yeah this whole solution you're describing is useless without that so you're saying you're going to take that on anyway now i'm not arguing for in the slightest that there's only one way to do one or five and we have to be anytime we define something like this we have to take into account the reality of what exists there but i'm saying that we we define some of those and that that yes car manufacturers and hotels and others will we will try and design them in such a way that that is that meets the that is close to what they have today or ideally they can use exactly what they have today but that we need to take that into account of the design of the whole system and we're gonna we're gonna pick some that win and some that lose it's not like we're gonna be able to support everything forever right um but yeah that's exactly what i'm proposing and and i think that the the meta point here is that this the standardizing the relay server without something functionally that works at one"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:46:00",
    "text": "and five is useless anyway i think total and fair points oh uh go ahead no i was gonna say uh i mean you always have good insight into the dispatch outcomes all right are you suggesting that this is perhaps like requirements that would come back and you know be an excellent ietf wide buff i think um christian are sort of talking about that as maybe the sentiment we're hearing across the room i mean look you know i've seen many of these over there the years or whatever my guess is this conversation is going to end in we should have a both that really does this but i mean i think that we have to decide you know are we defining the syringe and what goes in it are we just defining like a carrier for the drugs right i mean those are two very different things to work on um and i'm i'm i'm arguing for we need to have an architecture for what's on slide six here the overall problem that slide six is trying to argue for i'm all totally in favor of doing um and i think that just what i've heard on the call today makes it strong it's very clear that there are major players where we're willing to work together to do something really relevant here so there's no lack of energy for this all right thanks matt did i cut you off are you trying to make a point no not at all um i i i was just gonna respond to one thing that you mentioned colin and then um the the idea here you you the idea here is that since the credential authority is is integrated on the server side with both device os oems because even before you talk about any form of sharing that credential authority knows how to provision credentials on both devices right that exists today to my point and so the idea here being when the sender initiates the send it gathers the necessary material from the credential authority that's needed to seed the apis no matter who the receiver is and i i realized that that makes sense but i think this gets the hardware a little bit different i"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:48:00",
    "text": "don't think that exists today at all okay um and your point that it exists for merely two of the thousands of different types of device os's out there it is is an argument that it's is it makes exactly my point of why we need to why we need to do the overall scope so just and i want to be clear here i'm not arguing against doing this work i'm arguing in favor of this is great work we should do it but the work we need to do is what is your whole slide six not not not just lines two and four on the on the slide that's that's the only thing and that that's just my point of view i mean i'm sure other people have other points of view but that's that's sort of my my direction of how i think about this so awesome thank you why don't we move on um rich you get the last spot in the queue actually pete resnicks does he posted a while ago saying he was having device problems so the question from pete which is sort of a elaboration i think of what patrick said initially is um are you okay if the ietf tears up what you've done uh and for example completely changes the architecture yeah that's a great that's a great question i i'm not 100 percent sure oh there's a bit of an echo here do you guys all hear the echo maybe it's just me um because there is better now okay great thanks um like i said i there are large actors in this in this ecosystem that endeavor to build a solution that solves some of the problems that i've that i've outlined um i think i think if it solves the same goals and and is compatible with the way that these things kind of have to work in the credential authority space and when i say that i mean there's"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:50:01",
    "text": "world think about assa abloy and hid and and these large credential providers that provide access control systems and key material for the majority of corporations in the world to be honest between the two of them dormacaba um it you know that that we need to define something that plays into these systems that are already there in some way or it will be decades before anything like this sees the light of day and so i think the short answer is it depends i think i'm certainly and i should say we i mean there's five other co-authors on this but um we we certainly would love to get feedback and make it better um and and and i think it's it's hard to say without seeing where we end up but i do think we're all committed to the process and like i said this is my first time at ietf but i'm i'm really looking forward to discussing it in additional detail and seeing what we can come up with um uh and and and if it's better than what we have here and solve the same problems then i don't see any reason why we can't um why we wouldn't adopt it um if that makes sense yeah yeah so matt i'll just give you a little sort of background on why folks ask that question so dispatch sometimes sees work for what are essentially complete and deployed protocols for which they're looking for you know recognition by a standards body but are not willing to bring that really allow that standards body to bring its full consensus to how that is going to operate right more or less a rubber stamp or nothing um which is not really the mode in which the ietf operates as a collaborative consensus design that has to go on what i'm hearing more of you is that you've got you know some requirements of an existing ecosystem that you want to design a protocol to fit into um you know that causes challenges of course as you go along but that's you know i think"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:52:00",
    "text": "a pretty reasonable thing to put on the table and to work around um that's the the distinction i usually see does that sort of match um your where you think this lies yeah i think that makes sense i mean there are you know a lot of these companies really do want to build a solution that solves this problem and so i think another thing that that that i would would mention is is is timing right and and you know i realized that academically um having us discuss and debate for as long as it takes to get the right answer is obviously the right sort of theoretical and academic thing but you know a lot of times these companies are um you know want to launch a solution that solves this problem and i i think it wouldn't be intellectually honest if i didn't mention that there are a lot of driving factors here to um build something that satisfies these goals so i guess what i'm saying is if we can establish a working group and discuss it and really dig in on relatively short order i think that would be fantastic i i i truly do welcome the changes but if it ends up taking you know a year or two or three to come up with the right solution i think it would be likely that that the the companies that have been discussing this so far would proceed with something that looks like what i presented today just in the interest of full disclosure no i mean that makes a lot of sense it's it's often actually a good dynamic when the folks that are actively involved in doing the work if there were to be an eventual working group um feel some sort of you know commercial or otherwise time pressure that that tends to result in good outcomes um so normally what we do with this part of the program um is that we thank you for this presentation and we move on to the uh art area section of our um of our agenda and then christy and i will come back sort of trying to summarize what we've heard in the discussion um i am reminded here that i actually just want i said i would summarize ted's email which did appear to go to the list i'm not sure why it didn't end up in your mailbox but"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:54:01",
    "text": "let me get a couple highlights out of there for you in case there's anything you want to um address um ted hardy says based on the rest of the draft i believe the idea here is that digital credentials being sent in a simple way like an email entitled blah don't meet the need because the result is not machine readable by the systems um he wants to check in if he's correct if so uh you may want to consider whether device is the right unit of discussion since even mobile devices can have multiple persona accounts etc think of work profiles if it's not your document needs a good bit of work to rethink some of those core elements such as account claim um in the end he thinks the security and privacy aspects of this need a fair amount of work um and that leads him to suggest the answer to the dispatch question is that a working group would be appropriate with both app and security folk involved yeah great great comments and questions i mean i think the challenging the noun of devices is great i mean we've i've debated that myself for for for months um you know i think i i don't see a reason why a protocol like this wouldn't work on um you know another type of device or entity like a laptop or a you know pc or something like that it would need the requisite um hardware to provision these type of credentials like i said these actors with like you know assa abloy you know hid they have very strict compliance requirements and certification requirements for the hardware that stores the credential itself and so you know not a lot of laptops and pcs have that hardware there's a lot of certification involved in a lot of the mobile payment industry um just for those those who are not involved in in that industry um you know pci compliance there's there's all kinds of those restrictions but i do i do agree in principle you know challenging the term device and what it means is great um i've been doing that myself for quite a while um"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:56:01",
    "text": "on the security uh point wholeheartedly agree we have you know been talked about that on this farm already the past hour quite a bit i think the security of and what security primitives we would like to guarantee of this protocol are really something that truly needs to be discussed in additional detail fully concur with that point all right thank you so much um i hope you had a good dispatch uh experience yeah thank you so much patrick and thanks everybody who made comments all right christy yeah thank you very much and thanks for the discussion this morning or afternoon or evening or middle of the night wherever you are um so we're now going to move on to um the art section of the meeting today so that's the end of dispatching and um as patrick said we'll go away and talk about and come back at the end of the session with what we think we heard um matt i'd just ask you to stop sharing your slides if you can because i seem to not be able to thank you super um so we can just talk through uh what we have coming up in the art meeting okay hopefully you can see that so we now just have um a couple of updates on boss meeting of interest um and the leds we'll talk a bit and then we have just a couple of items that shouldn't take very long at all and so we'll just kind of proceed looking at a reminder oh yeah reminder of mailing lists for our topics and dispatch topics you can follow up after the session on those email lists as well so we've just had our dispatch topic and now we're moving into our area part of the meeting um francesca did you want to talk through um some of the highlights here i'm happy to okay right mute and mute buttons as always and i can send my video as well"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:58:00",
    "text": "so uh thank you chrissy for putting up this um this light together it is a bit cut or okay no i can i can slide it sorry so yeah we got um we have gotten one buff uh priv privacy respecting cooperation of values on wednesday we have new and nearly new art working groups i wanted to mention ohi which is in the security area but because of its it's so close to art that it would be good to remind everybody that this is uh meeting for the first time oblivious http um application intermediation this is the old uh oh dpp and or working group or both um and changed name a couple of times um we also have a newly chartered working group media man media type maintenance and see date is also meeting again she realized in the extended data about times and events and both of these are on tuesday then we have other interesting meetings murray did you want to add something or you want to wait can you hear me now yeah it looks good um i just wanted to mention that mediaman is looking for a co-chair if anybody is interested in helping us with that effort looking for co-chair experience uh please get in touch with me good reminder thank you and um also if you're interested in in sharing even if it's not only for media men or for other topics please get in touch we're always looking for co-chairs and barry did you have something to add also um we've just rebooted the skim working group uh the um"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:00:02",
    "text": "i don't even remember what it stands for now but uh you might want to mention that yes yes thank you for that i had it in my notes but uh forgot to send do to make it to the slide so yes scheme reopened um and um it was working group that was terminated and uh had a buff last itf and it is now uh meeting again um okay other meetings include trend dispatch sec dispatch the rc editor future development program the iab open meeting and the schmoo stay home meet only online yes so these are all our interesting meetings i also have a couple more things to mention i don't have slides for those but uh i thought i would take a second if that's okay so uh first of all i wanted to say that art art is now fully working and i wanted to thank everybody who has made this possible every reviewer barry as the secretary thank you so much this has been uh it's now been working for three months um or maybe a bit more it has uh realized around 30 reviews i believe and this has been very very helpful for for me at least and for murray i'm sure and so i just wanted to take a second and and thank you everybody for reading the documents and providing the reviews that's really good really great um another thing i wanted to mention is the only draft the dispatch working group has at the moment which is the ecmascript media types update is currently in la school and this ends november 15th so i wanted to mention it just so that"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:02:00",
    "text": "everybody is aware that now is the time to take a look and and um and see if if the work is ready to advance um also i wanted to mention that we are having uh rtd office hours uh this time as well so we're only having one hour this week and it's at the end of today so half an hour after the end of the last session today i'm not checking the chat uh okay let's talk about skim that's fine so you're all welcome to come and say hi or talk about any art topic you might want with me or marry um yeah so your i hope that some of you show up um also i wanted to remind that site meetings are always a possibility there is a wiki for it i can post it in the chat to organize and that should complement the gather town um that we have so i'll try to being other town as much as possible during this week so you can come and find me if you would like to say hi and finally that the nom-com is um uh requiring feedback still so uh please remember to do that and take a second to do that that's that's good and i think i covered everything i wanted to and of course again uh as marie said uh if anybody is interested in sharing please get in touch with us that's it for me a lot of things thank you francesca for all the updates and um yeah it's really good to see the art art team taking off so super achievement since the last meeting well done um so we're just gonna have a brief"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:04:00",
    "text": "um presentation or really a chat through um from barry lieber if you're uncle just about um internalized i can't speak well hi this is barry lieber um now well actually the i i was going to mention uh art art uh and and then riff from there and so uh francesca thanks for plugging that the goal of the art area review team is let me turn on my video um the goal of the art area review team is not to review every document but to go look at ones that that i think as i do a triage might help might benefit from somebody in art looking at them and so we've been reviewing probably about half of the documents that are going to the iasg something around there and and we've had good good results from that as uh francesca said the ads are pleased with the result of that um and we also have an internationalization directorate which um pete uh is the secretary for and it does it deals with internationalization issues collects the experts on internationalization and where i wanted to mention in the the junction of the two is that as we are reviewing documents for the art area we'll sometimes come up with ones that we think might need internationalization expertise to look at it also so if you're doing an art art review and you see things about character strings saying how these strings need to be compared how these strings are used particularly things that will be human readable or human enterable like usernames and passwords these might be things that should be passed over to pete as can you get an internationalization review on this as well"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:06:00",
    "text": "what we we intend to come up with a um a list of things to watch for that we can post and then you can look at those and and see what specific issues raise flags that would need an internationalization review so we're not expecting everybody in the art area to understand all the quirks of why internationalization is hard and what needs to be done but just to start to learn a few um a few flags that indicate that somebody who knows more about this ought to take a look at it so we'll we'll be posting something to the art uh mailing list once we get a list up that of of of these sorts of flag issues and i think that's all i really wanted to say about that uh john clenson if you're on is there anything you want to add i don't know if john is on i do not see john on so i uh sorry having coordination problems um [Music] i yeah the the the the only trick here um which you didn't mention uh but which i think is worth mentioning is that there's a little bit of a balance problem uh which is that sometimes we look at a document sometimes long before we look at a document that's coming from somewhere else uh we discover that there are uh fundamental issues that need to be addressed in a uh internationalization specification and we are lacking ways to develop and handle those specifications that and i think it's safe to say that any that anybody is satisfied with so that's another piece of this puzzle"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:08:00",
    "text": "but uh but other than that i think barry's uh very summary is is reasonable okay thanks john and i guess the other thing i'll say about the art area review team is anybody who's not already a reviewer on the art area review team and who wants to help out please let me know and we'll put you on the team so watch uh again watch for um for a list of uh of flag issues that um that john and i will try to come up with and perhaps others on the internationalization director thanks for your attention yeah one other observation if i can break in as as as we are working on a more complete list uh you can assume rewriting your documents that there are going to be uh two obvious questions as soon as you decide you need characters other than asking one of those questions is why and the other one of those questions is that unless what you're doing is guaranteed to be free text which is never going to be compared to anything or looked at other than visually that writing down uh the equivalent of just using utfh is not going to do it there are complexities there which i trust as we put the list together uh we will uh elaborate on but uh but but the most common problem we see is somebody who says well this was okay and ascii so using utf-8 and everything will be cool and usually innocent so that's an early preview yes good good summary on that all right so thanks that's all i have to say great thank you very much both um really good update there and i i'm going to try and say tonight the association again"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:10:03",
    "text": "um right so we're just gonna have a final presentation from spencer um spencer dawkins on media over quick and hopefully you can see those slides worse just one slide showing for you there spencer so take it away yeah uh thank and thank you for the opportunity to do this uh the uh so some of you perhaps many of you remember the video inches of a quick side meeting from ietf 111 uh that was uh quite you know it morphed into something bigger than just that and there was a media of a quick mailing list that was created which was very quiet until like october 26th but it's heated up now the there are lots of people with different needs for legitimate reasons for uh what they want to do with media over quick and we need to understand those needs to do anything at the itf we were planning two side meetings on media over quick broadly defined at itf 112 one on understanding what's needed for the ietf and one on if we need if we need the second meeting planning for next steps on friday both of these are at 1815 utc they are working meetings but they are public so if you could contribute please come i expect to publish uh minutes on the on the mock mailing list uh afterwards the you should have uh live links on this slide uh in the proceedings for the mailing list and uh for the uh where the where the the uh that's actually the the side meeting link"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:12:02",
    "text": "uh that francesca uh was said to say she would put in the chat but it's there also as well uh we are we are uh interested in hearing from people uh with a variety of things on their mind uh especially uh i think interested in pain points on what people are not not able to do now uh with various uh forms of media streaming uh interest and distribution i can take questions now but it's probably best if we don't have the side meeting here thank you spencer if anyone has got questions please do join the queue otherwise as spencer said you can save it for the side meeting sounds good thank you thank you all for the opportunity to uh say this on monday morning before the side meeting happens now thank you for bringing it's really interesting work super so we have got um we have no desire to make the meeting longer than it needs to be but we do have time on the agenda for any other business or anything that people would like to mention in the flex time otherwise um patrick and i will just get to our dispatch outcome for the one item on our agenda today i'll just take a pause in case anyone does want to join the queue as we're navigating meet echo functionality still um either you have nothing to say or you're still trying to find that join queue button but uh we'll move on and um so patrick and i have discussed and we think that the consensus for the first item and please do correct or challenge um in the queue or on java we'll just keep an eye on that we think that um the outcome was a consensus to"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:14:02",
    "text": "have a buff on the kind of problem space constraints requirements whatever word you want to give to that but to not focus on a solution but to kind of scope out the use cases and any constraints around that and we also heard that the community would like this work to have a shout out in sex dispatch so just for awareness not to redispatch but we'll um see if there's time on the sec dispatch agenda just to mention that and also a note that this belongs really more with the sec community than art so we're asked dispatchers of the view that the work belongs a bit more with sec than art but that both communities should get to weigh in on the discussion and the buff so that's um what we heard from the group i don't see anyone angrily objecting on jabber or calmly objecting but i do see cullen in the queue colin uh yeah i was just gonna ask could you be a little bit more could you be a little crisper about what you want the scope of that conversation to be around requirements around requirements for relay around requirements for the whole problem i am i'm not arguing either way i'm just asking you to clarify a little bit crisper yeah no that's um reasonable to clarify i think we heard that folks found it quite hard to dig the requirements out of the draft um looking at the solutions so a bit more clarity on what the problem space is what the problem's actually trying to solve i know there was some analogy going going around but just kind of whether it's more protocol or whether it's more what's exactly the relay architecture or that kind of thing patrick would you like to add anything no i mean i would concur largely with that i think you know cullen wants to make sure we address the notion of whether the yeah how much of the whole problem statement is in scope um and i one of things i heard is you know that should probably be"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:16:00",
    "text": "a little bit of the app community might drive the scope there and the suck community might drive the requirements of the individual protocols a little bit more and that's actually why i think this is actually suitable for a an ietf wide buff now of course dispatch does not give the go ahead for buffs to happen but we think this is the appropriate avenue to pursue with this work that it needs that kind of that kind of wider wider conversation to address exactly the question cullen is asking i think as part of that francesca you just joined the queue yeah i just wanted to mention that the conversation can continue on the dispatch or art mailing list while we coordinate with the sec ads and with the proponents and try to um to get something going in the meantime great thanks everyone um so now it's nearly the end of the meeting we just um have meetings of interest to highlight to you we had this slide on a little bit earlier obviously it's the first session of the week so really um a lot of stuff going on this week there's one buff and then we've got a few new and nearly new artworking groups that um might be of interest and then other kind of interesting meetings there as well um i can see that justin jabber um richard you said you think doesn't belong in sec would you like to just come to the mic and talk about why that might be sorry am i audible here yeah it looks like that yeah yeah so uh that's just um my my quick evaluation on on the credential transfer draft but it seems to me like the the interesting questions there are around kind of the the broader architecture of the application"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:18:00",
    "text": "um who the players are what their relationships are as opposed to the details of the cryptography like there are like the cryptography needs to be arranged properly but i think that's um you know an area where we can bring in some security area expertise and people who understand how to do those sorts of things um and you know focus on the the application architecture as the more interesting problems so as you said i think this will require expertise from both sides but i think on balance it's slightly more in the app area than you're in the security area okay thanks for bringing that to the queue i can see quite a lot of people in java agreeing with you as well um i think this is because when we asked the question in earlier in jabber about sexual art every response that came back said sec but it's good to see that there is actually um a community that thinks it probably belongs more in art as well so we'll um yeah i think francesca may take that away and discuss with the sec ads and just sort of work out where it sits more more naturally but um it's good to have the feedback from the community so thank you for bringing that point to the queue that's super yes exactly what you said kersey we will coordinate with the adc this might be another example of uh cross area with uh the work being done in one area and the responsibility being from the other area so we'll see but thank you for the feedback great thanks everyone so with that i think we're good to close out the dispatch and art area meeting um thanks so much for your discussion thanks to all of our presenters and thanks for the um good discussion and q a that we had going on it was really really good start to the week so thanks for me and have a great rest of the week take care"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:23:13",
    "text": "my test one two three four yeah i switched to uh speaking through my monitor mic and listening through my headset we'll see but we are being recorded just so you know well that's okay the end of the meeting will have strange speaking on it this will come back to haunt him later and someone said very glad to have a"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:24:01",
    "text": "break before our next meeting and you you guys are not hearing echo for me no it's it's wonderful good okay then this is what i'll do is i'll just use the uh there's a tiny tiny bit of tendiness but it's it's speak higher in the room and see if it comes on the mic but yeah nope all right we'll see what we can do about getting the mic on my uh headset to work but this will work for now thank you gents bye pete"
  }
]
