[
  {
    "startTime": "00:00:25",
    "text": "[Music] ABCB or something like that engineering signaling a suit and are those cuff suit suit was also at the scene that\u0027s a pretty session they\u0027re blending up it soon Pavillion can I confess I actually looked a guy up you did mr. Dearborne well [Music] why don\u0027t me yeah I have a second thing don\u0027t you think things would be necessary 160 I\u0027m "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:03:27",
    "text": "sure so welcome did you happen to see rink okay well we should get started I think so welcome to the money working group meeting at ITF 106 this is the note well even if this is your very first ITF meeting you probably should have seen this a couple of times before this week but do take note of what is listed there this is not going to be a regular run-of-the-mill working group session and the reason is known to most of us the chair of this working group Stan Ratliff passed away on October 22nd therefore we will have a short session and afterwards we will have an informal get-together in the bar in the Stanford hotel ground floor everybody is obviously invited to go there so the idea is to keep this session as short as possible just do a document status update there will be no presentations and as soon as we\u0027re done we\u0027re out of here this is the agenda I would appreciate at least a note-taker Thank You Adam Jairus cried maybe so document status we have one document in the RFC Arabic you this is the link ID extension of dilip of which Stan Redleaf was an author Rick Taylor\u0027s and author then we have one document the deal app latency extension that has been approved but I think some technicalities need to "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:06:28",
    "text": "be fixed in the document and it has been in that state for a very long time over 100 days so authors are invited to do something there I think if the action is with the others but I correct me if I\u0027m wrong ok and then we have three documents that are in working group last call status and have been for a while [Music] they have expired at the beginning of September one of the authors in the audience Lou has refreshed them revived them this very morning so they\u0027re now active again my idea on these documents is that I don\u0027t think there have been a lot of comments during this extended working group last call period I actually did you may notice that there\u0027s some changes in each of the documents at the time the comments came in I mrs. Lee Berger I made the changes to the document but didn\u0027t push them so I believe that all any comment that has been received has been addressed but it\u0027s been a while so you know we should go through the list and go through them okay so they might actually ignore content then the ones that aligned they all have very small that\u0027s good changes I\u0027ll have to go through it and figure out what all those changes works it was a while ago so what I propose to do then is to do a quick new working group rosco ending let\u0027s say three weeks from now two weeks from now I\u0027ve been waiting so long it yeah whatever we do is fine and then I guess I get to be the shepherd of these documents so that will be a new experience as well this is not my last line it\u0027s my last life on document status anyway so what else is left after we get these documents out the door well Lou made blue burger and made a presentation at the previous ITF on deal with multicast issues and the link is given in the slides the idea is that it\u0027s will result in an internet draft and who has volunteered to kick this off "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:09:32",
    "text": "to take this over from stem actually and we\u0027re aiming for African internet draft somewhere in January and I\u0027m willing to help in any way I can to progress this work because I also think personally that it\u0027s interesting yeah sorry I talked to mrs. Liu Berger again I talked to David about it that the slide presentation was actually joint work with David Wiggins I talked to him about jumping on trying to get a draft out briefly we talked about trying to push it for this meeting when we heard about Stan I thought that was a little tight so we should be able to do that and we\u0027re happy to send you a first draft that were what we put together and collaborate on it if you\u0027re willing yes there will be excellent thank you there is also one or two other implementation details that David has run across that we were thinking of putting into one draft rather than running it as a second draft we don\u0027t have to talk to technical details now but if you want we can do it offline but we don\u0027t have any other pending work and yet any other pending internet droves I should say if you look at our charter so this was what I was gonna ask on the prior slide we had had an agreement about two or three meetings ago ago to do an adoption call on a 1/4 document and so just one apologies yes so in terms of the prior slide we were talking about documents I think we had one more that had been discussed in the working group and the intent was to do an adoption call on it so I had hoped that we could do that adoption call and it\u0027s the one once that the both the Ethernet flow control Ethan the flow control Wow oh good yeah yeah I mean I think it may have even been like a year ago that we had agreed to do an adoption college this wasn\u0027t happening right yeah they had been in a it had been in appendix as an example and we decided just in in a session we said let\u0027s make it a real document so we did that work and said we were gonna adopt it and then anyway things happens things happen so I\u0027d hope to add that back to the list and maybe get that adoption calls started right after this meeting you know I I get I don\u0027t think we should wait another cycle just to have it presented again but you know if that\u0027s what needs to be done we can do that "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:12:32",
    "text": "no I will sent an email to the link with to the list with a link to the document and then ask people to to check on it and say if they\u0027re okay with adopting it as a working group document I had a look at our Charter and we\u0027re doing fine in the deal at extensions Department you\u0027ve got that covered however the Charter also men\u0027s mentions multicast work and documenting televisions and best practices practices on deploying and managing minase I don\u0027t think very much has happened there over the past few years so question would be [Music] what do we do with that are we obliged to address that [Music] Rick Taylor um so ironically Stan and I were just putting pen to paper for a dewlap extension for a sparse mode pin but obviously events have overtaken that slightly so and it\u0027s still early days so it wasn\u0027t quite ready to come here right we haven\u0027t worked out whether there was any good begin that\u0027s Twp extensions not multicast many routing I wonder that about anything so you asked we have to do what\u0027s the Charter ideally yes but yeah the pendants of course and what they\u0027ll work if the workgroup thinks has every deliver that that specific item in the Charter was actually the results of compromise that we got into many years ago with the off Sadie\u0027s because we had had a similar item at the Charter there was a document that was produced that ended up being also specific and we in the aegis I did not publish that draft but when we came back to reach our terminate at that time we wanted to add that item in here so that we wouldn\u0027t forget so you know at the time there was apparently interest and by someone to do it but okay maybe another court to the mailing list if there\u0027s anybody out there who could so Rick Taylor again "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:15:35",
    "text": "confession time I\u0027m actively working on multicast back at home at work and I\u0027ve looked at SMF and I\u0027m actually looking at the stuff that\u0027s coming out of in and looking at doing variations there and I\u0027m actually unconvinced whether what we\u0027re doing is particularly many unique I mean it may be some ways to make what pin saw specific sparse mode is doing in terms of picking out the tree and things like that whether you can tweak that to work better in many\u0027s or in networks that look a lot like some types of MANET I if it was to be something I wrote up I would probably take it back to pin because they\u0027re the guys who really know about this stuff and I I remember it was Brian Adamson and Justin\u0027s team who were looking heavily at SMF etc and they\u0027re not here anymore so I don\u0027t know what I\u0027m trying to say about that but it\u0027s a comment that goes back to the same point about the last thing which is actually your last bullet right we need to if at some point or at some point we need to discuss know where do we go right yeah here were the new items that would pick up any of the old stuff I do remember Justin saying at one point that yes he had been working on multicast but that because of work constraints he couldn\u0027t bring it here not that he didn\u0027t want to but he couldn\u0027t bring it here to card so just looking at the precise words in the Charter it says we will do liaison with the PIM working group it also says we will do multicast based upon SMF so there\u0027s a little bit of a conflict not right in I sorry Rick Ritter get us a follow up comment about SM FA I know moving around industry industry thinks SMF is a protocol ready to go and I\u0027ve had the conversations rhythm to say well no it\u0027s it\u0027s I believe an experimental draft that discusses some best practices in experimental experimental RFC sorry that talks about best practices when doing tense about flooding it\u0027s not a solution so there\u0027s a danger that if MANET stops and says well SMF is good enough people might think it is good enough and I\u0027m not convinced it is there\u0027s a second point to this which is a lot of the very many specific multicast topics are kind of being picked up the link layer now a lot of the meshing radios are doing multicast that\u0027s tuned to their link their technologies so I would be pushing if we were to go down the meltdown the multicast route it would be talking "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:18:36",
    "text": "about maintaining multicast in heterogeneous link their technology Manet\u0027s right and and that starting to drift heavily into pin again and I know we\u0027re supposed to be pin lazing I don\u0027t have an answer it\u0027s just okay I don\u0027t want to go into the technical discussions right now because the reasons I just pointed out as much as this I\u0027m personally interested in this in this topic but take it to the list I think so yes we we need to get more energy in the group I\u0027ve been talking with our ad earlier this week I have couple of ideas also to bring back some some all\u0027s our work may be because otherwise we could rename ourselves to the developed working group almost I do have an idea myself on another deal a data item I need to check whether that actually holds water but I\u0027m hoping to write it up and have it ready here also somewhere in January so that would be something and then there\u0027s the presentation that I gave last time on internet routing that\u0027s outside the scope of our current charter at that meeting in Montreal some people expressed interest in working on that since I have also had email from somebody from outside this community who was interested in that I have incurred anchors this person to take that to our mailing list that hasn\u0027t happened yet so that would be another thing to pick up some topics that are not covered by our current a charter but then we would need to reach out and I can see that there has to be some evidence that there are people there actually doing the work for that to go down well it already and the ISD in general I think so that sort of brings me to last the agenda item we have some things to go over with respect to where this group is going I think we "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:21:40",
    "text": "can do that in the in the few weeks to come at the same time blue and Dave and myself will be working on these new drafts and then the idea is to have an interim meeting well before Vancouver but also allowing for for some time to do some active work so I might hear about this and I\u0027m putting this to you it\u0027s to do this end of January or beginning on February 20 20 I don\u0027t know whether anyone has any opinions on that Rick Taylor I think that makes a lot of sense the timing is good yeah virtual or physical virtual web access so with that I\u0027m at the end of of the agenda so unless anybody has any other business already yeah just wanna say one thing real quick I know we need to be at the power in three minutes for the start of the informal standardless tribute bar buff I\u0027m going to have about five minutes maybe three to say something at the plenary about staying if you guys want to be there we great that\u0027s it Thanks now century two of the beginning so there\u0027s all the reports well okay it\u0027s towards the end before the open mikes correct so there\u0027s all the report since beginning and then there\u0027s the John Purcell award or something and then there\u0027s the in memoriam section there\u0027s three people we\u0027re going to remember this time and the third one is Stan so I\u0027m going spend you know three or five minutes something really quick talking about him thanks okay thank you with that meeting at your and let\u0027s go to the bar of the Stanford I think it\u0027s "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:24:44",
    "text": "something at some point I even saw but thanks for doing this hasta midnight when they\u0027re playing for twelve hours [Music] Secretariat yes right out here just I\u0027m just the paper "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:29:41",
    "text": "you "
  }
]