[
  {
    "startTime": "00:00:38",
    "text": "thanks to all that showed up uh early and on time we're going to give people a couple minutes to uh dial in"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:02:43",
    "text": "uh thanks again for being on time I think we'll probably start about five after the hour"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:05:12",
    "text": "all right um uh meet Echo is telling me I can't send video so I'm not going to so apologies you're only going to hear my voice today and uh see the screens um thank you for showing up to an MLs interim um after we got a bunch of uh iht um discussing comments on our two documents that we put forward um the plan here today is to kind of go through those and see how far we can progress these um one of the overriding um factors here is that we'd like to get um these done so that when the new isg gets seated in uh gets next month during the iitf meeting that we don't have to redo this again so there's a little bit of a time crunch here to see if we can get these resolved before the end of March I don't think that's going to be a problem but that's just something to"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:06:01",
    "text": "keep in mind um again this is an official iitf meeting um uh we have a note well which is uh policies procedures that we need to follow during the meetings um a lot of them relate to IPR um basically if you know something say something um if you have any questions about that uh I can fill you in there's a place to do third party IPR disclosures Etc there's also an Annie harassment procedures and code of conduct and all that stuff and luckily this working group has it none of those problems but I do feel compelled to talk about them all right what's on the next slide um code of conduct guidelines right treat colleges with respect speak slowly and limit the use of slang dispute ideas by using by using reasoned arguments um use best engineering judgment find the best solution for the whole the internet and contribute to the ongoing work of the group and the ITF um and be um keep that in mind that we need to do it both here in Meet Echo zulup I guess I need to change my slide and when you're on the call all right so that's all the fun stuff with respect to the beginning and hopefully it's given enough time for others to join after my grand monologue good I see Joel there um I guess Richard where would you like to start so um I have one PR so think on the protocol document we're pretty good to go there was one PR I put in yesterday I'd like to discuss before we dive into the documents though while you're pulling it up um I wanted to make a brief mention that there is some interop testing going on so between mlspp and open MLS and the Wicker stack we may even get participation oh and the inria static and the meaning of participation from uh RingCentral um we are doing some testing to make sure all of those stocks are implementing the same uh you know processes uh implementing everything in"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:08:01",
    "text": "the spec the same way we've already found a whole bunch of bugs where people were you know using one byte for two byte fields and things like that um so we're going to have a call on that tomorrow which I'll send a note to the list and let people know um just to have some Focus real-time time on it but um in general the MLS implementations we put things are going on there also I'll pay attention to that and we also have a channel in the ietf slack instance ietf.slack.com where we're doing some coordination I'll send a note to the list after after this monologue with much of these details but um feel free to ping me if you'd be interested in participating in interop stuff and I think that you would happy to have more implementations there um one other thing that I forgot to do again is to request a scribe I was hoping someone can take some notes for me I can take some notes that would be great again it's only like kind of the high points and you've done it before and then it'd be great so I can actually put something in the official record um fantastic so without further Ado or should we dive into um so the I think most of these were pretty clear on there's no need for discussion so what I was just going to put in front of people's eyes was at the top there number eight five five um clarifying the transcription initialization so this came up in um well in the process of interrupt testing but not because we had interop bugs just because we were looking at the right part of the spec um looking at the if you could flip over to the diff view I think that's probably um better so the the Salient part here is is the top part um the old transcript hash description didn't actually tell you how to initialize things um it I I'm surprised like the"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:10:02",
    "text": "initialization condition there at the top says Epoch and not zero um so it didn't actually tell you how to initialize things in particularly didn't tell you how to initialize the interim transcript hash so um this the updated version says that you initialize both the trans interim and confirmed to zero length strings and then you you roll forward in the in the way discussed so this doesn't change the behavior I think it just describes it more clearly I think there was no disagreement about what the correct Behavior was it's just a clarification in the description it also adds a figure that tries to you know show a timeline view of what goes into which transcript hashes that this kind of pointed out is a little hard to capture with exactness um but you know may be helpful in helping people understand what's going on here yeah the better view of the figures on the on the overview where I put the screenshot in um so if you have any comments on this this is mainly a clarification not a behavior change so it's not a huge deal but the folks have new thoughts or comments on this um once once Conrad and I get happy about the figure we can uh I think we can probably do screw and immersions unless there's any comments here Raphael let's see how I made it um yes um about two seconds of Silence first um yeah I think it's worth noting that as you said this was not an interrupt problem because we have been interrupting for a while around that part of the spec um sorry could you say that last part again or a failure"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:12:00",
    "text": "your audio cut out all of them uh sorry yeah I think it's it's worth emphasizing that we had agreement on that in the implementations and that this is just a clarification well we're not here in uh any major objections I'm thinking we we let this uh right Brandon good go ahead oh hi I was gonna ask if there was any concern about the graph being too wide to render properly because if you look at um the spec rendered as like a just text document this graph is about twice as wide as basically everything else yeah in the HTML rendering it it conveniently uh shrinks the SVG down uh to be the appropriate width but yeah the sex rendering would be unhappy um I don't know I might fiddle with it maybe like render it vertically um so it's a good uh to help with that yeah I'm not sure I don't think it's a necessarily a deal breaker to screw up the texture engine because the official the official thing nowadays is XML and HTML so um I don't know if we'll be uh forbidden from publishing if we have too why not too wide diet but we can always trim it back to one or two epochs if we need to be narrower you know this also seems like a perfectly good uh all right RC editor how best should I fix this can we spin this in some easy way so yeah all right great so I guess what we'll do is we'll uh basically say that this we have tentative agreement to go ahead and merge this the modulo the two of you um making sure you get comfortable with the graph or if anybody else wants to chime in okay"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:14:00",
    "text": "all right so then I think that's the only one that needed discussion on the protocol draft um unless anyone else wanted to look at any of those other issues um it's like there is I think it's 844 I'm sorry it's not everything it's just like a clean up the transition to public and private message doing it now here it comes and it's giving me a unicorn look at that yeah it's an angry unicorn at that try it again look happy what's going on come on let's get up is getting jealous of Twitter in their downtime oh wow oh there it is yeah it's 844. clean up after playing text and side effects from naming uh we'll just minor stuff but it's names of labels so yeah I think I reviewed that and I think it's good to go I just didn't hit the approve button all right all right that's all then there we go I guess that's a good point thanks for filing all right so we're going to move on to architecture as this thing tries to load yeah it looks like Rowan made it in I think he was having trouble thank you hey yeah I uh I've had a problem with my data tracker account because it was merged there were two accounts which were merged and so"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:16:02",
    "text": "uh have a few problems with it sometimes all right I think Rowan's been paying more attention to the architecture than I have so I'm gonna let him kind of leave the discussion there Let's uh so we just got through two on the we did 855 and 844 and the rest of them are I think all just kind of dealing with whatever comments we got right reasonable yeah if you if you look at the um there's one uh you're still on protocol right yeah okay do you want me to switch over um I didn't I didn't catch any of the any of the discussion on protocol I heard somebody say we were ready to switch to architecture so yeah I think we're done with this protocol yeah so I was just clarifying that we did a we talked about a55 and it looks good to go um long as Richard and um Raphael agree to the figure um at 8 44. um Conrad said don't forget about this one and Richard said he just forgot to hit the button so the rest of them are all I think between 844 and 855 are all basically just dealing with various things from the isg review cool yeah I I just I I tracked a lot of that offline so it looked good to me all right great um well I've got my mic on uh thanks to everyone who did reviews there and it really helped us move more quickly all right so where are we going pull requests yeah please all right I'll let you I will take Direction okay so with um let's just let's just start with 182 that's the bottom one"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:18:01",
    "text": "um so this was um basically there was one comment about there not being enough explanation of what is in um uh of what these various terms are that are used in architecture that are defined in protocol so if you go to files changed you can see I initially did this as a glossary Ecker said he didn't like that I rewrote it in a narrative style and I liked it better as well [Music] um and I think there was one comment by by Brita um about how we want to how we want to describe a leaf package the leaf node that goes inside of a key package I had its Leaf node and she proposed and you know including an initiation Leaf node um I'm fine with either um foreign have any strong feelings here I'm inclined to just make a include it the way Britta recommended the only reason for this suggestion is that um come implying some sort of time scale to this so that's not just a static I could see where someone could read the spec and see including its Leaf known as if it was ecstatic across multiple initiations or the various ways this could be misinterpreted so I just propose that we have some sort of initiation there other start point you know that makes sense to me that it's you know an initially so that that's the first representation of the um of the client in the tree uh yeah I just wanted to make sure that it's clear like that someone it doesn't"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:20:01",
    "text": "cause more questions than it answers um if other people think that that looks good then I will I will go ahead and make that make that change and um and I need some but we'll need somebody else to click the button thank you Richard can we leave that to you or is there additional do we gotta make Benjamin do it so what would you be looking for me to do um oh yeah I can push the button all right um so I just I just commit I just committed [Music] um sorry almost done so I just committed that suggestion that is applying it is applied to that PR so if you if you push the button on 182 then that'll include British for this change I'll get back through and do that um okay all right um so let's move to 183 or actually do we want to let's let's let's look at 187 and make sure that I think that this is non-controversial I think this is just uh let's click let's click the button to fix the people's email addresses the the background here is they were we were getting a lot of bounces and I always get a lot of hate mail from the isg so I basically just rummaged through my emails to find ones that were were fixable and fix them that's probably uh uh past the point of pain but I think we should go ahead and fix them where we can yeah agreed um all right so the big one here is 183 . sorry I was going to ask just as that"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:22:01",
    "text": "one person still at Twitter I know they plan so that's why I changed it but it didn't say to change his affiliation so I left it he said not to change it okay well he didn't mention it so he left it I can I I can actually reach out and ask him if he wants to get it changed completely um before we publish I think that would probably be a good idea okay okay fair enough okay so um the um so on 180th on 183 if you open up files changed there are quite a few quite a few changes in here but they are all related to um one of three um uh one of three Ade reviews um and if you'd like we can we can we can look first at the discusses or we I can just walk through these one at a time um but um if we walk through the files changed uh so if we start at the very beginning here um there was a comment about about using for key transparency about having a reference to something generic and so Richard recommended this paper on Connex and they're um there was there was a error in the reference for one of the um one of the tree chem references which I fixed moving down to line 248 um there was that question of like is this"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:24:00",
    "text": "a requirement or not a requirement so this this just was changed to and then security is used in the vast majority of instant messaging systems and also deployed in systems for other purposes such as calling and conferencing um so it makes it clear that most I most IM systems are using a dent security and that you can use it for other and you can use end-end Security in other systems um which I think was what we met all along then we can skip most of these are just rewording changes um there was a question about the scale about being consistent on scale so in line 272 and in every other place I used tens of thousands um is everybody okay with that scale in the architecture document yeah I think the Matrix folks are actively testing at that scale those airports it doesn't work at all um so you're going back to the intern security uh that would actually be the place where ideally we would plug in this ITF definition of antenna encryption but I don't think I can finalized yet the one from Mallory and CPM maybe it was checking it's uh Sean from a former perspective we cannot reference anything that is sorry I missed that last bit we can reference anything that that is not a finalized RFC yet um so it depends if it's informational we can so if it's a if it's a normative reference and it's informational or if it's a normative reference and it's not"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:26:00",
    "text": "an RFC then we have to wait for that other one to get published but if it's informational then we can proceed okay okay that's a good point I'm gonna check on that and then I can comment on the pr um and to your point Ron um the we have this number of 50k so far I think it's even in the charter if I remember correctly and it's completely arbitrary I think John Millican made it up at the time so in that sense there is no no good reason to stick to that particular number [Music] and tens of thousands works I guess that's what I'm trying to say yeah I mean I think this is mostly about scale right so like thousands people are like 10 and we're like no more so I think that that's that works as long as we're consistent and everybody kind of agrees and if people are actually already testing at that level then I think uh you know the proof's in the pudding so to speak and yeah and maybe that's a good occasion to um settle on that wording in general because it's something that's been coming back as a question for years now like how many like how big can a group be with MLS well we can say that technically of course it can be a city to one billion now but that makes no sense whatsoever so agreeing on saying tens of thousands is a good thing okay across the board not just in this particular part of the architectural spec yeah I mean I think the point is that for the architecture we need we need to have something and it's [Music] you know it everybody I think everybody is comfortable with saying that we want to"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:28:01",
    "text": "do at least that and if people want to say you know this is what we this is what we envision this is what we thought of but if we're going to go bigger than that there's probably additional they're almost certainly additional things that we would need to do that are not in the protocol yet but we could add them yeah so I think this is a safe this is a safe place is everybody okay if we just in the interest of time if if we adopt this is uh you need a thumbs up to them that sounds this is I'm thinking at this point unless somebody says so very shortly on this call I think we're gonna go ahead and just says moving on line 308 um public key infrastructure was trying to convey that this was answer in answer to a question about what are various servers so various servers on the pka context would be existing PKA roles like a certificate Authority um please stop me at any point if I'm you know skip over something that is that someone is specifically worried about um 442 is where I changed the link from the some expired Google key transparency project to this paper called conics just okay well in 528 authenticates key packages using the signature Keys includes the key packages and AD proposals encrypts the information needed to join the group the group info object with an ephemeral key then separately encrypts the ephemeral key with the init key for each key package"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:30:02",
    "text": "um there was this was in response to uh you know request to explain what the purpose of the key package was um if everyone could please take a moment to look at that those four sentences and make sure that sounds accurate to me hearing no objections moving down to line 650 um this was talking about the security the safety of the users of MLS um so I used provide both performance and security EG integrity and confidentiality to its users um yeah I think because I think I think that that's that's probably a better uh description safety is something else yes um okay I referenced the MLS extensions draft in line 858 uh oh yeah here's a terminology one um that would be good to get eyes eyeballs on eight nine twenty nine delivering messages um it was previously delivering messages sent to a group to all members in the group and so I changed it to delivering messages for a group to all members in the group does anyone who has any proposed rewording please speak now I don't understand why you would change it but I don't also don't object to change to a group twice basically it's using"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:32:01",
    "text": "the the preposition to in two different contexts do not care 100 do not care was this to clarify that uh internal group messages versus like external to a group message or am I reading more into this and intended I think you're reading more into it it was that people who said that they wanted to have you know that they were trying to understand are you sending the message to a group are you sending users you are sending it to you to individual members they didn't really understand and it's as like the purpose of the DS is to deliver messages which are addressed for a specific group and send them to the individual members that's the function that DDS is offering and that's why I changed the article because they were confused all right um there's another little minor privacy wording change in 1056 here um MLS is designed under the assumption the transport layer is present to keep metadata private from Network Observers while the MLS protocol provides confidentiality integrity and authentication guarantees for the application data which could pass through multiple systems additional properties such as partial anonymity or deniability could also be achieved in specific architecture designs oh okay hearing no objections here [Music] um okay and 1099 changed MLS ciphertext to private message and then also 1102"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:34:03",
    "text": "um uh yes 11 29 recommendation um this is where we're talking about using Anonymous credentials and Roman had an allergic reaction to Anonymous credentials because it's it's not defined except in a U.S government document according to him so uh I put use credentials uncorrelated with specific users to help prevent dos attacks in a privacy preserving manner actually I think somebody asked to change this to you just to prevent us yeah to prevent dust attacks in a privacy preserving manner I don't quite get what dos attacks how are Doss attacks connected here can you can you go into that basically if you if you don't use if there are no credentials required then um then it's easy to do DOS attacks because you can claim you know you you can you can issue as many requests as you want but if you use uh credentials in order to authenticate yourself uh then you can do limiting of the number of requests per authenticated user but if um but that can reveal privacy uh can reveal private information so if you use anonymous credentials then you get the property that it's you have to have an authentication credential but you are still remaining Anonymous so in this case this is credentials which are uncorrelated with specific users is the property that uh in the context of this the section that comes slightly before this"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:36:04",
    "text": "so this is this is about dos attacks on the credential issuer so um so if you click um there's a little there's a little blue line here [Music] um hang on a second there's there we go in the centralized setting dos prevention protection can typically be performed by using tickets or cookies which identify users to a service for a certain number of connections it prevents Anonymous clients from sending arbitrary numbers of group operations to the delivery service or MLS clients so instead of so this is saying basically instead of using a ticket or cookie which is correlated with specific users use credentials which are uncorrelated with specific users in order to in order to do this dos prevention function that many users that many systems already do it's a little weird like this is one of the places where the document is a little bit weird because we have where you know we sort of talk about things that a lot of folks do and and then we we talk about about adding a bunch of extra privacy protections that many systems do not um and here we're talking about you know sort of trying to merge those two those two needs together in a single recommendation does anyone have any go ahead I mean I mean I think I kind of understand now what it is um so thanks for explaining does anyone have any serious discomfort"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:38:01",
    "text": "with this okay nice the fact that it's not specific to the terminology that could change it because of because it got flagged so if yeah the rewording then I think we should be good to go rather than revisiting the whole section yeah and I think when you're reading it in the whole con you know in context I reread it twice from the beginning of that section and in that context it makes to me it made sense um so all right so I'm not hearing anyone disagreeing with the specific rewording you're proposing so I think we should be good so moving down to deniability um line 1251. so we have um we're basically saying two contradictory things in the same paragraph um so roughly speaking deniability is the opposite of non-repeviation that a property that isn't possible approved to a third party then Master goes set by a given sender so I reworded this too deniability is not currently provided by the mrf protocol but the protocol avoids constraints that would make it impossible to add deniability properties for the extensions defining the specific requirements and resulting Notions of deniability requires further analysis um I think plus the first sentence is a little bit problematic simply because I've been going through a world of pain regarding the ability so it's not it's not clearly defined what deniability actually is and so if we start with saying deniability is not currently provided it implies that there is a"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:40:00",
    "text": "crisp definition of what it is whereas before uh it was a lot more vague and that worked better yeah that sounds right to me unfortunately it was also contradictory also sorry what's the what's the contradiction you're perceiving thank you um like was that a reaction to a to some feedback yeah yeah there's a there were actually um I can go dig out I can go dig out the specific the specific comment but I think that would be helpful do you remember because do you know which which ad this came from um I do not um it would have been either Eric's or Roman's comments why don't um does one of either Raphael or Richard do one of you want to go look for that comment while I carry on and we can come back to this one yeah I'm looking I've got the ballot I've been searching for deniability it doesn't return anything but I'll keep looking well check uh Eric Eric's comments in any case I can revert this if I need to um okay um most of these next ones are very uh okay yeah there was a specific yep foreign"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:42:05",
    "text": "I assume that some thought has gone into this and the decision was made not to provide this as a core feature actually due to the latest usefulness and example even the court system or log messages deniable or not are recovered I assume it was not easy to add this property and it was there for mostly left out because of course it would be nicer to have it done to have it but I also vaguely remember Richard replying to that on list so I'm not sure this mandates a change actually the architecture if that's really the comment we're talking about maybe maybe there's a second one that I didn't find now so you're proposing that I just revert this revert this change well I think there's some consensus at least for the beginning of the change um and let's look at the rest foreign because the beginning definitely doesn't work so you're saying reverse deniability change I would support that I don't have any problem with that okay the other thing to remember here is it is actually a comment um it's not a you shall not pass moment so if we addressed it and we think it's fine then we can go back and argue if he wants to change it I don't think he will that's not a that's not a big deal I'll do that okay moving along thank you um I changed there are several instances of very or extremely which I toned down"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:44:00",
    "text": "um those are pretty I think this should be pretty yeah pretty easy to address okay 1462. um recommendation if the threat model of the system is against an adversary that can access the messages on the device without even needing to attack MLS the application should delete plain text messages and ciphertexts immediately after encryption or decryption I changed this to as soon as practical after encryption or decryption uh the comment was they basically that this is like you know you decrypted the message and deleted before we display it to the user you know uh this this is giving me flashbacks of talking with lawyers um yeah um okay and then there was a then uh down in 1593 uh we're talking about correlating two different legal requests to get uh to get more information more secret information um so I changed this to not note that with a legal request to ask the service provider for the push token associated with an identifier it is easy to correlate the token with a second request to the company operating the push notification system to get information about the device which is often linked with the real identity Etc all right um moving down to 1619 uh Brendan suggested changing centralized server to Central server um I accepted most of his comments but this one I left as is because there are"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:46:00",
    "text": "there were at least half a dozen or more references uses of centralized and I didn't want to have to unnecessarily go back and change all of them and make sure they still made sense um any any heartbreak if I leave it as centralized Brendan no that was fine I actually don't have the button to Mark as result so Sean you can do that if you want because I don't know why I don't have that button um I think I can just just not add it in it if somebody pushes the button to converge then it just gets merged even though that wasn't the result oh resolve conversation okay um resolve there okay well um okay uh wasn't that something Ecker chimed in on on the list also like you don't need to do you want to be online to verify online these days I'll do a completely misremember that sorry I I lost you a bit Rafael can you say that again please sorry I I'm I think I saw a comment on list from Ecker saying that these days in browsers you don't have to be online to verify like 509 certificates or I mean yeah just that doesn't make much sense you don't need to to have Network additional Network traffic yeah or what's on the screen right now yeah so browsers nowadays they sync revocation information um from CA so there is Network traffic at some point but not necessarily at verification time"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:48:00",
    "text": "and also like to comment about why this was changed um I saw it earlier it was on the screen from Nat was it says that this can be performed autonomously in the ad was confused about the meaning of autonomous and I think in the context of the document autonomous was meant to mean requiring no interaction from the user because the sense afterwards is in contrast you can require the user to have to do something to verify the credential um or you can use like x19 which doesn't require the user interaction and I think that's what um the texture should have been updated to say instead of saying x5n doesn't require Network traffic it should say x509 doesn't require user action um sounds good to me okay I can I can change that um I was under the impression that this was basically in regards to a um that they were looking at the diagram and wondering you know wondering why there was not a connection of some line between the client and the as for verification of credentials do you know which graph that is I do uh I do not recall but since it was only a comment I'm okay with I'm okay with leaving that out um and I'm also okay with changing this for autonomously EG without you know without additional user without a user interaction because I think that that is more important um okay cool but if everybody thinks that we don't need to to deal with the additional traffic or we could say it's you know without user interaction or additional Network traffic I don't really care um exactly uh automatically covers it"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:50:04",
    "text": "you think which automatically covers it yeah I think if you if you take Brennan's uh I think it kind of addresses all the points okay without user interaction I I like the idea that Brendan suggested of having a changing parenthetical so without user interaction yeah okay I am committing that suggestion okay come on all right and uh okay line 1700 um key transparency was mentioned twice uh in two different recommendations and uh in this one I just changed it to provide one or more out of band authentication mechanisms to limit the impact of an authentication Service compromise um and I didn't specify key transparency are you okay with that Brendan it's still in the other recommendation to use key transparency specifically yeah I'm good with that okay uh all right and then last one 1736 recommendation instead of always using Cryptid group operation messages to limit privacy risks I said use encrypted group operation messages to limit privacy risks whenever possible uh and that's specifically because we"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:52:01",
    "text": "have a lot of people who are who are using encrypted you know unencrypted group operation messages for for legitimate purposes and we have a different recommendation that says if you do that do it inside of an encrypted uh transport is this okay with everybody going once going twice sold okay I only had one at the beginning that I threw in which is one of my uh pki uh nerds um is uh to James uh certificate authorities to certificate certification authorities okay did you um minor grammatical map commit suggestion changed awesome all right um so that's the pull requests um so let's go going back to the issues I think that this substantially deals with oh it deals with all of the discusses those two those two PRS deal with all of the discusses except for [Music] um zahad dusaman"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:54:02",
    "text": "sarker and so he has a discuss um for whether we want to have an explicit recommendation for using secure transport for MLS um I'm totally comfortable with saying that when you're using MLS you should just you know just use a secure transport but we have other places where we basically say you can use it what you know we don't make a comment about that and um and we only say you know the only the only thing we say is that if you want privacy you should use a secure transport and if you're using unencrypted handshakes you should use a secure transport uh well didn't we just like in the pr we were discussing didn't that just have a recommendation to use secure transport whenever possible um yeah that was that was using encrypted group operations yeah so um I particularly was thinking of brita's application here um you know if there's uh I don't know if anybody has any heartburn with saying you know I thought that just saying just just stick MLS inside of TLS or or quick is pretty non-controversial in this group but I didn't know if there was anybody who and and I wasn't also really sure exactly where to where to put this yes yes speaking we have some applications where it would be very problematic to put inside of TLS or quick uh and there's various other solutions for trying to ensure that uh"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:56:00",
    "text": "transport I think part of this issue here we've just we've described what we mean by secure transport I went back to other doc to ensure meaning there because we're not really saying it providing a lot of security aside from we want to protect my day a little bit more and get actually a reliable transport so trying to clear that that's what we need out of it is probably the end goal yeah um so I guess the first question is do you care if the architecture document says you know in general you should go and do this thing you don't do it and if you write an ITF document doing something different you have an extra paragraph in your document explaining why it's safe that you do the thing differently than the recommendation and architecture yeah I would just emphasize like anything we put here is going to be advisories yeah the only impact is what Rowan said that you'd have to explain yourself at some point yeah I think if we were saying uh and make it explicit that is said as an advisory Note versus a should um and I know those two things very similar but kids are actually interpreted more broadly as a this is fundamental to the security of MLS and that's not what we're really saying we're saying that it's it helps improve the overall security and it also gives this reliability of the transport there's two different properties there that we're getting from containing it inside of TLS or quick or something one is the meditating the other is reliability and if we're explicit about those goals and say if you do this inside of TLS and do this in kind of quick then you get the properties you're looking for uh and just advise that that's a easy solution then I think it's that's probably the best way forward uh if the wording sounds like"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:58:00",
    "text": "this should be done and it's recommended as the main way forward then I think we're going to run into issues because then it kind of does sound like it's locked in the design to that place okay does um Richard do you have any do you have a proposed text you know like a single sentence let me just create some done in other drafts where it says you could use secure transport example TLS or um and then what you have in the next sentence is and if you don't then you need to explain what it how you provide these features so I think there's a way out um foreign basically I think avoid British concern which is it's basically if the document basically says to do this you got to do one of these two transports and they might use something else that's what I'm what I'm inferring um I'm gonna try and share yep It's Gonna Take It or do I have to say yes Grant screen I guess I do all right I click the grant thank you I think you might have to stop all right let me stop sharing I love how janky this tools it's working all right so I'm gonna try and share just an editor window oh um let's see if this works foreign"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:00:00",
    "text": "having to deal with permissions issues yep okay there we go so like that would be my uh Baseline starting point um would you rather be like elaboration you'd want to put on top of that would suggest a slightly rewarding here maybe that we should use um for one clarification maybe you secure transports that provide reliable delivery and protect metadata whenever possible such as input the TLs or quick at the end you're using the Ed option like that before I'm putting it less front and center as those are the uh distance and more as a the solution needs to provide these things and go into confidentially could we say metadata confidentiality that looks great okay and we and of course before you submit this as a real PR we need it um references for qls and quick all right let's try and tell me if I got these right all right I'll shoot that to you and"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:02:02",
    "text": "wire run you can drop it in okay excellent does that bring us to a close so is that going to go in an existing PR or a new PR um I think either does anybody have any preference it's easier if I just stick it in if I just slam into the interesting one here yeah then just do that okay foreign extra things in git is really convenient in GitHub is really convenient until I forget that I have and then I have extra merge problems okay and where do we want this [Music] foreign section 7.1 assumptions on Transport Security links be the obvious place foreign"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:04:11",
    "text": "so MLS is designed to consider the following threat model attacker can read write and delete arbitrary messages this departs from most threat models because blah blah blah um main use of secure transport layer is to provide the already limited amount of metadata okay after that right after there yeah that looks good um okay foreign"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:06:13",
    "text": "okay that's pushed so that should be up there okay um apologies my connection as well this morning you know what there is a formatting error now oh we can we can work that out offline okay oh I forgot the bracket yeah all right so I think the main question before we let this go is whether we think we've addressed all of the discussed comments ruins that your assessment at this point that's my assessment if you guys want to walk through we can go through the issues and I'll do that one at a time okay and I think if you've gone through I interested evaluation yeah I mean like at the end of the day what's gonna happen is we're going to publish and they're gonna tell us whether they think that we've done it or not right so it's it's if if you you know if this was your first rodeo Rowan I might be a little worried but it's not so if you think you're you think we addressed them then I'm gonna go with"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:08:01",
    "text": "that and then we'll just have to see that we've addressed them to the satisfaction of the people that all the discusses okay and I appreciate you guys getting through this so quickly because typically what happens the longer you wait uh the more vague everyone's memory is get and then they can't remember why they made the comments so I really appreciate you guys plowing through this yeah um okay so I guess uh uh Richard I'll let you deal with whatever formatting issue and pushing the pushing the buttons to get them merged uh I fixed the formatting issue so all right cool the um I guess what I wanna uh that's great it's been a new version do whatever I do know that Nick said he had some comments um they were all readability so they're not big issues we can you know do them later or whatever or during off 48. um uh I don't think those those will be a big deal I know nobody wants to hear those but you know it it'd be different I would want to handle those now before we send us the RC editor just because I want all three issues to be I'm sure I'm uh I've uh I've I've let known I've let Nick know he needs to get them in uh all right yeah so I guess that brings this to a close-up we will be done with this if not we can always set up another meeting um to go over whatever's left um if something comes back up I'm hoping I'm hoping not but apparently these apparently these two drafts brought a lot of interest um so uh I think that's good actually uh any event okay so I guess I have an administer trivia question I have not yet requested a session for iatf 116 uh thinking that there won't be a um a lot of people there and it would mostly be remote uh most mostly be remote participants and if we're going to do that because of the meeting venue"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:10:00",
    "text": "and scheduling and all that stuff I'd rather just have an interim um if that's okay unless people think there's a real burning need to have an in-person meeting in Yokohama is so who else is going to be there besides me um I'm I'm gonna be there um most likely at least for some of it um maybe Sean you can explain like it seems that we are pretty much at the end of the process now like what's left between uh yes and an RFC Yeah so basically after these documents get you know formally approved by the isg they're essentially put in the RFC What's called the RC editor's queue and then what happens is mostly just copy editing they're going to make sure that we did our references right you know that the commas are in the right place like they're going to do a lot of copy editing and then the kind of document goes through if any other large changes get proposed that comes back to the working group and we can make those changes um we'll have to discuss those changes before we put them in the document and if there are any big enough changes we have to start this whole process over I don't think there will be but once it's in the RFC editor's queue it'll probably take two to three months before it pops out with an actual RFC number and at the end is the editors all you really need to do is like start reading your email when you see these auth 40 like the the subject line will be auth 48 they would they really want the authors to in 48 hours turn around all their final Little Mix or other little changes and responses which never happens but it never happens but that's kind of what they're shooting for I'd like two weeks to be kind of the the turnaround time and then after that it kind of gets published so the that would be version one of MLS done and then I think we'd want to work on the Federation and the extensions document you know in whatever order and then"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:12:00",
    "text": "you know give it a little bit like a couple of months and then we can start entertaining version two because I know at least some of you have been thinking farther down the down the road so um there are two things that I want to bring up um the first is that two to three months in the RC editor queue is not going to happen because we have a dependency on MLS extensions in for architecture fair enough so I think that if for no other reason than to demonstrate that we are still that we are not a moribund group if everybody for transparency that we should request a meeting and talk about MLS extensions just so that we have the you know the minimal process you know place where somebody can come and ask questions they can find out who you know there will be people there there will be Outsiders this is this is a useful thing for Outsiders to be able to come and find out about MLS and at the end of this month there's going to be a workshop on the digital Market markets Act where people are going to be talking about interoperability in MLS and things like that and they're going to be a lot there's going to be a lot of sort of Outsider interest we need a place where people can find us in that way who are not the people that normally attend these calls so going back to the the extensions do we have a formal dependency in the sense that we have to submit like we have to go through last call for extensions before we can move forward with architecture no no so assuming that the ads clear their"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:14:02",
    "text": "discusses after we you know so we submit a new version they clear their discusses it's isg approved it goes into the RFC editor queue but until extensions is approved then then it won't it won't actually pop out as an RFC so what do you mean with extensions getting approved that's the part that I really don't understand I know so hold on so extensions and architecture is informational so it can actually be published without because Federation is also listed there what's sorry go ahead Sean I was just going to say that I do if extensions is not normative it can it'll be uh it won't have to get stuck um well that's actually a good question I mean right now it's information yeah they're informational so if it goes in the RCA I just keep rolling it will get published with an informational uh reference to a non-standards track document that's doable but the question is whether we want that in the long run for extensions to only be informational uh is that a decision we have to take now or can we like can we leave it as informational for for the time being and then make it normative we have two children agreements I think we won it standard track right that's the whole purpose there's there's two informational informative things running around here the document can be standards track the critical thing for the uh blocking at the um our theater level is whether it be reference from the architectures the extensions is a normative reference"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:16:00",
    "text": "and so so that's okay you can have the formative earns there and the extension stock can be standards true so that's generation yeah and to make things even easier the since since the architecture document is informational that's totally doable so um yeah maybe to give some perspective on that there's been some low-key I've heard with royal and Marta uh regarding Conrad and I regarding the extensions document to come up with um yeah some at very some guidelines on how to develop new extensions uh so that they're safe and then they don't jeopardize the core protocol Etc so that's still ongoing and it's obviously going to be a while and the document is is going to be open for a while so um yeah just wanted to give you that perspective also not something that we need to discuss at or present actually at ipf 117 that's probably going to be too early so aside from what Ron brought up I think another for the protocol all the extensions or the Federation documents for that matter um there is anything to present ation yeah I don't think I mean we can present extensions we can talk about extensions that's honestly that's as much as many of the smaller working groups are doing and I think that's I think that justifies at least an hour we can just do that so it's it's no skin off my nose it's one button and I'm already going to be there um it'd be great if more than three people showed up uh in person um but so I'll I'll leave it to the group because I I know that uh I don't think Richard's gonna be there Raphael I think you're going to be there but only"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:18:03",
    "text": "exactly that's the thing so there's still like one hour and a half apart the two venues so um I can try to be there but no guarantee yeah I mean if you ask for a Thursday or Friday session we should be fine oh I can definitely do that I can swing they'll they'll probably love that actually um so all right so I mean unless I'm hearing any violent objections I don't really have a problem putting in in our request and they'll Friday and it will be probably Friday afternoon but uh it it'll it'll work yeah that would work okay I'll go in I'll go ahead and do that then um and you know just be I guess Raphael the thing is that we just have to make we have some presentations or Rowan you're gonna have to do it yourself to carry the weight so um that's fine that's fine that's what I figured all right all right cool I will go ahead and put that in and I think that might be it for today unless anybody has anything else I have one more thing which I so we did not address the comments uh from the art area on an architecture um and so I think that those are those are worth having a quick look at so there are three issues right um extensibility we don't have a good narrative describing why extensibility works um the second is it is still totally unclear to people that your choice of how you implement the DS has huge change has huge effects on how the client works I think this will this will come out in Mimi when we start to propose a specific MLS profile but I think we do want to get ahead of this at some point and so"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:20:02",
    "text": "um if anyone would like to collaborate on a doc on a draft um a non-working group draft about this I would be happy to do this for the for in the next 80 up uh and then finally the the inability of a client to remove itself I was waiting for basically us to get isg approval but I talked with Richard about some ideas of how to improve client removal because it's it really is a pain in the butt it's it is like not it's not a great thing that the protocol is it's so hard to remove yourself um I don't disagree but I don't think that's like the crypto method allows it foreign well I mean we discussed ways that that give you almost the same thing without changing the crypto at all it's more about the operation of the clients and eyes yeah yeah you can you can simulate it in some ways yeah like using some operational practices yeah so yeah I just I just wanted everybody to be aware of these three things that like we're gonna get questions about what these these questions are not going to go away um we should be prepared to talk about it but I don't think we should do anything differently about the protocol and the architecture document to me doesn't seem like the right place to go and have a long treaties on these three topics uh if somebody disagrees and thinks that we should stick this in the architecture that we should talk about these in the architecture document I could go and do three separate PRS on these or two you know if you have specific one or two of these that you think are important I could do a PR for them um so yeah like say you know speak speak now or send me an email in the next week or two if"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:22:02",
    "text": "somebody thinks we need a PR for these for for architecture but um FYI I agree with Richard it shouldn't go into the architecture whether we need to address it in other documents I'm not sure because there's an arbitrary number of questions that have a potential to always come up with yeah I was gonna say she really did you a favor by making us a comment because I think she might be bringing this up as a as you say you know I'm like uh hey this isn't gonna go away but not blocking the document so it seems it seems to me that this might be lending it's completing it someplace else yeah I mean I I am I was shocked that this that these did not come up as as discusses um and also very grateful she's not she's not new um all right cool so I think what we're gonna do is we're gonna the way I would probably try to address is that we you know collectively don't think they need to be specifically addressed here in the architecture document but they're that it's given us food for thought for other documents all right unless there's anything else okay that brings us to a close thank you Richard for taking notes thank you for authors and everyone who showed up uh at early and late times to get this done um again thanks for your continued efforts and hopefully we'll get this all knocked out and get this uh approved"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:24:01",
    "text": "announcement sent as soon as possible awesome all right talk to you all later and I'll see some of you in Yokohama all right thank you everyone bye"
  }
]
