[
  {
    "startTime": "00:00:06",
    "text": "we may just have you come up with your laptop your firewall doesn\u0027t light on fire [Music] oh you don\u0027t have a oh when she just came by that ass okay so do you profit on goal what his behavior so he can project my hdmi Thanks ah this is HD much okay "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:03:10",
    "text": "no I\u0027m us and see but I have it so I\u0027ve just downloaded the video the first one yeah but we should we have one in the back just for new people coming in oh thank you oh are you taking the other one er as long as we got one we should go is the blue sheet in the back oh it\u0027s right there so if you can pick one yeah thank you all right good afternoon everyone cool and he even got that working alright sorry about the delay we can go ahead and get started so for those of you just so you know this is the mile working group just in case because we had two people that were in the wrong room okay next slide um this is the new note well I\u0027m not gonna read it to you that\u0027s our standard note well so for today we just want to give you the brief update of where we are with the current drafts and our milestones which I think we are getting close and then Stephen is going to present the the updates to the Roli draft which is hopefully completing the last call and I\u0027ll probably ask for a couple more reviews while I do the write-up and Shepherd it and then I\u0027ll hand over the chair to Pakistan so I can give you a quick update on the XMPP grid draft and then Chucky will you or on present mia will present the updates to the guidance draft with some comments to the techy will will provide updates and come - the version - if the i/o death steamer and then one last added if we have time is to start the discussion so I don\u0027t know how many of you perhaps show Han have been tracking discussions and the "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:06:10",
    "text": "pls working group kind of yeah Kathleen I don\u0027t think we yeah so there\u0027s been basically the issue revolves around being able to decrypt I guess at a proxy level right in the TLS 1.3 and issues around that and so there\u0027s been a lot of discussions around the architecture which could effectively affect us if we\u0027re trying to get some insight for the incident reporting so if we have time we\u0027ll open up the mick to see if there are any questions or issues that we need to discuss right and perfect so Kathleen maybe you could start with providing us with a summary and then we\u0027ll open up to make um so with that let\u0027s give you a quick status of where we are so we\u0027re you on look at the work that we\u0027ve been chartered to do with respect to the data modeling the data representation we\u0027ve got the IO death drafts which have been published we\u0027ve been talking about the different transports the two new drafts under construction in working group last call have been rolling and XMPP grid they did go through working group last call I think Roley is much more mature so we can talk and and ask our area director Kathleen if we can just move it forward um given that the authors have provided an updated draft was it this morning yes so I I\u0027m not even gonna ask for whose read it yet and then mio has been providing some updates on the IO death right which we\u0027ll get an update on that as well so I think given our milestone dates we are pretty much on track given that there were substantial rewrite of the XMPP grid I think that\u0027s fair and I know I\u0027m speaking as chair that we should go through another last call for the XMPP quit draft and we can discuss whether we\u0027re ready for the Roley as well for that to be shepherded through and then Dave and Steven you were gonna put AC cert draft for Roley and when you get to it okay so we\u0027ll discuss that so this is "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:09:10",
    "text": "the proposed timeline for the current drafts so I think with that um Steven did you get his slides no you did they\u0027re in the money oh yeah he\u0027s not on VPN so I think it\u0027ll be easier do you mind just projecting from your yes and please stand on the pink box yes [Music] guys oh that\u0027s okay okay I\u0027m Steven Bankart from NIST I\u0027m gonna give a presentation about the current status of the two Roley drafts that are here in the mile working group the first one I\u0027ll be talking about is the Rolly quard draft that specifies the actual Rolly transport itself and I\u0027ll be talking a little bit about the Rolly c-cert extension that\u0027s here as well so we went through working group last call and got a quite a lot of good feedback we are actually very very happy with the responses that we got and we feel like we improved the document a lot so immediately following working group last call we pushed out a - o7 version that included the vast majority of those changes and to quickly run through those changes so everyone can kind of keep track of the deltas here the first thing we did was we received some comments that the front matter of the document was a little bit weighty so we went and reworked the front matter reworked the introduction and made everything a bit more concise made it flow a little bit better hopefully if it\u0027s your first time reading the document it goes a little bit smoother now so that\u0027s one of the things that if you\u0027re reviewing it now is to look at is the new frontmatter the second major change that happened after working group last call is that we switched our URL templating to the slash dot well-known Ayana registration that\u0027s a IETF standard that specifies that if you\u0027re laying out a URL pattern for well-known URLs that you should register it - this slash dot well-known registration so for a service document retrieval it is now inspect out that that will happen at the server root slash dot well - known slash service "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:12:10",
    "text": "slash Rolly slash service document and that\u0027s all described in the spec this is more compliant to IETF guidance now along with that ion registration we also registered a few more things in the Ayane tables that we\u0027d already established we just filled in a couple more initial values so there are now local registrations in there so to make a namespace that is just designated 100% for local use of both property and category we also registered at that time one initial property which was a Content author name I\u0027ll be talking a bit more about that on the next slide we added a privacy consideration section this was again in line with recent IETF guidance that we should be adding privacy considerations so that\u0027s all new text in that section talks a little bit about how just how information stored in role a sent over Olli can cause breaches of privacy cross referencing information to resolve identity things like that so there\u0027s some considerations there in that section and then there was a big stack of editorial grammatical sentence structure changes from working group last call we accepted almost all of those and hopefully made the document a lot better so this came this update was pushed out about two months ago after the working group last call following the working group last call we actually received a decent amount of review during a requirements review process of roli and we wanted to get that feedback into the document before it went on to the next step of publication so just this morning we got that update in and we produced the - oh eight version of Rolly and this is integrating the last of the review that we got that was after the working group last call but we felt was important enough to get in before it started to move forward so as a quick overview I\u0027m not going to go into intense detail of these changes because none of these changes changed normative requirements which is notable these are all editorial changes we clarified a couple requirements but there is no requirement explicit requirement changes in - oh eight we rewrote a couple of the sections namely a PP collection and atom feed to make those not only flow a little bit better but to also explain our intent a little bit more clear l√©a so that reading it the first time you understand a little bit better what it means to be a Roli feed and what it means to be a Roli collection so hopefully those sections are a little bit clearer now there\u0027s a decent amount of new non normative text in those sections there was a kind of errant extra requirement in the security "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:15:10",
    "text": "considerations section that had actually already been covered in the earlier parts of the document but that had kind of made its way down into security considerations so we went ahead and resolved that so that duplicate requirement was not there we did some more clarification of the TLS requirements section we\u0027ve been iterating on that pretty much every update we feel like it\u0027s in a pretty good place now we\u0027ve we\u0027ve clarified and really kind of made clear our intentions for the TLS requirements and then we also did some more clarification to make the rid requirements more clear as well there was no actual requirement changes we just kind of did some semantic wordsmithing to make sure that everything came across as clearly as possible then more notably we registered three more properties so that the property table when Roley publish publishes at this moment the property table will have four initial values just from the core of course extensions may add to that but it now for now we have four and that is the content author name from oh seven that is a property that allows people to expose either the name of the author or the name of the organization that created the piece of content you\u0027re talking about we registered property Content ID which is a way to expose an identifier from the content we registered publish date and update date updated date which fairly self-explanatory allow you to expose the date that the content was originally published if it\u0027s different than the date that the roli entry is published and it allows you to expose the date that the content was updated again assuming that it\u0027s different than the date that the rolling entry was updated we actually discovered that these properties would be useful to add in the process of helping other working groups right Roley extensions we were working on some other extensions and found that these properties are useful to register in the core so that every single extension doesn\u0027t have to register them for themselves and this will help interoperability hopefully and allow these registrations to be done in the core so and then oh it also includes a smaller batch of editorial grammatical and word smithing changes that aren\u0027t really important enough to mention so at this point we would like to ask the working group in the chairs as to what the next steps are for this Roley core document obviously there has been no one has read the new updates yet it just went out a couple hours ago so if you have read it I should buy you a beer or something that\u0027s amazing so we need to make have a few people read through a fund some of the changes but none of them are normative changes they\u0027re all editorial they\u0027re all grammatical they\u0027re all sentence structure so what is the feeling in the room over here at the desk on kind of "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:18:12",
    "text": "what we should do here well I think we got a lot of the substantial comments through last call I think if I recall the ones that came after room or I would put a minor category yes um so I think the next step would be Kathleen as the area director to review it and as the chair in the Shepherd I should probably review it I\u0027m not sure that we need to do another full working group last call we can open it up for another couple weeks but yeah so Kathleen moriarity Area Director who\u0027s not that tall so yeah so if you just want to do your the Royce Shepherd write-up and then toss it over to me into iesg review okay I will do my review and then you can address those comments and then we\u0027ll do IETF last call and then from there it goes to iesg review pretty simple so things are we work on this okay of course yeah and everyone in the room for viewing and healthy yeah of course and as always more review more questions more comments more than more than welcome I look forward to it working on this for a while on it make it as good as it can be if anyone is interested in writing extensions for this please don\u0027t hesitate to let me know I\u0027ve helping a couple other people put together extensions as well for other information types or any other registrations in the Rolly space so please don\u0027t hesitate to shoot me an email or stop me here this week and talk to me about it or if anyone\u0027s doing any kind of implementation work anything like that I\u0027d love to hear about it so that\u0027s more or less yeah good Brett Jordan um so I\u0027d like to give you know I don\u0027t want to work with you a little bit offline not here waste time but I\u0027d like to eat a little bit more information on the direction that Roly is gonna go long-term okay i\u0027m as chair of taxi in the different standards body i would like to see a convergence at some point between convergence of what of functionality between what taxi join taxi and Roly because they\u0027re similar kind of concept so i would just like to discuss that so i would have to say that\u0027s really not in scope four-mile that would be something that would be done up yeah so Kathleen Moriarty I\u0027m happy to have that conversation probably doesn\u0027t need to be we can even have a small group to help with that but they are different transport protocols so doing convergence might be very difficult and might result in interoperability problems would be my concern this taxi involves at least "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:21:13",
    "text": "laughs I looked at it and it\u0027s been a while for me so I could be wrong multiple transports that it accepts right Oh they\u0027ve changed it yeah taxi 2.0 I haven\u0027t kept up I\u0027m sorry yeah and that when they had yeah so I think they would have had they continue down that path that would have been big and or operability problems so it\u0027s good to hear yeah thank you I just want to investigate what the possibilities are and what things can do to to make it so offenders said you have a court provender that it makes it easier for product managers to adopt okay so I think many of us would need an overview of right tax is today yep to see what is possible so if you can help with that maybe that would be good thank you a table to my a couple couple responses I guess to that would would it make sense to do that overview in the next mile meeting an interim maybe yeah I wouldn\u0027t want to wait that long the other the other question is or I guess the other thing I was going to say was I\u0027m you know one of so I\u0027ve looked at taxi 2.0 I think Stephens actually participating in that committee we would like to see personally would like to see Roly used as a transport for stir sticks I think one of the major differences between Roly and taxi is the taxi is json-based and Roly uses Adam pub and atom syndication format which is XML based one of the things I\u0027ve been talking with some of the original authors about the original authors of Adam and Adam Adam syndication Adam pub like Mark Nottingham as an example about is how we might be able to update atom syndication and atom pub in order to provide a JSON based model in addition to the XML model because the way Adam pub works you can request which format you want your entry or your feed in the only the only real possible way to do it right now is to request an XML version because that\u0027s all that\u0027s defined by by the ietf but it does have some of the flexibility baked in to allow you to also request a JSON version of that of a given feed or a given you know given entry and so if we were able to spin up some work in the IETF around doing that we could actually you know create a JSON representation which I think would then cause it to better align with what is currently "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:24:13",
    "text": "being used in in oasis so I\u0027d be interested in talking with the iesg about you know how we might be able to start some work in that regard I think that\u0027s work that we would be interested and in doing that might be part of the mile charter I mean we are talking about the data representations which is part of our Charter so I guess what I\u0027m hearing and maybe we should just ask here and we could take it back to the male group if there is enough interest I know for me I\u0027d like to hear an update of where taxi 2.0 is and then maybe have another session where there\u0027s discussion of where the compliment overlap you know just so we can define what it is that defined the gaps effectively right that we would have to put focus to so if you don\u0027t mind me jumping in really quick before we asked the room the the JSON update to Adam and Adam pub is something that we actually were thinking about doing before we ever really were even familiar with the taxi space we think that the the JSON update would be useful for a lot of reasons people like JSON these days and being able to use Adam and Adam pub in JSON would be useful for roli regardless of the rest of this of this space so I think it\u0027s it\u0027s two separate um interest okay so if you want to raise that interest and you want to put in a mile we need to discuss it in miles so we\u0027re adding as another working group right yeah and if we wanted to investigate like sea boar or cap and proto or something like that you know as a chair in taxi and as an editor in sticks you mentioned you would like to see sticks transported over Roli I\u0027ll work with you on that as an editor so I can we can so find some path there so as the mild chair I think we do need to put prioritization right so I think the first order of business is for us to identify which to me begins with having this form understand so getting an overview brand right of taxi 2.0 so the suggestion was we don\u0027t need to wait wait until the next face-to-face we can put it out on the main list we can set up a doodle poll to pick a time and so Brad I\u0027m gonna look to youth as volunteering somebody to help provide with that overview and okay so one hour okay so before we do this I\u0027d like to get I guess a hung is there enough "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:27:14",
    "text": "interest in the group for us to pursue the learning of taxi and figuring out how we do the the inter work between taxi and Roli can I get a hump please okay I would say that\u0027s pretty strong okay so all I\u0027ll set up I\u0027ll send an email instead of a doodle poll to get that moving and then from there we\u0027ll decide whether we do another interim or wait for the face-to-face but don\u0027t let me stop you from doing internal I mean sign right progress right well we would we\u0027d like to keep as much I mean it\u0027s everything we want to do publicly and transparently here so right well we don\u0027t want it you don\u0027t want to distract as you soon right we\u0027ve got our business which is we\u0027re gonna move Roly forward right so now the next question is whether you want to bring Roly with JSON as the next and that\u0027s something that we need to bring it to the group and agree as to whether that\u0027s another working item we need to put in two mile separate from that is the taxi work that\u0027s the way I\u0027m seeing it overlay at commented I would like to see Roly over JSON simply because as a vendor I if I take off my open source you know community hat and put on my vendor hat working in a JSON environment is a lot easier especially in the whole web 2.0 environment that everyone\u0027s going to and cloud to cloud communication going between Amazon and Google and Rackspace XML is painfully difficult to implement these days and it\u0027s not in the development stack of any vendor um so well I would say anything the vast majority of vendors and mine is a small security company so so yes I would be very much in favor of Roly with a Jason I\u0027m not sure we\u0027re quite ready to bring that to a vote yet but so I have one more I promise talking about the c-cert extension as well are we ready to go to that or yeah I think so okay so at some point I\u0027m gonna leave it to you to meet with this session of bringing Roly Jason and that\u0027s when we\u0027ll ask okay okay so the other documents here are relevant to Roly in mile is the c-cert extension there has not been a major update in a while my time enrollees been working on finishing the core document to get that out and stabilized so I\u0027ve actually identified a few minor edits that I\u0027ve been compiling together into a - OH - but it\u0027s only "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:30:14",
    "text": "very minor so it\u0027s it\u0027s at least shaped correctly at the moment it\u0027s it\u0027s fleshed out most of the way there\u0027s still work left to be done I mean there\u0027s been no review on it it\u0027s still a personal draft it\u0027s just under my name so I think what I would like to ask the group in the chairs for is working group adoption so that we can begin to work on it as a working group and and figure out how we want this extension to look so have we let me ask the group who has read this draft so I I think I think we need a couple more people to read the draft then before we can ask that question okay so yeah can we get some volunteers please yeah I\u0027d like to get a focus on this without this extension Roly cannot carry io def I would like to make this very clear to everybody so we had Chris Roman and Frank Frank yes I\u0027m the c-cert Rolly c-cert draft oh you\u0027ve read it okay I mean that\u0027s fine no I appreciate it cuz you\u0027re writing notes um so Roman has already read it so it would be Chris and Frank and I\u0027ll ask I guess I\u0027ll send it out to the mail to for even review and so Frank and Chris when do you think cuz I don\u0027t think we want to wait huh it\u0027s not very long I think right now the entire length of the document is 22 pages about ten of those is the appendix which is not necessary for this stage of review probably so it\u0027s not very long relatively not very long anyway okay okay yes so I\u0027ll send an email to ask for more reviews and Chris and Frank I\u0027m just huh you think by this week okay so I\u0027m gonna send it out on the mail so maybe I\u0027ll have to add another week to it and then we can I\u0027ll post a question "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:33:14",
    "text": "through the mail right okay have I used all my time at this point you did have time if if the group is interested if the chairs are interested we used Roley in the hackathon if anyone would like to hear about kind of implementation report or a hackathon report on that would anyone have any interest in that yes okay so I have been working on and is the chair so you okay with that five minutes is more than enough so I\u0027ve been working on an implementation of Roley we deployed it and used it at the hackathon we were using it to store and allow discovery of and then deploy in this case it was software descriptors and vulnerabilities were the information types that we were using in this hackathon demo there were only a few implementation issues the standard itself held up and operated we were able to successfully send HTTP requests to the roli server in order to go through the service document and to parse through that to find a relevant collection and departs through that to find relevant vulnerabilities and actually extract the content out and use it further down the workflow chain so by by all measures the roli standard itself worked really really well at the hackathon it completely filled in the square that we needed to fill in and we were really happy about about how it operated there at the hackathon so if anyone has any questions or comments about how it went during the hackathon or the implementation or any of that or I worked with Dave at the hackathon so I\u0027m sure he more more comments about that how about I did de volta Myra how about I add them to the notes for you so I just wanted to add one other thing one that we demonstrated the extensibility of Rowley because we also used it to serve up oval content which was used as part of the the hackathon so yeah that was a another type of content that we you know hadn\u0027t really been you know considering using using Rowley to serve and yeah and it did yeah cool okay that\u0027s good now I\u0027m done for real thanks Steven yeah thank you all right oh so the next talk is by Nancy about a thing keep it wrapped I\u0027m also short thank you yeah this morning I couldn\u0027t bring the pole down okay so everybody who knows me by now I\u0027m antsy can watch it so I did "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:36:15",
    "text": "post a version 3 of the XMPP draft and if anybody has looked at it you will notice that it was a major rewrite it has now gone from 45 pages to 20 some not pages so given all of the editorial comments so thanks Adam for them as well as Chris and Hank long list so all of those I addressed the biggest most critical feedback was its readability that it was just too hard to discern when you look at the history of the draft in both the second group and the mild group where it was presented there weren\u0027t that many people familiar with XMPP and so there was a lot of content in there that described how XMPP worked all of that text is now gone okay so right now what you\u0027ll see in the text is basically saying we are using XMPP to either query or publish/subscribe to obtain information this is how you do it using XMPP and so how you do the authentication authorization you use this RFC so I left the general architecture diagram I put in a new abstract message flow diagram showing the RFC\u0027s as well as the XMPP extensions that you would use to carry the i/o death and in fact XMPP has already created its own namespace for i/o death the one question that I put in the IANA considerations was whether we in Mile want to put on Ayana registry for the different IO diversions as new namespaces just so that an XMPP when you want to create a topic if you\u0027re familiar with publish/subscribe mechanisms and you stream a new data model right that you know exactly which version you\u0027re talking about so basically I really have tried to put the clarifications in there it is a major rewrite the security considerations I left alone because architectural e.message wise all that content hasn\u0027t changed so from a privacy and security all of that still applies so um next slide please so basically it was section 2 that has been completely rewritten and the appendices are now gone ok where we actually were trying to show the XML messaging it\u0027s all of those exists in "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:39:16",
    "text": "the rfcs and the XMPP RFC\u0027s and then the gems okay next slide please ok so to carry io death and XMPP these are the basic so there\u0027s the base XMPP protocol that\u0027s now part of an updated RFC which includes the pub/sub but I left the publish subscribed which is Jeff 0-60 also referenced in there just because there\u0027s better examples in that Jeff right up then there is an RC ok but how you do the discovery and now a question that I\u0027m thinking of is we could actually do the discovery through the XMPP discovery mechanism they call it disco we could potentially use Roly as well so that\u0027s basically the gist of the changes next slide so I just wanted to give thanks for all of the feedback I wasn\u0027t able to each Peterson Andre but I did reach out to David Cridland just to make sure that where I was going with the draft was what he was looking for and he said yes you\u0027re on the right path okay so I think we need to do another working group last call or it just because it was a substantial write-up content wise to me semantically it really hasn\u0027t changed but hopefully it\u0027s much more readable but now there is the explicit presumption that you go and read the XMPP breaths right so given that Stephen gave the the readout for the hackathon I\u0027ll also put a plug for XMPP grid so we also did a hackathon or participated in the hackathon using the I to NSF and I forget which group Eric Boyd so those groups are providing information of the network devices like topology like session state information and configuration so what we did was we used their pub I\u0027ll call it pub cons right interface so Huawei had a switch in their cloud in China and we at Cisco had a switch in the u.s. in our lab and they were providing so I believe the Cisco switch we were providing just so we could show the variety of information that could be shared so Cisco was showing here\u0027s topology information that "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:42:17",
    "text": "the switch is seeing Huawei was showing here\u0027s the session information that we\u0027re seeing they were publishing it in the yang data model publishing it to the XMPP grid and the XMPP grid was saying here\u0027s this information that\u0027s available so we didn\u0027t really have we were just gonna put a stub application that was a consumer but we didn\u0027t quite have time to do that but anyway so that was the first true interoperability of two separate data repositories across the world sharing information through XMPP bring an instance of XMPP that\u0027s it questions so is it okay we will initiate the working group last call just after the week and try to wait for one month and then finalize a draft it okay if you have any objection I don\u0027t think okay we would initiate mass call gain after the meeting thank you okay so next up I think we have Mia okay so we my name is Neil and I will present the status of titles one next time he has overview of his draft and distraught them to provide guidelines of biotech implementation know about presentation of for home security in theatres and about you stay faithful fun at first I I will show status of this draft and then show updates from previous draft and finally I\u0027ll show to do this and excite he I drop status we think currently a locking roof last call consensus reached and we we modified our defying reviews from Adamu and Roma after working with lustful sanctum and drama and we are now waiting for "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:45:18",
    "text": "Shepherd writer I appreciate Nancy taking a shepherd and yeah plates from the previous draft we modified issues before in accountants review comment the comment is main language improvements and need throughout the draft and then now we modified issues from romance and witty comments as we are fixing XMS lipid and exact of consistency in the fact I owe the value and then add the description of xml:lang attribute and also add that difference to read and finally language improvement throughout the draft and solution also added paragraph about language support in midstream assets and I think to-do list is only full waiting for Shepherd right up is that quick that\u0027s all yeah I think so on I apologize for being late um so I think I just need to do the right of because the comments so Roman as far as I saw you comments they were fairly a neighing so I think I\u0027ll just go ahead and do the right of you and then G as well and we\u0027re good to go thank you for all your hard work thank you it\u0027s good okay about some comment on diet of schema I was also enjoying a hackathon this time I was building a converter between six and I ODF and found out several schema a necessity of the change schema so the first one is easy one the IANA registry has a schema but a schemer was somehow edited by somebody else so we had unnecessary unnecessary space in a namespace so I would like to change it maybe you could ask Rahman to change the schema what should I do that I don\u0027t know Justin deleting fits the name is vertical relation they had a space between thanked yeah I was gonna say dude we need to put an errata for that deathly moriarty ad if it\u0027s just is "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:48:27",
    "text": "the same problem in the draft as well or is it just in a uploaded schema schema insight right yes but I\u0027m just more worried about in the draft because people tend to be literal well I think that so yeah so there\u0027s that but the most important thing is getting the Ayana one that is yeah hold on automatically fixed so that\u0027s something I think I can easily just approve I don\u0027t think that\u0027ll be a big come up but then we have to check to see if it\u0027s in the draft and then maybe an errata so people are aware yep so can you fix the space issue given their line wrapping in the document I mean we can we can take a look I\u0027m not sure because I don\u0027t know whether we can make the spacing right in the document given you have the 72 characters but in the registry it can obviously do this thank you for finding them we do have some other issue to review so we had an example in the draft right so we use an example through the draft from from the RFC 7920 and also from the guidance draft and I checked with this this can be workable and it wasn\u0027t we identified three issue here the first one if iam occur of the URL was defined in the threat actor class but the schema does not allow us to omit the URL element so we have to stitch by the minimum number of the occurrence I think we have to change it in that trust as well and also the scheme as well okay I\u0027m feeling an errata coming yeah other issue since number 5 the enum value of the type attribute in bulk observable class do not have sqdm but in the example you we are using fqdn so we should change draft or schema we can discuss about it well at this moment we can just use a extension type but the extension type station value but also missing from the schema so we have to angry change it so these are the two big issues yeah it is clear - yes thank you the draft was really huge so it was not so easy to fix everything I guess no but this is good I mean it\u0027s great that you were able to test and so the question is can you work with Roman sure to create the errata yeah "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:51:28",
    "text": "yes so other comment from panels panels has sent email access even months ago but I think the discussion went somewhere so I hope you can take care of this so he was basically saying that the language attribute is also know but didn\u0027t the optional access so we can just change its a schema this is something we can just discuss on the mailing list I wanted to today\u0027s issue here so after the meeting I will pause the slide and also this sentence from the email untidy discus father it should be simple via email yes yeah I think for all of the issues just raise them on the email list and say this is the proposed resolution and then I think as Kathleen said once you put the errata draft in there and just put everything for the readers and they don\u0027t use it so finally comment yeah we should change the schema and RFC though so what I felt is maybe game JSON it\u0027s useful I used to work for the JSON representation but somehow this was bent somewhere but if somebody is interested I want to keep working with the JSON representation I think are there any interest of this work if yes I can work on that you cannot I will just keep it so is anyone here from the black Nick c-cert group anyone here from Lac Nick c-cert group no okay they are interested yes so I was on a say we\u0027ve talked about the importance of JSON and if we\u0027re gonna have role the extent to JSON it only makes sense to have PI o death yeah so I know it is used within the Lac Nixie certain circles oh okay io def is and I did speak with some fellows that are here attending and who regularly tends the Galactic meetings and their c-cert means and they expressed interest they must have a conflict that they\u0027re not here okay so let me just be formal and asked the group this is a group believe we should add the definition of IO death with JSON can you please hum if you agree I think that\u0027s so I\u0027ll just send confirm that uh anyone opposed yeah "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:54:39",
    "text": "so I was gonna post to the mail the mile main group but I think you know saying that we had support here in the room I could just say if anybody\u0027s opposed to speak up or you want me to say support or not I think that would be good I think some of us should also do some outreach to make sure we have incident responders that will actually use it engaged so I will help with that okay and there\u0027s a number of other people that help with like not lack nic and coordination here so like Carlos Martinez I\u0027ll try to help make these connections because it\u0027sit\u0027s only valuable if we\u0027re gonna have people using it right yep holy well if you want to send me the connections but at minimum I\u0027ll send out the email 2-mile okay great listen if somebody I guess to with this work if somebody\u0027s willing to go present it there at one of their meetings I can help arrange that as well so it\u0027d be a trip to South America I\u0027m sure taki would love that with this light that would involve for him okay that was our kites imprisoned in Spanish but I know no English is fine I I have presented multiple times at their c-cert group oh okay yep destinations are usually wonderful um but you can present in English and they have full translation to English when there\u0027s a presenter in Spanish so you merge earpiece yes yeah it\u0027s very well done but that might help as well just so we have additional real customers and then maybe the see sir group that was located here from the last time we met in Prague they also had something related in JSON that wasn\u0027t quite IO def what was closed so I think we should re engage them at least four reviews alright so we\u0027ll talk and figure out who might be able to take a trip to South America okay thanks oh that\u0027s Central America but close close enough thank you very much all right thanks Nucky okay so any order of business before we go into TLS updates and discussion nope okay Kathleen would you mind sure Kathleen Moriarty secondiy how many people are following TLS okay how many "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:57:39",
    "text": "people in the room do incident response work or have done it okay so I was hoping some of some of the folks would be able to attend that are trying to get their use cases solved this is really just a request hey I don\u0027t think we got all the people in the room I was hoping would show up so that we can have a discussion to help them but on the TLS list elos 1.3 maybe I\u0027m in front so TLS 1.3 enables perfect forward secrecy and we it is going to remove properties that people have leveraged in the past like using RSA static keys to intercept traffic so this obviously affects the way so enterprises operate today and some products and their implementations there is and this is you know it goes in line with 7258 and and that we\u0027re trying to do better with encryption and the working group you know had a firm decision on that so there\u0027s a proposal that enables the use of diffie-hellman static keys is their short term for it that\u0027s going to be presented on Wednesday and the mailing list has just completely blown up [Music] hundreds of messages in the last couple of days discussing the use it started from a use case discussion of what this actually helps with except that she\u0027s trying to think of from the best way to say this so the use cases weren\u0027t clear enough and weren\u0027t crisp enough and weren\u0027t narrow to exactly the problems that were solved with this particular draft so I was hoping to get some incident responders engaged his incident response was turned there as as a general and I\u0027ve tried to help with the conversation and I do have the experience to know what this is but a few more incident responders people that experience may help so basically if you own the server you can use this technique to monitor traffic with the key so basically decrypt the traffic going to that particular server that you own anyway so you have that capability you do not have the capability to monitor other people\u0027s servers because you would not have that key and the current proposal doesn\u0027t let the client know that this is happening although I suspect that\u0027s going to change for it to go forward so there\u0027s a narrow set of use cases it\u0027s been put a bit larger so I\u0027m just hoping there\u0027s a few people it may not be worth having a discussion here unless people are are interested but I\u0027m just looking for some help "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:00:40",
    "text": "because it\u0027s being argued that people don\u0027t have the experience now it\u0027s been a few years since I\u0027ve been hands-on but I do understand how this stuff works I know a bunch of you do too so I\u0027d say read up on on the diffie-hellman proposal and at least the initial messages in the use case thread and they are supposed to come out with an updated example of updated set of use cases so if you respond please do it so in a helpful way and professional way so it advances that conversation otherwise I\u0027m afraid that conversations gonna take a really long time so it\u0027s just really kind of a plea for help from experts Dave won\u0027t fire wood but one way of tackling this be to enumerate some of the use cases in an informational draft and then now have the ietf provide guidelines on how the how to address the concerns I don\u0027t think that\u0027s necessary no we don\u0027t need a draft so I think just an email is gonna be just fine for this progress and the proponents are already working on that but helpful responses to tone it down in professional ways I think the messages have been professional enough on the list but making sure it stays that way and that they\u0027re getting sound advice from people who have the hands-on experience it\u0027s kind of what I\u0027m looking for because there\u0027s a you know there\u0027s some presupposing that people don\u0027t have experience so I know some of you do Brett Jordan I made this comment earlier today in in the TLS meeting for the record I am very much for encryption and I think privacy is a very important thing I do have concerns with these proposals that are coming out of the TLS working group not just this one but also the encrypted SNI and I think it sets up for a very dangerous precedent as organizations historically have tried to protect their networks through middle box technology to be able to find malicious content or data going out or whatever however you want to look at it with some of these technologies that are coming down the pipe with with TLS TLS 1.3 specifically is we\u0027re going to get to a point where every middle box is you know whether it\u0027s a Cisco a sa firewall or whether it\u0027s a Palo Alto firewall or who knows what they\u0027re going to have to do full TLS proxy and some of these devices are not very good at it I\u0027m in the vendor space and so if I was a threat actor these devices are now going to become the "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:03:41",
    "text": "prime target for everything that I do because now it\u0027s like historically you were able to do you know some basic inspection and you were able to say oh all the Amazon traffic all the stuff you\u0027re buying with credit card information but we\u0027re not gonna decrypt that or all the banking traffic we\u0027re not going to decrypt that and now you\u0027re going to get the situation where these devices are gonna take a huge performance hit because they\u0027re gonna have to do full TLS proxy and now as a threat actor that\u0027s my number one target because it\u0027s going to have everything in the clear and I think we need to make sure we\u0027re very conscientious about the risk and our appetite for risk and so right so encrypted sni is anyone familiar with that just because that\u0027s a whole big SNA is used by devices to determine it basically see the hostname essentially now I think there\u0027s some mitigators for that and I think that if it goes forward and the working group I\u0027m not taking any position by the way if the working group decides that encrypts and I should be encrypted then there has to be clear notifications to server operators so that they understand whether or not they should encrypt SNI for their particular service and you know banks for instance might opt to not encrypt s and I so that their traffic is not intercepted by proxies so you know I see that as a reality you know I\u0027m sure some people pull that trigger immediately I\u0027m hoping we can get to better guidance so Before we jump to that and that we\u0027re able to put more good information out in terms of you know real use cases mitigating factors pros cons and come to good decisions with good information I think I think there are ways to do encryption and push this all forward so help with people from people with experience is is much appreciated probably all right I think that\u0027s all we had on the agenda unless there is any other business you guys won race if not please chime in on the emails that will be coming on the mile all right thanks everyone have a good rest to buy it yet Oh "
  }
]