[
  {
    "startTime": "00:00:04",
    "text": "i have a wrong eddie there now oh because i i it was valid when i wrote the trout or the slides i'm not going to change it now okay guess it's now 12 30 so we should be getting started so this slightly second me working group and i'm there and my co-chair is also online i don't know yeah there he is and your culture is telling you to speak up or closer to the mic all right so i will move close to the mic what where's your pink wall yeah okay so our responsible lady is no longer benjamin kharook is now a roman who is probably also oh he's i can see him he's not online but anyway so let's go forward then so this is the note well it's pretty have probably noted well already for at least this point of view and we don't need to have blue seats because they are taking automatically care of uh if you use the meat echo either the online you know version or the full version if you're using full version make sure you might mute out the audio uh peter already agreed to take notes but it would be useful to have somebody"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:02:00",
    "text": "else also helping him in case he misses something and i don't think we actually need the choppers right i would try to try to you know check the chamber myself also because i can detach it now so it's much more easier to do that and there's links for jabber and mitako and notes the notes the kodiami notes already had the template for the uh for for the systems oh you said it was sounded better before i getting close to the mic now you can actually hear me alright so we have a quite short agenda and two hours for it so we will have plenty of time so we have two presentations today one is the group key management for ice version 2 and the other one is the optional sa and ts payloads in child exchange all right so any comments on the agenda any bashing you want to do with agenda any technical difficulties we need to take care of before we start this is the odds and i need to do that all right so working group report what is the current status so we have now uh icos and two intermediate which i think was actually approved a couple of days ago so it says in rfc editor queue iptfs draft 3 the the base star after the young amp document are now in the ist or actually sorry the adq waiting for edit to read and put them out uh the rfc8229b was actually put to the publication requested on i think on wednesday or yesterday so it should be getting out i will be getting the i question one"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:04:01",
    "text": "algorithm to historic and labeled ipsec also out very soon and i already got an because i have the separate write-up so i just need to do the review and uh put right up in and fix it so uh the multiple key exchange i already got also some kind of uh proto write up for that so i can actually start working on that too and then we have the i question gi version 2 and the ad ike and out announced that hasn't had that much of uh working process there gi question 2 did get an i got a review and there was a new version of that that changed it quite a lot and we have a presentation of that today all right okay go ahead christian hi uh is my voice working hopefully yeah great i just wanted to mention that we um we are starting work on uh linux implementation of the uh iptfs and so just wanted to add some maybe a little bit of you know push uh i know it's not in your guys's hands anymore but i don't i don't know if is it ben that has to still sign off on it or has it shifted to roman now it's shifted to romans roman will be checking it out i don't know how long his cue is but of course you have to understand that probably all the stuff that moved from roman to him are might be ending up in the end of the queue not in the beginning or he might be talking by the date i don't know it depends on the throwing throwing them all up again and seeing where they fall who knows yeah okay um yes i think he noticed that some of those have been in queue quite a long time and he was a little bit surprised for that so i think he might be actually prioritizing some of those yeah that would be great um yeah so uh just yeah"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:06:01",
    "text": "so we're doing that it'd be great if we could reference an rfc rather than draft when we uh you know go to submit a patch set to linux all right thanks okay thanks okay so so this is more detailed as i said the group key management for using like version 2. we did get you know a new version of that and it should be you know it's still on the vacuum pro blast call because i didn't want to close it because there was so little reviews on that but i will close it after this meeting and if if i don't get any other comments on that then i will still put it out and post it there because i want to get it out it's not really we inherited this document from msec and it's just mostly there to try to get so that people can actually use like version 2 through these things that they are using now like version 1 to do and and we want to get you know uh has some comments on that um hello i just want to say that i think you are very quiet oh should i uh can you hear me something wrong i don't know no it's it's it's simply getting louder now a little bit so i think that uh one more route and review is needed because there are some uh issues that will definitely require publication of a new version uh and i will discuss them in my presentation uh so i think that you could even if you close uh last call after this meeting assumes that one more round review is needed okay so i will wait anyway for at least one more revision before i put it forward all right good but"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:08:00",
    "text": "so that's the status and then i did guys we could actually go to the presentation and you are the first one to talk about the group key management using our question too so valerie if you just go ahead and they want to actually i will pass you the slides i think you can oh [Music] slide control oh i see so you know you should be able to try the slides yourself so can you hear me is this sound good enough or should i speak even loudly i think it's okay okay so well i think that's complete ah this is it so the comment status uh a version file was published uh just in march a few days ago just before this atf because i missed the deadline and need to ask a secretary to publish it and uh it is uh it has it can contains just quite a lot of changes from the uh version 4 as a result of terrorist review and i will now discuss uh the the remaining issues and quickly uh release the issues that are resolved so these issues that are resolved in this version so terra asked for a terminology section and i have added one and i mostly borrowed all the terms from second judo documents and is probably choose which which definition are the best because they differ slightly and so i do my best and i think"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:10:00",
    "text": "that people should review it and uh and said whether it is enough or some more definitions are needed so uh again uh the other issue another issue is that terror asked for it is clarified that icos and jsaos exchanges are almost the same regarding to iq2 extensions so gsa also will inherit all the extensions that are applicable to icos exchanges besides probably with exceptions that some exchange that are only related to uh ibisec and not well to unicast episode but generally they are the same exchanges despite that they have a different exchange types they are very similar and will uh all the exchanges that can be applied to gsr oath that are defined for icos will automatically be inherited so we don't need to to write a separate document just to say that this exchange this extension is also applicable to disables uh then uh keys used inside their ksa are renamed uh because again tara says that it's confusing they're renamed uh from esca w gsk w so it's from shared key to group shared key i think i think it's it's a good suggestion uh again estero suggested the change in authentication method and altercation key is now prohibited for the lifetime of group security association so uh when group controller kcra performs her key it provides a group with a new policy but this policy cannot change"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:12:00",
    "text": "uh authentication method that authenticates these recuperations so if group control kiser selected that it is difficult digital signatures from the very beginning it will be digital uh signature uh up to the end of group uh security association lifetime i think it's it's also a good idea it will make sense more robust in my opinion and then using using sender ids clarified and in particular in more detail this situation with a group control key server runs out from available seats and need to band the group and rejoin it is uh defined in more detail described in more details situation and in general consistency document is improved and a lot of qualification is added because it was previously it was a leftovers from previous versions and i tried to charge them and make the document more consistent so there are still a list of unresolved issues here is the list and i will go and in the following following slides and just describe each issue in more detail so we can change authentication method or key for ksa during the operations during multicast operations but is it easy to allow it to change authentication key public key for example group controller q7 starts with public key 1"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:14:00",
    "text": "and in the middle of the lifetime of group group say it in one of their key operations in multicast operations it provides group with a new public key well now it is prohibited in the current version but i think i need more opinion on that well anyway uh for the for the remaining for for the remaining slides uh everything that is in blue is my opinion or something that is already in the draft so and i also want to hear i'll be very glad if people can comment just uh online on the issues because i tried to to nail down these to the small pieces and sometimes the decision at least some opinion can be collected right now so if you have an opinion please speak up so for me just to know so any opinions on that no opinions okay let's go further so using ports judo used port 848 and for compatibility with judo jiq 2 also allows to use this port however uh we discussed with brian a few years ago and he suggested that standard iq 2 ports 500 for 500 i will sell out because now gi quick 2 is treated as more as uh liquid to"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:16:01",
    "text": "extension it is a big extension complex one but it's just an equity extension so as well as using tcp and one question should the unicast type says which if if port 842 is used uh should the unicast xsa switch from this port to for 500 if not is detected so my opinion yes but watch other things uh this is they're not giving a commenting in notation share but you know i think we should we need to move to portfolio 4500 because we want to have a different uh format with having the you know the european capsules of our esp and uh for ike so i don't think there's an option not to move we could have a more option to move some other port and you know but we need to have some way to identify whether it's in using this uh four four bytes in the beginning or not uh well and port for 500 will always indicate that uh yes non-like non-usb prefix is present yes bug fought for for esp but if it if you talk about i can say uh there's no difference in format from [Music] whichever port you use so uh and for esp we are talking now about unicast like i say from uh group member to group controller the registration say so if it starts from fourth eight four eight should and not is detected should it move to port for five hundred well it is it is there's no is psa between them but we can move just to make"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:18:01",
    "text": "i don't know just to keep the same logic as it for ip2 actually i was wondering do we do we think that the multicast things are going to work if there's not in the middle uh it's another question it will be in the next slide it's the next okay okay so if nobody objects then i think that uh i think that it is a i i will see that we we should move to port 4 500 just to keep the logic uh the same regardless on the weather port 848 or 500 is used from the very beginning [Music] so the next some architectural question should we allow a registration a group member from the group so i don't have strict opinion because in most cases this group control kisera doesn't care about the population of the group because most operations are multicast and you don't know how many uh how many members of the group are currently subscribed to it but in some cases this may be useful uh in particular if some key management method like linear key hierarchy lkh is used in this case a group controller k7 need to keep a trace of all the members of the group just to know which member it can exclude from the group for example and in this case if a group member can explicitly say well i'm leaving this will allow to keep some resources or group control like a survey but anyway it's it's it's unreliable it can just leave and say nothing"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:20:02",
    "text": "so i don't have strict opinion and if somebody has one i i i'll be glad to hear so no opinion well okay let's go further so just uh there were two error modification uh related to well there are more but two there are three error modifications that are related to group by q2 is group id not found it's very clear when to send it to send one group member quest to journey groups it doesn't exist and the other two are more um a little less clear so austerization failed and registration failed and the registration filed initially wasn't in the draft it was suggested to it by brian again a few years ago and at the time we didn't discuss the distinction between these two notifications and i think it's very clear it must be a clear clear fight it must be clarified to which uh error notification to send where so my interpretation uh which is currently is draft is that authorization failed is used when something is wrong with group member so it is not authorized to join this group and registration files should be sent if something wrong with the group itself so it existed but but some for some reason group control k7 cannot add more members to this group for example group capacity is exceeded if the group has some fixed capacity or something something else is wrong so is it okay for the community is this"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:22:00",
    "text": "interpretation so nobody objects okay let's go further um this question was erased during in in terrorist review so we have in fact we have three authentication modes for for multicast key operations uh in jk2 the first is vertically it's a public key signature and it's it's everything is okay with it and uh there are two uh authentication methods that involve uh using shared secret and first is an explicit shared key authentication well it is very limited of course it is very limited because there is no origin authentication and every member of the group can impersonate group controller case ever in this situation so it must be used for the very small groups with highly trusted participants but still it is very handy because it it's very uh resource and consuming but there are two types of this notification first if we have an explicit psk that is provided to the group members by group control k7 when the group member registers to the group and the other it was introduced later just came to my mind that it can be done is just as ability and ability for the growth member to uh correctly decrypt and verify the icb of the rookie message uh is uh uh and it allows the group member to to be known that it is in the group so"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:24:00",
    "text": "it authenticates it the the message that it received is authenticated by the fact that a group member having its current key can correctly decrypt and verify the suv so it's an exp implicit implicit shared key authentication and it has well there were very similar but there is a difference with explicit character uh authentication there is a dedicated symmetric character that is used for authentication and that group controller provides transfers to group members and within places there is no dedicated charity key every key operation which change uh keys that are used to protect multicast tricky messages uh will change this authentication key so this key are used for the fact that the message is authenticated and so there is now always below in this case so terror suggested to remove an explicit shared key authentication because again they're very similar and the difference is only whether we have a dedicated uh shared key or not and i don't have a strict opinion i think that if uh if you have some long life shared keys that it used for authentication only that it's probably for some reason this key is selected and uh otherwise this key are just automatically generated usually automatically generated and i changed very frequently so i have no strict opinion so i want to hear from others what they think so tara yeah so this is not the chair so one of the things i think that is a"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:26:01",
    "text": "difference there is really that okay if you have a two keys then you can change change the you know king keys uh you know you can change the authentication case faster than the you know the keys to protect the messages but i don't think it's actually going to be the case that you would actually want to do the other way around usually so and you can change you know the key that you encrypt the pocket uh faster than the other degrees of keys because you you can't actually see the authentication keys unless i mean even if you miss some pockets and not get update if you don't know get down the encryption key you can't read the packet so even if the authentication is the same it doesn't help you at all so i was thinking about they are in in my sense they are exactly same in in a point of view you know usage and having it simple more simple and you know less options is always better so i would actually say just keep only one and get rid of the you know having the explicit outer dating key there because i don't think it buys us anything it just makes it more complicated well i know your opinion well actually i don't disagree i just want to hear from just from others to to to be more sure to make more confidence in the decision okay if no one objects then i will eliminate an explicit pressured key authentication and will leave only implicit one to simplify since in the next version okay an interesting topic an extended sequence number so i just realized that it is quite uh challenging to use extended circumstances multicast to say"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:28:01",
    "text": "because high order 32 bits are never transmitted and if uh group member joins the group late well a long late when it is created uh it is not it doesn't know as we need to provide it with uh and high order beats and or it should somehow guess and there are algorithms in rfc 3302 and 303 but they were research consuming so should we provide well we cannot provide how debate but because group control key server doesn't know it so it is not an option only group centers no high audi beat so the only option is that group member the receiving group member uh runs algorithm defined in rfc 402403 to know these high order beats and it is very consuming so should we not recommend to use csn should we prohibit it's using so terror so they're okay so i think we can actually there is also we could also put them into the actual when we are sending the key materials to the you know uh or updating the key materials or the keys we could also you know send and update the highest you know 32 bits of the es and so so in that case even if somebody joins a lathe and misses some frames they can still do the very short search of the higher order bits no we can't because uh group controller key server sends their key and it doesn't know it is not the center it doesn't know which is the current uh which is the current relationship"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:30:02",
    "text": "because it might not be part of the group itself yes even if yes it might be another part of the group at least for uh for data security say it is all it is always part of the group for a gsa but for data security so it doesn't know um um yeah actually i had the same question as terror so thanks for answering that um i just want to say like you should not that must not because there might just be high-speed uh applications that really rely on this um otherwise they get too many re-keys so i disagree with must not um i might even disagree with it i might not even agree with should not but what what what what i suggest which i suggest well i guess the only option then is the resource consuming method of finding out okay so we should just clarify it in the draft and say that it's up to it's up to your environment right okay the next one so integration with uh ppk uh the previous version of the draft was where a beaten correct with sister got and terra correctly point me that uh it was mistakenly uh interpreted that uh keys that are transferred in gsa os are not protected by ppk uh it's it's wrong they are protected but by ppk but only partially so uh they are encrypted with jskw which is derived from the skd and this"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:32:01",
    "text": "kde is pro is is derived with ppk involved so they encrypt the key the key is the multicast keys that are transferred to gm i encrypted with the key that depends on ppk and it's good but the authentication of this key is not performed on per key level in contrast with encryption so they're authenticated on ike message level and ike messages are not uh protected against quantum computer in the first in the very first iksa before and your key takes place so we have a situation when a multicast key the the attacker an attacker that is equipped with quantum computer cannot read the key but it can read all the other stuff and it can if it if it can break um difficult online so it can manipulate this key without knowing them so it can replace them with garbage and uh makes everything that authentication will succeed for the growth member so it's it's still not a good uh from security point of view so but it's better that attacker can not raise them but it's worse that it can manipulate them so is it still an important threat to justify development of draft ip second view equi2 alternative query alt that describes an alternative way of using bpk so i don't have strict opinion right now so yeah so i think if it's important for the application to protect against that there's a very"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:34:02",
    "text": "simple solution then they can do the reiki of the iksa immediately when they create it and that will protect it against these attacks also so because we already have a simple standard standardized way of solving decision i don't think we actually need to do anything specific here except to say that if you care about the group policy and discuss this kind of attacks ludoriki has described it i think actually we all already heard text in in our you know uh uh ppk trust saying that you should you should do this if you care about it uh well okay it is possible just want to remind you that the way it it is not as easy to make existing protocol level uh because every key must be done by group members so it is defined as a draft we define a new notification sony key is needed and then group member performs like say re-key and i jso registration so instead of two two message exchanges we should have about four or five exchanges just to get a registration so if it is if it is not a big cost then we can follow this way it just will complicate a bit registration procedure so scott back to er to esn uh i think in my opinion it should be a must not because of the complexity however if you do allow it you need to actually outline how it works how does a group member who who does learn the high order bits if if it doesn't you're it's a uh different implementers will do different things and it will not interoperate we've done that before it's a it's ugly and rfc uh"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:36:01",
    "text": "3302303 defines an algorithm for guessing this coyote beats or who is just a guess procedure in a loop so it's very time and efficient so you try some candidates but actually if if your high or the beat differs dramatically from the current it will vary resource consuming so if it is just one two or three uh uh i don't know plus one plus two plus three it's not time consuming but if it is very different it is very time consuming yeah if we're talking about a group member who can potentially join after the stream has gone on for quite a while we the difference could be quite large yes yes that's my concern that's why i said should not or must not but if i understand correctly one try is just doing you know try esn with high order with zero check the what check the pocket yes one and each try is uh uh sorry four gigabytes of data or sorry four billion packets in that stream which is going to be like you know uh i would say four terabytes about each of those so if you need to do you know 10 uh checks for one bucket for every uh you know 40 terabytes of data that should be true that i don't think it's actually going to be that resource control resource expensive in that sense i mean uh except that what if the package you tried your test your testing on just happens to do to not be a valid packet"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:38:02",
    "text": "then when do you stop and when do you start and when do you stop that's a good question i think we probably need some kind of you know instructions or perhaps trying a couple of pockets not the first one you'll see with unicast to say it is a bit easier because usually you have uh some candidate uh higher 30 bits that was that you used before but somehow you skip a lot of packets and you want to resync you know what to start with because you have a previous version but previous value for this extended high audience standard uh esm and uh with uh grow per se it is not the case and probably if you start from zero and run to two in 32 power it's very self-consuming so what really to start from and when to stop that's the question so you have um yeah i think uh unicast essays are very different in that we expect the two sides to be synchronized if you missed four billion packets something is really wrong whereas with uh group essays it's perfectly valid for some entity to to join in the middle so we may have wrapped the 4 billion 32-bit counter several times since then and so i think it's either going to it has to be either must not or else uh a mechanism where you uh send occasion when they join you to send them the um where you are with the uh counter yeah disclaimer i i agree on that and i think actually"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:40:01",
    "text": "we could we could i mean it's not unreasonable to allow you know the group members who already has the key and know the highest es and bits to actually notify the you know the key manager uh every 4 billion packets that oh my esn actually increment got incremented by one now so we could have some kind of mechanism where they could actually send a notify to the you know what what is the name of the key manager remember but sending notified they are saying oh they did this essays esn is now this uh they could send that every now and then you know every billion packets or something like that and then you know when the when the new device joined he could get that information along with the key to say that last time last time i heard the es and high order bits was 77. so start your search from there so so that actually would solve the problem that we actually don't have to go too far in the future because i mean if it updates every bill on pockets they shouldn't be missing that many four billions of pockets so you're going three or four in forward is enough and then you can stop and if you can't find it that then you might actually go back to the you know your your group controller and say that i this key isn't working do something or request the key again and get the new esn value perhaps well but you forget the situation when jesse case is not a member of the group of the data sector but he but he hasn't but but the group members are part of the same they can send the notifies over the i channel to the uh to the he doesn't need to be in the key environment key server doesn't have to be the member of the group he just needs to be getting the information from other group members"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:42:01",
    "text": "so whoever is sending lots of data to the group the group could send updates every you know every now and then you don't want to have everybody sending the updates but you want to have some somebody sending updates every now and then it could be so that actually people send it after you know a certain amount of after after they have sent certain amount of pockets yeah but well it came to me just suddenly that well actually sequence number are not very useful for multicast if we have several centers so so it's probably not an issue uh esn i mean because uh where if you will use sequence number two was extended or not extended if we have uh several ascendants in the group they are not useful because each will implement their sequence numbering independently and now airplay protection will be will be will be possible yeah so so they actually are only useful if you have a one sender yes that's also at that center they could then actually update that so we perhaps would have a text saying that you shouldn't be using esn unless you have a setup where you have one sender at that sender can update the key manager uh key server with the latest es and every time it wraps around and then we have a you know some kind of mechanics of sending it to the group members when they join so i didn't say that if if you are if you have multiple centers don't use esn and you know and you are allowed not to use it if you don't like it then we can simplify things and instead of providing group control server with a new high order bit of esn"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:44:01",
    "text": "the only sender can just unregister itself from the group just making the group disbanded and form a new group a new group security essay and then we can stick with uh 32-bit sequence number and just change they say more frequently probably so i think it must be brought to the list and discussed a bit more if you don't mind so another question is a tunnel using tunnel mode so uh well sorry what about apk integration so i think we we decided that this approach uh that is that uh [Music] group controller notifies the group members that it should immediately rekey and only then under key and registration and only then censor key is is affordable so right okay so tunnel mode so currently gi quit 2 doesn't provide group members with tonal address and this is a big problem this is a big question for me whether it is needed at all and if we look at rfc 5374 multicast extension for security architecture it allows both channel and transport mode but tunnel mode is described as a so-called tunnel mode with address preservation when ap addresses from in and from the outer type of heaters are the same so the ipads are just copied from in a ip header to the outer one and so it's some kind of very"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:46:01",
    "text": "some kind of tunnel mods that with the same addresses that provides i think no additional benefits but it is still defined so in this case we don't need a channel address because it is always the same it is always this multicast address from the inner heater but so my question uh so it seems that this mods had little failure it just consumes the resources and i think the only reason to use it if uh some gateways participation is a group and i don't know wrote from one multicast address from another one or encapsulates a unicast into multicast i don't know but how group control k7 knows if this is the case so it is pre-configured or not and the second question is rfc 5374 defines that both addresses can be preserved but a separate bit controls whether they are preserved either source or destination of both and my question who will control it souls gateways that performs this tunneling or group controller kisera in that sense that growth control kisabi doesn't have enough information to tell so it's it's a question more multicast and i don't have enough expertise in this area any opinion"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:48:01",
    "text": "it doesn't help because it you know if the objects are always same it doesn't really matter yes but i just try to follow rfc 5674 which defines a multicast extension for architecture and there are two mods defined transport mode internal map visible address preservation so if we support it then i just see no value for this channel mode but it is defined so my question should we support both of them or should we see some real use for it i'm probably can we request an expertise from i don't know it's uh routine area on what would multicast but transport area can we do it some review from [Music] people who are experienced in this area so what do you think you have as a chairs yes chairs i i would say just uh make it much as simple as possible so actually just i would just say don't just let's use transport mode and that's easier i think okay whatever is easier for you to actually document it's for me it's good uh yeah i uh if i recall if if i recall correctly the problem with trump uses choosing transport mode is that the the ip addresses are then not protected unless you do age which we're not going to then say that somebody played them and it and did those changes would not be detected yes that's a good point"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:50:03",
    "text": "very good point that i think we should document that and then perhaps actually keep it there because it would actually be useful to know who the sender is if all of the senders has the same you know keys it doesn't matter because it doesn't authenticate the sender anyway but but at least you know who who would be could blame if there's some carpets coming in louie yeah i was actually going to make a similar comment to the previous speaker i also don't mind taking a look at it and then echo the comment and chat about there is a working group on multicast but you know i have a little experience multicast i don't mind looking at it but i do think if you're not supporting something that's in a base rfc you really should do abyss on that rfc saying you're not support you know that mode really isn't supported um you know i don't think you can just ignore a mode um that's in the base rfc okay so just keep keep support for both transport and tunnel with address preservation only with address preservation as defined in 5374. okay next one so the next question is udp encapsulation so do we need an edp encapsulation for multicast data security essay and if we need to then how to signal it isaac explicitly for example let the dedicated a new transform type or implicitly by specifying the destination port for 500 so i i don't know it's again it's my my like a lack of my expertise in multicast"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:52:01",
    "text": "i don't know how how often net nets are present and do we really need utp encapsulation because my my i suspect that not are really really rare in multicast but it's only my perception so any opinion on this yeah i was actually more or less thinking about it's not i don't think we actually need uh if if there's a nuts in the middle i think the multicast probably don't work with them anyway but but the udp encapsulation might actually be useful in the other cases because i have seen also networks that doesn't allow you the port 50 co protocol 50 go through but mike dalla you know even the multicast with udp go through they don't do not but they don't they just filter you know things that they don't understand the right basic is that oh it seems to be complicated i don't understand i block it so it might be actually in some cases might be useful but of course one of the problem there is that because if we are sending a data in multicast that we have to send it to everybody in the same format meaning that we are sending either import protocol 50 or in in a udp port five 4500 it's not really a per device you know thing that you can actually configure it it should be her essay yes and and then i think we need to actually have a sp use transfer type or something like that and as the multicast as currently defined in i question one doesn't support that i don't think we actually need to add that feature now because we are not qualified to be experts or this is better to actually understand the implications of it so i think it's better to just say that okay let's not add it now but if we but know that if if somebody comes back and say oh we would actually really like that"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:54:00",
    "text": "then we can say oh yes okay we can add make an extension for that later so just drop it now and if somebody needed then my issue an extension document okay i agree thank you and uh okay transport more signaling again it was uh in terrorist review concurrently in the draft uh to signal uh transport mode well if uh the problem so group security association may have some ipsec say created in internal mode and sum in transfer part it's currently and how to indicate which say uh from this set of assays is created in which mode so currently the draft change the semantics of use transmit mode when it is used in the context of gip2 so that uh in iq2 this notification doesn't use doesn't have uh spi and protocol field doesn't use them it has it doesn't use and now we are defining jquery 2 will define it so the protocol in this pair fields are used to indicate which say use transport mode and another different sensors is that multiple instances multiple instances of this notification can be sent uh so each instance indicates that this particular essay identified with spi is created with transport mode so i think that it is it is not an update or fc7296 because the context is clear and the context just determines which interpretation is correct and for unicast i could say we use current interpretation for jquery 2 we use as a new interpretation but terra said that it is not ok so we have"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:56:00",
    "text": "several options several other options so either add the new notification for example gsa use transport mode that will have the semantic described above but just a different identify the message there uh or add a new transform for example it can be called encapsulation mode in gsa preload so that we can indicate which mode says created per in a per se basis or prohibit policy when someone say created in transport mode and some created internal mode so in this case all the data security say in this group security essay will be either created in transport mode or roll will be created internal mode and so we can reduce use transport modification disease so any opinion [Music] what should we do as we don't really know whether these people are going to be using transport motor tunnel mode and so on and we have a mechanism saying that use two different csa payloads meaning okay extra payload extra round trip because i think you need to do one router with first gsa with that you start transport and second one with that without use transport more so i think it's actually simple to say that okay you are not allowed to use a mixer transport and tunnel mode in same gsa if you would if you need that feature use two tsa you know exchange is already two different uh creates all they say or sorry what was the name of the oh that would be two different groups it will be two different groups yeah so to do it in different groups and and uh you know and if people later come back and say that oh we use this feature very frequently and we want to use this and we don't want to pay the extra penalty of doing that so then we're going to come back and make a modification i want to pick i i think we"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:58:01",
    "text": "should get this out as simple as possible out now and not you know try to think what people might be thinking or requiring in the future we should think about we should have a better of doing in the future in the or better of doing things even if it's not optimal then we can optimize it later if if we found out that this is very important that they would do this every two seconds okay i got it thank you well i think it's all unless i forgot uh something that can happen because again the draft is huge and general review is also not small so i will issue a new version and i think at least one more route and review is definitely needed again the document is big and it's easy to to leave something very important just because it's dropped from my mind and i'll be very grateful if people look at the document and send comments to the list on any of the issues that i just we discussed now i try to have a discussion now or any other issue or any comment about the document so thank you very much and uh please review yes so i would like to actually get people feedback is there anybody here actually be willing to review this document dan are you willing to review this document you are looking like you're in the headlights"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:00:00",
    "text": "oh you said yes good great yeah all right so i i really like to get more reviews on this because it's it's it's something that has been out there for like uh 10 years and we should it was get dropped because of them cars the working group got closed and mcgregor got closed and and so we should try to get it out and thank you all right so so next we have then the optional essay ds payloads inside xa exchange okay another pass you should be able to drive the slides now this is the combined slide so just go forward okay thank you um hello everyone and um i'm weipan from huawei and i'm glad to present this uh the updates of this draft and uh this draft has been gone through uh maybe three years and uh i'm very happy to see many people are interested in this draft and provided many useful and comments and suggestions and um this is the recap of the solution currently the solution is quite simple and it contains three steps of for the optimization first"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:02:01",
    "text": "in the negotiation the initiator and the responder will initiate the support for doing this optimization after the ikos exchange and after negotiation when working the ik sa the initiator will send our new optimized key notification which contains the new spi to the responder and the responder will respond reply in the same way and in this in this situation the current spi is included in the ike header and when during during rekindle child essays the initiator also sends the optimized rekey notification and in this case the current spi is included in the re-key as a notification the updates from version 7 to version 8 are mostly editorial changes and we updated the diagrams uh which shown showed in the previous slide and the corresponding text to clearly show how new and old spis are included in the child exchange um we also believe that the current person now is clear and mature so uh maybe we can ask for working group adoption at this time yeah that's it so any comments on this"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:04:04",
    "text": "follow up it's just just a comment that we plan on implementing this in librespawn i must confess that i didn't read the latest version of the draft yet but i have a question so you are using a notify below to indicate and which essay is is been rekeyed uh with a decision ipsec so my question is about the format of this payload are you using an spi field and the protocol field or is this spi are in the data field of this assay just a question uh do you mean the new spi uh code in which yes yes oh i i see paul or maybe you can want to say something i'll speak um i i believe the news spi is in a notified payload because the notify is using the existing spine numbers well right so to notify us the spine numbers of the i can say if i'm correct so it's in the notified payload if i remember this properly so so just going to say notified below does have an spi values but the fbi values are really meant to be vicious it's it's not really yes usually this kind of organization it's like for this essay but here we are talking about some other essay that's why i think the reiki the you know ricky sa actually is using into the payload because it it's it's not it's talking about some other sp and like this one and i think this one should be also using the same it's just a payload and"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:06:01",
    "text": "it's okay to have it have it in the payload because we can this is a new notifier we can actually add it there that's that's that's why that's why i asked so it was a essence of my question so the spi should be really should be in the data area of the notificat load and not in the spi field and protocol field but i didn't read the draft so probably this is already the case so sorry i want to be sure thank you so and i think this is not expressed down in our charter but this is the minor extensions on an uh update so i think we can actually fit into that says uh so i think we can actually get you know our id to allow us to take care of this of course the 80 now changed he might have different opinions so i probably need to ask but uh is there any objections of here in there who would actually say that we shouldn't be starting the working group last working group adoption call for this document and of course we can continue think we're fixing things like notify payloads if they're not correct uh after we get you know uh it has a working group document i don't see anything so i will probably talk with lady and then start a you know adoption call for this after this meeting or probably actually a week after because i think the 80s are usually for some reason they are busy after the itf week i don't know why so i think so that was everything about this so let's see can i stall back the power controls no there's no way for a chair to steal back the control of the slides"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:08:06",
    "text": "this one so now we are in open discussion any other business that people would not like to talk about here we are getting quite a lot of our documents out from the to the ist but we still have a couple of documents that haven't been seeing that much of you know progress in the last few days or or months or years in some cases paul go ahead sorry i couldn't find my window and tap and button for the end up on my laptop um i just want to briefly point out the the the multi sa document um we still have a linux implementation that is not merged into the main line because they don't want to merge it before we are further in the process and i actually dedicated to it so i would like it if people would review and comment on our proposal it was very much simplified in the last drive by removing all the quality of service items so please give us some feedback so we can move on and get the implementation in mainline kernel thanks so i assume you send an no this kind of note to the working group list and say that please review this all right so i think there was a valerian queue or something well i just wonder whether there is an interest in now you're very quiet again or start talking it might actually help power can you hear me now yes we can hear no no okay i just wonder if there is any interest in beyond 64 car draft that describes how to transfer large loads"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:10:02",
    "text": "well probably not in a general way but for key exchange and oath per load in iq 2 and also defines so-called mixed transport mode when ike is around he's been run over tcp use tcp for its exchanges and esp uh runs or udp or over ip and i think that there is probably one more application for this mode and i've seen just a few hours ago a new draft zero version has been published about combined uh hybrid authentication i like we do and i didn't read it in detail but as far as understand it combines several post quantum key signature algorithms that all will that also will make an iq load very large and probably it's time to look at this beyond 64 car draft and adopt it if there is an interest so tara should we ask for adoption should we [Music] i don't know initiate a discussion you should initiate the discussion and then if you get you know people interested in that then we have to check it out that that is actually in our charter to actually solve the issues related to the uh you know uh post quantum thing that then and one of the things is the you know pocket sizes so you should initiate the discussion and try to get people starting working on it and literally"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:12:04",
    "text": "thank you so anything else before we finish i don't see anything coming up so i think then we actually are done so we were yeah this is slower than what i expected in with allocated first slide but it was good because we actually managed to get some issue great thank you efficient okay so hopefully we'll see everybody in philadelphia maybe even in person yeah here's hoping for philly bye everybody you"
  }
]
