[
  {
    "startTime": "00:00:23",
    "text": "all right hi everyone uh julian just sent me a message he will be joining in in a minute so let's give him some time and looks like we are mostly remote we see a few people in the room and harry our secretary is helping us on site so i'll let hari also confirm when we are ready to go so just bear with us for a few minutes we'll be starting soon so thanks sorry"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:02:25",
    "text": "yeah i see julian joining in hi everyone sorry uh hi julian i think we can start okay so hello everyone this is the best competition element working session first one of the two that you can see reminded here uh [Music] so as usual you know the the best practices when we are remote attending remotely using metacore we should have a couple of people on site i guess i don't see so many in the room but harry is there hi harry good to see you so the usual note world you should be already familiar with them as well you're supposed to be reading them when you subscribe and register there are rules related to international property in the ietf so please make sure you are over them and follow the guidelines that are depicted here in the bcps listed on the slide next place so a new situation we have a meeting using a mix of people attending both remotely on on site so more than any other previous one make sure in both cases that"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:04:01",
    "text": "you follow the guideline respect the juice state your name when you're coming to the might and get the floor we'll make sure that harry is there on site to follow the the guidelines in case you are tuning a video especially on site please also try to stay on the square next please so your usual urls they have we have um not taking happening so in case you want to join a harry on the not taking uh stuff this is free to connect to the note i theft page and give a hand to harry on not taking especially in case of names when you take the floor or may want to check that what you've been stating on the mic has been properly recorded in the midst next place so as usual we are human beings so respect each other you should all be familiar with this living in society courtesy is at stake thanks so as we just said harry is working in the minutes from onsite premises there are usual behaviors using the queue both on site and on mythical on the links to the notes ietf.org is right there so feel free to join as usual"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:06:01",
    "text": "keep in mind that most of the idf work is happening on the mailing list so make sure that at least you participate to do the polls that are happening on the list both at adoption time on working blast code times taking part into technical discussion is also the way we progress work so make sure that you dive into it as much as possible we need people sharing on the making list to jet consumption as chairs as well so try to make use of the list as much as possible we know that sometimes things happen in the background why not but try also to make major progress visible on the main list you may also use it to discuss with the working group for site matters like contract allocation that could happen early depending on the level of maturity of implementations we know many of you already know the staff but in case you have not just asked the chairs and we're there to help and provide info on trigger processes if necessary next place so at gender bashing you see both sessions depicted here anyone want to say something about the agendas for today and tomorrow okay we'll take this as a everything's fine thank you so working group status since the previous ietf that happened fully remotely we got one urc about itf psap flow spec we have one with the isg about the the binding label in psep there have been some discussed raised by the 80s most of the issues are clears"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:08:03",
    "text": "i guess the discus are also cleared in the data tracker right now so we can hope that this draft will progress on resume to rfc status right far before the next ietf meeting so it's in good progress next currently in the working group hands we have one errata about a [Music] bit issue or a wrong wording in the big description the flag description used in rfc 8664 the rata is valid so this is part of the fix that should be handled we have four drafts currently with the within the iona helicopter location stack for the working group three of them were renewed not far ago on the new one happened at the beginning of the year so the process is quite simple in case it's needed for some implementations about new documents please ask a chair and talk about the express the needs thanks so for the working group detailed status and associated working group ids i leave the proto graph thank you thanks julian you're welcome so let's start with the documents which are in the post working group last call phase we have first document which is stateful gmpls i'm the shepherd for this document and i have done the review and we are now waiting for"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:10:01",
    "text": "authors to do the rework and if any authors of any of the documents want to come and say something on the mic please uh come and use the mic time uh for this i see how on the queue go ahead how me and if you want to talk about gmp lists make the chairs know that i i will be updating and as an holder it's on my to-do list it would be expected to be completed in one or two weeks thank you thank you uh the next document is vn association uh here also we received some good comments during the working group last call we are still waiting for the working group last comments to be handled after which shepherd review would be done by hari so thanks hari for being the shepherd for this document we also started one thread related use of ascii in psep so please participate in that thread let us know your inputs and then chairs would be uh like you know collecting that input and taking the next step based on the feedback that we receive from the working group so please do that uh how many on any uh comments association i think you are the editor for this one as well here right after the previous one okay thank you your queues are full okay thanks uh next we have pcip young uh i am the editor for this one so first let me give the update uh so we posted a new version uh in january uh the major changes were one comment was with respect to use of ip address no zone so that change has been made we had a request to add our pc"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:12:02",
    "text": "to reset all the pcp statistics so that is done as well so thanks for comments from tom petch and robert verga on this and uh julian has also made a request for the yang doctor review so once we have the yang doctor review uh we will uh like you know handle that and then i think this document is nearing working group last call all our dependencies are also uh nearing working group last call so we don't have any pending dependency as such so hopefully this document also we should be processing soon note that we had an early young doctor review but that was for much older version so it made sense to request young doctor review again much nearer to the working group last call if anybody has any questions on this document please let us know okay otherwise i'll continue okay so some other documents that are nearing working out last call we have local protection enforcement this is on the agenda as the next document so i will not talk about it let's use the agenda time to discuss that we have uh srv6 document an update was made and one error which we talked about errata with f bit that error existed in this document as well and it has been fixed we had some comments in binding said related to sit structure so those were applicable to this document as well and authors have uh updated the sit structured description added also handled one comment with respect to how to do the optional fields in srv6ero so how should we maintain the order of the various different optional fields in srv60 so one section has been added so"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:14:01",
    "text": "please review uh this new uh changes that have been done and then uh the binding sid actually has a normative uh reference to this document so binding sid has to will be in a misrep state until this document we send to the isg and the rfc editor so i think we should prioritize moving this work so everybody in the working group kindly review uh this document so that we can progress it out of the working group soon any comments on srv6 okay more documents we have a pcep native ip extension here we have authors made two updates this has been presented in the idr interim as well uh authors ask for request for comments on the idr list as well where sue had commented and authors have made an update of this document as well so i think uh we would be when we do working group last call we will be doing a cross posting in both idr list and pc list and this document is also nearing a working group last call state itune if you want to add something please feel free to use the time otherwise i'll continue okay uh next we have flex grid uh here we haven't had many technical changes for a long time i wanted to check with the authors are there any pending issues can we consider this document also to be ready and if there is any other review steps that can be done to get more eyes on this document okay let's move on uh this document we discussed last time"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:16:00",
    "text": "as well enhanced errors uh we have had no change and but we are in a limbo here like you know last time we thought that we'll ask the working group to get feedback on what do we do with this document and some of the options are listed here like should we make this work experimental and try to commit some reviewers and publish it now should we wait for some implementations to actually implement this the issue is that we have this feature but this feature is not currently being used by any of the document and one document that we kind of think which can use this is the stateful interdomain document so i hope like the authors of stateful interdomain and authors of this document can work together and give some feedback to the chairs on what should be the next step with respect to this document so we are still looking for that feedback and we are especially looking for feedback from stateful interdomain authors and other people in the working group as well on what do it what do they think should be the next step for this document so the window is still open please let us know if you have any comments now or on the mailing list okay so some other documents that we have is sr path segment uh there hasn't been no big technical change uh the work is aligned to changes that were made in the binding set recently there doesn't seem to be any open issues but i wanted to recheck from authors and others in the working group if they have any concern with the path segment work uh that is happening in psap and the related work in spring is also making progress so i think it will be time for us in psep also to align that work and move it out so if anybody has any concerns or authors have any update please let us know"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:18:02",
    "text": "similarly we have sr bidirectional path the work seems to be stable we are asking are there any open issues is there anything that is pending in this work otherwise we will also start considering this items as almost ready for last call so please let us know next we have uh we have a document related to sr policy there hasn't been an update since the last itf so authors are there any pending issues anything please use the list discuss and make sure that the work is aligned to spring and idr work that is also happening uh with respect to pcc sr we had one update it was a minor update and i think the work is looking for more reviews and more eyes on these documents so working group we have a lot of working group adopted documents and we are requesting the working group to do more reviews give us comments so that we can progress this document as a part of normal working group process we have stateful interdomain uh the stateful interdomain my question to the authors is the part that we just discussed regarding enhanced errors if the features of enhanced errors can be used in stateful inter domain that would be a good entry point and a feedback from the working group on how to progress both the documents together we have document related to extended flags in lsp i think this work is important because other documents are assigning flags as a part of this lsp extended flag dlv and we should progress this document out of the working group soon since we have other dependencies on this"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:20:01",
    "text": "we have multi-path document this document had a big revision this time they had they added a reverse path information as a part of iflag they also added text related to use of path id 0 and marking it as reserved for the absence of patae and there are also some comments from ipf112 with respect to text related to sr bi-directional association so there is some pending comments as well so i request authors to handle it and maybe discuss these changes that they have made recently on the mailing list so that more eyes are put on this document the state sync document there was no update this time so i will skip over it we have optional fields optional objects marking some of the psep objects as optional that work also has no recent update but the document handled the working group adoption comments and there are no pending comments as of now so people who have feedback please uh use the mailing list for this and for sr p2mp policy uh since we have adopted that work they have not been any uh update so are they comments there is changes that are happening in other working groups related to this work so we need to make sure that the alignment is also maintained between pim spring idr etc are related to this work and recent adopted documents these were just adopted between the last itf and now we have l2 flow spec this was the work that was taken out from the psep flowspec so that it can be progressed and all the changes related to rfc 9168 and the idr flow spec v2 work those"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:22:03",
    "text": "alignment has been done and the authors have posted uh an update so thanks for that uh we have sid algo this was adopted there were comments during working group adoption but they are currently pending so request authors to handle this comment as well and that will bring me to my last slide which is our working group adoption queue uh this has been updated in our wiki so please have a look this is the current order that we would be using uh for the recent adoption so next on queue would be the path mto we have srv6 yang ifit which is actually on the agenda today as well and then uh pcc srv6 work as well uh and if authors have they feel that their document is also ready for adoption please send a note to the chairs and we will discuss and update our queues accordingly so i'll now would request anybody who has any comments on any of our working group adopted work uh use this time if they want to discuss something please use it otherwise we will go back to the main agenda from now i don't see anyone in the queue okay so let's get on with our agenda and the first presentation we have is from andrew hello everyone uh excuse me can you hear me okay yes andrew okay perfect thanks um i'll be just giving a status update on local production enforcement um on behalf of well the other co-authors as well next slide please"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:24:02",
    "text": "so this basically just summarizes really what this document is all about um the main two things are really that there's wording and statements around the usage of the existing local protection but this was really driven because of interop misinterpretations on how local protection should actually be enforced and so a lot of the text is really trying to be you know generally backwards compatible while actually clearing up those misinterpretations in addition to this there's a new flag that actually opens up new capabilities that are used for actually enforcing that local protection so that way we get the ability to you know strictly control whether or not local protection is actually needed required must be done or not relevant so you can see in the diagram there that's really just a new bit that's associated with the lsb attributes uh next slide please so the current status is well zero zero was uploaded in 2019 it's been presented here to the pc working group a couple times as i mentioned earlier it was adopted in 2020 the code point allowed implementations to move forward with it and that code has now been reallocated so naturally the or renewed rather so now naturally the concern is making sure that you know the document can progress before that early code point actually expires again the draft is pretty much stable you know in terms of the the technical goals that it's trying to achieve the actual use cases you know the descriptions um so really we're just kind of seeking you know moving towards working group last call so that way we can kind of wrap this up a little bit uh next slide please um but actually before doing that i went back and looked at that now to see if there was anything outstanding and there was really just some kind of open comments about you know generalizing the conflict of enforcement um so that ebit flag you know should that be generalized for all object and visa or all attributes and visa and again these are just kind of"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:26:00",
    "text": "generalized comments so i'm just trying to address it here in the group and actually we can take this little list so the main question i think is you know is this actually required by this document or is it safe and okay to you know proceed with that new ebit flag being defined as it is in the document so as a reminder to that you know there is the pc optional document which covers generalizing object enforcement in this case these are attribute flags so it doesn't get covered by that document so there was an idea proposed on the list to basically you know move object flags into the tlv and follow a similar pattern that rfc 5420 was doing but it was also an open suggestion and so um at the current moment you know you basically see that it doesn't really seem necessary at this time just because we do have bits available naturally it would be good for the group to you know progress in that direction um but i'm basically raising this topic that just you know get consensus on whether or not we think it's perfectly fine to just use the ebit as it is or if this is like a must you know move in this kind of direction so again seeking uh just some kind of consensus on that and uh next slide please and that's everything i've got so look forward to any uh comments or clarification really on this kind of slide thanks yes thanks andrew are there any questions please use the meet echo queue for both on-site and of course the online folks and we'll be following the meet echo cue uh so just my personal opinion and without any hacks uh i would think that like you know what you are proposing seems to be rational is we can keep this work as a separate entity and uh if there is a need for doing this thing for for flags maybe that can be handled as a part of pce"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:28:02",
    "text": "optional because that document is anyway focusing on how this how to do this optional work for objects and if there is a need to do that per flag and there is some suggestion for it maybe we can handle that in optional document and anyway we are a volunteer driven uh like you know organization so the people who have that comment and have a proposal on hand maybe they can provide that as uh input to pc option and since pc optional is now an adopted work it can be updated as a part of normal working group process so there is nothing that is blocking this to be handled within the working group but as well so if anybody has any thoughts on this comments uh if i remember correctly it was pawan who had this coming so he can also confirm now or on the mailing list whether he likes this approach or not oh i see him in the queue uh pawan go ahead yeah uh yeah it was me who made that comment um i still would like to see a generalized approach for this but yeah i mean i haven't put that said i haven't uh contributed any text or uh published a new new craft for discussing this so i'm good with whatever is currently being come but yeah but i i would like to see a general way of imposing that but can i ask one question is it okay if that is handled outside of this document i'm okay with that yeah for now i mean you're saying for just for this particular flag we'll have this additional uh there will be an additional enforcement pack but for any other attribute if you want to enforce it uh"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:30:01",
    "text": "yeah i mean we can transfer that as part of the pc operations okay thanks i'm due go ahead i just want to say thanks and uh yeah it does sound reasonable to you know embed this into the optional document just because it's really about you know do you actually respect these attributes of these flags and the optional just seems like the natural place to put it so that seems pretty reasonable yeah thanks uh boris sorry i missed you so please go ahead yeah a very short question draft says about implementations for both nokia and cisco rvs engineering versions or general ones i could speak on nokia's behalf currently they're engineering loads uh while you were presenting uh i saw one more thing like you know uh maybe we need to do a little bit more language check one thing which i found maybe not the best the use of the term must constrain and may constraint i'm not sure that would be the best way to describe a mandatory field an optional field like you know whether we could use the word must constraint as a term so maybe we can find out what is the best description of this flag as well i think as in implementers you and i understand what that means but is that the best way to frame this uh that's something also worth looking at okay um yeah definitely uh i guess try to see if there's a way maybe to extend on that really can explain it a little bit better"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:32:00",
    "text": "perfect um thank you so i i guess if if that was i guess the last comment that would be kind of need to be addressed um does the group think that we can probably move towards working group last call over the you know the next year or so uh i think we should uh we should respect the especially the renew uh like the deadline that we have in mind with respect to uh the ina early code point so we should definitely aim for uh getting this document uh working with call accordingly and i will discuss this with julian and prioritize this accordingly once you have updated the last set of comments great thank you okay uh i don't see anybody else in the queue so let's you are next yeah go ahead uh hello everyone this is sean from city my presentation today is the presab extension for srmps entropy level position let's snipe this and this draft has been presented for three times and we got marrying comments from many lists and the meetings and they are appreciated from stephen duke paris vamping jeff and tom thank you very much we made uh updates before version seven uh for example we moved the uh d-page to lsp extended flags and we made free uh clarification for the msd and the erld limitations and requirements in pc in into domain scenario we've also made a clarification for ingress capability"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:34:01",
    "text": "and the ebay is used to indicate the capability over inserting multiple el ielps and pcc and the support and the sr pass with prp from pc at the same time and so finally we made clarification for their el iel positions calculated for sr pass so this time we made updates uh actually version 7 first we made clarification for pc to get msb and the erld capabilities and adding reference to existing underlying igp extensions including ecs and ospf this comments from the jeff and we've also made a clarification and we would remove the minimum er ldtf because this is not necessary and finally we made a synchrolized update and keeping consistent with the extension of hp protocol so last uh so let's do the recap of the background the uh rc-862 proposes to apply the entropy label to simplest networks and provide the pla fly criteria to determine the best er ielts placement in rfc 8662 the ingress may not spend the minimum erld unknown path and does not support the computation of their in minimum erld so controller for example the pc may perform the the to end possible computation as well as well as the entire entropy label"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:36:02",
    "text": "position uh including the lambo and third place uh so uh we can uh the proposed psap extensions to uh contrib uh computer uh parts is uh especially in inter domain scenarios uh with the uh er i l els number and place last slide please so we propose some precept extensions first of all the pc could get the information such as msd and the el rld through igp and their compute the minimum erld unknown n2n pass first for example the year erld value can be collected for ease and ospf and the msd value also can be collected for rc84 like 1 and ospf rfc 8476 then we also proposed a e bit to set to 1 in srpc capability in open object when the eb set to one it indicates as it supports the as sr pass computation with uh erp new uh configuration also it also indicates that uh the it supports the capability of inserting multiple eri erpls at pcc last night please uh we also uh proposed the ebit in lsp extended flag to in lsb object to indicate the pcc requests pc to compute the sr pass with erp information"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:38:01",
    "text": "add ebit to set one to the in srero sublet object to indicate the position after the srel ero sub object is the position to insert the pairs otherwise it cannot insert pairs after the segment next like this so this document has been discussed many times in details at the meetings and the under mailing list and all comments have has been resolved and thanks for your comments and suggestion and the the uh according pgp extension the draft idr bgp srm plc erp the draft has been in adoption queue and so this this document has made according updates and being in accordance with the bgp extensions so i think it's ready for adoption thank you very much thank you are there any questions i don't see any questions uh thanks for updating the documents and handling all the comments that you have received so the last set of comments as you said was related to removing the minimum erlt tlv and after that there are no other open no comments from sorry i got little feedback so let me say that again are there any other open issues from previous meetings or mailing list"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:40:03",
    "text": "no as i know as far as i know this staff draft has no comments thank you julian and i will discuss and will update the wiki accordingly thank you thank you okay so let's move on to the last presentation for today giuseppe yeah please go ahead hello everybody this is an update about the document on cset extensions for ics i'm presenting on the alpha scroll router so netflix just a few words about background and motivation so i feed the first two bots in c2im and alternate mapping the base draft about methodology are quite stable so you can see the reference document yeah we all know that the psep extension can be used to of course to signal in this case the effect capabilities these allow to have the effect methods automatically activated and running the draft proposed to define the fit attributes and to be generalized as pld in the lspa object and the draft is general so it means that it can be applied for all part type as long as they support the data plane method next slide the first extension that is proposed is the effect capability tld uh that is an optional cld to be used in the open object uh there are five flags defined within the draft so"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:42:00",
    "text": "four are for the iom uh different option type so pre-allocated stress option type incremental press option type direct export option type and then to end option type and the last flag is for the alternate smart next slide and then we also define the ic touch us lv that provides the configurable nodes for the effect feature and it is general and it includes different subtleties for the lspa object in the next glide we can see the five sub leds that we proposed uh of course these i5 tlbs are optional and can be taken into account by the pce or by the pcc uh next slide yeah you can see there the five sub tlds that can be included in the fit attributes tld four are for iom feature and one is for alternate masters next slide yeah in this slide we just summarize the lattice changes after ips112 we revised the iana considerations part uh and we added different sub subsection for the precept qld type ip capability tlv flags uh and if it attributes of dlv in addition we added the new subsection for enhanced alternate margin sub tld flags and also a new subset uh subsection for psi period code just to keep the structure in line with other pc documents next slide"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:44:01",
    "text": "okay yeah we consider this document relevant to enable like feed for control mechanisms uh it's worth mentioning that synthetic methods are becoming natural for ipv6 srm tls and srv6 this this draft also complement the segment routing policy ct draft to enable lesser policy with native by fee of course we asked for work in the production we addressed the latest comments and all the input received during the late the last itef meeting so of course questions and comments are working thank you thank you joseph any comments for okay on ifit so here also let me confirm that all the pending comments that you have received are resolved okay yeah yeah i yeah we applied the comments that we have received thank you so i think this document is already in our working group adoption queue which you saw in my slides and we would uh like you know putting this up uh after i think two documents are in the queue and then we will do iflip okay and please please uh keep the document aligned with the other work that is happening in other working group because i think you have uh ifit work in rppm and also proposal in idr so just make sure that the documents are aligned from the start rather than doing that at the end of the process sure sure i will double check with idr document of course are there any other comments"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:46:00",
    "text": "uh we have some time so if anybody has any other document from working group document that they would like to discuss any other comment we can use that time otherwise we'll give you 15 minutes of your life back uh juliet any parting thoughts nothing special thanks for speaking today and talk to you tomorrow okay folks take care hopefully like you know you guys are enjoying vienna and be safe bye bye everyone"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:48:23",
    "text": "so you"
  }
]
